Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22428
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-37510; SCPD-3751S; SCL-3751A)
ON A LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF $350 MILLION
TO
THE UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR A SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
July 23, 2001
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Latin America and Caribbean Region
Colombia-Mexico-Venezuela Country Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.  l



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective )
Currency Unit = Peso (Mex$)
I Peso = US$ 0.11 (as of June 26, 2001)
US$ 1.00 = 9.11 Pesos
1 Peso = US$ 0.30 (as of May 1, 1994)
US$ 1.00 =  3.3 Pesos
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APAZU               National Program for Water and Sewerage
BANOBRAS            National Development Bank for Public Works and Services (Banco Nacional de
de Obras y Servicios Publicos)
BOT                 Build, Operate and Transfer
CAS                 Country Assistance Strategy
CEMCA               Training Mexican Center of Water and Sanitation (Centro Mexicano de
Capacitaci6n de Agua y Saneamiento)
CETES               Mexican Government's Treasury Bills (Certificados de la Tesoreria de la
Federaci6n)
CNA                 National Water Commission (Comisi6n Nacional del Agua)
EIA                 Environmental Impact Assessment
FRR                 Financial Rate of Return
ICB                 International Competitive Bidding
ICG                 Internal Cash Generation
IDB                 Inter-American Development Bank (Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo)
IMTA                Mexican Institute of Water Technology (Instituto Mexicano de Tecnologia)
LACI                The Loan Administration Change Initiative
LCB                 Local Competitive Bidding
MOU                 Memorandum of Understanding
NP                  Master Plan
NAFTA               North American Free Trade Agreement (Tratado de Libre Comercio-TLC)
PMR                 Project Management Report
PROMMA              Water Resources Management Project
PSP                 Private Sector Participation
SECOGEF             Government Comptroller Office (Secretaria de la Contraloria General de la
Federacion)
SIAPA               General Information System for the Water and Sanitation Sector (Sistema de
Informacion para Agua Potable y Alcantarillado)
UDIS                Units of Investments
UFW                 Unaccounted for Water
WUs                 Autonomous Water Utilities and Operating Agencies
Vice President:    David De Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:    Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Manager/Director:    Danny Leipziger
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Oscar Alvarado



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MEXICO
SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                        1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                4
5. Major Factors Affecting hnplementation and Outcome                                  9
6. Sustainability                                                                     11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                      12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    15
9. Partner Comments                                                                   17
10. Additional Information                                                            27
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  30
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  31
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  34
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  35
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  37
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     38
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 39
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P007707                                       Project Name: Second Water Supply & Sanitation
Project
Team Leader: Oscar E. Alvarado                            TL Unit: LCSFW
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: July 23, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: Second Water Supply & Sanitation Project       LIC/TFNumber: CPL-37510;
SCPD-375iS;
SCL-3751A
CountrylDepartment: MEXICO                                               Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: VP - Pollution Control / Waste Management; WW -
Water Supply & Sanitation Adjustment
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  06/07/1993                              Effective:                     06/20/1995
Appraisal:  09/15/1993                                MTR:                       07/21/1996
Approval:  06/09/1994                              Closing:                      08/31/2001
Borrower/Implementing Agency: BANOBRAS/COMISION NACIONAL DE AGUA
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      David De Ferranti                          Shaid Hussain
Country Manager:     Olivier Lafourcade                         Edilberto Segura
Sector Manager:      Abel Mejia                                 Ricardo Halperin
Team Leader at ICR:   Oscar Alvarado                            Luis Pereira
ICR Primary Author:   Oscar E. Alvarado; Guillermo
Yepes
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainability,: UN
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: U
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                        U
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The broad project objectives, in line with government policies, were to help finance the continuation of the
APAZU program (Agua Potable para Zonas Urbanas) launched in 1990 under the first Water and
Sanitation Sector Project also financed by the Bank. The APAZU supported the decentralization of water
and sanitation services, strengthening of local water utilities (WUs), improving sustainability of
investments and addressing water resources and environmental concerns. The specific project objectives
were to:
(a)   improve the quality and expand coverage of water and sanitation services;
(b)    strengthen the institutional capacity of CNA (Comision Nacional de Agua) to comply with its legal
mandate to assist water utilities improving their management, operations and planning capacity, and to
train their personnel to achieve these goals;
(c)   reduce subsidies to the sector by promoting the development of adequately sized and operationally
and financially autonomous local WUs;
(d)    support BANOBRAS' efforts to enhance its capacity to appraise and supervise projects;
(e)    encourage private sector participation (PSP) by establishing an appropriate legal and technical
framework to attract private investment;
(f)   improve management of water resources and the environment by supporting water quality
programs; and,
(g)    strengthen the sector's capacity to enforce environmental regulations and carry out environmental
impact assessments.
The Project was part of a package of three operations (Water Supply, Solid Waste and Northern Border
Towns) for about $1 billion made available to Mexico at the time the NAFTA trade agreement was signed
with the US and Canada.
The Loan became effective on June 20, 1995 and was amended four times. The first amendment, on March
15, 1995 prior to effectiveness, to clarify the meaning of Environmental Preventive Reports. The second,
on November 29, 1995 allowed the denomination of subloans in Units of Investment (Unidades de
Inversi6n) instead of CETES (Certificados de Tesoreria) to soften the financial impact of the economic
crisis on the WUs. The third, on March 21, 1997, redefined the Monitoring and Reporting Requirements of
the subloans; and the fourth, on December 2, 1999, to allocate $60 million for emergency projects in
response to the impacts of natural disasters such as Hurricane Pauline. In addition, the closing date was
extended from September 30, 1998 to August 31, 2000 on the expectation that new sewerage works in the
Federal District could be financed under the project, works that never materialized. On March 2000, $84.3
million were canceled.
3.2 Revised Objective:
While the original project objectives were not changed, the fourth amendment of December 1999 expanded
- 2 -



the scope of the project and created a new component to retroactively finance the Government of Mexico
expenditures incurred in the reconstruction of water and sanitation works in areas affected by recent natural
disasters. These investments had to comply with specific eligibility criteria devised for the emergency
works, and were exempted from the conditionality and eligibility criteria of the original loan that applied to
WUs financed under the project. This expansion therefore did not imply any modification of the project
initial objectives. Moreover, there was a common understanding that, by that time, it was too late to
attempt a project restructuring which would have had to be very deep to assure an effective project rescue.
3.3 Original Components:
The project rationale, in line with the Government strategy at the time, was to deepen the decentralization
process, emphasizing sustainable investments. This responded to evident pressure on existing water and
sanitation services, that needed to make further investments to meet the population growth in urban areas.
In addition, most WUs needed to improve the efficiency of operations and to become financially solid to
offer more reliable and cost effective services. Moreover, there was a substantial backlog of investments in
treatment of wastewater as only 15 % of municipal discharges were treated in 1995.
The bulk of loan resources (86%) were allocated to help expand coverage of water and sanitation services.
Resources were also allocated to help improve the quality of services through the rehabilitation of existing
infrastructure as well as strengthen the WUs, through training of its staff, which was to be provided by
CNA/IMTA. In addition loan resources were allocated to provide technical assistance to CNA, IMTA and
BANOBRAS. (see annex 2)
The original US$770 million sector project had two major components. At the time of the fourth
amendment to the Loan Agreement (December 1999) a third component was added to finance the
emergency works. A description of these components follows:
Part A. Investment support to Water Utilities for $736.3 million
To BANOBRAS. For $722.8 million, for provision of subloans to WUs to help finance eligible investments
to expand coverage and improve the quality of water supply, sewerage and waste treatment services.
To BANOBRAS. For $13.5 million, to help non-eligible WUs develop master plans that would make them
financially viable, prepare environmental impact statements and implement selected institutional
development actions.
Part B. Technical Assistance Component for $33.7 million
To CNA (Coniisi6n Nacional del Agua). For $23.0 million to help: (a) implement the sector information
system (SIAPA); (b) study alternatives for an adequate regulatory framework to encourage PSP in the
water and sanitation sector, and (c) WUs to deliver better and more efficient services.
To IMTA (Instituto Mexicano de Tecnologia del Agua). For $7.3 million to strengthen the institution,
expand its research laboratory; build pilot wastewater treatment plants to train operators and train WUs
staff.
To BANOBRAS. For $3.4 million to strengthen its capacity to evaluate and monitor projects under
implementation.
-3 -



Part C. Emergency Works for the Urban Water and Sanitation Sector affected by Natural Disasters (new)
To CNA. For $60 million, reallocated from parts A and B of the project, to finance the federal government
eligible expenditures incurred to reconstruct water and sanitation infrastructure.
3.4 Revised Components:
Project components were not formally revised, except for the above-mentioned creation of the new
emergency component in 1999. The emergency component responded to a request made by the Mexican
Government and, while it financed eligible expenses in water and sanitation, it allowed the Federal
Government to be reimbursed for unplanned expenses, while drawing down a larger portion of the Loan,
which, at that time, was already stagnant. In addition, in late 1996, the technical assistance component for
CNA and IMTA was absorbed within Bank Loan 4050-ME Water Resources Management (PROMMA),
which offered a more comprehensive framework for water resources management.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Project scope was consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) which envisioned assistance to
the Government to strengthen public finances at the national and state levels, improve allocation of public
resources and increase private sector participation in the provision and financing of water and sanitation
infrastructure. Project design also reflected the Government's decentralization efforts. The appraisal report
rightly identified the project's institutional and political risks. The appraisal report described in detail the
policy framework and the implementation procedures, including a monitoring and information systems,
intended to build on the lessons leamed from the first operation as well as provide an effective tool to
monitor progress of sector reform.
However, the SAR did not always adequately link project objectives and goals with the actual activities of
the project components financed under the proposed loan. For example, the objective of increasing private
sector participation was mentioned, but no specific activities were envisaged as part of the project. Also,
project components aimed at achieving better prepared projects and strengthening the capacity of WUs,
while appropriate, did little to support sector reform at a broader level, and correct structural issues such as
pricing and cost recovery, and create a better regulatory framework.
The Mexican counterpart agencies showed commitment and ownership to the project objectives and design
during project preparation 1993/94. However, the commitment of the new Mexican Administration which
came into office in late 1994, to sector policies and project conditions in the wake of a severe economic
crisis, in early 1995 showed signs of weakening as was evidenced by their requests to reduce project
conditionality (MOUs, Master Plans).
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The lack of more appropriate information systems in BANOBRAS to follow project outcomes and impact
as well as in CNA to follow on sector improvements imputable to the project has hindered project
post-evaluation. Nonetheless, in spite of supporting decentralization by strengthening various WUs, the
project failed to achieve most of its proposed objectives and goals as stated in the SAR. Therefore it is clear
that project objectives were only partially met. In particular, some key project outcomes such as
- 4 -



strengthening CNA's SIAPA (Sistema de Informacion para Agua Potable y Alcantarillado) information
system and BANOBRAS project monitoring systems; and, developing a more effective framework for
private sector participation. Loan proceeds were not in fact used to support any of these goals, and in the
case of the framework for private sector participation there were no activities envisaged in the Project's
SAR. The population benefited under the project was about 32% of appraisal estimates.
Loan proceeds were partially disbursed ( 86%) even after the amendment to reallocate $60 million for
natural disaster relief operations and a partial cancellation of $84.3 million. Only about 50% of the original
loan amount was disbursed against original project components and objectives. The reasons for this low
disbursement percentage derives from a combination of factors, of which two are key: (i) the financial crisis
in 1995, which greatly contributed to BANOBRAS's subloans being largely unattractive to the WUs, and
(b) the combined failure of the Borrower, implementation agencies, as well as Bank in promptly deciding
how to restructure the project when it stalled in 1996. This is elaborated in greater detail in sections 4.2 (b,
c, and d) and 5 of this ICR.
At loan closing, the situation of the sector continues to be of concern. Investment is still at a low level and
attempts to attract the private sector have not been successful (par. 4.2 e). Tariffs still do not cover
operational and maintenance costs in most WUs, and efforts to increase revenues at the local level are
stalled. In constant terms, tariffs have remain largely unchanged since 1995: for instance, average
collection in 1995, in urban areas (not including the Federal District) was $M 29.6 per capita served per
year and $M 28.7 in 1999. Moreover, arrears of WUs to CNA for water extraction and discharges continue
to increase. On the positive side, decentralization in the sector has progressed, and there is noticeable
improvement in efficiency and service provision levels in various WUs.
4.2 Outputs by components:
(a) Sector Investments
Annual investments made under APAZU are presented in Annex 1, Table 1. Under this program 21% of
resources were allocated to water supply, 43% to sanitation and wastewater treatment, and 36% to help
improve operations and services through rehabilitation, replacement of obsolete equipment and technical
assistance.
At the time of appraisal, it was estimated that the project would benefit some 10 million people.
BANOBRAS' completion report estimates the population benefited at 12.6 million, and 20.7 million if the
effects of retroactive emergency financing ($35 million) are taken into account. BANOBRAS estimates
include many population groups which benefited from improvements in the quality of services, but no
information is available to quantify these beneficiaries. According to CNA, total beneficiaries (with new
service) of all national sector investment programs, including APAZU, were about 13.8 million of which
10.1 million were in urban areas (Annex 1, Table 2). Bank supported investments represented about 70%
of APAZU program, which in turn represented 35% of total sector investments from 1995-1999.
Therefore, it seems reasonable to assume that project beneficiaries fell short of appraisal estimates. Based
on the above figures, estimates indicate that about 4.7 million benefited from access to water and sanitation
services under the APAZU program and 3.2 million from Bank supported investments (i.e. /estimate of
APAZU beneficiaries prorated to total investments).
The above reported figures overestimate the beneficiaries and the lack of information on the effects of
rehabilitation efforts in WUs highlight some of the deficiencies of the sector and project information
systems. These systems have been designed to track, among others, investments and coverage of services,
-5-



as well as project disbursements and debt obligations. Despite significant improvements in recent years,
CNA's information system is not yet ready to provide useful comparative statistics and benchmarking on
operational and investment indicators that would be helpful to identify good practices and promote a much
needed competition among WUs. The sector information (SIAPA) system is a worthy start that needs
further refinement to improve quality and reliability of information collected which is expected to generate
substantive analytical work. BANOBRAS' information system would also benefit from a thorough revision
to capture information that tracks the financial performance of WUs, their main clients, and provide an
early waming of financial difficulties.
The project was relatively successful in supporting sector decentralization efforts and in promoting the
strengthening of WUs (as mentioned about 36% of project funds went to finance WUs strengthening
programs) . The project design, however, failed to design a more effective working relationship between the
Federal Government, the States and WUs.
(b) Strengthen institutional capacity of CNA and IMTA
These institutions used only $1.5 million of the $14 million technical assistance allocated for this purpose
(Annex 2). CNA has explained that the main reasons for not using Bank funds had to do, primarily, with
the fact that external resources do not provide additional budgetary resources to Federal agencies.
Consequently, it is easier for them to tap unrestricted federal funds than external resources with
conditionality. IMTA's technical assistance component were included in another Bank Project, PROMMA
Project (Loan 4050-ME), apparently without adequate coordination within the Bank and the Government.
Nonetheless, CNA and IMTA maintain an active staff training program to improve the dialogue with Wls
and local governments. More recently, with the help of French grant aid, CNA/IMTA have completed
construction of an impressive new training facility (Centro Mexicano de Capacitaci6n de Agua y
Saneamiento - CEMCAS-) near Mexico City which is expected to meet the training needs of WUs.
(c) Support BANOBRAS to appraise and supervise projects
BANOBRAS did not use technical assistance from the project, largely for reasons similar to CNA's, but
they used other resources to improve its institutional capacity to dialogue with WUs. It also reports using
the loan for the training of 41 of its own staff.
BANOBRAS supervises projects at a decentralized level, an arrangement that has had positive effects,
providing closer follow-up and assistance to clients. However, as of today, BANOBRAS still needs to
improve its management information system to help monitor implementation progress of works, progress
made in achieving development objectives, and overall impact of investments. It would also need
improvements on the follow up on the financial situation of WUs.
(d) Reduce Subsidies to the Sector
The original intention of the Government was to gradually reduce subsidies to the sector and make them
more transparent. The APAZU program was designed to provide WUs with a mix of loans and grants to
encourage increased internal cash generation (ICG) resources. Hence, it was expected that such a strategy
would provide sufficient incentives for WUs to make a significant financial effort to increase revenues,
through tariffs. In those cases where the mix of resources was applied as designed, subsidies to the sector
were reduced. However, in APAZU projects not supported under the Bank's Loan, this strategy was not
always apply in a consistent way.
-6 -



In the period 1995-1999, about $M 11,750 million ($ 1,456 million) were invested in the sector (Annex 1,
Table 3) of which $M 4,084 million (about 35%) fell under the APAZU Program. These investments do
not include investments under Ramo 33 (substantial transfers to local governments), for which information
on how much has been invested in water and sanitation is not available. However, to qualify the reduce of
subsidies is not possible since no goals, indicators or specific technical assistance components were
developed to monitor its progress.
The 1995 crisis coincided with a drastic reduction of Federal allocations for investments in the sector, and
particularly through APAZU. This reduction changed de facto the mix, and hence the government's
financial policy became less attractive. Reduced grant contributions from the Federal Government largely
explain the lack of enthusiasm from the WUs to continue borrowing from BANOBRAS, since the new mix
became financially none viable. This change in financial policy was probably the main factor that
contributed to stall the project. At the same time, the reduction in Federal allocations coincided with an
increase in Federal transfers to municipalities (Ramo 33), which can be used for several types of
investment, including water and sanitation.
Overall, there is little evidence that APAZU achieved the objective of reducing services subsidies programs
(Annex 1, Table 3). For example, sources of funds in 22% of WVUs supported by APAZU did not include
cash generation or loans which raises the issue of consistency of government's sector policies and
development objectives. This lack of consistency in the mix of resources helps also explain the slow pace of
disbursements in the later years of the sector operation when the positive effects of the economic recovery
were already in evidence, since local governments and WUs preferred to use softer funds. Nonetheless the
increasing mix of internal cash generation and loans to WUs, 19% for non-APAZU Programs and 31% for
APAZU, shows a promising and positive trend.
While the proposed financial mix in APAZU represented a departure in the right direction from the
prevailing grant financing, more remains to be done. In particular, there is need to have a consistent
financial policy coordinating all Federal government funds to foster sector development goals. These funds
should help create the incentives for WUs to increase their internal cash generation (ICG) through a
judicious mix of operational efficiency gains, rationalization of cross-subsidies and higher levels of cost
recovery.
(e) Encourage Private Sector Participation (PSP)
The objective was to improve the existing regulatory framework to help attract private participation in the
management and investments of water and sanitation services. However, no activities related to this
objective were explicitly defined in the project appraisal document. Therefore, due to an obvious design
flaw, the project had practically no influence in encouraging PSP.
Overall, accomplishments in PSP in the sector in Mexico have been modest. In spite of strong enthusiasm
for PSP in the early 90s, actual results are well below original expectations, with most cases being related
to BOTs for wastewater treatment plants. Only about 34% of contracts awarded are currently (March,
2000) in operation, and only 11 of 50 BOT projects ever reached operating stage. Understandably, many
local governments and WUs are reluctant to bring in the private sector in the absence of a thorough
analysis, convincing successful models, and wide dissemination and understanding of the failures.
Structural deficiencies in pricing, including the generalized politicization of water supply tariffs, which has
led to unsustainable internal cash generation in WUs, as well as to low levels of private sector participation
in the sector.
-7-



On the positive side, the project supported several international seminars, organized by CNA, to discuss
PSP related experiences, which drew broad interest and heavy attendance. The seminars probably
contributed to disseminating key experiences of PSP and improve knowledge and understanding of the
issues and operational practices. CNA's interest and activities in promoting PSP have increased
substantially and represents one key pillar of the strategy of the new administration.
(f) Improve Management of Water Resources and the Environment
The project had a marginal contribution to this objective. Loan proceeds were sparingly used to fund
technical assistance programs to IMTA, since Loan 4050-ME subsequently provided more funds to this
institution for similar institutional development programs.
(g) Strengthen environmental regulations and EIAs
Project investments were directed to urban areas and included preparation of EIAs in compliance with
water resource and environmental regulations enforced by CNA and the Ministry of the Environment. In
this sense, the project contributed to increase awareness and practice of environmental analysis. The
project, however, did not provide the mechanisms or resources to formulate and enforce environmental
regulations.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
All investments to improve and expand services, with the exception of emergency works, had to pass an
economic rate of return hurdle of 12%. These investments were identified in the Master Plans submitted to
the Bank for approval. A review of a sample of the master plans for three cities (Los Cabos, Baja
California; El Carmen, Campeche; and Tuxtepec, Oaxaca), indicated that the ERR in two projects was
higher than the agreed hurdle rate (a combined 25% in Los Cabos, and between 13% and 18% for
sewerage, waste treatment and water supply components in Tuxtepec). No rate of return was calculated for
investment in El Carmen. This review further indicate that the economic analysis was a perfunctory
exercise, with apparently only marginal effect on the proposed works under the master plan, as there was
no discussion of least cost analysis to maximize investment returns. For works actually carried out, usually
a sub-group (initial phase) of those proposed in the master plan, no economic analysis was carried out.
While the Bank provided comments on the consistency of the master plans and proposed remedial actions
to tackle deficiencies of services, there is no evidence that these comments extended to the economic
analysis.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
No FRR targets were set under the project. Nonetheless, tariff adjustments below inflation coupled with
initial low tariffs, which still affect most WUs, point in the direction of disappointing FRRs. It is worth
noting that internal cross-subsidies embedded in the rate structure appear to have increased from 1994 to
1998 . In a sample of 60 WUs, tariffs increased in nominal terms by 67%, 95% and 102% for residential,
commercial and industrial users respectively while the Consumer Price Index increased by 248% over the
same period. These reinforce the undesirable effect of the prevailing cross-subsidy structure in most WUs
which undermines efforts to increase internal cash generation and promote a rational use of water
resources.
The financial performance of WUs was not followed systematically throughout the project implementation
- 8 -



period. Existing information systems do not provide a comprehensive view of the financial situation of the
WUs. However, existing data strongly suggest that average WUs in Mexico barely covered operational
costs and hence that cost recovery objective has been generally not attained.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Sector Policies. The project attempted to introduce new financial policies and guidelines for better project
planning and preparation. It seems that this was generally achieved within the scope of the subloans which
used the project financial structure.
Federal Sector Institutions. The project's institutional development impact on BANOBRAS and CNA was
at best marginal. Both CNA and BANOBRAS used a small portion of the allocated funds for institutional
strengthening.
Water Utilities. As mentioned, existing information systems at the Federal level do not yet provide
comprehensive information about the performance and institutional development of the WUs. In general,
APAZU supported well the ongoing decentralization process and helped establish and strengthen the WUs.
In spite of the incipient regulatory framework and the lack of adequate incentives, some WUs performed
relatively well. In addition to support provided by CNA in various cases, this may be explained by the
relative independence of some WUs, and their decision to move towards commercially oriented institutions.
Sector indicators provided by CNA comparing 1999 and 1995 show a general improvement in WU
efficiency indicators (i.e. unaccounted-for-water and billing collection ratio). A sample review of 8
participating WUs carried out by CNA, showed improvements in operations (increased metering and leak
control). Visits to two WUs (Leon, Guanajuato and Atlixco, Puebla) during preparation of the ICR and to
various other WUs during the last phase of supervision period (Hermosillo, Sonora, Culiacan, Sinaloa;
Pachuca, Hidalgo) provide indications about the development impact of the project. All these WUs show
structural problems regarding financing of investments, noncommercial accounting systems, low tariffs and
some efficiency problems. However, most of these WUs also show high collection indices and fairly well
managed operations. For instance, WUs in Hermosillo, Culiacan, Leon and Pachuca, have developed
effective client-oriented commercial systems and can show good operations and maintenance, including
UFW programs and quick response to pipe breaks. Leon and Atlixco have developed adequate information
and accounting systems which allows them to function effectively. Leon's WU developed, with its own
resources, a new commercial and accounting system with little involvement of BANOBRAS or CNA and
the Bank. Atlixco's WU developed a more basic but suitable system for a small utility with the support of
CNA. However in general WUs would benefit greatly by improving their accounting methodology
(depreciation is not often recognized as a financial cost and hence not incorporated into the financial
statements). They would also benefit from a managerial and commercial accounting system separate from
budgeting and accounting reporting requirements (set by the States) where accrual and cash concepts are
intermingled and give confusing results.
In summary, project's contribution to the water and sanitation sector was below project expectations.
Despite improvements in the performance of various WUs, the sector remains weak and vulnerable, lacks a
credible regulatory framework, needs a more consistent financial policies, and investments that are largely
dependent on subsidies.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
-9-



The financial crisis that affected the Mexican economy in late 1994 and 1995, was present when the loan
was declared effective in June, 1995. This crisis had a profound effect on the project. On one hand,
financial resources to the sector from 1995-1999 declined significantly by 57 % in real terms compared to
investments in the 1990-1994 period. Investments financed under the APAZU program suffered a similar
decline. Moreover, some state governments refused to provide the loan guarantees demanded by
BANOBRAS or prohibited WtJs to borrow from this institution as state debt service obligations soared.
Interest rates to WUs were pegged to CETES (Treasury Bill Notes + spread of 2.5 points) which some also
soared (Annex 1). The amendment introduced in 1995 to allow BANOBRAS to denominate the sub loans
in Unidades de Inversion (UDIS + a spread of 6.5 points), linked to the Consumer Price Index, was
intended to dampen debt service payments by WUs in the early years. However, states and WUs remained
cautious and reluctant to borrow at high rates and preferred to wait for grant financing and defer
borrowing, even at the expense of postponing investments of high priority works. The effect was
devastating, as it made the loans less attractive and consequently rendered the project stagnant thereafter.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The allocation of significant grants by the Federal Government to local governments
(States/municipalities/WUs) regardless of the financial/operational performance of local efforts to improve
cash generation sent mixed signals and provided unclear incentives which weakened the commitment of
most state and local governments to put pressure on WVUs to operate as fully commercially oriented
institutions. As a result of many years of subsidies, there was a lack of clear signals and a concerted effort
at all levels to increase cash generation to leverage additional resources, including credit to expand and
improve services. This reluctance is particularly noticeable when it comes to extending services to poor
areas where revenues from water and sewerage charges often do not cover operating costs due to highly
distorted tariff structures. For instance, in Tlanepantla Edo. de Mexico, the average tariff in 1999 was $M
7.0/m3 while the average metered domestic tariff was $M 3.66/m3 (with a low of $M 1.54/m3, which
does not even cover variable costs) while the average metered non-domestic tariff was $M 11.97Jm3
respectively. It is clear that the problem of wrong incentives given by the federal and state grants as well as
the distorted tariff structures, do not seem to have received adequate attention by government authorities,
nor by the Bank at time of appraisal.
Demand for BANOBRAS loans fell sharply. After the crisis, and with a new policy for sector financing,
the Federal Government drastically reduced the allocation for project counterpart funds. As these grant
funds were not replaced, the WUs found the financial mix unattractive. Low tariff levels in most WUs,
insufficient to cover investments, also made it impossible to acquire new debts. In addition, as interest rates
soared, local governments and WUs became reluctant to access these credits even though, when the mix of
resources, including grants, was taken into account, the loans should still have been attractive. However,
the lure of 100% grant financing was still a more attractive option. In addition, WUs usually complained
about the long time needed to get a loan approved which sometimes was as a long as the term of municipal
administrations (3 years).
The very limited use of loan resources earmarked for technical assistance by CNA and BANOBRAS is
also explained, at least partially, by the fact that external resources are not additional resources to the
budget: if they are not utilized, the budget transfers are not reduced accordingly. Hence there is little
incentive for Federal agencies to use external resources especially associated with attached conditionality.
Some WUs, on the other hand (e.g., Leon, Guanajuato), have suggested that their reluctance to use
technical assistance funds was more related to perceived cumbersome and protracted procurement
arrangements. In Leon, for example the WU opted to develop a modem commercial system with its own
- 10-



resources. The problem of unused, earmarked, technical assistance funds seems to be affecting other Bank
operations such as the Solid Waste (Loan 3752-ME) and PROMMA (Loan 4050-ME).
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
- The waiver of project eligibility criteria (according to less strict rules that applied to the W&S I project)
granted to WUs financed under retroactive provisions ($ 50 million), for subprojects prepared under the
previous Bank operation, gave misleading signals to the sector institutions right at the start to the new
Mexican administration, which then tried to extend this waiver to all investments under the project. At the
end of the project in 1999, a similar waiver for $60 million was also granted to investments under the
emergency program (part C of the project).
- Unfortunately, the Borrower and the Bank were not proactive in anticipating the impact of the economic
crisis of 1995 on the sector and failed to take adequate actions to minimize its effect on the sector
operation. A more timely definition on restructuring or partially canceling the loan should have been taken
in 1997. This would have avoided substantial costs in commitment fees to the Mexican Government.
- Protracted sub-loan negotiations with BANOBRAS and the perception of cumbersome Bank procedures
also discouraged many local mayors from accessing these funds which did not provide enough time to
process the sub-loans and execute the works within the three years term of their political mandate.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The actual allocation of loan proceeds have significant differences when compared with SAR estimates.
Only 65% of the original loan amount was actually disbursed, including the $ 49.8 million disbursed for
emergency works, and only 51% was disbursed if one excludes emergency works. Only about 5% of funds
allocated for activities related to strengthening of Federal Institutions (CNA, BANOBRAS and I1TA) was
disbursed. Project investments account for about 50% of the original project cost. Information from
BANOBRAS indicate that the financial structure (Loan, grants and ICG) was largely maintained. Low
disbursements implied that fewer than expected subloans were provided by BANOBRAS to the WUs and,
as mentioned above, available funds for institutional strengthening were scantily used.
During project implementation, at the request of the Government, $84.3 million were canceled when it
became evident that those funds were not going to be used.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the project is rated unlikely.
There has been a positive trend in the sector with the transfer of responsibilities for water and sanitation
operations to local governments, an objective actively supported by the project. By 1999, 943 local
governments had created a semi-autonomous water and sewerage utility and in 19 of the 31 states, WU
boards had the authority to set service rates. While many WUs have improved their technical operations
most WUis are still struggling with inadequate tariffs and ad-hoc subsidies which give wrong incentives to
enable them to provide reliable services. Sustainability is at stake in many WUs, where tariffs do not cover
operational costs and therefore are financially nonviable, and still lack adequate information and accounting
systems (in particular a registry of fixed assets) and hence lack the management tools to operate as an
- 1 1 -



autonomous and commercially-oriented utility.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The APAZU project has continued to operate with own (federal) resources. However, under decreasing
federal budgets, and increased municipal transfers, the new administration is revisiting the financial
structure and incentives, as part of an overall policy and government strategy for the water and sanitation
sector, currently under preparation by CNA. CNA has quantified the financial needs of the sector as about
1.7 billion a year for the next six years and is working a financial strategy based on improved efficiency,
higher adjusted tariffs, private sector participation and contributions from municipal and state sources. A
new program is being envisaged to replace APAZU which will most probably be supported by multilateral
institutions including the World Bank.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Many of the shortcomings that affected the first Bank Sector operation ($300M Ln 3271 -ME) were
considered during preparation of the current Sector operation but the project failed to address key issues
effectively. They included:
(1)    Lack of clear rules in the allocation of federal grants to local governments to improve water and
sanitation services and maintenance of existing assets;
(2)    Rigidities in the way budgets are allocated to federal agencies that discourage the use of external
resources; (non-budget additionally).
(3)    Financially nonviable service rates that did not cover costs in most WUs and problems with highly
distorted cross-subsidy tariffs that discourage water conservation and undermine WUs' efforts to improve
billing and collection.
(4)    Unreliable management information systems in CNA and BANOBRAS that hinder monitoring of
project performance and their capacity to engage local governments and WVUs in a productive dialogue to
improve sector performance and efficiency. The emphasis of both institutions seems to have been directed
primarily to helping local governments and WUs with new construction rather than following a path of
expansion of services with a parallel improvement of service operations; and
(5)    Weak enforcement of service quality standards and lack of incentives for local governments to
improve quality of services, particularly to the poor, based on long term sector development plans.
The fast pace of implementation of the first Bank Sector Project (Ln 3271-ME), which disbursed ahead of
schedule, led to the Bank financing the Second Sector Project without adequately addressing the
sustainability problems encountered in the first operation and the implementation challenges of the second.
At appraisal, the Bank attempted to compensate for these shortcomings by loading the project with
conditionality by requiring Master Plans (e.g., medium-term, institutional and service improvement plans)
and Memorandum of Understandings (MOU) (institutional and service improvement goals under the
project) between BANOBRAS and the WUs as conditions to be eligible for financing. These agreements
- 12 -



were intended to provide a sound plan for the development of WUs and required prior review from the
Bank. However, the acceptance of retroactive financing, (of about $50.0 million) in essence bypassed the
need to prepare MP/MOU conditionality set for new sub-projects setting a precedent (which was later
extended to emergency works for disaster relief) which gave wrong signals to the sector institutions.
Moreover, a review of such master plans and MOU required unrealistic resources from the Bank beyond
customary supervision budgets. The Bank failed to allocate the necessary manpower to review these
documents in a timely fashion and to provide adequate feedback.
The Bank Loan provided resources both to expand services and provided technical assistance to help
improve WUJ operations as well as for a massive technical assistance to CNA, IMTA and BANOBRAS.
However, the specific goals to be achieved under the technical assistance, particularly by Federal
institutions were not clearly identified, neither did the Bank establish indicators to measure progress
attained under the technical assistance component. There was a disconnect at appraisal between
development objectives and resources that would be needed to achieve them.
Disbursements
Disbursements started off briskly and reached $ 125 million during the first year of project implementation,
assisted by retroactive financing ($ 35 million) of investments initiated under the first Sector Loan Project.
Afterwards, disbursements declined dramatically to $ 6.3 million in CY 1996, $ 28 million in 1997, $ 17.7
million in 1998, and $ 1.8 million in 1999. Total disbursements eventually reached $ 228.8 million, or 65%
of the original amount.
BANOBRAS reported 2,287 different contracts in 384 WUs while CNA reported 834 contracts for the
emergency program; an average of less then US$ 70,000 per contract. These large number of contracts
suggest an unnecessary unbundling of construction and technical assistance activities, which unduly taxes
project preparation and supervision capacity and casts serious doubt on the rationale for ex-ante ICB and
LCB procurement limits.
7.2 Supervision:
The quality of supervision was adversely affected by frequent changes of Task Manager (5 during the life
of the operation) and the composition of supervision teams which, at times, did not seem to have adequate
sector expertise to engage BANOBRAS and CNA in a productive dialogue. Also, at times, supervision
seemed to be perfunctory, since there is no record that major implementation issues were ever discussed.
Project ratings, on the other hand, appear to have been primarily linked to disbursements and hence were
surprisingly optimistic until the very end of the project. Even when the pace of disbursements declined
sharply there is no record that Bank missions engaged the borrower in a meaningful discussion to
understand the causes of this slowdown or to search for meaningful solutions. Supervision missions visited
some WUs to monitor achievement of project goals but there are no records of follow-ups on the findings
of these visits.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Bank performance was not satisfactory and it was compromised from the beginning by overoptimistic and
in some cases unrealistic project goals at appraisal, many not adequately identified and fumded, and without
monitorable indicators to assess progress. This is particularly troublesome, as the lessons from previous
operations were not fully incorporated into this project. In particular, the commitment of Federal
institutions to sector development, often understood primarily as the need to promote new construction, was
- 13 -



not assessed adequately and was not questioned during supervision. The wrong signals given by federal and
state grants for investment to local governments, which discouraged WUs to increase their internal cash
generation, were also not addressed at appraisal even though this problem had surfaced in the first Sector
Operation. Certainly, frequent changes in Project Task Management contributed to a fractured and
nonproductive dialogue with the Borrower.
BANOBRAS and CNA complained about the frequent changes in task managers as well as the lack of
flexibility of the Bank to simplify procurement procedures and help accelerate disbursements. In particular,
they point to the Bank's refusal to increase retroactive financing to 20% of Bank Loan and to lower
eligibility criteria and make procurement guidelines less rigid, often at odds with local state laws, and Bank
delays in responding to their requests. While some of these complaints are justifiable (changes of task
managers, delays, and probably occasional rigidity) most criticism regarding the lack of flexibility seems to
suggest a lack of familiarity on their part with Bank procedures and policies, (many requests would have
meant deviations from project objectives and /or conflicted with procurement guidelines) something which
is difficult to understand given the long association between the Bank, BANOBRAS and CNA as well as
the experience of these institutions with Bank projects.
The fact is that both parties failed to come up with a way to rescue the project after it became virtually
stagnant in late 1995. The need to restructure the project was raised during the Mid Term Review of 1996,
but these discussions failed to reach consensus as the corresponding Aide Memoire of the mid-term review
was not signed, by BANOBRAS and CNA. There is also no evidence of serious attempts to restructure the
project thereafter.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower performance during project preparation was reasonably satisfactory. The project was a
continuation of the APAZU program initiated under the first sector loan, and intended to introduce sound
sector policies and better prepared sector investments. Government participation during project preparation
was proactive. Both BANOBRAS and CNA had clear ideas of their own and reached consensus with the
Bank team on the development sector goals to be reached. However, the borrower also failed to anticipate
the project's built-in implementation complexities, specially those related to the follow-up of targets and
objectives.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government implementation performance was also reasonably satisfactory. The Government continuously
supported the APAZU objectives and strategy during implementation. While government provided
continuos follow-up throughout the implementation period, there is no strong evidence of the Government's
clear efforts to accelerate project execution when it became stalled in 1996. The Government drastically
decreased the Federal counterpart funds (a justified policy decision, given the crisis and the increased
federal transfers to municipalities via Ramo 33) but thereafter helped little in compensating for the financial
shortcomings of the project.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the Borrower (BANOBRAS) and executing agency (CNA) were not satisfactory. In
the initial months of project implementation, construction of new works at the local level proceeded
satisfactorily. However, as already mentioned, there was a collective failure (Bank, Borrower and
- 14 -



Implementation Agencies) in promptly taking the right decisions to avoid the project's long and costly
stagnation period.
In addition, their management information systems, a key element to support their decision making process
and hence to facilitate project implementation and progress in sector and institutional development, were
not adequate at the time of appraisal and continue to be so. Moreover, the two key elements of project
follow up of development commitments made by WUs remains weak at best as the Master Plans and
Memorandum of Understanding have not been used as dynamic planning instruments to help improve
quality of services by securing a commitment from WUs and then following up with monitoreable
indicators.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance is rated unsatisfactory. As explained, despite a reasonably satisfactory
preparation phase, project implementation, which in this case deserves a higher weight, was overall
unsatisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
Preparation
Lack of adequate attention to regulatorv and sector reform issues
While the project design focused on coverage and decentralization and strengthening the WUs, it
overlooked important sector structural issues, which were, and still hinder sector development. Two of the
key unresolved issues are the regulatory framework, including pricing and tariffs, and the respective roles
of public sector institutions and private sector participation, which have had particular influence in
constraining further sector development in Mexico. Due to the nature of sector reform, which often takes
considerable time and requires along-the-way corrective measures, this program would have a staged
approach which would have also facilitated taking timely decisions and corrections to the project and
avoiding the long unproductive period it suffered during the last three years.
Inadequate Financial Policies to Allocate Public Funds
Grant financing (Federal and State) is still the predominant mode to fund expansion of services. In spite of
large investment needs and reduced budgets at the central level, local governments and WUs often opt to
postpone investments if they have to finance them with their own resources, as this strategy would demand
painful decisions concerning tariff increases and efficiency gains. Weak enforcement of quality of service
by CNA and State agencies does not provide adequate incentives for local governments either to increase
cash generation or to borrow to improve services.
Lack of Credible Monitoring Svstem
This operation reinforces the need for, and justifies the increased attention the Bank is now giving to
establishing clear and monitoreable goals in its projects. In this case, no mechanisms were designed or put
in place to follow the project's targets. Appropriate information systems must be put in place. Instruments
like LACI and the use of project management reports (PMRs), with appropriate cost-center accounting can
help. However, sector goals and measurement of project impacts must be integrated into, with a workable
information system.
Implementation
- 15-



Ineffective Conditionalitv
The Master Plans and MOU imposed as conditions were not sufficient to compensate for lack of better
incentive-like sector policies. These policies should be in place before a project of this magnitude becomes
effective; if they are not, a more gradual approach to sector development should be pursued.
Lack of timely action to re-estructure/adjust operation
The Bank should be alerted and then provide a timely response as to whether to restructure or not when a
project gets into trouble. In this case, local conditions suddenly changed, which was immediately apparent,
and almost brought the project to a standstill. In these circumstances, there should have been a special
review to come up with specific decisions. Both the Bank and Mexican authorities failed to come up with a
way out and agree quickly on what to do about the project.
Inadequate dialozue with new administration
When administrations or counterparts change, the Bank should make every effort to reach a common
understanding and agreement with an incoming administration. Counterpart project teams are often subject
to changes at decision making levels, and newcomers, who find ongoing projects as done deals, may
frequently have second thoughts on project design, conditionality or processes. A failure to get new
administrations fully on board will probably mean forcing the project against their will, therefore creating
resistance to proper implementation.
Future Operations
The Bank needs to rethink how to support a future sector operation of similar nature. Any future operation
should begin with an agreement on broad sector policy strategy. It is also important to set realistic goals
and focus technical assistance where is most needed and not to disperse scarce human resources in the
pursuit of a myriad of ambitious but unrealistic goals, not compatible with the stage of development of
most WUs in Mexico. The Bank also needs to assess the staff resources it is willing to allocate to complex
and large projects.
Given the decentralization trend in the sector in Mexico, it has become more and more difficult for federal
agencies to enforce significant policy changes at the state and local level. This may not be the case with the
states, which are closer to the municipalities, and have passed water and sanitation State Laws to govern
the sector. Initial results from the State of Mexico Structural Adjustment Loan, in which sector adjustment
is directly managed and enforced by the state, reinforce this idea and suggest that a more direct approach
from the Bank through the States should be explored. An initial approach could involve a few progressive
states, to test this approach , carrying out demonstration case studies, and based on this experience,
expanding to other states thereafter.
Future operations should focus on financial policies and address vigorously one key structural sector issue:
tariffs and cost recovery. Despite the facts that financial autonomy of the WIU's was supported by the
project, actual results are very modest. Today, most WUs in Mexico barely cover their operational costs or
less, while investments are usually subsidized via Federal, State or municipal (Ramo 33) funds. These
subsidies, however are erratic, non-sustainable, and do not follow coherent financial policies. Tariffs
continue to be decided on political grounds usually outside the WUs. Financially nonviable WJUs cannot
access credit, and would not be attractive to private funds. A comprehensive financial policy and a realistic
strategy towards attaining cost recovery is a key factor in designing any new operation.
By the same token, private sector participation (PSP) in operations and financing of the sector, though
modestly represented in Mexico, shows great potential to help develop the sector in Mexico. New
- 16 -



operations should take PSP into consideration from the design stage, and help establish appropriate
institutional and regulatory frameworks, and aggressively promote PSP as an up-front alternative to public
WUs.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS - (BANOBRAS)
I. Antecedentes
El 17 de mayo de 1990, el Ejecutivo Federal a traves de la Comisi6n Nacional de Agua, dio a conocer el
documento "Lineamientos del Programa Nacional de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado", como instrumento
rector de las actividades del Subsector. En la misma fecha, en la ciudad de Los Mochis, Sinaloa, se puso en
marcha el Programa Nacional de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado.
Derivado de la necesidad de contar con recursos adicionales para continuar solventando la creciente
demanda de servicios en materia de agua potable, alcantarillado y saneamiento, con oficio nuimero 305.115
del 26 de abril de 1994, la Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Puiblico (SHCP) instruy6 al Banc, Nacional
de Obras y Servicios Pudblicos, S.N.C., Instituci6n de Banca de Desarrollo (BANOBRAS) para que en
terminos de su Ley Organica actuara como Agente Financiero ante el Banco Internacional de
Reconstrucci6n y Fomento (BIRF) a fin de obtener un cr&dito destinado a financiar parcialmente el
Programa de Agua Potable, Alcantarillado y Saneamiento en Zonas Urbanas (APAZU), y lograr con ello
una cobertura mayor en la ampliaci6n y mejoramiento de obras de conducci6n y abastecimiento de agua
potable, asi como de descarga y tratamiento de aguas residuales en los centros de poblaci6n.
Sobre esta base, con fecha 10 de junio de 1994 el Gobierno Federal, a trav6s de BANOBRAS, suscribi6
con el Banco Mundial el Contrato de Prestamo numero 3751-ME por un importe de 350.0 millones de
d6lares. Cabe mencionar que el Contrato de Prestamo se declar6 en efectividad el 20 de junio de 1995.
En la instrumentaci6n del Prestamo se establecieron diversos objetivos que corresponden integramente a los
considerados para el APAZU, mismos que mas adelante se sefialan. Asimismo, fueron establecidos una
serie de beneficios esperados con la utilizaci6n de los recursos extemos que son:
Contribuir a controlar y eventualmente erradicar el c6lera y reducir significativamente otras
infecciones gastrointestinales que prevalecian bAsicamente en las areas pobres de Mexico.
*      Beneficiar directamente a aproximadamente 10 millones de personas.
*      Contribuir a la racionalizaci6n de las inversiones del Sector.
Promover la conservaci6n del agua a traves de la implantaci6n de tarifas mas racionales y la
reducci6n de perdidas de agua no contabilizada.
Estimular ahorros intemos en el Sector.
Reducir la dependencia de recursos gubemamentales en el Sector.
- 17-



Promover la adopci6n de politicas de efectividad de costos para alcanzar el mejoramiento del
medio ambiente.
*      Fomentar las inversiones en recursos humanos en el campo del medio ambiente.
II. Descripci6n del Prowrama
El uso eficiente del agua y su abastecimiento a toda la poblaci6n del pais fue una de las mas altas
prioridades consignadas en el Programa APAZU, mismo que es operado por la Gerencia de Agua y
mediante el cual se destinan recursos al Subsector Agua Potable, Alcantarillado y Saneamiento con el fin
de cubrir los rezagos existentes y atender las demandas derivadas del crecimiento de la poblaci6n, en esta
materia.
Este Programa fue puesto en marcha en mayo de 1990 con la finalidad de canalizar recursos a proyectos de
construcci6n, rehabilitaci6n, ampliaci6n y mejoramiento de infraestructura de los sistemas existentes, asi
como para apoyar la creaci6n y consolidaci6n de organismos operadores descentralizados de los estados o
municipios. Para este fin, la ejecuci6n del Programa requiri6 de la intervenci6n de diversas Dependencias
Federales en el ambito de su competencia, originalmente la Secretaria de Desarrollo Social (SEDESOL),
misma que de conformidad con la reasignaci6n de funciones en la Administraci6n Publica Federal llevada a
cabo en 1995 fue sustituida por la Secretaria del Medio Ambiente, Recursos Naturales y Pesca
(SEMARNAP); la Comisi6n Nacional del Agua (CNA); el Instituto Mexicano de Tecnologia del Agua
(IMTA); y el Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Puhblicos, S. N. C. (BANOBRAS).
El Programa pretendi6 alcanzar los siguientes objetivos:
Mejorar cuantitativa y cualitativamente los servicios de abastecimiento de agua potable,
alcantarillado y saneamiento, abatiendo los rezagos existentes y ampliando su cobertura.
*      Profundizar en la descentralizaci6n de los servicios mediante la creaci6n y/o consolidaci6n de los
organismos operadores municipales, regionales y estatales, con caracter descentralizado, buscando su
autonomia tecnica, administrativa, operativa y financiera, asi como el que sean capaces de operar y
mantener los servicios eficientemente.
Apoyar la adecuaci6n y fortalecimiento institucional de las dependencias gubemamentales
involucradas y la consolidaci6n de los organismos operadores responsables de la administraci6n y
operaci6n de los servicios.
Eliminar gradualmente los subsidios injustificados en materia de agua potable, alcantarillado y
saneamiento.
Crear conciencia sobre el costo del agua y evitar su desperdicio.
Contribuir a mejorar las condiciones del medio ambiente dando prioridad a las acciones
encaminadas a aminorar el impacto ambiental negativo.
La operaci6n del Programa se bas6 en un esquema general de mezcla de recursos, el cual se integr6 con
aportaciones fiscales federales que se complementaron con participaciones estatales; asi como con recursos
crediticios y con aportaciones directas de los organismos operadores de los sistemas de agua potable y
alcantarillado, a traves de su generaci6n intema de caja (GIC). De esta forma, las inversiones perrnitieron
obtener mayores impactos en la realizaci6n de acciones.
- 18 -



Con el prop6sito de establecer un mayor control en el uso y canalizaci6n de los recursos al Subsector,
BANOBRAS se constituy6 como ventanilla unica de pago en lo correspondiente al APAZU.
Derivado de los diferentes niveles de desarrollo e integraci6n nacional, el Programa adopt6 los Indices de
Marginalidad Municipal (IMI), definidos por el Consejo Nacional de Poblaci6n (CONAPO), para
establecer los porcentajes de credito, asi como los correspondientes a las aportaciones federales, estatales y
de generaci6n intema de caja a fin de conformar las mezclas fmancieras de cada proyecto en particular. De
acuerdo a estos indices se apoy6 equitativamente a las diferentes localidades con necesidades de servicios
de agua potable, alcantarillado y saneamiento al diferenciar las condiciones socioecon6micas imperantes en
todas y cada una de ellas.
Tomando en consideraci6n los niveles de satisfacci6n de necesidades en materia de agua potable,
alcantarillado y saneamiento, asi como de consolidaci6n de los propios organismos operadores, a partir de
1993 se modific6 la politica en cuanto a la conformaci6n de mezclas financieras, estableciendose estas de
conformidad con el nuimero de habitantes de cada localidad. De esta suerte, aquellas localidades
pertenecientes a municipios cuya poblaci6n total fuera inferior a los 80,000 habitantes, se rigieron por los
IMM, en tanto que para aquellas con una poblaci6n superior a la indicada, el financiamiento de acciones se
efectu6 con base en la estructura financiera definida para cada tipo de proyecto.
La operaci6n del Programa se llev6 a cabo en una forma totalmente descentralizada, ya que la
programaci6n y presupuestaci6n de las obras y acciones se llev6 a cabo en los Subcomites Especiales de
Agua Potable y Alcantarillado Estatales, dependientes de los Comites de Planeaci6n para el Desarrollo
Estatales (COPLADES), en tanto que los procesos de licitaci6n, adjudicaci6n y ejecuci6n de los proyectos
financiados con los recursos del Programa, asi como la supervisi6n de 6stos, se realiz6 por conducto de los
organismos operadores descentralizados, responsables del otorgamiento de los servicios de agua potable,
alcantarillado y saneamiento, a nivel estatal o municipal, mismos que se constituyeron como los sujetos de
financiamiento y a quienes se pretendi6 fortalecer y consolidar para lograr con ello su autosuficiencia
tecnica y financiera.
Tomando en consideracion los niveles de satisfacci6n de necesidades en materia de agua potable,
alcantarillado y saneamiento, asi como de consolidaci6n de los propios organismos operadores, a partir de
1993 se modific6 la politica en cuanto a la conformaci6n de mezclas financieras, estableciendose estas de
conformidad con el numero de habitantes de cada localidad. De esta suerte, aquellas localidades
pertenecientes a municipios cuya poblaci6n total fuera inferior a los 80,000 habitantes, se rigieron por los
1MM, en tanto que para aquellas con una poblaci6n superior a la indicada, el financiamiento de acciones se
efectu6 con base en la estructura financiera definida para cada tipo de proyecto.
La operaci6n del Programa se llev6 a cabo en una forma totalmente descentralizada, ya que la
programaci6n y presupuestaci6n de las obras y acciones se l1ev6 a cabo en los Subcomites Especiales de
Agua Potable y Alcantarillado Estatales, dependientes de los Comites de Planeaci6n para el Desarrollo
Estatales (COPLADES), en tanto que los procesos de licitaci6n, adjudicaci6n y ejecuci6n de los proyectos
financiados con los recursos del Programa, asi como la supervisi6n de estos, se realiz6 por conducto de los
organismos operadores descentralizados, responsables del otorgamiento de los servicios de agua potable,
alcantarillado y saneamiento, a nivel estatal o municipal, mismos que se constituyeron como los sujetos de
financiamiento y a quienes se pretendi6 fortalecer y consolidar pam lograr con ello su autosuficiencia
tecnica y financiera.
Durante el aino de 1996, derivado de la modificaci6n instrumentada por el Gobiemo de la Repiiblica a los
- 19 -



procedimientos de ministraci6n y radicaci6n de recursos federales, las aportaciones del Ramo XXVI
(Superaci6n de la Pobreza), como fuente de fondeo del Programa de Agua Potable, Alcantarillado y
Saneamiento en Zonas Urbanas, realizadas tradicionalmente por la Secretaria de Desarrollo Social, se
sustituyen por las provenientes de la Secretaria del Medio Ambiente, Recursos Naturales y Pesca
(SEMARNAP) con la participaci6n de la Comisi6n Nacional del Agua (CNA), a trav6s de la utilizacion del
Ramo XVI (Medio Ambiente, Recursos Naturales y Pesca).
III. Asignaci6n de Recursos
BANOBRAS actu6 como Agente Financiero, y por instrucciones del Gobiemo Federal como ejecutor del
Segundo Proyecto Sectorial de Agua Potable y Saneamiento en la parte "A" "Otorgamiento de
subprestamos a los organismos operadores encargados de la rehabilitaci6n y expansi6n de los sistemas de
agua potable y alcantarillado, incluyendo plantas de tratamiento y fortalecimiento institucional de la
capacidad de tales organismos operadores" y, parte "B.3" "Fortalecimiento en la capacidad institucional del
prestatario en las areas de preparaci6n y evaluaci6n de los subproyectos, licitaci6n y monitoreo y
evaluaci6n con respecto al Subsector Agua Potable, Alcantarillado y Saneamiento".
Asi tambien, qued6 a cargo del Gobiemo Federal, a traves de la SEMARNAP, por conducto de la
Comisi6n Nacional del Agua y del Instituto Mexicano de Tecnologia del Agua, la ejecuci6n de las partes"
B" y "C", excepto de la parte "B-3" del Proyecto.
La parte "B" del Proyecto consider6 el fortalecimiento de la capacidad de la C. N. A., para otorgar
asistencia tecnica a los Organismos Operadores en:
a)     El establecimiento del sistema de informaci6n de agua potable y alcantarillado.
b)    La preparaci6n de Planes Maestros y en la organizaci6n e implementaci6n de sus programas de
desarrollo institucional; en la administracion de sus operaciones; y en la capacitaci6n de su personal para
proveer la informaci6n captada en el Sistema de Informaci6n de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado.
c)    El establecimiento de un Sistema Nacional del Agua.
d)     Promover la participaci6n del Sector Privado en el Sector de Agua Potable, Alcantarillado y
Saneamiento.
Por lo que hace a la parte "C" del Proyecto, esta integr6 la previsi6n de recursos fiscales para beneficiarios
elegibles de financiamiento de subproyectos de emergencia.
Es de sefialar, que con fecha 2 de diciembre de 1999, el Banco Mundial notific6 a BANOBRAS su
conformidad sobre la petici6n que le fue formulada respecto de la creaci6n de una nueva componente para
la rehabilitaci6n o construcci6n de infraestructura puiblica de agua y saneamiento en zonas urbanas como
resultado de desastres naturales. Con la creaci6n de esta nueva componente, se reasignaron un monto de 60
millones de dMlares para financiar subproyectos de emergencia consistentes en la rehabilitaci6n y
construcci6n de sistemas de suministro de agua potable y saneamiento dafiados por desastres naturales, los
cuales son ejecutados por los beneficiarios elegibles que se designen en las reglas
de operaci6n del Fondo de Desastres Naturales (FONDEN). Esta componente se encuentra a cargo del
Gobiemo Federal.
De igual forma, derivado de la reconsideracion del monto contratado y de las dificultades de desembolso,
- 20 -



con fecha 28 de febrero del 2000, el Banco Mundial notific6 a BANOBRAS la aprobaci6n de una
cancelaci6n parcial del prestamo por un monto de 84.3 millones de d6lares, quedando por consiguiente el
monto total ajustado en 265.7 millones de d6lares.
La asignaci6n de recursos por categorias de desembolso tanto original como modificada se muestra en el
cuadro que se presenta como Anexo N 1.
IV. Ejercicio de Recursos
Con la ejecuci6n del Programa, durante el periodo 1995 - Agosto del 2000, se Ilevaron a cabo inversiones
por un total de 4,083.2 millones de pesos, de los cuales 1,901.0 millones correspondieron a recursos
federales; 926.6 millones a aportaciones estatales; 688.8 millones de pesos fueron recursos crediticios; y
566.8 millones de pesos aportaciones de los organismnos operadores a trav6s de su generacion interna de
caja (GIC).
Del importe total referido, se ejercieron 2,621.2 millones de pesos en inversiones destinadas a la realizaci6n
de infraestructura, en tanto que 1,462.0 millones de pesos en acciones de mejoramiento de eficiencia. Por lo
que hace a infraestructura se canalizaron 870.4 millones de pesos para la realizaci6n de obras y acciones de
agua potable; 1,444.2 millones de pesos en alcantarillado; y 306.6 millones en saneamniento; montos que
equivalen al 21.3 %; 35.4 %; y 7.5 %, respectivamente, en tanto que el mejoramiento de eficiencia
represent6 el 35.8 % del total ejercido.
En el ejercicio de los recursos participaron la totalidad de los Estados de la Repuiblica, con excepci6n del
Distrito Federal, siendo los mas representativos en cuanto al monto de sus inversiones: Baja California;
Chihuahua; Guanajuato; Jalisco; Mexico; Oaxaca; Puebla; Sinaloa, y Veracruz, representando en conjunto
el 59.1 % del total de la inversi6n realizada en el periodo (Anexo N2).
Cabe senialar que en forma adicional a la canalizaci6n de recursos antes referida, se llevaron a cabo
inversiones adicionales con cargo al Programa y que se reflejan en la disposici6n de recursos del prestamo
3751-ME, toda vez que las mismas corresponden a gastos efectuados con anterioridad a la entrada en
efectividad del mismo pero consideradas como gastos retroactivos. El monto de los recursos referidos
ascendi6 a 404.6 millones de pesos, con lo cual el ejercicio total efectuado con cargo al Prograrna en el
periodo de referencia ascendi6 a 4,487.8 millones de pesos.
V. Desembolso de Recursos Extemos
Como ya se indic6, el Prestarno 3751-ME entr6 en efectividad el 20 de junio de 1995, fecha con la que se
inici6 la vigencia y ejercicio de los recursos provenientes del empr6stito mencionado, teniendo como
movimiento inicial la apertura de la cuenta especial por un monto de 30.0 millones de d6lares, mismos que
fueron depositados el 29 de junio de ese mismo aflo.
El monto total desembolsado al 4 de enero del 2001, fecha del ultimo desembolso de recursos, asciende a
228.9 millones de d6lares, lo que representa un avance financiero del 86.1 % respecto al monto total
ajustado del prestamo (Anexo N3).
De la cifra antes referida se llevaron a cabo reembolsos por esa misma cantidad, de los que 178.3 millones
de d6lares, equivalentes a 1,321.5 millones de pesos correspondieron a BANOBRAS, en su caricter de
ejecutor, en tanto que 50.5 millones de dMlares, equivalentes a 478.8 millones de pesos a los otros
ejecutores del Proyecto. (Anexo 4).
- 21 -



Por lo que hace a la desagregaci6n de los desembolsos por categorias de inversi6n, BANOBRAS aplic6
163.4 millones de d6lares al financiamiento de infraestructura en agua potable, alcantarillado y
saneamiento, en tanto que dirigi6 a acciones de mejoramiento de la eficiencia de organismos operadores
14.8 millones de dMlares y a servicios de consultoria para el fortalecimiento institucional BANOBRAS 0.01
millones de dMlares. Asimismo, fueron aplicados a traves del Gobiemo Federal 1.5 millones de d6lares a
servicios de consultoria para fortalecimiento institucional de la CNA y el IMTA y 49.1 millones de d6lares
a obra civil y servicios de consultoria para obras de emergencia (Anexo 5).
En lo correspondiente a la integraci6n de los reembolsos efectuados a BANOBRAS a nivel de entidad
federativa, los estados que participaron mayoritariamente en el monto de los reembolsos fueron: Baja
California; Chiapas; Chihuahua; Guanajuato; Guerrero; Jalisco; Mexico; Michoacan; Nuevo Le6n; Puebla;
Tabasco, Tamaulipas y Veracruz, representando en conjunto el 73.4 % del total reembolsado en las
categorias relativas a la infraestructura y consolidaci6n de organismos operadores (Anexo 6).
VI. Problemas Enfrentados
La ejecuci6n del Programa de Agua Potable, Alcantarillado y Saneamiento en Zonas Urbanas consign6
durante el periodo comprendido entre 1995 y el 31 de agosto del 2000 diversos problemas que limitaron su
desarrollo normal y frenaron el ejercicio de recursos, incluyendo el otorgamiento de credito,
circunscribiendose esta problematica en aspectos presupuestales; econ6micos; financieros; y operacionales.
Sobre esta base, en lo tocante a los aspectos presupuestales se pueden sefialar, entre otros, el criterio de
distribuci6n de recursos fiscales federales con el que se llev6 a cabo la asignaci6n de los mismos, situaci6n
que deriv6 en una limitada autorizaci6n presupuestal para obras y acciones con participaci6n crediticia en
la mezcla financiera. Asi tambien, provocado por la situaci6n econ6mica-financiera prevaleciente en el
pais, durante los anios de 1995 a 1999 existieron reducciones en la asignaci6n presupuestal de recursos
federales, generando con ello la eliminaci6n de diversas obras y acciones originalmente programadas,
aunandose a ello la falta de oportunidad en el flujo de las ministraciones de dichos recursos, situaci6n que
provoc6 el que en repetidas ocasiones se vieran agotadas totalmente las disponibilidades y se frenara el
ejercicio normal del Programa. De igual forma, existi6 una astringencia presupuestal de algunos Gobiemos
Estatales, limitando su participaci6n en el esquema de mezcla de recursos.
En lo concemiente a los aspectos econ6micos, se puede sefialar la suscripci6n de los Acuerdos de
Saneamiento Financiero celebrados entre los Gobiernos Estatales y la SHCP, lo cual condujo a la
suspensi6n de todo tipo de contrataci6n crediticia por parte de estos; asi como tambien de diversos
Organismos Operadores, toda vez que existi6 reticencia de gran numero de Gobiemos Estatales en cuanto a
la suscripci6n de los Contratos de Mandato necesarios para la constituci6n y, en su caso, afectaci6n de
garantias. De igual forma, afect6 notablemente en el nivel de colocaci6n de credito las altas tasas de interes
imperantes en el mercado durante casi todo el periodo.
Por lo que hace a los aspectos financieros, se puede considerar el sobreendeudamiento de diversos
Organismos Operadores; la imposibilidad de los acreditados potenciales de enfrentar las cargas financieras
resultantes de las condiciones establecidas para la contrataci6n de creditos; y la preferencia de algunos
Organismos Operadores en la contrataci6n de creditos con la Banca Comercial a fin de sustituir el credito
BANOBRAS, dada la laxitud observada en materia de otorgamiento de creditos.
En lo referente a los aspectos procedimentales, los problemas que se pueden mencionar son la lentitud por
parte de algunos Subcomites Especiales de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado en el analisis y aprobaci6n de las
- 22 -



propuestas de inversi6n presentadas por los Organismos Operadores; el retraso que en ocasiones se
experiment6 en la emisi6n de los oficios de autorizaci6n presupuestal; la lentitud e incremento de los
procedimientos por parte de las Dependencias locales; la parcializaci6n de los proyectos en detrimento de la
ejecuci6n de obras y/o acciones en forma integral; la falta de expedientes tecnicos completos; la falta de
comprensi6n integral y aplicaci6n de la normatividad del Programa en algunas Entidades Federativas, tanto
en los procesos de licitacion y adjudicaci6n de obras y/o suministros, como en lo relativo a los
procedimientos establecidos en el flujo de la documentaci6n inherente al proceso de liquidaci6n de facturas,
anticipos y estimaciones de obra ejecutada.
Por otra parte, se observ6 de nuestros acreditados cierta lentitud en el cumplimiento de requisitos
establecidos por la Instituci6n en materia de formalizaci6n de creditos, requiriendo inclusive lievarse a cabo
diversas prorrogas a los periodos establecidos para tal efecto. Asi tambien, se observ6 una inadecuada
programaci6n en la ejecuci6n de obras y acciones, promoviendo esto una limitada derrama de recursos
durante los primeros meses del afio y acentuandose al final del mismo.
Cabe senialar que derivado de la publicaci6n de las nuevas reglas de operaci6n por parte de la CNA para el
manejo del APAZU durante el ejercicio presupuestal del 2000, en las que se incorporaron nuevos
procedimientos incompatibles con los convenidos con el Banco Mundial para tal efecto, se promovi6 que
obras y acciones autorizadas para dicho ejercicio presupuestal no fueran elegibles de fmanciamiento por el
referido Organismo Financiero Intemacional.
Cabe aclarar que como un elemento circunstancial en la reducci6n del nivel de solicitudes de credito
durante el ejercicio presupuestal del 2000, lo constituye el limitado plazo para disponer de recursos
fondeados con el prestamo 3751 -ME, toda vez que la fecha ultima establecida contractualmente con el
Banco Mundial para disponer de los mismos fue el 31 de agosto de dicho anlo.
VII. Medidas de Solucion Adoptadas
Con el prop6sito de solventar los problemas enfrentados se llevaron a cabo reuniones regionales para dar a
conocer a las representaciones estatales de BANOBRAS y de la Comisi6n Nacional del Agua, asi como a
los Gobiemos Estatales y Organismos Operadores de los Sistemas de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado, la
normatividad establecida para la operaci6n del Programa, enfatizandose la creaci6n de Organismos
Operadores de los sistemas de agua potable y alcantarillado a nivel municipal, o en su defecto la
descentralizaci6n correspondiente. De igual forma, con el fm de agilizar la canalizaci6n de recursos se
simplificaron los procedimientos de ministraci6n y radicaci6n de recursos federales, asi como de los
correspondientes a la liquidaci6n de documentaci6n de pago.
Con el prop6sito de obviar tiempos en la autorizaci6n y formalizaci6n de financiamientos, asi como ser
congruente con los esfuerzos realizados por algunos organismos operadores, la Instituci6n promovio la
formulaci6n de proyectos integrales y multianuales; impulsandose la promoci6n de los financiamientos y
servicios que otorga la Instituci6n, de tal forma que los acreditados reales y potenciales contaran con
informaci6n que les orientara sobre las ventajas que ofrece la contrataci6n de creditos a traves de la Banca
de Desarrollo.
Asi mismo, se efectu6 una estrecha coordinaci6n de acciones entre las Dependencias Federales nornativas
en los aspectos tecnicos y presupuestales, a fin de que las obras y/o acciones autorizadas se ejecutaran con
la calidad, tiempo y costo requeridos, buscAndose la optimizaci6n en el uso de recursos.
Con el objeto de que fuera totalmente comprendida y se llevara a cabo el cumplimiento pleno de la
- 23 -



nornmatividad del Programa, se apoy6 con acciones de asesoria permanente a las correspondientes
representaciones estatales de las Dependencias Federales involucradas, buscando que las obras y/o
acciones ejecutadas por los Organismos Operadores con sus propios recursos, asi como con recursos
federales y estatales, cumplieran con los criterios de elegibilidad y los requisitos de licitaci6n establecidos,
permitiendose con ello el que las inversiones se consideraran como aportaciones locales y los recursos
extemos contratados con Organismos Financieros Intemacionales fueran ejercidos eficientemente.
Con el prop6sito de ampliar la cobertura de los servicios de alcantarillado; asi como de la propia
consolidaci6n de los Organismos Operadores de los sistemas de agua potable y alcantarillado, se continu6
con la politica establecida relativa a subsidiar con recursos federales y estatales el 100% del costo de
dichas acciones en localidades con una poblaci6n superior a los 80,000 habitantes. Asimismo, se continu6
con la politica de subsidiar con recursos federales y estatales el 100% del costo de estudios y proyectos.
VIII. Resultados Obtenidos
Derivado de las medidas adoptadas para solventar la problematica enfrentada se obtuvieron resultados
tanto cualitativos como cuantitativos, mismos que a continuaci6n se establecen:
*      Ampliaci6n de la cobertura de los servicios de agua potable, alcantarillado y saneamiento en todos
los Estados de la Repuiblica, exceptuando el Distrito Federal.
*      Mayor derrama de recursos dirigidos al Mejoramiento de Eficiencia de los Organismos
Operadores, promoviendo una modernizaci6n administrativa de los servicios, el fortalecimiento de su
autonomia, asi como el incremento de sus capacidades de gesti6n y ejecuci6n.
*      Incremento en la canalizaci6n de recursos para desinfecci6n de agua y para el tratamiento de aguas
residuales, eliminandose gran cantidad de focos insalubres que afectaban la salud y contaminaban los
mantos acuiferos.
Canalizaci6n de recursos para la ejecuci6n de 4,179 obras y acciones, de las cuales 2,838
corresponden a agua potable; 1,110 a alcantarillado; y 231 a saneamiento. Cabe aclarar que las obras y
acciones referidas integran 2,666 relativas a mejoramiento de eficiencia (Anexo 7).
Es de senialar que al considerar las inversiones realizadas en obras y acciones que fueron ejecutadas bajo
los recursos del Programa con anterioridad a la declaracion de efectividad del Proyecto y cuya inversi6n
fue autorizada como gastos retroactivos, el numero de estas se incrementa en 24.3 %, con lo que el total
asciende a 5,195 obras y acciones (Anexo 7A).
*      Atenci6n de las necesidades de la poblaci6n en materia de agua potable, alcantarillado y
saneamiento en 904 localidades de 688 municipios en 31 Entidades Federativas, beneficiandose con la
aplicaci6n de los recursos crediticios a un total de 12'573,93 Ihabitantes (Anexo 7).
Al igual que el punto anterior, al considerar los gastos retroactivos el niumero de localidades
atendidas se incrementa a 1,064, el de municipios a 804, beneficiandose con la aplicaci6n de los
recursos crediticios a una poblaci6n adicional de 8' 151,697 con lo que el nuimero total de
habitantes beneficiados ascendi6 a 20'725,628 (Anexo 7A).
Participaci6n en la ejecuci6n del Programa de 346 Organismos Operadores, de los cuales 27 son
descentralizados del Estado y 319 del Municipio. Asi tambien, participaron 5 Gobiemos Estatales; 28
- 24 -



Gobiernos Municipales; y 5 Entidades Ejecutoras (Anexo 8).
Asi tambien, al considerar los gastos retroactivos el numero de Organismos Operadores
participantes se incrementa a 361, de los cuales 27 son descentralizados del Estado y 334 del
Municipio (Anexo 8A).
Incremento en la actualizaci6n y elaboraci6n de Planes Maestros, pasando de 45 con los que se
contaba al inicio de la ejecuci6n del Segundo Proyecto Sectorial, a 278 al 31 de agosto del 2000 (Anexo 9).
IX. Experiencias de BANOBRAS en la Eiecuci6n del Programa
El Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos, S. N. C., en concordancia con la politica de desarrollo
social que asume el Gobiemo de la Repulblica en el Plan Nacional de Desarrollo para el periodo
1995-2000, particip6 con la ejecuci6n del Programa de Agua Potable, Alcantarillado y Saneamiento en
Zonas Urbanas (APAZU), en la elevaci6n de los niveles de bienestar y calidad de vida de los mexicanos
mediante la instrumentaci6n de, entre otras estrategias, la de ampliar la cobertura y mejorar la calidad de
los servicios basicos, ya que dirigi6 sus acciones a mantener, complementar y aumentar la infraestructura
de alta calidad en los servicios de agua potable, alcantarillado sanitario y saneamiento, atendiendo y
reforzando la infraestructura hidriulica considerada estrategica; jerarquizando los recursos de inversi6n
dirigidos a mejorar la operaci6n; terminar las obras inconclusas; realizar las obras nuevas requeridas por
el crecimiento de la demanda; y adecuar y utilizar plenamente la infraestructura ociosa.
Asi tambien, el Programa, con el fin de hacer frente a la creciente demanda de estos servicios, incentiv6 y
abri6 nuevas oportunidades a las empresas privadas a efecto de que participaran directamente en la
prestaci6n de los mismos, principalmente en lo relativo a saneamiento. De igual forma, con el prop6sito de
elevar la eficiencia del sistema hidrol6gico, particip6 en la extensi6n y fortalecimiento empresarial de los
organismos responsables del manejo integral de los servicios de agua potable, alcantarillado sanitario y
saneamiento, promoviendo el desarrollo sustentable.
Con base en las acciones instrumentadas se promovi6 una modernizaci6n administrativa de los servicios, el
fortalecimiento de la autonomia tecnica, administrativa y financiera de los Organismos Operadores
participantes en el Programa, asi como el incremento de sus capacidades de gesti6n y ejecuci6n. Asimismo,
fue posible avanzar en el fortalecimiento institucional de las Dependencias participantes en el Programa;
ejecutar descentralizadamente las inversiones; y contar con una mayor transparencia en los procesos de
licitaci6n de obras y/o suministros, eficientandose la aplicaci6n de los recursos.
Asi tambien, se contribuy6 al cambio estructural del Subsector, al promover la eliminaci6n paulatina de
subsidios en el costo por consumo de agua potable, tanto en el ambito domestico como comercial e
industrial; una mejoria de la imagen institucional de los prestadores de dichos servicios; la modernizaci6n
del marco legal en apoyo a organismos operadores de diversas entidades federativas; asi como la
profesionalizaci6n de los cuadros tecnicos y directivos de las empresas responsables de la prestaci6n de los
servicios de agua potable, alcantarillado y saneamiento
Con estas medidas, el Programa particip6 en el abatimiento de manera mas acelerada en una de las
demandas mas sentidas de la poblaci6n y principal rezago social que es la falta de agua potable y
alcantarillado sanitario, avanzando en forma paralela en el saneamiento de las cuencas hidrol6gicas,
mejorindose asi la calidad ambiental de nuestro Pais.
Es de hacer especial menci6n a las acciones emprendidas en materia de planeaci6n - programaci6n -
- 25-



presupuestaci6n, mismas que permitieron, tomando como base los planes y programas de desarrollo
establecidos, contar con elementos basicos para lievar a cabo un mejor registro, control y seguimiento de
las obras y acciones, tanto de las realizadas como de las que se encontraban en proceso y por realizar.
Asimismo, tales acciones permitieron conformar estrategias, las cuales a trav&s del disefio de normas,
politicas y procedimientos de operaci6n en cuanto a la ejecuci6n de dichas obras, conllevaron a conformar
mecanismos de evaluaci6n y tomar las medidas correctivas necesarias en caso de desviaciones,
promoviendo que su realizaci6n se efectuara con un mayor control de los recursos aplicados, minimizar los
costos correspondientes y ejecutarse en los plazos establecidos, beneficiandose con ello directamente a los
usuarios finales y satisfaciendose de una manera mas eficaz las necesidades de la poblaci6n en materia de
los servicios hidraulicos.
Asimismo, en este ambito resalta el proceso iniciado para inducir a los organismos operadores a un proceso
de planeaci6n integral considerando acciones a realizar en el corto, mediano y largo plazos, a fin de Ilevar a
cabo una programaci6n de acciones con base en las prioridades establecidas y las necesidades detectadas en
los propios Planes Maestros.
X. Evaluaci6n de Desempeio del BIRF
El disefio del Segundo Proyecto Sectorial de Agua Potable y Saneamiento (Prestamo 3751-ME), fue
realizado tomando en cuenta las condiciones macroecon6micas imperantes en el pais asi como de los
diferentes agentes que intervenian en el Subsector durante los afios de 1993 y 1994, las cuales fueron
distintas a las que prevalecieron durante su ejecuci6n. De esta forma, se establecieron originalmente una
serie de requisitos a ser cumplidos por los Organismos Operadores a fm de que pudieran ser considerados
como sujetos de financiamiento con los recursos del prestamo; sin embargo, con el cambio de las aludidas
condiciones, dichos requisitos en muchos casos produjeron un proceso lento y de amplios tramites para
satisfacer los elementos de elegibilidad tanto del acreditado como del proyecto a fmanciar, aunandose a ello
los procesos de licitaci6n, entre otros aspectos que conllevaron a rigidizar la ejecuci6n del Proyecto.
A lo anteriormente sefialado, se agrega el constante cambio de responsables del Proyecto por parte del
BIRF (cinco), mismos que no contaron con el tiempo suficiente que les permitiera llegar a interiorizarse
integralmente en la comprension y problematica del mismo, lo que dificult6 la obtenci6n de respuestas
favorables sobre los planteamientos realizados por BANOBRAS, relativos a flexibilizar la normatividad
establecida para hacerla acorde con las condiciones cambiantes en las que se desenvolvi6 el Proyecto y que
requerian de su redimensionamiento y modificaci6n.
Asi tambien, es importante hacer notar que derivado de la rigidez en cuanto a la aplicaci6n de la
normatividad del Banco Mundial, en el afio de 1995 se solicit6 un tratamiento de excepci6n para el
reconocimiento de un monto superior a los 35.0 millones de d6lares autorizados como gastos retroactivos,
toda vez que se contaba con documentaci6n con un importe adicional del orden de 53.0 millones de
d6lares, mismos que fueron erogados conforme a la normatividad del Programa APAZU y en consecuencia
de dicho Organismo Financiero Intemacional. Cabe sefialar que auin cuando dichos gastos fueron realizados
durante el amplio periodo en el que se llev6 a cabo la identificaci6n del Segundo Proyecto, su proceso de
evaluaci6n, asi como la negociaci6n de los documentos legales correspondientes para declararlo en
efectividad, estas erogaciones se efectuaron bajo la concepci6n y criterio de continuidad del Primer
Proyecto Sectorial dentro Programa APAZU, obteniendose una negativa sobre el planteamiento realizado.
En los meses de julio y agosto de 1996, se llev6 a cabo la Misi6n de Supervisi6n de Evaluaci6n Intermedia
(Mid Term Review), la cual tuvo como objetivo el evaluar la situaci6n general del Proyecto a fin de que, en
su caso, se propusieran medidas correctivas de reestructuraci6n. En esa ocasi6n, se trat6 con el Task
- 26 -



Manager del Proyecto la posibilidad de flexibilizar parcialmente la norrnatividad del prestamo y de
reestructurarlo a fin de adecuarlo a los cambios y las condiciones imperantes, toda vez que los avances que
se habian obtenido eran modestos y no se contaba con una visi6n objetiva y acorde a la realidad de ese
momento, no habiendose obtenido una respuesta favorable sobre el particular.
Por lo anteriormente expuesto, se estima que el papel jugado por el BIRF si bien es cierto que siempre
mantuvo una disposici6n adecuada para impulsar la dinamica con la cual se desenvolvio el Proyecto, su
desempeino pudo haber sido mas eficaz de haberse contado con una actitud mais abierta a la posibilidad de
cambio conforme a las condiciones del pais y en especifico del Subsector, toda vez que de haber aceptado
la propuesta de flexibilizaci6n a la normatividad y redimensionar el Proyecto sin dejar de observar los
objetivos y metas fijados, se hubiera logrado con ello el llevar a cabo un mayor desembolso de los recursos
contratados y ejecutar mas obras y acciones que ampliaran la cobertura de los servicios de agua potable,
alcantarillado y saneamiento en las zonas urbanas de la Repuiblica, satisfaciendo las necesidades de tales
servicios a un mayor numero de habitantes.
COMISION NACIONAL DE AGUA - (CNA)
I. Antecedentes
La Comisi6n Nacional del Agua, se cre6 como un 6rgano desconcentrado del Gobiemo Federal mediante
Decreto Presidencial publicado en el Diario Oficial de la Federaci6n de fecha 16 de enero de 1989; teniendo
entre las funciones mas importantes: administrar y custodiar las aguas nacionales, asi como los bienes que
se vinculan a estas, de conformidad con las disposiciones juridicas aplicables, ademas de vigilar el
cumplimiento de la Ley de Aguas Nacionales y proveer lo necesario para la preservaci6n de su calidad y
cantidad para lograr su uso integral sustentable. Asimismo, esta encargada de estudiar, normar, proyectar,
promover, construir, vigilar, administrar, operar, conservar y rehabilitar la infraestructura hidraulica, asi
como las obras complementarias que correspondan al Gobiemo Federal.
Con el cambio de Administraci6n Presidencial en 1994, y por la modificaci6n a la Ley de Administraci6n
Publica Federal, la CNA paso a formar parte de la Secretaria del Medio Ambiente, Recursos Naturales y
Pesca (SEMARNAP) en 1995, cuyas atribuciones se establecen en la Ley de Aguas Nacionales, su
Reglamento, el Reglamento intemo de la SEMARNAP y las dem6s disposiciones aplicables.
El Gobiemo Federal a traves de la Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico (SHCP) y el Banco Nacional
de Obras y Servicios Publicos (BANOBRAS), inicia negociaciones con el Banco Intemacional de
Reconstruccion y Fomento (BIRF), para la obtenci6n de un Prestamo Sectorial para financiar el Programa
de Agua Potable, Alcantarillado y Saneamiento. El BIRF aport6 un monto total de $300 MDD. Llegando a
buen fin las negociaciones con el Organismo Financiero Intemacional, obteniendo la aprobaci6n del BIRF
al cr6dito 3271 -ME, el 18 de enero de 1991, por lo que la CNA inicia formnalmente a traves del Banco
Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos (BANOBRAS), Agente Financiero del Prestamo, los desembolsos
del prestamo del BIRF en 1991.
Debido al exito que tuvo el Primer Prestamo Sectorial, el Gobiemo Federal inici6 formalmente
negociaciones con el Banco Intemacional de Reconstrucci6n y Fomento (BIRF), para la obtenci6n de un
Segundo Prestamo Sectorial para fmanciar el Programa de Agua Potable, Alcantarillado y Saneamiento,
por un monto total de $350 MDD (millones de d6lares); la operacion se formaliz6 el 10 de junio del afio
1994, iniciando desembolsos hasta junio de 1995.
II. Descripci6n y Objetivos del Proyecto
- 27 -



Los objetivos globales del proyecto son asistir en: (a) mejoramiento de la calidad, y aumento de la
cobertura de los servicios de agua y saneamiento en Mexico: (b) reforzamiento de la capacidad institucional
del prestatario para la evaluaci6n y supervisi6n del proyecto sectorial de Suministro de Aguas y
Saneamiento; (c) reforzamiento de la capacidad institucional de la CNA cumpliendo con su planeaci6n; (d)
reducci6n de subsidios al sector de suministro de aguas y saneamiento en Mexico; (e) fomentar la
participaci6n del sector privado en la prestaci6n de los servicios y control de la contaminaci6n del agua y
aminorar el impacto ambiental de las actividades del Suministro de Agua y Saneamiento.
El Agente Tecnico es la Comisi6n Nacional de Agua y el prestatario es el Banco Nacional de Obras y
Servicios Publicos.
11.1 Objetivos Principales
Las metas principales del programa registradas en el Contrato de Prestamo son: (a) Incrementar las
coberturas de los servicios de agua potable, alcantarillado y saneamiento, cloraci6n de mayor cantidad de
agua y micromedici6n de los consumos domesticos, comerciales e industriales, asi como el cumplimiento de
las normas particulares de servicio; (b) Incrementar la capacitaci6n del personal; (c) Consolidaci6n de los
organismos operadores mejorando los sistemas comerciales, operacionales y administrativos, realizar
planes maestros y Memoranda de Entendimiento y (e) Reducci6n de los subsidios en terminos de pesos a
los organismos operadores.
11.2 Subcomponentes del Proyecto
El proyecto consisti6 de las siguientes partes:
Parte A (BANOBRAS): Proveer de prestamos a los organismos operadores para financiar proyectos
dirigidos a la rehabilitaci6n y expansi6n de sistemas de suministro de agua y alcantarillado, incluyendo
plantas de tratamiento de aguas negras, y el reforzamiento de la capacidad institucional de cada uno de los
organismos operadores.
Parte B (CNA): Reforzamiento de la capacidad de la CNA con respecto a:
(a) Implementaci6n del SIAPA.
(b) Asistencia a los Organismos Operadores en la:
Preparaci6n de planes maestros;
Organizaci6n e implementaci6n de otros programas para desarrollo institucional;
La formaci6n de su personal dentro del SIAPA.
(c) La implementaci6n de la calidad nacional del agua, a traves de iniciativas de mejoramiento entre
las cuales se puede mencionar: 1) el perfeccionamiento de los sistemas de medici6n y monitoreo
de la calidad del agua; 2) el desarrollo de normas y mecanismos oficiales de descargas y limites
permnisibles de descarga; 3) el desarrollo e implementaci6n de una iniciativa para la certificaci6n
de laboratorios de calidad del agua; 4) realizaci6n de estudios para el perfeccionamiento y
calificaci6n de los directores de los sistemas hidraulicos, y 5) llevar a cabo programas de
pretratamiento para las aguas residuales industriales; y
(d) Promover la participaci6n del sector privado en el Suministro de Agua y Saneaniiento.
- 28 -



11.3 Operaci6n del Programa
Las disposiciones establecidas en el Presupuesto de Egresos de la Federaci6n (PEF) para el anio 2000,
publicadas en el Diario Oficial de la Federaci6n del 31 de diciembre de 1999, obligan a publicar en este
medio informativo oficial las Reglas de Operaci6n especificas para asegurar una aplicaci6n eficiente,
eficaz, equitativa y transparente de los recursos puiblicos de los programas en que exista apoyo financiero
por parte de la Federaci6n.
El PEF del anlo 2000, establece en su Articulo 78 lo siguiente: "Las reglas de operaci6n de los programas
de agua potable, alcantarillado y saneamiento de la Comisi6n Nacional del Agua, ademas de proveer lo
establecido en el articulo 73 de este Decreto, deberan contener disposiciones que sujeten el otorgamiento de
subsidios destinados a los municipios y organismos operadores de agua potable y alcantarillado que hayan
formalizado su adhesi6n a un acuerdo de coordinaci6n celebrado entre los gobiernos federal y estatal, en el
que se establezca un compromiso juridico sancionado por sus ayuntamientos, o en su caso, por las
legislaturas locales, para implantar un programa de corto y mediano plazo, definido en coordinaci6n con la
Comisi6n Nacional del Agua, que incluya metas cuantitativas intermedias y contemple un incremento
gradual de la eficiencia fisica, comercial y financiera, con el objeto de alcanzar la autosuficiencia de
recursos en dichos organismos, asi como asegurar la calidad y permanencia de la prestaci6n de los
servicios de agua potable, alcantarillado y saneamiento a la poblaci6n".
Por lo anterior, la CNA para ser congruente con las disposiciones vigentes del PEF para el aino 2000,
public6 el dia 20 de marzo del anlo 2000 sus "Reglas de Operaci6n para los Programas de Infraestructura
Hidroagricola, y de Agua Potable, Alcantarillado y Saneamiento a cargo de la Comisi6n Nacional del
Agua", en el Diario Oficial de la Federaci6n, cumpliendo de esta manera con las disposiciones oficiales en
vigor.
III. Cumplimiento de Objetivos
11l.1 Incremento en el Servicio
Durante los aflos 1990-2000, las inversiones en Agua Potable, Alcantarillado y Saneamiento incluido el
Programa APAZU, permitieron incrementar de manera considerable las coberturas de los servicios,
registrando para el periodo un aumento en el agua potable del orden del 9.7%, asi como del 11.8% en el
servicio de alcantarillado, lo cual se debi6 en gran parte a la concertaci6n lograda para la ejecuci6n del
Programa APAZU, asi como a la participaci6n de las comunidades involucradas.
Para 1995, la poblaci6n total con servicio del pais era de 76.7 millones de habitantes, alcanzando la cifra
de 85.0 millones para el anio 1999, significando que la tasa de crecimiento de la cobertura de los servicios
creci6 a un ritmo de 2.8% anual, siendo esta tasa mayor que la registrada para medir el incremento de la
poblaci6n, la cual registr6 en promedio 1.9% anual. Asimismo en 1995, 14.4 millones de habitantes no
contaban con los servicios de agua potable a nivel nacional, representando una cobertura del 84.2%. En
cuanto al alcantarillado se refiere, s6lo 65.7 millones de habitantes contaban con este servicio,
representando el 72.1% de cobertura a nivel nacional. Por lo anterior, se concluye que gracias a la
implementaci6n del Programa se han ejercido recursos financieros en obras con beneficios palpables para
la poblaci6n.
En el Anexo 1 (Cuadros I y 2) se presenta la evoluci6n de las Coberturas de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado
a Nivel Nacional, que han sido registradas en el periodo en analisis, llegando a beneficiar a 12.5 millones
- 29 -



de habitantes con obras y acciones de agua potable y a 14.0 millones de habitantes con acciones de
alcantarillado. En el Anexo 2 (Cuadros 3 y 4) se muestra la evoluci6n de las coberturas para agua potable
y alcantarillado en las zonas urbanas del pais durante 1995-2000.
Por lo que a la cloraci6n de las aguas se refiere, mediante este metodo de purificaci6n se pas6 de un gasto
clorado de 256,265 lps a 287,147 lps en el mismo periodo (1995-1999) lograndose un incremento en gasto
tratado del 12%. La meta de cloraci6n de agua potable de alrededor del 90% a alcanzar durante el periodo,
se cumpli6 de manera satisfactoria, ya que en 1995 el porcentaje de agua clorada fue de 94.1% mientras
que en 1999 fue del 92.7%.
Por otra parte, en 1995 existian 287 plantas potabilizadoras en operaci6n en todo el pais, las cuales
trataban un gasto en conjunto de 76,617.5 lps; para el aino 1999 el total de plantas en operaci6n ascendi6 a
324, que en su conjunto potabilizaban un gasto de 78,157 lps (2% mas que en 1995).
En lo que respecta a las plantas de tratamiento de aguas residuales, en 1995 existian 469 plantas en
operaci6n y se trataba un gasto total de 41,705 lps; para el anio 1999 se logr6 un total de plantas en
operaci6n de 777,que en conjunto tratan un gasto de 42,397 lps.
III.2 Consolidaci6n de Organismos Operadores
En cuanto al Marco Legal se refiere, en 1995 existian 17 Estados en donde la Ley permitia el corte del
suministro de agua por falta de pago; otros 14 Estados no tenian establecida esta situaci6n en su Ley
Estatal. Para 1999 la situaci6n se modific6 al incrementarse a 21 los Estados en donde esta aprobado el
corte del suministro; los estados que adhirieron esta modificaci6n a su Ley fueron: Guanajuato, Hidalgo,
Mexico y Nuevo Le6n; caso contrario sufri6 la Ley Estatal de Sinaloa, en donde estaba aprobado el corte
del servicio y se derogandose posteriormente.
En el periodo en analisis (1995-1999), 14 Estados han realizado modificaciones a sus legislaciones
estatales de agua potable y saneamiento, lograndose con ello el mejoramiento de los servicios, asi como la
adecuaci6n de sus estructuras tarifarias; entre los estados que han realizado las adecuaciones a sus marcos
legales se encuentran: Aguascalientes (1996), Colima (1997), Chihuahua (1998), Hidalgo (1999), Mexico
(1999), Morelos (1995), Nayarit (1995), Nuevo Le6n (1997), Quintana Roo (1996), San Luis Potosi
(1996), Sinaloa (1998), Sonora (1999) y en caso de Tlaxcala, este estado abrog6 su Ley Estatal en 1997.
Como apoyo a la consolidaci6n de los organismos operadores, durante el periodo en analisis se han
realizado con cargo al Programa APAZU 40 Planes Maestros (Anexo 3).
III.3 Descentralizaci6n del Subsector
El Gobiemo Federal ha impulsado a traves del Plan Nacional de Desarrollo una politica de
descentralizaci6n, con la cual ha fortalecido las asignaciones presupuestales hacia los municipios
principalmente a traves de la asignaci6n de recursos via Ramo 33 (Aportaciones Federales para Entidades
Federativas y Municipios).
Por lo que a la CNA corresponde su estructura organica se ha venido transformando, tomando en cuenta la
necesidad de mantener la integralidad en la administraci6n del recurso. Asimismo, ha sido necesario atender
simultaneamente dos aspectos vinculados con su naturaleza, ya sea normativa u operativa para lo cual se
han creado 13 Gerencias Regionales Administrativas, y se han instalado 25 consejos de Cuenca en el Pais.
- 30 -



111.4 Desarrollo institucional:
I11.4.1 Participaci6n del Instituto Mexicano de Tecnologia del Agua
El IMTA particip6 en el Programa dentro de las componentes de apoyo al fortalecimiento de la capacidad
institucional de la CNA, de los organismos operadores de agua potable y saneamiento y del propio
Instituto.
Principalmente destaca su aportaci6n al APAZU en la instrumentaci6n de un Programa de Capacitaci6n
para los Organismos Operadores de los Servicios de Agua Potable en el pais, asf como brind6 capacitaci6n
al personal de la CNA. Por otra parte, el IMTA realizo dentro de este Programa de Capacitaci6n cursos en
sus propios centros impartiendose temas de caracter tecnico, administrativo y de desarrollo de personal.
Asimismo, el IMTA promovi6 el intercambio de experiencias entre diferentes organismos operadores del
pais, mediante la organizaci6n de reuniones de intercambio tecnico tanto nacionales como intemacionales,
en Mexico y el extranjero.
Otra actividad en la que particip6 el IMTA fue la actualizaci6n de los sistemas de informnaci6n del sector
agua, en donde se disefio el Sistema Nacional de Infornaci6n de Calidad del Agua, y se actualiz6 el
Sistema Raison para plataforma Windows; estas aplicaciones se impartieron a traves de cursos de
actualizaci6n.
En este punto, cabe sefialar, que a partir de 1997, varias actividades del Programa de Agua Potable,
Alcantarillado y Saneamiento que originalmente se tenian contempladas con cargo al prestamo 3751-ME,
y que su terminaci6n fue prevista para ese mismo afio, se desarrollaron y continuan en progreso con cargo
al Prestamo 4050-ME, Programa de Modernizaci6n del Manejo del Agua (BROMMA), que entr6 en
efectividad en aquel entonces.
Las principales actividades que ahora son ejecutadas con cargo al PROMMA son: a) Desarrollo
Institucional de la CNA, b) Programa nacional de Capacitaci6n del IMTA, dentro del cual se efectu an
seminarios y talleres para la capacitaci6n del personal tecnico, asi como de instructores, c) Programa de
certificaci6n, que incluye actividades relacionadas con la certificaci6n en materia de agua, drenaje
tratamiento de aguas, materiales equipo y normatividad de contaminantes, y d) Programa de Tratamiento
de Aguas Residuales, que son un conjunto de acciones relacionadas con la formulaci6n de tecnica,
vigilancia, condiciones especificas de descarga, monitoreo de parametros, adquisici6n de equipo para la
vigilancia y control de descargas.
IV. Principales Factores que Afectaron el Desarrollo del Provecto
Un factor que afecto el desarrollo del Proyecto, fue la alta rotaci6n del staff encargado de la procuraci6n
del Prestamo por parte del Banco, hecho que fue especialmente notorio en los procedimientos y criterios de
elegibilidad establecidos por el Banco.
En 1993, el Gobiemo Federal inicia negociaciones con el Banco Mundial para la obtenci6n de un Segundo
Prestamo Sectorial, por un monto total de 350.0 millones de d6lares. Las negociaciones se alargan hasta el
siguiente anio.
A finales del anio 1994 se suscitaron acontecimientos desfavorables en varios 6rdenes de la vida nacional e
intemacional que incidieron marcadamente en la evoluci6n de la economia del pais.
- 31 -



Como resultado de las negociaciones que encabez6 el Gobiemo Federal con el Banco Mundial para la
obtenci6n del Segundo Prestamo Sectorial, dicho prestamo fue aprobado y firmado el 10 de junio de 1994,
para entrar en efectividad en 1995.
Durante el afio 1995, la economia mexicana sufri6 una crisis econ6mica muy severa. La interrupci6n
repentina de los flujos de capital del exterior hacia Mexico a finales de 1994 e inicios de 1995, sumada a la
devaluaci6n de la moneda nacional, impusieron a la economia del pais un ajuste econ6mico. A fin de
coadyuvar al logro de estos objetivos, las politicas fiscal, monetaria, comercial y salarial se concentraron
en procurar una reducci6n rapida del impulso inflacionario causado por la devaluaci6n.
La transformaci6n del sistema financiero mexicano afligi6 a su entomo directo, lo cual fue notable en la
disminuci6n de los creditos de la banca de desarrollo asumidos por los Organismos Operadores.
Cabe sefialar que la situaci6n por la que atraves6 la economia en el periodo de 1993 a 1995, afect6
negativamente al proyecto, principalmente en lo referente a las asignaciones presupuestales de recursos
fiscales.
Asimismo, las situaciones de contingencia por fen6menos meteorol6gicos extremos que se presentaron
durante el periodo de ejecuci6n del proyecto, tuvieron efecto en inversiones extraordinarias, utilizando
recursos de asignaciones de fondos comprometidos de credito externo para las obras no previstas en el
presupuesto.
Por otra parte, se hizo necesario a lo largo del proyecto, contar con una estructura uinica de coordinaci6n
del Programa, para asegurar mas efectivamente el progreso de la ejecuci6n de cada uno de sus
componentes.
V. Sustentabilidad Esperada
La sustentabilidad esperada del Programa de Agua Potable, Alcantarillado y Saneamiento guarda una
relacion directa con la busqueda de la autonomia de los organismos operadores, a traves de la recuperacion
de costos, la organizacion de los Organismos Operadores y la incorporacion de tecnologia, y se puede
enfocar desde dos puntos de vista: 1) en el aumento de la eficiencia de los Organismos Operadores con las
acciones a corto plazo que han sido implantadas para el logro de la autosuficiencia t6cnica, economica y
financiera de los propios organismos, y 2) en el mejoramiento de los servicios atendiendo mayores
coberturas y calidad de los mismos.
Es evidente que se han logrado incrementos en la eficiencia del manejo del agua y en la recuperaci6n de las
inversiones en las redes de agua potable y alcantarillado alcanzando, a traves de convenios y acuerdos de
cooperaci6n, las metas de corto y mediano plazos, establecidas en el Plan Nacional de Desarrollo y en los
Planes de desarrollo Estatales.
Para alcanzar las metas es necesario que se encaminen las acciones hacia los siguientes rubros:
1.    Inversi6n en eficiencia fisica y comercial (fortalecimiento y recaudaci6n)
2.     Uso pleno de la infraestructura y diferimiento de la construccion de nueva infraestructura de agua
potable, alcantarillado y saneamiento.
3.     Capacitaci6n y certificaci6n del personal de los Organismos Operadores en aspectos tecnicos,
econ6micos, administrativos y financieros.
- 32 -



4.     Cultura del Agua
5.     Participaci6n de la Iniciativa privada en la prestaci6n de los servicios.
Todos los aspectos anteriores deben seguir conjuntAndose de tal manera que los recursos, esfuerzos y
acciones conjuntos que se emplean para el logro de los objetivos, mejorando la prestacion de los servicios
de agua potable y alcantarillado en el pais, reduciendo los impactos negativos al medio ambiente, saneando
los acuiferos y desarrollando una verdadera conciencia ambiental en la poblaci6n.
VI. Actuaci6n del Banco
Un aspecto que incidio de forrna negativa en la ejecuci6n del programa, fue el constante cambio de
responsables del Proyecto por parte del BIRF (cinco). Este hecho provoc6 una falta de consistencia en la
obtenci6n de respuestas sobre la problemitica y los planteamientos efectuados por el prestatario y por el
ejecutor; sobre todo en lo referente al redimensionamiento del pr6stamo y a las modificaciones necesarias
para que los requisitos originalmente propuestos fuesen acordes a las condiciones desfavorables en la
economia del pais.
Por otra parte, el diseiio original del Segundo Proyecto de Agua Potable y Saneamiento contempl6 una
serie de requisitos a ser cumplidos por los Organismos Operadores, con el fm de que estos ultimos
pudiesen ser considerados como sujetos de financiamiento con los recursos del prestamo. Esta serie de
disposiciones se disefiaron y establecieron previamente, tomando en consideraci6n un escenario distinto al
que se ocurri6 con posterioridad, durante la ejecucion del Proyecto. En muchos casos, la realidad
demostr6 que se produjeron procesos lentos para satisfacer los requisitos de elegibilidad de los proyectos,
e inclusive para su licitaci6n; y si bien, el Banco Mundial particip6 activamente en las misiones,
asesorando tecnicamente y proponiendo soluciones para la realizaci6n del Proyecto, la poca flexibilidad que
se demostr6 para adecuar la normatividad a las alteraciones ocurridas en el ambito del Subsector,
mermaron la eficacia para alcanzar las metas fijadas y con ello Ilevar a cabo el mayor desembolso de los
recursos contratados, previstos en el proyecto original, y asi, ejecutar mas obras y acciones para ampliar la
cobertura de los servicios de agua potable y saneamiento.
VII. Actuaci6n del Prestatario
La actuaci6n del Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos y su participaci6n para la consecuci6n de
los objetivos del Proyecto, fueron satisfactorias.
La posici6n rigida que adopt6 el Banco Mundial, con relaci6n a la reestructuraci6n del Prestamo y a las
modificaciones solicitadas por BANOBRAS para adecuarlo a las frecuentes alteraciones que ocurrieron en
el ambito del Subsector, imposibilit6 a esta Instituci6n para Ilevar a cabo un mejoramiento en los registros
de licitaciones, y para cumplir con el programa de desembolsos previsto; no obstante las constantes
peticiones de BANOBRAS para flexibilizar parcialmente la normatividad establecida.
VIII. Evaluaci6n de Resultados de las Inversiones Eiercidas en el Programa APAZU 1995 - 1999
Como resultado de la participacion del Gobiemo Federal en la instrumentacion y ejecuci6n del Programa
APAZU, las inversiones totales ejercidas en el periodo 1995-2000 ascendieron a $4,083.4 millones de
pesos (MDP). Como se puede observar en el Anexo 4 Cuadro N1, las inversiones federales en el anio 1995
fueron las menores del periodo, debido a que en este aino se presenta la crisis de la economia del pais,
repercutiendo de forma considerable en una disminuci6n drastica (66%) de los recursos asignados al
Programa con respecto al afio anterior. Los siguientes afios (1996 y 1997) muestran una recuperaci6n
- 33 -



favorable en la asignaci6n de los recursos, presentando una vez mas disminuciones para los anios de 1998 y
1999. La evoluci6n de las inversiones asignadas a este programa se presenta en el Anexo 4 Cuadro N1.
Del total de recursos por ejercerse al concluir el afio 2000 por $ 4,083.2 millones de pesos, la CNA
aportaria $1,901.0 MDP (el 46.8%); los gobiemos estatales sumarian en conjunto $926.6 MDP; los
organismos operadores (GIC) y/o los gobiernos municipales aportarian alrededor de $566.8 MDP;
aportando el resto de los recursos los creditos otorgados por BANOBRAS y/o la banca comercial. El
monto destinado de los recursos para obras y acciones de agua potable hasta 1999 era del orden de
$2,152.0 MDP (48.4%); $1,541.2 MDP (43.3%) para infraestructura y acciones de alcantarillado y
$389.9 MDP (8.3%) para obras y acciones de saneamiento. Lo anterior se puede observar en el Anexo 4
Cuadros Nl y 2.
Asimismo, como se puede observar en los cuadros del Anexo 4, los recursos federales ejercidos en la
pasada administracion fueron asignados en menor cantidad anio con afio, lo cual es congruente con lo
establecido en la politica de disminuci6n de subsidios para el subsector. En el presente aiio no se
registraron inversiones del APAZU financiadas con recursos del Prestamo en analisis, debido a la
conclusi6n de las operaciones de dicho prestamo con el Banco Mundial.
En una operaci6n de prestamo con una cierta duraci6n, existen una serie de imponderables al momento de
su disefio. Tales imponderables Ilevan finalmente al redimensionamiento de las acciones en terminos de
recursos, debido a los niveles anuales de asignaci6n presupuestal. Tal fue el caso de los desembolsos
efectuados para apoyar las acciones de emergencia que se presentaron en nuestro pais durante el periodo de
ejecuci6n del prestamo. El desembolso de recursos se vio incrementado al presentarse gastos
extraordinarios por fen6menos metereol6gicos tales como: Huracan Paulina y Programa emergente de
Sequias en 1998 y 1999; Huracan Isis en Baja California Sur y Sinaloa y por el Programa de Agua Potable
en Chiapas. En total por estos conceptos se erog6 un monto total de $763.1 millones de pesos (Anexo 5).
Cabe perfectamente sefialar, que el apoyo logrado mediante la asignaci6n extraordinaria de recursos
econ6micos contribuyo para asistir de forma inmediata, a las obras de reconstrucci6n de los sistemas de
dotaci6n de agua potable, de alcantarillado y saneamiento, en las zonas urbanas afectadas por los
fenomenos climaticos. Se logr6 asi el auxilio apremiante a la poblacion con la participaci6n de los distintos
sectores de atenci6n local, y se contribuy6 de forma importante al restablecimiento efectivo de los servicios
desbastados, mediante operativos emergentes. De igual forma, en las zonas afectadas por el fen6meno de la
sequia, se realizaron acciones efectivas destinadas a mitigar la escasez del recurso.
IX. Lecciones del Provecto
Con el APAZU, se apoy6 a la politica de descentralizaci6n del Gobierno Federal y logr6 la ampliacion de
la infraestructura, asi como la ejecuci6n de acciones para el mejoramiento institucional, acciones que en
todos los casos surgen de una planeaci6n integral y estrategica, que como herramientas de gesti6n de
proyectos increment6 sustancialmente su aplicaci6n.
La mezcla de recursos para financiamiento de acciones permiti6 multiplicar y hacer un uso mAs racional
de los diversos fondos financieros destinados al subsector, los cuales se adecuan de acuerdo a la capacidad
de los estados, municipios y organismos operadores.
Con el programa en marcha se ha permitido que la gesti6n y la participaci6n de los organismos operadores
sean mas amplias, para fomentar la consolidaci6n de organismos publicos descentralizados con autonomia
y patrimonio propios, dando la libertad de ejercer su presupuesto, y la posibilidad de establecer y aprobar
- 34 -



sus tarifas en el seno de sus propios Consejos de Administraci6n.
Los organismos operadores necesitaron de tiempo para que sus gestiones les permitieran generar los
recursos suficientes para amortizar sus deudas y operar de una manera mas adecuada y/o para apalancarse
con alguna otra fuente de fmanciamiento diferente de BANOBRAS.
Se ha fomentado la descentralizaci6n y participaci6n de los estados y municipios en las inversiones asi
como la participaci6n del sector privado en el sector de agua y saneamiento. Se ha promovido un cambio en
los esquemas de colaboraci6n entre las distintas entidades de Gobiemo y la Iniciativa privada. Se ha
fomentado control de la contaminaci6n y se ha mejorado la regulaci6n en materia ambiental, al tiempo que
se ha aminorado el impacto ecol6gico de las actividades de suministro de agua y saneamiento.
En el Anexo 6 se presentan los principales logros alcanzados en la implementaci6n del Programa para los
afios 1995 y 1999; los datos ahi presentados corresponden a cifras reportadas en los cuademos de la
Situaci6n Actual del Subsector Agua Potable, Alcantarillado y Saneamiento a diciembre de cada anio
(1994-1999), que publica la CNA.
En el Anexo 7 se presentan algunos casos de Organismos Operadores en donde se realizaron inversiones de
APAZU financiadas con recursos del Prestamo y que han tenido resultados exitosos en sus gestiones;
dichas localidades se mencionan a continuaci6n: Torre6n, Coah., G6mez Palacio, Dgo., Zona
Metropolitana de Guadalajara, Jal., Chetumal, Q. Roo., Culiacan, Sin., Reynosa, Tamps., Dzemul, Yuc. y
Progreso, Yuc.
X. Operaciones Futuras
Por la experiencia adquirida durante la ejecuci6n del proyecto, y por lo que se refiere a los cambios
drasticos en la economia del pais, se recomienda disefiar y desarrollar un proyecto financiero que prevea
situaciones variantes en la evoluci6n de la economia del pais, y que permita desagregar las componentes del
prestamo, de tal forma que los creditos resulten menos onerosos y permitan verdaderamente consolidar a
las empresas prestadoras de los servicios de agua y alcantarillado en el pais.
Por las caracteristicas y la complejidad del subsector, los agentes financieros deben procurar desde un
principio la conveniencia de una flexibilizaci6n inmediata por parte de los bancos, para la operaci6n de
estos proyectos, dado que por su naturaleza estAn condicionados por distintos anbitos y situaciones de
cambio.
Es necesario retomar la lecci6n y la experiencia adquirida durante la realizaci6n de esta segunda etapa del
Programa APAZU, en terminos de economia y de una procuraci6n de un nuevo Prestamo mas adecuado,
de tal manera que se impulse auin mas el proceso de descentralizaci6n y la consolidaci6n de los Organismos
Operadores; para ello se deberan mecanismos que otorguen flexibilidad a los procedimientos de gesti6n del
prestamo; entre otras cosas, dichos mecanismos permitirin hacer mas compatibles los procedimientos
administrativos y podrian facultar a los intermediarios financieros para que establezcan, en su caso, la
reestructuraci6n de adeudos bajo medidas mas moderadas.
El Siglo XXI representa nuevos y grandes retos en materia de ecologia para el pais y el mundo entero, es
por ello que en Mexico deberan enfocarse los esfuerzos hacia el mejoramiento del ambiente; en el caso
especifico el Sector Agua, se requieren grandes inversiones para la consolidaci6n de los organismos
operadores, el uso pleno de la infraestructura existente, asi como para apoyar obras y acciones que
fomenten y mejoren el medio ambiente, como lo puede ser la construcci6n de infraestructura de
- 35 -



saneamniento (plantas de tratamiento y potabilizadoras), asi como la creaci6n de una conciencia ecol6gica
(cultura del agua) en la poblaci6n urbana y rural de todo el pais.
Xl. Conclusiones y Recomendaciones
De los objetivos del programa, se destaca el fomento a la participaci6n entre las distintas entidades
gubemamentales y la participaci6n del sector privado en actividades tradicionalmente Ilevadas a cabo por
el Estado en exclusividad.
Se foment6 el proceso de descentralizaci6n y se gener6 una asignaci6n presupuestaria mas racional,
ejecutada con mayor eficiencia. Se consigui6 que la participaci6n y la gesti6n de los Organismos
Operadores fuesen mas amplias, asi como la creaci6n de organismos puXblicos descentralizados con
autonomia presupuestal. Se trabaj6 en la ejecuci6n de acciones para el mejoramiento institucional,
fortaleciendo la capacidad de desempefno de los organismos operadores y de respuesta a las demandas por
el servicio de suministro y saneamiento de agua.
En cuanto a los logros alcanzados, son claros los avances que se obtuvieron en la ampliaci6n de la
cobertura de los servicios de agua potable y alcantarillado, asi como los alcances en la poblaci6n
beneficiada con este servicio.
El proyecto permiti6 vincular una estrategia con enfoque sectorial, la politica tarifaria para inversi6n y la
priorizaci6n de proyectos de inversi6n, en el marco nacional previsto en el Plan Nacional de Desarrollo. Se
recomienda seguir trabajando con eficiencia y avanzar hacia el logro de una mejor distribuci6n
presupuestaria, tratando de lograr el fortalecimiento de la descentralizaci6n, apoyando a la consolidaci6n de
los Organismos Operadores y contribuir al mejor uso de las inversiones realizadas.
Para que los organismos operadores puedan estar en la posibilidad de acceder a los recursos de creditos
externos, se considera apropiado que para futuros prestamos, para financiar obras y acciones de agua
potable, alcantarillado y saneamiento, sera necesaria la participaci6n de los Gobiemos Federal y Estatal, de
los organismos operadores, de la iniciativa privada y de las Instituciones financieras nacionales para que
se mejoren las condiciones crediticias y las tasas de inter6s que se cobran por los prestamos otorgados.
ANEXO 1
Cuadro #1 - Cobertura de Agua Potable a Nivel Nacional
ANO      Poblaci6n    Habitantes       Habitantes   Habitantes sin  Porcentaje de
Total     con Servicio   Beneficiados      Servicio       Cobertura
1995        91.1          76.7            2.7            14.4            84.2
1996        92.7          78.7            2.0            14.0            84.9
1997        94.3          80.9            2.2            13.3            85.8
1998        95.8          82.8            1.9            13.0            86.4
1999        97.3          85.0            2.3            12.3            87.4
2000*        97.4          85.0            1.4            12.3           87.4
Total                                     12.5
- 36-



Cuadro #2 - Cobertura de Alcantarillado a Nivel Nacional
ANO   Poblaci6n  Habitantes con    Habitantes   Habitantes sin  Porcentaje de
Total      Servicio      Boneficiados    Servicio      Cobertura
1995      91.2         65.7           6.6            25.5          72.1
1996     92.7          67.2            1.5           25.6          72.4
1997      94.3         68.3           1.1            26.0          72.4
1998      95.8        69.4            1.1            26.4          72.4
1999     97.3          71.1            1.7           26.2          73.1
2000*     97.4         71.1            2.0           26.2          73.1
Total                                 14.0
* La poblaci6n del anio 2000 fue tomada de los datos del XII Censo de Poblaci6n y Vivienda 2000 (febrero
ANEXO 2
Cuadro #3 - Cobertura de Agua Potable en Zonas Urbanas
ANO      Poblaci6n    Habitantes    Habitantes   Habitantes sin  Porcentaje de
Total    con Servicio   Beneficiados    Servicio      Cobertura
1995       67.0         62.0           2.6           5.0           92.6
1996       68.2         63.5           1.5           4.6           93.2
1997       69.3         64.9           1.4           4.3           93.7
1998       70.5         66.5           1.4           4.0           94.3
1999       71.6         68.1           1.6           3.5           95.1
2000*         .            .
Total
Cuadro #4 - Cobertura de Alcantarillado en Zonas Urbanas
ANO      Poblaci6n    Habitantes    Habitantes   Habitantes sin  Porcentaje de
Total     con Servicio  Beneficiados    Servicio    Cobertura
1995       67.0         58.6           6.4          8.4           87.4
1996       68.2         59.7          1.1           8.5           87.5
1997       69.3         60.5           0.8           8.8          87.3
1998       70.5         61.3          0.8           9.2           87.0
1999       71.6         62.6           1.3          9.0           87.4
2000*                      .
Total
* La poblaci6n del ano 2000 fue tomada de los datos del XII Censo de Poblaci6n y Vivienda 2000
(febrero).
- 37 -



ANEXO 3
Planes Maestros Ejecutados con Cargo a la Comisi6n Nacional del Agua 1995 - 1999
No             LOCALIDAD                   ESTADO       POBLACION 1995*
I  ROSARITO                          BAJA CALIFORNIA         37,121
2  CALKINI                           CAMPECHE                12,405
3  CHAMPOTON                         CAMPECHE                21,894
4  ESCARCEGA                         CAMPECHE                25,209
5  CD. ACUNA                         COAHUILA                79,221
6  MATAMOROS                         COAHUILA                41,610
7  PIEDRAS NEGRAS                    COAHUILA                114,384
8  SALTILLO                          COAHUILA                510,131
9  TORREON                           COAHUILA                481,493
10  COLIMA                           COLIMA                  110,977
11  MANZANILLO                       COLIMA                   80,568
12  TECOMAN                          COLIMA                   68,847
13  GOMEZ PALACIO                    DURANGO                 192,888
14  LERDO                            DURANGO                  54,570
15  SAN FRANCISCO DEL RINCON         GUANAJUATO               64,577
16  ACAPULCO                         GUERRERO                592,528
17  ALTAMIRANO                       GUERRERO                 21,936
18  ARCELIA                          GUERRERO                 16,609
19 rBUENAVISTA                       GUERRERO                 6,092
20  CHILPANCINGO                     GUERRERO                 123,475
21  HUITZUCO                         GUERRERO                 16,050
22  IGUALA                           GUERRERO                 98,276
23  OLINALA                          GUERRERO                 4,823
24  TAXCO                            GUERRERO                 48,028
25  TELOLOAPAN                       GUERRERO                 19,355
26  MORELIA                          MICHOACAN               512,169
27  BAHIA DE BANDERAS                NAYARIT                  5,053
28  GUAYABITOS Y PENITA              NAYARIT                  7,160
29  TEHUACAN                         PUEBLA                   172,510
30  SAN LUIS POTOSI                  SAN LUIS POTOSI         586,585
31  SOLEDAD DE GRACIANO SANCHEZ   SAN LUIS POTOSI             147,188
32  MAZATLAN                         SINALOA                 302,808
33  ROSARIO                          SINALOA                  13,441
34  GUAYMAS                          SONORA                   90,964
35  MATAMOROS                        TAMAULIPAS              323,794
36  REYNOSA                          TAMAULIPAS              320,458
37  COATEPEC                         VERACRUZ                 42,462
38  PROGRESO                         YUCATAN                  40,005
39  FRESNILLO                        ZACATECAS                89,338
40  ZACATECAS                        ZACATECAS                118,742
* DATOS DEL CONTEO DE POBLACION Y VIVIENDA 1995, CONAPO.
- 38 -



ANEXO 4
Inversiones Realizadas por el Programa APAZU
1995-2000
Cuadro #1 - Origen y Aplicaci6n de los Recursos
FUENTE DE RECURSOS                      APLICACI6N DE LOS RECURSOS
A 1R O  I_   _              _  _  _  _  _  _  _ _  _     _  _  _    _  _  _  _  _  _     _  _  _
Federal  Estatal  MPIO/GI  Credito   Total       Agua    Alcantari  Sanea        Total
I____  _   _C                           Potable    liado      miento
1995     88.31    87.95     3.92      37.03    217.21    60.96      152.76     3,49      217.21
1996    424.77   205.86    100.32    50.49    781.44    435.56      289.35     56.52     781.43
1997    6 47.52   296.17    185.99    109.09  1,238.77   594.90     520.02    123.85    1,238.77
1998    315.60   146.99    126.87    194.31   783.77    415.66      296.49     71.61     783.77
1999    424.81   179.48    134.49    171.79   910.58    520.28      266.52    123.78     910.58
2000     0.00     10.17     15.21    126.05   151.44    124.64       16.06     10.73     151.44
TOTAL  1,901.02  926.62    566.81    68 875  4,083.20   2,152.00    1,541.21   389.99    4,083.20
Cuadro #2 - Participaci6n Relativa
FUENTE DE RECURSOS                       APLICACI6N DE LOS RECURSOS
AfNO 
Federal Estatal MPIO/GIC  Credito   Total         Agua      Alcanta    Sanea      Total
.__ _____ ___ __  __ ___ ____I   Potable    rillado   miento
1995     40.7%    40.5%     1.8%      17.0%    100.0%     28.1%      70.3%      1.6%      100.0%
1996     54.4%    26.3%     12.8%     6.5%    100.0%      55.7%      37.00/%    7.2%      100.0%
1997     52.3%    23.9%     15.0%     8.8%    100.0%      48.0%      42.0%      10.0%     100.0%
1998     40.3%    18.8%     16.2%     24.8%    100.0%     53.0%      37.8%      9.1%      100.0%
1999     46.7%    19.7%     14.8%     18.9%   100.0%      57.1%      29.3%      13.6%     100.0%
2000     0.0%     6.7%      10.0%     83.2%    100.0%     82.3%       10.6%     7.1%      100.0%
TOTAL   46.8%    25.8% i    12.1%       15.2%    100.0%    48.4%       4333%      8.3%      100.0%
- 39 -



ANEXO 5
Contrataci6n Asociada a Obras de Emergencia Reconocidas para Financiamiento
PROGRAMA                       No DE CONTRATOS         IMPORTE SIN IVA
(miles de pesos)
HURACAN PAULINA (CONTRATACION 1997)                     63                  243,528.2
HURACAN PAULINA (CONTRATACION 1998)                     34                   114,154.1
HURACAN PAULINA (CONVENIOS ADICIONALES)                 23                   13,207.5
AGUA POTABLE EN CHIAPAS                                 59                   40,961.6
PROGRAMA EMERGENTE DE SEQUIAS 1998                      269                  162,063.9
PROGRAMA EMERGENTE DE SEQUUAS 1999                      349                  176,548.9
HURACAN ISIS - BAJA CALIFORNIA SUR                      21                    7,332.4
HURACAN ISIS - SINALOA                                  16                    5,292.4
TOTAL                                834                  763,089.2
ANEXO 6
Indicadores de Eficiencia de Agua Potable y Saneamiento
Participantes en el Programa APAZU 1995-1999
NO                     CONCEPTO                             1995               1999
I   Poblaci6n                                            91 '606,148        97'283,460
2   N Tomas de Agua Potable                             12'025,377         14'660,789
3   Cobertura de Agua Potable                              92.6%              95.1%
4   N de Conexiones de Alcantarillado                    9'322,485         1 1'133,021
5   Cobertura de Alcantarillado                            87.4%              87.4%
6   N de Conexiones de Alcantarillado I Tomas de A. P.    77.5%              75.9%
7   Producci6n Anual (Mill. de m3)                         7,670.6            8,003.0
8   Producci6n Anual Media de Agua (Ips)                  272,404            309,744
9   Volumen Anual Facturado (Mill. de m3)                  4,669.8            5,532.4
10  Agua No Contabilizada (Cantidad Facturada / Cantidad    39.1%              33.4%
_____ Producida)
11   Desinfecci6n de Agua (Ips)                            256,265            287,147
12  Dotaci6n Anual Poblaci6n Servida m3/hablano             137.5              123.4
13  Facturaci6n Anual (miles de $)                        7'356,658          17'357,939
14  Tarifa promedio de A.P. y Alcantarillado ($1m3)         0.58                1.45
15  Recaudacion Anual (miles de $)                        4'479,152          1 1'567,272
16  Recaudaci6n/Facturaci6n (%)                             60.8%              66.6%
- 40 -



ANEXO 7
TORREON, COAHUILA
SISTEMA MUNICIPAL DE AGUA POTABLE Y SANEAMIENTO
(SIMAS TORREON)
En el anio de 1997 se Ilevo a cabo el Plan Maestro para el Mejoramiento de los Servicios de Agua Potable,
Alcantarillado y Saneamiento para la Ciudad de Torreon, Coahuila, donde se determino la situaci6n actual
y las necesidades futuras de mejoramiento del sistema.
Antecedentes
En la fecha que se realizo el estudio tenia una poblaci6n de 516,950 habitantes, la cobertura en el servicio
de agua potable es del 97%, la fuente de abastecimiento es el agua subterranea mediante el
aprovechamiento de 60 pozos profundos de los cuales extraen un caudal promedio en su conjunto de 2,243
lps. Asimismo cuentan para su regulaci6n y almacenamiento con 27 tanques superficiales y 3 elevados,
sumando una capacidad de regulaci6n de 56,000 m3, existen ademas 5 tanques de rebombeo; la red de
distribuci6n esta formada por tuberias de 2" hasta 12" de diametro, el servicio en terminos generales es
bueno tomando en cuenta que las presiones son regulares y el servicio es continuo las 24 horas; por otra
parte la red de la zona centro y alrededores es muy antigua por lo que es muy frecuente las fugas, ya que la
tuberia rebaso su vida uitil; referente al alcantarillado la cobertura era del 82%, cuentan con una red de
atarjeas colectores y subcolectores formada por tuberias de concreto simple y armado con diAmetros de 20
a 122 cm., en su mayor parte conducen el agua por gravedad, a traves de 4 colectores principales que son
el Constituci6n, Bravo, Escobedo, LAzaro Cardenas , el sistema cuenta para el desalojo de aguas negras
con 19 carcamos de bombeo, en terminos generales se puede considerar que el estado de la infraestructura
es regular, aunque existe un alto porcentaje de tuberias azolvadas, asi como una buena parte de las tuberias
cuya antigiiedad rebaso su vida uitil, por otra parte el desalojo de las aguas negras se realiza directamente a
las zonas agricolas donde s emplean sin ningun tratamiento previo.
Situaci6n Actual y Logros Alcanzados
Actualmente la Ciudad tiene 596,877 habitantes, con una cobertura de agua potable del 98% con un
incremento de un 1% y por lo que respecta al alcantarillado la cobertura es del 94% incrementandose un
12%, alcanzandose estos logros en los ultimos 4 anios, derivados de las siguientes acciones e inversiones
dentro del Programa de Agua Potable y Saneamiento en Zonas Urbanas APAZU:
Durante 1997 a 1999 se realizaron 7 obras con una inversi6n total de $ 6,636,277.00 de acuerdo a las
siguientes acciones:
Equipamiento e interconexi6n de los pozos num. 59 y 60; equipamiento de tanque en la Col. Caleras de
Solares; cierre de circuito a tanque de Caleras de Solares; medidores para equipo de bombeo
(macromedicion 40 unidades), 15,890 micromedidores para tomas domiciliarias y rehabilitaci6n del
colector sanitario "Constituci6n" 1a. Etapa.
Para el presente afio 2000, se programo 1 obras mas, con una asignaci6n total de $10,477,445.00 con las
acciones siguientes: Construcci6n del colector sanitario "Allende" 1a. Etapa.
Es de importancia recalcar que estas acciones se estAn ejecutando de acuerdo con las recomendaciones del
Plan Maestro y por lo que respecta al saneamiento inicio el 4 de diciembre la construcci6n PTAR a base de
-41 -



Lagunas de Estabilizaci6n con una capacidad de 1,900 lps, que consta de 3 m6dulos, 2 de 700 lps cada uno
y otro de 500 Ips., con un costo de $ 180,405,486.00, en la cual el gobiemo federal a traves de la C.N.A.
participa con una aportaci6n de $16,000,000.00.
GOMEZ PALACIO, DURANGO
SISTEMA DESCENTRALIZADO DE AGUA POTABLE Y SANEAMIENTO, SIDEAPA
(GOMEZ PALACIO)
En el anlo de 1996 se Ilevo a cabo el Plan Maestro para la consolidaci6n y desarrollo institucional del
organismo operador Sistema descentralizado de Agua Potable, Alcantarillado y Saneamiento de G6mez
Palacio, Dgo., donde se determino la situaci6n actual y las necesidades futuras de mejoramiento del
sistema.
Antecedentes
En la fecha que se realizo el estudio tenia una poblaci6n de 215,994 habitantes, la cobertura en el servicio
de agua potable es del 93%, la fuente de abastecimiento es el agua subterranea mediante el
aprovechamiento de 32 pozos profundos de los cuales extraen un caudal promedio en su conjunto de 787
lps. y que se encuentran conectados directamente a la red, 6 tanques de regularizaci6n, 4 carcamos de
rebombeo, 2 estaciones de rebombeo, las tuberias que integran la red de distribuci6n que se encuentra
totalmente interconectada, sin presentar alguin tipo de sectorizaci6n, con bajas presiones dentro de la red y
con gastos insuficientes para los usuarios, por lo que se requiere el reforzamiento de la red primaria y
ampliaci6n de servicio en la red secundaria de agua potable, el mejoramiento en la eficiencia y carga de
trabajo de los pozos que abastecen a la red, sectoriza r a mediano y largo plazo el sistema de distribuci6n;
por lo que respecta al alcantarillado la cobertura es del 89% El sistema esta formado por tuberia de
concreto simple para diametros de hasta 45 cm y concreto reforzado para diametros mayores. En atarjeas
se presentan diimetros de 20 y 25 cm y en subcolectores y colectores de 30 a 107 cm. La red de colectores
y subcolectores que presenta la ciudad, se pueden identificar basicamente tres zonas de escurrimiento, la
primera drena hacia el carcamo El Refugio, la segunda zona escurre hacia el oriente en donde se encuentra
el carcamo Matriz Cuba, el cual recibe la mayor parte de las aportaciones de la ciudad. Por uiltimo la tercer
zona de escurrimiento, es en el sur de la ciudad, abarca el parque Industrial Lagunero (P.I.L.) y algunas
colonias ubicadas hacia esa zona; las aportaciones son conducidas hacia el carcamo P.I.L., por lo que es
necesario realizar trabajos de rehabilitaci6n y ampliaci6n del sistema de drenaje sanitario, modificar,
reforzar y/o ampliar los tramos de subcolectores y colectores actuales.
Situaci6n Actual y Logros Alcanzados
Actualmente la Ciudad tiene 282,298 habitantes, con una cobertura de agua potable del 95% con un
incremento de un 1% y por lo que respecta al alcantarillado la cobertura es del 91% incrementandose un
2%, alcanzandose estos logros en los ultimos 5 afios, derivados de las siguientes acciones e inversiones
dentro del Programa de Agua Potable y Saneamiento en Zonas Urbanas APAZU:
Durante 1996 a 1999 se realizaron 79 obras con una inversi6n total de $ 60,212,407 de acuerdo a las
siguientes acciones:
Construcci6n del colector, Sta. Rosa, El Foce, Poniente, Carlos Herrera, Rehabilitaci6n de Red General de
drenaje Parque Industrial y Calle Urrea, Construcci6n de red de atarjeas y alcantarillado, Rehabilitaci6n del
colector 5 de Mayo, Adquisici6n de micromedidores, Adquisici6n Equipo de Computo, Reposici6n y
- 42 -



Rehabilitaci6n de Pozos, Construcci6n de tanques, Reforzamientos de red, detecci6n y reparaci6n de
fugas, Adquisici6n de equipo de radiocomunicaci6n, construcci6n de red de atarjeas, construcci6n de
subcolector, rehabilitaci6n del colector General Oriente, construcci6n del colector Periferico Norte,
Construcci6n del colector General Oriente-Rebollo Acosta, Rehabilitaci6n del colector Hidalgo Norte,
Rehabilitaci6n General Oriente- 5 de Mayo, Construcci6n del Colector san Antonio.
Para el presente afio 2000, se programaron 4 acciones mas, con una asignaci6n total de $5,534,514.00,
Rehabilitaci6n red de atarjeas y alcantarillado, Fraccionamiento del Bosque, reforzamiento de la linea de
interconexi6n a tanque de almacenamiento cerro de la pila a la red del sistema y cerro del campestre,
Construcci6n del colector Articulo 123.
Es de importancia recalcar que estas acciones se estAn ejecutando de acuerdo con las recomendaciones del
Plan Maestro. y por lo que respecta al saneamiento en el presente afio se iniciara la construccion PTAR a
base de Lagunas de Estabilizaci6n con una capacidad de 650 lps, que consta de 3 m6dulos, 2 de 250 lps
cada uno y otro de 150 lps., y en una primera etapa se construiri la PTAR para un gasto de 500 lps. con
un costo de $84,558,095.00, en la cual el gobiemo federal a traves de la C.N.A. participa con una
aportaci6n de $9,000,000.00
El efecto de las inversiones en el comportamiento del Organismo Operador COMAPA ha sido el siguiente:
Coberturas de la Ciudad de Gomez Palacio, DGO
Conceptos           1995     1996      1997      1998     1999      2000
Poblaci6n                 257,042   260,195   263,386   266,617   269,887   272,806
Ocupantes viviendas       256,085   259,265   262,484   265,743   269,042   271,983
particulares
Total de viviendas ocupadas    56,439    57,811    59,217    60,656    62,131    63,300
Tomas de Agua Potable      54,348    55,665    57,014    58,396    59,811    60,933
lndice de Hacinamiento      4.55      4.5      4.4       4.4       4.3      4.3
Cobertura de Agua Potable   96%      96%       96%      96%       96%       96%
Conexiones de Alcantaillado    45,532    46,326    47,133    47,955    48,791    49,501
Cobertura de Alcantanllado  81%      80%       80%      79%       79%       78%
ZONA METROPOLITANA DE GUADALAJARA (ZMG)
SISTEMA INTERMUNICIPAL DE AGUA POTABLE Y ALCANTARILLADO (SIAPA)
La Comisi6n Nacional del Agua realiz6 en 1993 el Plan Maestro para el Mejorarniento de los Servicios de
Agua Potable, Alcantarillado y Saneamiento para la Zona Metropolitana de Guadalajara, Jalisco, donde se
determin6 la situaci6n actual y las necesidades futuras de mejoramiento del sistema.
Las inversiones totales realizadas a la ZMG a traves del Programa APAZU en el periodo 1995-2000
ascienden a $566.5 MDP, de lo que $270.5 MDP son origen federal, $243.4 MDP de recursos estatales,
$51.9 MDP de recursos de GIC y s6lo $0.7 MDP de origen crediticio.
-43-



En cuanto a las inversiones realizadas para obras y acciones de agua potable a traves del Programa
APAZU en la ZMG, durante el periodo 1995-1999 se ejercieron recursos por un total de $119.09 MDP, de
los cuales 51.15 MDP fueron de origen federal (42.95%), con lo que se benefici6 a una poblaci6n de
280,000 habitantes. Las principales obras realizadas con dichos son las siguientes: Interconexi6n de la
Planta Potabilizadora N 1 a la Planta Potabilizadora N2; rehabilitaci6n de la Planta Potabilizadora N 1;
obras de mejoramiento de la eficiencia y reforzamiento del suministro de agua potable mediante a
perforaci6n, rehabilitaci6n y equipamiento de pozos profundos.
Alcantarillado - Las inversiones realizadas en alcantarillado durante el periodo 1995-1999, ascendieron a
$91.78 MDP, correspondiendo $40.04 MDP a recursos federales (43.6%). Con estos recursos se realizaron
obras para beneficio de 1'01 1,695 habitantes, destacando las siguientes: construcci6n del colector Arroyo
Seco para el Saneamiento Integral de la Cuenca del Ahogado, asi como la construcci6n y ampliaci6n de
redes de alcantarillado sanitario en 27 colonias.
El efecto de las inversiones en el comportamiento del Organismo Operador SIAPA ha sido el siguiente:
Coberturas de la Zona Metropolitana de Guadalajara, Jalisco
Conceptos             1995      1996     1997      1998      1999     2000
Poblaci6n                    3,461,819  3,505,614  3,549,962 3,594,872  3,640,350  3,680,792
Ocupantes viviendas particulares   3,446,370  3,489,837 3,533,853 3,578,424 3,623,557 3,663,707
Total de viviendas ocupadas   718,252   736,489   755,190   774,365   794,027   809,439
Tomas de Agua Potable        647,252   669,236   702,086   736,549   772,703   757,171
Indice de Hacinamiento         4.82      4.76      4.70     4.64      4.58      4.55
Cobertura de Agua Potable      90%       91%       93%      95%       97%       94%
Conexiones de Alcantarillado  582,658   590,992   599,446   608,021   616,718   624,330
Cobertura de Alcantarillado    81%       80%       79%      79%       78%       77%
CIETUMAL, QUINTANA ROO
COMISION ESTATAL DE AGUA POTABLE Y ALCANTARILLADO (CEAPA)
La Comisi6n Nacional del Agua realiz6 en 1992 el Plan Maestro para el Mejoramiento de los Servicios de
Agua Potable, Alcantarillado y Saneamiento para la Ciudad de Chetumal, Quintana Roo, Tamaulipas,
donde se determin6 la situaci6n actual y las necesidades futuras de mejoramiento del sistema.
Saneamiento - En 1997 la localidad contaba con una cobertura de alcantarillado del 11%, realizandose el
saneamiento de las aguas en cuatro plantas de tratamiento (FOVISSSTE V y VI, Payo Obispo y Santa
Maria), las que en conjunto trataban 42 lps y operaban con una eficiencia promedio entre el 40 y el 80%.
Las aguas residuales son dispuestas en su mayoria en fosas septicas, asi como las tomas clandestinas que
estan conectadas al drenaje pluvial, implican en conjunto una grave amenaza de contaminaci6n de los
acuiferos de la ciudad y de la Bahia de Chetumal. La CNA elabor6 en 1996 el proyecto ejecutivo para el
saneamiento de la localidad, en donde se concluy6 que era necesaria la construcci6n de una planta de
tratamiento de aguas residuales y un emisor para un gasto total de 360 lps, con lo que se daria soluci6n a
- 44 -



esta problemAtica.
En 1997 y 1998 se llevo a cabo la construcci6n en una primera etapa de la planta de tratamiento
Centenario, para un gasto de operaci6n de 120 lps. Esta obra se realiz6 con recursos 100% federales del
programa APAZU, que en total ascendieron a $19.286 millones de pesos.
La planta Centenario entro en operacion en mayo de 1999, la que trata actualmente un gasto de 39 lps. En
ese mismo ailo se realizaron inversiones del programa APAZU, para la conexi6n de viviendas al
alcantarillado sanitario por un monto de $2.689 millones de pesos, correspondiendo 29.6% a recursos
federales y el 70.4% restante a recursos del Estado. En conclusi6n estas obras tuvieron un costo total de
$21.18 millones de pesos, estructurados por 20.081 MDP de aportaci6n federal y el saldo a traves del
Gobierno del Estado (1.099 MDP).
Las inversiones totales realizadas a la ciudad de Chetumal a traves del Programa APAZU en el periodo
1995-2000 ascienden a $83.3 MDP, de los que $52.3 MDP son origen federal, $6.8 MDP de recursos
estatales, $21.4 MDP de recursos de GIC y s6lo $2.1 MDP de origen crediticio.
El efecto de las inversiones en el comportamiento del Organismo Operador CEAPA ha sido el siguiente:
Coberturas de la Ciudad de Chetumal, Quintana Roo
Conceptos           1995      1996     1997      1998      1999      2000
Pobiaci6n                   202,046  203,240   204,440   205,648   206,863   208,014
Ocupantes viviendas particulares  200,806  202,008   203,218   204,435   205,659   206,818
Total de viviendas ocupadas  44,931   45,783    53,262    61,964    72,086    49,192
Tomas de A.P.                36,957   38,289    39,669    41,099    42,580    43,617
Indice de Hacinamiento        4.50     4.44      3.84     3.32      2.87       4.20
Cobertura de A.P.             82%      84%       74%      66%       59%        89%
Conexiones de Alcantarillado  3,863    4,733    5,769     7,033     8,572     8,984
Cobertura de Alcantarillado   9%       10%       11%       11%      12%        18%
CULIACAN, SINALOA
(JUMAPA)
La Junta Municipal de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado de Culiac6n, estuvo apoyada en el periodo de
1996-2000 a traves del Programa APAZU con subsidios federales en el orden de 12 millones de pesos, con
lo que se increment6 la cobertura de agua potable y alcantarillado, permitiendo al organismo operador
invertir con recursos propios en obras y acciones de mejoramiento de la eficiencia.
Se implement6 un programa denominado "Proceso de Mejora Continua" con lo cual se ha obtenido un
servicio mAs eficiente al usuario a traves de la obtenci6n de una mayor productividad de su sistema
t6cnico-operacional, comercial y administrativo. Este programa esta dividido en cuatro proyectos.
Proyecto de Recuperaci6n de caudales.- Este programa tiene como objetivo detectar y reparar fugas
existentes en las redes principales.
Proyecto de Mejoramiento de Eficiencia electrica.- El objetivo de este programa es el de reducir el impacto
-45 -



de la incidencia de la energia electrica en los costos operacionales del organismo, por consumo de los
equipos electromecanicos.
Proyecto, Sistema de Atenci6n Telef6nica.- Este sistema se encarga de dar atenci6n por telefono de manera
eficaz y rapida las 24 horas durante 365 dias al afio, proporcionandole al usuario un servicio eficaz en
materia de reparaci6n de fugas y reportes de problemas en las redes de agua potable y alcantarillado
sanitario, reconexiones de servicio, aclaraciones y convenios.
Proyecto, Disminucion del Agua no Contabilizada.- Este proyecto consisti6 en Ilegar hasta el 100% de
micromedici6n con un proceso de la toma de lectura automatizado a traves de computadoras portatiles,
reduciendo el minimo de errores a la vez de una disminuci6n del tiempo con respecto de los procedimientos
manuales.
El efecto de las inversiones en el comportamiento del Organismo Operador ha sido el siguiente:
Coberturas de la Ciudad de Culiacan, SIN
Conceptos           1995     1996     1997    1998      1999       2000
Poblaci6n                  696,262   705,981   715,836  725,829   735,961    744,859
Ocupantes vivicndas particulares  690,916   700,804   710,833  721,006   731,324    740,355
Total de viviendas ocupadas  146,121   153,243   160,713  168,547   176,762    181,733
Tomas de Agua Potable      129,947   136,780   143,972  151,543   159,511    170,945
Indice de Hacinamiento      4.76      4.61     4.45     4.31     4.16      4.10
Cobertura de Agua Potable   89% 7     89%      90%      90%      90%       94%
Conexiones de Alcantarillado  115,215   118,364   121,599  124,922   128,336    130,959
Cobertura de Alcantarillado  79%      77%      76%      74%      73%       72%
REYNOSA, TAMAULIPAS
COMISION MUNICIPAL DE AGUA POTABLE Y ALCANTARILLADO (COMAPA)
La Comisi6n Nacional del Agua realiz6 en 1996 el Plan Maestro para el Mejoramiento de los Servicios de
Agua Potable, Alcantarillado y Saneamiento para la Ciudad de Reynosa, Tamaulipas, donde se determin6
la situaci6n actual y las necesidades futuras de mejoramiento del sistema.
Asimismo para el ano de 1998, se realiz6 el estudio para la Localizaci6n y Recuperaci6n de Perdidas en el
Sector Granjas del Sistema de Agua Potable en Reynosa.
Antecedentes
En 1996 esta localidad registraba una poblaci6n aproximada de 365,000 habitantes, y sus fuentes
generaban un gasto total de 45.13 millones de m3 anuales (1,336 lps); en agua potable el municipio tenia
una cobertura de 91% y del 57% en alcantarillado; sin embargo, se presentaban fuertes problemas de fugas
en las redes de distribuci6n, en las tomas domiciliarias y en todo el sistema (41%), por lo que el organismo
operador recurri6 a la CNA en busca de apoyo para resolver esta problematica.
La CNA, atendiendo la solicitud del organismo operador, sugiri6 se instrumentara un programa de
recuperaci6n de volumenes perdidos por fugas tanto en la red de distribuci6n como en tomas domiciliarias.
- 46 -



Asimismo se puso en operaci6n el programa de transferencia de tecnologia en materia de recuperacion y
control de fugas realizado por el Instituto Mexicano de Tecnologia del Agua (IMTA, 1990), con lo cual se
obtuvieron los siguientes resultados:
Fugas en la red de distribuci6n 8%, fugas en tomas domiciliarias 15.2%, agua no contabilizada 17.8% y
fugas totales del sistema 41.1%.
De los resultados arrojados por el estudio de fugas, se determin6 poner en practica la metodologia de
recuperacion de fugas por sectores, con lo cual se logr6 la recuperaci6n de 25 lps y una facturaci6n de 2.29
millones de pesos en el primer afno.
Adicionalmente, otro resultado importante fue que el personal del organismo operador qued6 capacitado
para continuar con los trabajos de recuperaci6n y control de fugas en sus redes de distribuci6n, y asi tener
mayor recuperaci6n de recursos para obras prioritarias.
Situaci6n Actual y Logros Alcanzados
Cabe seinalar que las inversiones realizadas a traves del APAZU desde 1996 al 1998 para esta localidad
ascienden a $64.0 millones de pesos, de los cuales 31.7 MDP fueron aportaciones de recursos federales y el
resto de recursos de contraparte estatal, crediticia y de GIC. Durante los anios 1999 y 2000 no se han
canalizado recursos del APAZU a esta localidad.
Con los recursos invertidos en obras y acciones de mejoramiento de la eficiencia, agua potable y
alcantarillado, el comportamiento de las coberturas se ha mantenido constante durante el periodo
1995-2000 en 91% de agua potable; asi mismo, la cobertura de alcantarillado ha ido en aumento, ya que en
1995 se registr6 una cobertura del 56% llegando al 63% en el aiio 2000 (1% al afio).
El efecto de las inversiones en el comportamiento del Organismo Operador COMAPA ha sido el siguiente:
Coberturas de la Ciudad de Reynosa, Tamaulipas
Conceptos          1995      1996      1997       1998       1999      2000
Poblaci6n                  337,053   353,598    370,954    389,163    408,265    419,776
Ocupantes viviendas particulares  334,879   351,433    368,684    386,781    405,767    417,651
Total de viviendas ocupadas  79,941    84,453  88,599     92,948     97,510    102,503
Tomas de A.P.              73,120    76,930    80,706     84,667     88,823    92,168
Indice de Hacinamiento      4,22     4.19       4.19       4.19      4.19       4.07
Cobertura de A.P.           91%      91%        91%       91%        91%        90%
Conexiones de Alcantarillado  44,959    48,126  51,517    55,146     60,796    65,079
Cobertura de Alcantarillado  56%      57%       58%        59%       62%        63%
DZEMUL, YUCATAN
La localidad de Dzemul en el Estado de Yucatan tenia en 1995 una poblaci6n de 2935 habitantes, y
contaba con un sistema de agua potable deficiente, y como consecuencia proporcionando un mal servicio
con baja presion en general y un consumo promedio de 120 Ihd.
-47 -



Bajo esta situaci6n, con apoyo del programa APAZU se desarrollo un proyecto para consolidar al
organismo operador con acciones de reforzamiento de la red y seccionamiento, rehabilitaci6n del equipo
electromecanico rehabilitaci6n de medidores, micromedici6n, rehabilitaci6n del tanque elevado y la
actualizaci6n del padr6n de usuarios.
Con las acciones de mejoramiento se alcanzaron niveles de eficiencia, como pasar de un 90% a 95%
incluyendo el aumento de poblaci6n que lleg6 a 3139 habitantes, se mantuvo el 100% en agua desinfectada,
se despego de 0 a 90% en tomas con presi6n dentro de norma, la cobertura de micromedici6n aument6 del
72% al 85%, se abati6 el porcentaje del 20% al 5% en medidores descompuestos, y el agua no
contabilizada se bajo del 68% al 30%.
Como resultados adicionales la poblaci6n se ha sensibilizado al pago del servicio, se han abatido las
perdidas comerciales y fisicas, se ha incrementado la eficiencia administrativa y tecnica, ademas de que las
tarifas no se han incrementado. Las acciones han sido sostenidas durante 5 anlos a partir de 1996, con un
total de inversi6n de 2 millones de pesos.
El efecto de las inversiones en el comportamiento del Organismo Operador ha sido el siguiente:
Coberturas de la Ciudad de Dzemul, YUC
Conceptos          1995      1996      1997      1998      1999      2000
Poblaci6n                  2,935     2,976     3,017     3,059     3,102     3,139
Ocupantes viviendas particulares   2,935  2,976  3,017   3,059     3,102     3,139
Total de viviendas ocupadas  775      780       785      791       796       801
Tomas de Agua Potable       586       618      651       686       723       744
Indice de Hacinamiento      3.79     3.81      3.84      3.87      3.90      3.92
Cobertura de Agua Potable  76%       790ho     83%       87%       91%       93%
Conexiones de Alcantaillado  175      184       194      205       216       N.D.
Cobertura de Alcantanillado  23%     24%       25%       26%       27%       N.D.
PROGRESO, YUCATAN
La ciudad de Progreso en 1995 contaba con una poblaci6n de 43,892 habitantes, con un sistema de agua
potable deficiente, lo que generaba un escaso control de volumenes de agua entregada, asi como la distribuci6n
a la poblaci6n. Se tuvo acceso al Programna APAZU, iniciando con la elaboraci6n de un Plan Maestro, con el
cual se diagnostic6 y se plante6 como prioridad consolidar al Organismo Operador con acciones consistentes
en macromedici6n, micromedici6n, rehabilitaci6n de tomas, rehabilitaci6n de equipo electromecanico,
adquisici6n de equipo de computo, rehabilitaci6n de medidores, sistema contable, sistema de recursos
humanos, sistema de informaci6n, actualizaci6n del padr6n de usuarios y reforzamiento de la red y
seccionamiento.
Con las acciones anteriores se logr6 que la cobertura de agua potable ascendiera del 87% al 95% considerando
el aumento demografico, que la desinfecci6n del agua se mantuviera en el 100%, que las tomas con presion
dentro de la norma tuviera un movimiento del 20% al 60%, que la macromedici6n en abastecimientos se
desplazara del 18% al 100%, que en cobertura de micromedici6n se obtuviera un aumento del 59% al 70%,
- 48 -



que se avanzara en mnedidores descompuestos del 67% al 10%, y que el agua no contabilizada se redujera del
69% al 40%.
Hay mejoras que no estan dentro de estas sujetas a estas mediciones, pero que si se perciben, como que la
poblaci6n este sensibilizada al pago del servicio y al buen uso del agua, a no incrementar el precio de las
tarifas, al abatimiento de las perdidas comerciales, asi como el incremento de la eficiencia administrativa y
tecnica.
- 49 -



(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable
10. Additional Information
Table 1. Sector Investments 1995-1999. Sources of Funds
$M (current) millions
Year         Total             APAZU Program
$M          $      $M        $      % of
Total
1995    2,244      349.6   247       38.0     10.9
1996    1,745      229.6   862       112.1    48.8
1997    2,410      304.3   1,430    179.8    59.1
1998    2,610      285.6   793       85.8     30.0
1999    2,741 _    286.8    742      76.6     26.7
Total  11,750   1,455.9   4,084    492.3       34.8
Table 2. Sources of Funds 1995-1999
$M (current) millions
Source of Funds        Total Sector          APAZU           Non APAZU
Investments         Investments        Programs
$        %$                 %$                 %
Federal Government    6,336      54       1,901      46      4,435     58
State & Local Gov.    2,735      23       927        23      1,808     23
Credits to WS         1,123      10       689        17       434      6
Internal Cash         1,556      13       567        14       989      13
Generation
Total                11,750      100      4,084      100     7,666    100
- 50-



Table 3. Evolution of Service Levels 1995-1999 a/
Coverage %; [million peoplel
Sub-Sector     Water Supply         Sewerage       Waste Treatment b/
1995     1999     1995      1999      1995       1999
Rural Areas      61        66       30       33
[14.7]    [16.91    [7.1]    [8.6]
Urban Areas      93        95       87       87       (469)      (777)
[62.0]    [68.1]   [58.6]   [62.6]
Medium Size                9 1               75
Cities                     97                93
Large Cities
Country          84        87       72       73      41.7 b/   42.4 b/
[76.7]    [85.0]   [65.7]   [71.2]   [15.3 %]   [13.7%]
Incremental
Population
Served 1995-
1999
Rural Areas               2.2                1.5
Urban Areas               6.1                4.0
Total                     8.3                5.5
a/. Source: CNA. Situaci6n del Subsector Agua Potable, Alcantarillado y Saneamiento a Diciembre 1999.
b/. Treated waste flows in m3/sec. In parenthesis, number of waste treatnent plants in operation; in
brackets, treated flows as a percentage of water produced.
Table 4. Evolution of CETES Rates - in % -1994-1999
Indicator          1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999
CETES Rates
Annual Average           14.1     48.4    31.4    19.8    24.8    21.4
Consumer Price Index a!    74.1    100.0   134.4   161.6   184.0   211.0
Yearly Variation %        --      13.4    34.4    20.2    13.9    14.7
a/ Source IMF.
- 51 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
1994          1995           1996            1997        1998    1999
_Estim. Actual  EstUm. Actual  Estim. Actual Estim. Actual  Actual  Actual
Service Increase (Sector Monitong Indicators)
Water Connections (thousands)                         500   450.7  500   589.3   500   497.5   500    582.1   377.5    589
Sewerage Connections (thousands)                      600   417.8  600   433.5   600   356.6   600    251.1   326.3    443
Waste water treated m31sechyear                        70    32.1   90    41.7    115    33.7   135    39.4    40.9    42.4
Percentage of chlonnated water                       96.0%  96.0%   97%   94.1%    97%   94.6%   97%    94.9%    93.4%    92.7%
Percentage of metered connections                      60     .      70              75            80
Percentage Municip. in Compliance w/Particular Standards  30         41              56             76
Accummulate Connections (thousands)                          417.8   __  1,040.0          1207.9         1,459.00 2,497.10 2,228.50
Water Coverage                                              82.2%          84.2%          85.0%           85.7%   86.4%    87.4%
Accumulate Connections (thousands)                           417.8         851.3          1,537.4              0  1,785.3  2,228.3
Sewerage Coverage                                           65.7%          72.1%          72.4%           72.4%   72.4%    73.1%
Training (Project Monitoring Indicators)
Number of Trainees                                    1,100,        1,150 ___ 3__           -     1 -3-0
Credit Hours Per Class/Year                           1,920         2,000      _  2,400           2,400
NumberofWusAffected                                   130  _  _    150  _           170            190
Trained People                                               6,642          123      -      427     -2941                     0
Number of Operators Involved                                 2,391           52             201                    1,176      0
Consolidation (Project Monitoring Indicators)
Master Plans                                        L   30    10     15      3       10     36              21      17       2
Legislative Changes of State Agencies                  6  1  _        6              4
Commercial Improvements                                50            40              30             30
Operational Improvement                                40            40              30      =      30
Administrative Improvement                             30            30              20             20
Memoranda of Understanding                             60            50              40             40
.Subsidy (Project Monitoring Indicators)                           I                             
Lowering of Subsidy (Million of US$)                   67            64              60             51
- 52 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
,,p l                t.;.t,al/Latesit  'Percentage of
Estimate  Estiat       Appraisal
Projo Cost My o.pnn                     $mlo       LJS$ mlin ______
A. Investment Support to Local Water Utilities
Water Supply & Sewerage Works                   614.10         326.80           53.21
Studies & Design                                 43.00
Institutional Support for Water Utilities         12.30          14.80         120.32
Preparation of MPs & ELAs
Help w/"CONSOLIDATION"
B. Strengthening Sectoral Federal Institutions      27.50           1.50           5.45
CNA
Institutional Strengthening
Technical Assistance to WUs
Water Quality Program
IMTA
Institutional Strengthening
Technical Assistance to WUs
BANOBRAS                                          3.10           0.05            1.61
Institutional Strengthening
C. Emergency Civil Works and Consultant Services    60.00          49.80             83
Total Baseline Cost                                760.00         392.95
Total Project Costs            760.00         392.95
Total Financing Required            760.00         392.95
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appralsal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure C.ategory                        ; !      AB ;;  Total Cost
1. Works                    75.80        496.90        22.10         0.00        594.80
(34.10)     (223.60)       (9.90)       (0.00)      (267.60)
2. Goods                     15.50        49.00        24.00         2.80         91.30
(7.00)      (22.10)       (10.80)       (0.00)      (39.90)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         5.30         0.00         5.30
(0.00)       (0.00)       (4.80)        (0.00)       (4.80)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00        23.60         32.00        55.60
(0.00)       (0.00)       (21.20)       (0.00)      (21.20)
- 53-



6. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00          18.40          4.60          23.00
(0.00)        (0.00)         (16.50)        (0.00)       (16.50)
Total                        91.30         545.90         93.40          39.40        770.00
(41.10)       (245.70)       (63.20)        (0.00)       (350.00)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurmen  Metho
0; iExpenditure Category ;    j;;                                       < fKtIlj0 j -i;^> Fth; IB   N.a.F.  Total Cost
1. Works                        0.28         275.38          0.00          0.00         275.66
(0.14)       (137.69)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (137.83)
2. Goods                        2.54          17.02          0.00           0.00         19.56
(1.27)        (8.51)         (0.00)                      (9.78)
3. Services                     0.00           0.00          17.01                       17.01
(0.00)        (0.00)        (17.01)        (0.00)        (17.01)
4. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00          80.72                       80.72
(0.00)        (0.00)        (64.23)        (0.00)        (64.23)
5. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                        2.82          292.40         97.73          0.00         392.95
(1.41)       (146.20)       (81.24)        (0.00)       (228.85)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
t Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
A. Investment Support to
Local Water Utilities
Water Supply & Sewerage   301.10    313.00            163.40    163.40              54.3   52.2
Works
Studies & Design        21.10      21.90                                            0.0    0.0
Institutional Support for  4.20    8.10                14.80                        352.4   0.0
Water Utilities
Preparation of MPs &
ElAs
Help wl
"CONSOLIDATION"
- 54 -



B. Strengthening Sectoral    22.40   5.00                  1.50                           6.7    0.0
Federal Institutions
CNA
Inst. Strengthening
Tech.Assistance to WUs
Water Quality Program
IMTA
Inst. Strengthening
Tech.Assistance to WUs
BANOBRAS                   1.20       1.90                 0.05                           4.2    0.0
Inst. Strengthening
C. Emergency Civil Works    60.00                         49.15                          81.9
and Consultant Services
- 55-



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
As explained in the main text, Economic Costs and Benefits of the project or subprojects were not
calculated at appraisal. Comments on Economic Costs and Benefits are provided in the main text.
- 56 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count        .  Specialty                       Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
December/92                  6   2 Financial Analysts, 2 Sanitary
Engineers, 1 Economist, I
Environmental Specialist
July/93                      6   2 Financial Analysts, 3 Sanitary
Engineers, I Economist
Appraisal/Negotiation
October/93                   6   1 Financial Analyst, 1
Sanitary Engineer, 1
Economist 1 Environmental
Specialist, 2 Engineers
October/94                   2   1 Financial Analyst, I Engineer
January/95                   1   1 Water & Sanitation Specialist
Supervision
October/95                   3   1 Water & Sanitation                S             S
Specialist, 1 Operation
Analyst, l Sanitary Engineer
March/96                     3   1 Water & Sanitation Specialist,    S             S
1 Financial Analyst, 1 Operation
Analyst
August/96                    5   1 Water & Sanitation Specialist,    S             U
2 Financial Analysts, I
Procurement Specialist, I
Operation Analyst
May/97                       5   1 Water & Sanitation Specialist,    S             S
I Financial Analyst, I
Operations Analyst, I
Procurement Speciaist, 1 Water
Resources Engineer
February/98                  4   1 Water & Sanitation Specialist,    S             S
I Procurement Specialist, I
Engineer, I Operation Specialist,
June/98                      3   1 Water & Sanitation Specialist,    S             S
I Procurement Specialist, I
Engineer
November/98                  3   1 Water & Sanitation Specialist,    S             S
1 Procurement Specialist, 1
Engineer
March/99                     3   1 Water & Sanitation Specialist,    S             S
I Engineer, 1 Financial
Specialist
August/99                    2   1 Sr.Procurement Specialist, I      U             U
Procurement Specialist
- 57 -



ICR
August/00                   4    1 Water & Sanitation               U             U
Specialist, 1 Procurement
Specialist, 2 Engineers
December/00                 2    1 Water & Sanitation Specialist,   U             U
1 Engineer
(b) Staff.
Stage of Project Cycle                   A  uAct/Latest Estimate.
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation               16.4                        47.1
Appraisal/Negotiation                    88.3                       260.8
Supervision                             157.1                       502.2
ICR                                      12.0                        64.0
Total                                   273.8                       874.1
- 58 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligib1e, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Z Macro policies                         O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
Z SectorPolicies                         OH  OSUOM  ON  O NA
Z Physical                               O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
3 Financial                              O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
i Institutional Development              0 H  O SU *M  O N  0 NA
Z Environmental                          O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
Social
Z Poverty Reduction               OH  OSU*M  ON  O NA
L Gender                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
E Other (Please specify)           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Z Private sector development             0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
[J Public sector management              O H  0 SU O M  O N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)                 O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
- 59-



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HUU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
L Lending                                            OHS*S  OU OHU
O Supervision                                        OHS OS  *U  OHU
O Overall                                            OHS OS  *U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
Oi Preparation                                       O HS      S   Lu   O HU
El Government implementation performance             0 HS 0 S  *  U  0 HU
El Implementation agency performance                 O HS O s  * U   O HU
a Overall                                            OHS OS * U O HU
- 60 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Mexico. Second Water Supply and Sanitation Sector Project:
Staff Appraisal Report
Minutes of Negotiations
Loan Agreement
Supervision Reports
Expost Procuremnet audits
2. CNA. Participacion Privada en la Prestacion de los Servicios de Agua Potable Alcantarillado y
Saneamiento
3. CNA. Situacion del Subsector Agua Potable, Alcantarillado y Saneamiento 1995 and 1999
4. World Bank. Mexico: A comprehensive Development Agenda for the new era. Chapter 26 Water
5. CNA. Ley de Agua Nacionales y su Reglamento
- 61 -



- 62 -



IBRD 25397
MEXICO
*  &  ~ Z>tes                                                        SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND
SANITATION PROJECT
.,   SAJA  +  4filW  >  / Nognins  - o  .Jl;   ,  Ju6r*
c8CALRrORNU C,  1                                       ,2    ;   X   t %<                                                30-
-9XbX\-0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0f A'k h                                                  -'A
soe gopeek
M-  ..I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;        x ~~IyrotBl I itogoa
PA Cl F C    0-c' E A /VloLo-DGR-  /cc   k                                                                    d
-  >4/n  B    Durongo~~~~~~Cllk-~   "M"  
'MinF. ',, '>   :':' ../f  of f M ; ChilpUllCI fi < <'H/A'io.    BELIZE
:   F f $ = f "   t'4   ........... ........   "   ;-  X   i   @  W "   X " ,','j " , ;'  <   1   G U A   E M A t >, | | : . XG U Aj    HOND U
8.4255~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~              314  $ =P 4 So LsPolNDURApS
V rnn.st.  NVEMER-99



