Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15826
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
URUGUAY
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 3082-UR)
JUNE 27, 1996
Country Operations Unit 2
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - New Uruguayan Peso (Ur$) (as of March 1, 1996)
Ur$1.00 = US$0.1337
US$1.00 = Ur$7.478
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BCU          Central Bank
BPS          Social Security Bank
BROU         Bank of the Republic
CEO          Chief Executive Officer
CND          National Development Corporation
COEX         Foreign Trade Office
DDSR         Debt and Debt Service Reduction
DGI          Tax Bureau
IDB          Inter-American Development Bank
IFC          International Finance Corporation
IMF          International Monetary Fund
MERCOSUR Southern Cone Customs Union
OED          Operations Evaluation Department
OPP          Office of Planning and Budgeting
PLADES       Foreign Trade and Investment Deregulation Program
PRONADE   National Plan for "Debureaucratization"
SAL          Structural Adjustment Loan
USPI         Project Monitoring Unit



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
URUGUAY
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN
(LOAN 3082-UR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE
EVALUA TION SULAtI RY ............................................................i
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE .......    1
A.  Project Identity .1
B. Background.                                                                                        I
C.  The Adjustment Program.                                                                           3
D. TheLoan.                                                                                           5
E.  Project Results.                                                                                  6
F.  Implementation Experience.                                                                        8
G. Conclusions.                                                                                       9
H.   Bank and Borrower Performance .10
I.  Sustainability .10
J.  Assessment of Outcome .11
K.  Lessons Leared .11
PART 11: STATISTICAL ANNEXES ...........................................................             12
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments  ...........................................................        13
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans ...........................................................             14
Table 3   Project Timetable ...........................................................              14
Table 4:  Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ......................                 15
Table 5:  Studies Included in Project   ...........................................................  16
Table 6A: Project Costs ...........................................................                  17
Table 6B: Project Financing  ...........................................................             17
Table 7:  Status of Legal Covenants   ...........................................................    18
Table 8:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ...........................................................   19
Table 9:  Bank Resources: Missions   ...........................................................     19
APPENDICES
A. Borrower Contribution to the ICR   ...............................................................
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise bc disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
URUGUAY
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN
(LOAN 3082-UR)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Technical
Assistance Loan in Uruguay, for which loan 3082-UR in the amount of US$6.5 million
equivalent was approved on June 8, 1989 and made effective on December 18, 1989.
The loan was closed on December 31, 1995, compared with the original closing
date of December 31, 1992. Final disbursement took place on May 6, 1996, at which time
a balance of US$64,184 remained. There was no cofinancing for the project.
The ICR was prepared by Alice Hurtado-Guerra and Herman Nissenbaum,
consultants to LA1C2, Latin America and the Caribbean Region and reviewed by Danny
Leipziger, Unit Chief, LA1C2 and Orville Grimes, Projects Adviser, LA1DR. The
Borrower had not been able to provide comments at the time the report was issued.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision/completion
mission in September 1995. It is based on material in the project file.



I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
URUGUAY
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 3082-UR)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
To address the need for reform, the Government that came to office in 1985
launched a structural adjustment program. Complementing I!MF assistance, the Bank was
intensively involved in the design and the execution of adjustment measures and
macroeconomic management. In 1987, it provided policy-based support with the First
Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL I - Loan 2836-UR) and the complementary technical
assistance project (TAL I - Loan 2843-UR). The Bank's assistance was concentrated on
trade policy and export promotion, public finance management, financial sector
improvements and public investment programming. The first TA loan financed consultant
services, training fellowships and related equipment to help in implementing the SAL I-
supported policy changes (paras. 1-8).
Project Objectives
• The Second Technical Assistance Project was initially designed as a repetition of TAL
I, i.e. for help implementing the SAL II-supported policy changes. Its objectives were
to provide services and equipment related to restoring effective competition in
domestic banking, improving the regulatory framework and Central Bank supervision
of the banking system, further rationalization of the social security system, improved
tax administration, and more comprehensive public investment programming. In line
with SAL II's focus on the solution of commercial bank problems, the bulk of TAL
II's project costs were originally directed at the financial sector component.
Subsequently, the loan was amended to permit a variety of policy studies geared at
assessing policy and institutional reforms to advance the agenda in a variety of areas,
including heretofore neglected reform of the state. In addition, loan funds were
reprogrammed to incorporate creation of a pilot organization to monitor public sector
investment activity, and a scholarship program directed at rebuilding the Government's
thin economic staff (para. 24).
* The Project helped set the framework for some useful changes in the areas of its main
objectives. The social security subproject helped BPS modernize its revenue
collection system and thereby has helped reduce evasion. Studies carried out under
the tax administration component helped to diagnose and find solutions to problems of



- ii -
tax evasion, resulting in a significant reduction in evasion in 1994. The OPP unit
created under the public sector programming and investment component provided the
Government with necessary information for planning, coordination, implementation of
projects and budget allocation decisions. Finally, two insolvent banks were re-
privatized under the restructuring component (para. 23).
Implementation Experience and Results
*  Despite Government administrative weaknesses and instability with regard to
economic management (paras. 25-29), the project successfully helped start and, to
some extent, implement important changes in the areas of its main objectives. The
project achieved some success in launching financial sector reform initiatives and in
improving the performance of key state agencies. Further, activities in the course of
the restructuring of the project produced some useful analyses leading to identification
and preparation of well-targeted financial and social sector projects. As a result, the
project's achievements in terms of development objectives are considered marginally
satisfactory. Its sustainability is however mixed, and on the whole, considering the
rather poor performance by the Borrower and the Bank, and the rating categories
available, the project is rated as unsatisfactory. (para. 35).
*  Initially the project financed the cost of studies designed to provide the framework for
future reforms. About two-thirds of the project's base costs were directed to the
financial sector component, including bank restructuring activities (para. 23).
However, as the scope for reform narrowed, project activities were directed toward
supporting implementation of short-term measures. Actual expenditures were focused
on the tax administration and public investment planning (20% of project costs) and
studies components (30% of project costs) (Table 6A). Project execution and initial
disbursement were delayed by more than a year, and final disbursement by about five
years beyond appraisal estimates (para. 25, Table 4).
* From the beginning, implementation suffered from Government administrative
weaknesses and instability with regard to the direction of economic management.
Project management encountered difficulties due to leadership changes in OPP and in
monitoring activities of the numerous, mostly autonomous, agencies. Attainment of
full achievement of project objectives was also encumbered by the unfavorable
political circumstances and deficiencies in project design caused by the rushed
preparation of several components, as well as a lack of experience in dealing with
private commercial bank rescue operations. (paras. 25-29, 32).
*  Although the Bank was responsive in helping the Government resolve immediate
needs in the financial sector (para. 33) and in redesigning project activities with the
changing implementation environment, its overall performance from preparation



- 111 -
through appraisal and supervision was mixed. Short-term macroeconomic difficulties
and an undermanned administration clouded the Borrower's management of TAL II,
with inadequate control and monitoring of project activities leading to haphazard
management of loan funds (para. 34).
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
*  Implementation experience with TAL II indicate that this type of project is unlikely to
produce rapid, dramatic changes in a country like Uruguay. However, the measures a
TAL-type of project seeks to advance can achieve some lasting successes. The
progress achieved to date, both in terms of SAL IJTAL I as well as SAL II/TAL II,
suggests that comprehensive public administration reform needs more attention than
has so far been devoted to it (para. 36).
*  Particularly in terms of the restructuring of the three insolvent banks, the project
should have a favorable and long lasting impact. Soon after its reprivatization, Banco
Comercial became a significant competitor to BROU in domestic lending. Albeit less
overt, the upgrading of information systems of DGI, BDP and BROU should also help
sustain TAL/SAL II supported changes (para. 35).
3  The design of future Bank-supported projects should include: (i) good evaluations of
political constraints; (ii) executing agency(s) capable of good project monitoring;
(iii) a limited number of participating agencies under the supervision of OPP; and
(iv) provision for a thorough Mid-Term Review (para. 36).



I



- 1 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
URUGUAY
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN
(LOAN 3082-UR)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Project Identity
Name:              Second Technical Assistance Project
Loan Number:       3082-UR
RVP Unit:         LAC
Country:          Uruguay
Sector:           Non-Sector specific
B. Background
1.    Uruguay preceded many other countries in enacting substantial liberalization
policies and reforms, which it has now been advancing for over 20 years. Their
introduction preceded a decade of modest but continuing growth beginning in the early
1970s, along with moderate inflation and balance of payments equilibrium.
Macroeconomic management has frequently been of high quality during this period also.
However, the country's overall long-term performance has been lackluster. Uruguay has
not adopted and kept in place a strategy to put its economy on a sustained high growth
path. Thus, there has been far less growth than needed (even for the small, slowly
increasing population) while Uruguay's capital base continues to be gradually dissipated.
2.    The Second Technical Assistance Project (Ln. 3082-UR), which addressed this
situation, emerged from the Uruguayan economic crisis in the early 1980s. International
nonfuel commodity prices were falling during a global recession, while world borrowing
costs reached historic highs. Underlying these were the oil price shocks and the
unprecedented international lending to developing countries in the late 1970s. Domestic
policies worsened the situation. The results included the re-emergence of large fiscal
imbalances and a weakening in productivity gains. These led to a massive peso
depreciation, resulting in bankruptcies that disrupted the financial system.
3.    The 3 percent average growth during the 1970s was then reversed. Output fell 4.1
percent a year on average through 1985. Per capita GDP turned negative (it would
average -1.1 percent through 1987, and was still 6 percent lower in 1989 than when the
decade began). Inflation accelerated, investments dropped by a third and the public sector
deficit increased.



4.    To address the need for reform, the Government that came to office in 1985
launched a structural adjustment program. It pressed to expand exports, fortify the
balance of payments and make public finances more sustainable. At the same time, the
authorities struggled to maintain timely service on the heavy external debt. They reduced
the public sector's wage bill, trimmed social security benefits, took other steps to cut the
deficit and restrained monetary aggregates. A rigorous transfer of internal resources was
effected by constraining domestic consumption and public investment. The campaign also
concentrated on restoring the viability of the banking system.
5.    The program was successful at first. Through 1987, an initial strong recovery
enabled real GDP to grow at roughly 10 percent per year, with large increases in
investments and exports. Unemployment dropped to 9 percent and inflation to 57 percent.
However, the situation then again worsened, indicating that the adjustment effort needed
more sustained basic reforms.
6.    During this time, Bank support complemented IMF assistance for these efforts to
stabilize and revitalize the Uruguayan economy. The Bank was intensively involved in the
design and execution of adjustment measures and macroeconomic management. It
provided policy-based support of the Government's program beginning in 1987 with the
First Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL I-Loan 2836-UR). Its balance of payments
assistance and Bank endorsement of the program provided the backing which the
Uruguayans considered necessary to maintain the macroeconomic framework. These in
turn contributed to the Government's success in obtaining multi-year loan reschedulings
from foreign creditors and in regaining access to capital markets, laying some of the
groundwork for the subsequent DDSR package.
7.    These were also important sectoral accomplishments which the SAL and the
complementary technical assistance project (TAL I - Loan 2843 -UR) helped develop and
put into effect. OED, in its Memorandum on the Project Completion Report for SAL I,
judged as successes the following developments:
(a)   the public sector deficit was reduced in 1987;
(b)   social security legislation narrowed the system's benefits and financial gap;
(c)   draft legislation on leasing, investment banking, securities, corporations
and bankruptcy was presented to Parliament; and
(d)   trade policy reforms lowered tariffs and improved export competitiveness.
8.    However, the Memorandum concluded that there also had been some deficiencies.
It stated that performance in a number of areas (public enterprise reforms, the central
bank's regulatory and supervisory framework, and public investment programming
processes) fell short of expectations. In addition, the 1989 constitutional referendum had
increased social security expenditures, and Parliament failed to pass the proposed
bankruptcy law.
9.    In this connection, when SAL I was approved, the Bank foresaw more than one
adjustment operation to back the Uruguayan program. This strategy was given more
impetus with the resurgence of rising fiscal deficits and inflation, in addition to the



slippage on long-term reforms. It was thus clear that further policy-oriented assistance
would be required to keep the adjustment process alive. Moreover, the economic team's
skills at macro management provided favorable grounds for further balance of payments
support. Accordingly, the Government and the Bank moved in 1988 to develop a second
SAL. It was intended that the second SAL would extend the previous gains, keeping in
place those reforms whose continuance was in question and establishing a firm footing for
other changes whose fate was even less certain.
C. The Adjustment Program
10.   The initial concept and design of SAL II (Loan 308 1-UR) concentrated on pursuit
of the reforms initiated under SAL I. These mainly included:
(a)   extending the free market-oriented determination of exchange and interest
rates, together with elimination of remaining price controls and export
taxes, and reduction of import duties;
(b)   increasing public savings sufficiently to reduce the financial requirements
of the public sector deficit;
(c)   carrying out management improvements in selected public enterprises;
(d)   streamlining of tax administration;
(e)   making social security system finances more affordable;
(f)   upgrading Government investment planning; and
(g)   addressing the financial sector problems concerning the Central Bank's
regulatory and supervisory framework, rationalizing the relationship
between public and private banks in domestic lending, and
restructuring/liquidating four intervened banks for their reprivatization.
The last of these financial sector goals most affected the preparation (as well as the size
and scope) of SAL II and TAL II, and figured significantly in their outcomes.
Financial Sector
11.   When the 1985 program was launched, the authorities put their first emphasis on
trying to keep the banks and their debtors afloat. The immediate program concentrated on
the preparation of a new law to implement mechanisms for rescheduling debts, and to
improve bankruptcy and liquidation procedures for disposing of debt delinquencies-so as
to lessen bailout expectations. In addition, a new development corporation was created to
facilitate the restructuring of financially troubled firms. Moreover, efforts were
undertaken to improve Central Bank supervision and regulation, implement IFC's
recommended modernization of laws governing business organizations and their practices,
and streamline judicial procedures.
12.   At the outset of preparation of SAL II, the Government and the Bank considered
that these changes had been insufficient. Unfortunately, the liberalization of the banking



sector during the 1970s had so weakened the regulatory framework that it was
inadequate. Also, there was little competition in domestic commercial lending because of
heavily concentrated local banks. The retrenchment of Montevideo's foreign-owned
banks in the mid-1980s worsened the situation. Moreover, the rudimentary capital market
failed to mobilize meaningful resources, just as outdated laws and banking norms impeded
the system. Therefore, the initial work in designing SAL II involved the preparation of
remedial measures in these fields.
13.   In addition, for some time, the Government had been worried about the future of
four private commercial banks which failed because of the protracted recession and heavy
debt obligations. Their large non-performing portfolios, high operating costs and
inadequate reserves for losses had led the administration to intervene in these banks. This
action was taken because of fear of a run on deposits in the system, especially from
foreign capital, as well as apprehension about a loss of public and international confidence
in the banking system.
14.   The situation grew more serious in mid-1988 as a result of steadily mounting
public sector losses in sustaining these insolvent institutions. This was creating a serious
problem in containing the fiscal deficit. The Government therefore decided to mount a
rescue operation to stem and reverse these difficulties. Its aims were to close one of the
four banks and re- privatize the other three (which represented a large segment of private
commercial banking) as soon as they could be placed on a sound footing.
15.   The plan called for mobilizing sufficient funds to cover the banks' accumulated
losses, calculated at US$155 million. It also foresaw the need for an additional US$110
million to be injected for their recapitalization. The scheme likewise presupposed that re-
privatizing the banks would be preceded by cleaning their portfolios and significantly
cutting their staff and branches, for which Government action was considered necessary.
On these accounts, the Government requested that SAL II be doubled in size over the
amount initially envisaged. It likewise asked the Bank to oversee and help implement the
actions necessary to prepare the banks for reprivatization.
16.   At first, the Bank's reaction was negative. Some in the Bank felt that it would be
an excessive expansion of the planned extension of routine SAL support for an
appropriate macroeconomic framework and well-intended (if not substantially
implemented) package of structural reforms. Also, it was troubling, given the complexity
of the banking system problems, since the Government's plea for accelerated processing of
the enlarged SAL, if accepted, would have precluded intensive analyses. There was thus
some preference for a self-standing financial sector project based on greater study.
Further, at that time Bank experience in commercial bank rehabilitation and reprivatization
strategies and methods was much more limited, which increased the riskiness of the
proposal.
17.   Notwithstanding these reservations, the Bank agreed to include the commercial
bank restructuring elements with other financial sector reforms in SAL II. This decision
reflected mutual concern that further buildup of the distressed banks' portfolio losses and
much more prolonged coverage of their operating deficits could endanger the fiscal
accounts. There were also concerns that their continuing spillover effects on industry,
agriculture and commerce would further delay the economy's recovery.



18.  In addition, the administration proposed a bold sector reform under the operation,
which enhanced its attractiveness: cutting back the historic privileged status of the state
commercial bank (Bank of the Republic-BROU). If this surgery were done and the
insolvent institutions reinvigorated, it was argued that there would be significantly greater
competition and a much stronger private enterprise role in domestic banking. These
contentions carried considerable weight, since BROU's existing market share was
approximately 43 percent. In fact, since BROU then was also the temporary caretaker of
the intervened banks, it effectively controlled some 60 percent of the market.
19.   Moreover, there was a timing problem because new national elections were
scheduled for end-1989. Thus, the administration was keen to launch the operation
before the traditional dearth of activity in the interregnum. It was equally worried that
delays in actions to stem the commercial banks' losses would aggravate the problem,
perhaps until well after a completely different economic team from the opposition assumed
office in March 1990. (The then administration was in considerable popular disfavor over
the country's economic slippage, and the deterioration in the social safety net, among
other reasons).
20.   Consequently, half of SAL II's expanded proceeds were assigned to the solution of
the commercial banks' problem. The Loan arrangements called for this to be disbursed in
accordance with progress in carrying out the banks' restructuring and preparation for sale
to private buyers.
D. The Loan
21.   The Second Technical Assistance Project was initially designed as a repetition of
TAL I. The plan called for help in implementing the SAL II-supported policy changes,
which the Office of Planning and Budgeting (OPP) would again supervise. It was
expected that much of the new TAL would involve the provision of substantial
computerization equipment for upgrading the operations of key agencies. Another part
would help to mechanize Tax Bureau record keeping and collection systems. Still another
was to help the Social Security Bank (BPS) better verify contributions and detect
evasions, advancing the TAL I component which had been delayed by procurement
difficulties. In addition, BROU would be assisted in introducing computerization of its
operations and integrated financial management. Finally, further information system
equipment would augment the previous modernization of public investment planning.
22.   These supporting services were later supplemented by actions stemmning from the
aforementioned decision to incorporate the expanded financial sector activity, centering
around readying the insolvent banks for reprivatization. As a result, the largest single
segment of TAL II involved the Bank in nearly operational responsibilities in the urgent
mobilization and implementation of the three banks' restructuring. Some 35 percent of
the Project's base costs were allocated for this work, which increased the financial sector
component of the Loan to over two-thirds of these costs. In addition, part of the proceeds
of TAL I (Loan 2843-UR) were reprogrammed to help accelerate inauguration of the
commercial banks' rescue operation. The scheme called for vesting responsibility in the
National Development Corporation (CND) for overseeing the cleansing of the banks'
portfolios, their rehabilitation and the other actions, after the transfer of their ownership
from BROU. These activities would be accomplished by newly appointed CEOs of the
banks and a number of advisers, whose services and work TAL II was to finance.



E. Project Results
23.   The record of accomplishments under the Project were the following:
(a)   The social security subproject helped BPS modernize its revenue
collection system. A major equipment purchase was planned and financed
under TAL I, and TAL II funds were used to supplement the purchase.
This component has helped BPS in its collection system work and in the
reduction of evasion.
(b)   The tax administration subproject involved financing studies aimed to
assist the Government in its efforts to diagnose and find solutions to the
problem of tax evasion. The studies produced major results, including a
significant reduction in evasion in 1994, improved collections in the
commercial sector, a two-fold tax collection increase in terms of salaries,
and an improved inspection system.
(c)   The public sector programming and investment subproject created an
OPP unit, USPI (Unidad Seguidora de Proyectos de Inversi6n). This unit
monitored and conducted intensive studies of project implementation and
evaluations of the medium-term public investment plan for 1991-4. It
analyzed in detail the factors involved in implementation delays, gave
recommendations to address several problems, and provided the
Government with information necessary for the planning, coordination, and
implementation of projects. USPI also produced critical information for
budget allocation decisions.
(d)   The Central Bank regulation and supervision subproject provided
goods, consulting, and training. After some delays, due in part to
reluctance by BCU's personnel to adopt new technology, funds were
disbursed to purchase equipment. Due to these problems within BCU, two
different computer networks were installed; BCU is now working on
consolidating its system. Funds were also used for training of BCU's staff.
(e)   Another component concerned restructuring the three insolvent banks:
Caja Obrera, Pan de Azucar, and Banco Comercial. Two of these banks,
Comercial and Pan de Azucar, were re-privatized; although the transaction
involving Pan de Azucar is now under review. The third, Caja Obrera, has
been modernized and its client base increased. But Caja Obrera has had
problems reducing its personnel (the bank has small investors, small
branches all over the country, and a large number of employees). There
have been offers to buy it from foreign banks, but no purchase has yet
occurred.
(f)   The BROU subproject was intended to finance studies on administrative
reform, review of methods and procedures, and design of a strategy and
plan for computerization. After an initial effort, BROU shifted its priorities
in all of the above-mentioned areas.
(g)   The banking system studies subproject was not implemented.



24.   In addition to the originally scheduled activities of TAL II, developments during its
execution led to the incorporation of new components with the following results:
(a)   Several Government reform initiatives that were undertaken by the
Ministry of Economy and Finance and OPP:
(i)    "Reforma del Estado" was an effort to assist the Government in
its civil service rationalization plan. A local team, composed mainly
of OPP employees, conducted the studies and analyses of the public
entities involved; assisted by a foreign consulting firm. The reports
prepared by the local team are being used by the current
Government in its initiative in this important area beginning with
the formulation of the Administration's five year budget proposal.
(ii)   PLADES (Plan de Desregulaci6n del Comercio Exterior y de las
Inversiones) conducted a study aimed at improving the collection of
tariffs for imported goods. The study explored such options as
better control of the manifests (sea, air and land), and
control/follow-up of the documents for imported goods in order to
use the information to plan audits of the enterprises and customs'
personnel.
(iii)  PRONADE's (Programa Nacional de Desburocratizaci6n) broad
objectives included:  (a) simplification of the administrative
process in several Government departments, (b) production of
manuals on simplified procedures, and (c) the compilation of
"Normas de Contabilidad y Administraci6n Financieras Publicas," a
guide for accounting and financial administration of public entities.
The Bank financed about 25 percent of the project and the rest was
financed by the IDB.
(iv)  INE (Instituto Nacional de Estadisticas) used funds to purchase
sophisticated computer equipment and software programs, to
upgrade the technical skills of its personnel, and to hire consultants
to assist in updating data (database survey for manufacturing
industry, new database for median index for salaries, register of
national enterprises, and other industrial databases). In addition,
INE conducted two small sub-projects: the implementation of the
service sector survey and the monitoring of surveys on salaries and
on industrial activity.
(b)   The social sector studies: PRIS (Programa de Infraestructura Social),
developed a socio-geographic information system which combined the GIS
(geographic information system) with institutional data (INE), mapping
geographic areas by city blocks in nineteen major cities throughout the
country and identifying households with unsatisfied basic needs (schools,
hospitals, sewerage, etc.). PRIS' main objective was to provide
Government institutions with a tool to support the development of social
policies. The project provided the software for the information system, a



- 8 -
manual, and training for six staff at the Sistema de Informaci6n Social at
INE. This program has provided an analytical basis for the Bank's
subsequent health and education projects in Uruguay, and was used for
targeting investments under the IDB's social infrastructure project.
(c)   The trade and fiscal policy studies carried out by the Ministry of Economy,
and financed partially or wholly by the TAL II project, included:
(i)   labor sector study: an economic analysis of the financing of the job
market in Uruguay,
(ii)   economic analysis of the protection for consumers,
(iii)  legal sector: a study on anti-trust legislation,
(iv)   an estimation of accounting prices for Uruguay for 1994,
(v)   setting up a drawback mechanism for input duties on export
products,
(vi)  implicit tax on public enterprises pricing policies; and
(vii)  the "Fortalecimiento de la Direcci6n General de Comercio
Exterior" project (COEX) which involved participating in the
Uruguay Round negotiations (GATT), export promotion activities,
market research, work on the bilateral negotiations with
neighboring countries, analysis of the impact of other integration
mechanisms in MERCOSUR, modemization of the computer
system at COEX' office, and agreements with several institutions to
broaden and deepen the exchange of commercial information.
Additionally, funds were used to finance a group of experts to
support the Govemment in the regional integration (MERCOSUR)
negotiations (anti-dumping, duties, etc.).
(d)   A scholarship program directed at rebuilding the Government's thin
economic analysis cadre. The fellowship program for post-graduate
training in economics and modem economics-based managerial sciences
financed two years of study for promising Uruguayans. It targeted young
mid-career professionals, preferably from the public sector, willing to
undertake post-graduate studies overseas and committed to return to
Uruguay and put in double the time of the scholarships in the public sector
of employment. The program has financed the studies of ten scholarship
recipients, four from the public sector and six from the private sector.
F. Implementation Experience
25.   From the beginning, TAL II's implementation suffered from Government
administrative weaknesses and instability with regard to the direction of economic
management. During the first year after effectiveness (in FY90), project execution was
barely initiated and this situation failed to improve in the short term. (As of June 1990,



- 9 -
only US$1.4 million was disbursed, and no additional expenditures were incurred until the
third quarter of FY92). This problem persisted to the extent that the Loan was less than
fully disbursed even after six years following its signature, instead of the three years
originally planned.
26.   The new administration which took office in early 1990 initially neglected the
project, partly for justifiable reasons. It took over the reins of public administration after
the Blanco Party's extended absence from government rule, equipped with only a thin
cadre of experienced, policy-wise leaders and advisers. It had almost immediately to quell
a critical fiscal deficit and looming hyperinflation. This necessitated full-time
concentration on handling the economy, a nearly perpetual condition during much of the
project period. Similarly, the team needed to respond quickly to Uruguay's worsening
social problems and to arm itself for the unexpected acceleration in the timetable for
MERCOSUR negotiations.
27.   Further, the predilections of the new key officers entailed significant changes
affecting important aspects of the TAL II activities. First, the team abandoned the
designed approach for the reprivatization of the insolvent commercial banks. It instead set
out to directly negotiate and sell these institutions "as is." This led to an early successful
foreign purchase of Banco Comercial, in the process nullifying the plan for CND direction,
restructuring of the banks and retooling their staffs. Thereafter, however, this approach
foundered until, following considerable inactivity and irresolution, the authorities largely
reinstated the original approach.
28.   Similarly, OPP's new leader undertook initiatives in different directions. He set
aside the goals of restructuring key parastatals and strengthening the planning of public
investment. These were replaced by a full scale effort to privatize government functions
(which led to the 1992 Public Enterprise Reform Project).
29.   TAL II's conduct and results were even more adversely affected, however, by
other OPP developments. The project design called for the traditionally powerful Budget
Office to serve as the central planning and coordinating agency, for which it appeared to
be ideal. Unfortunately however, its new management effectively reduced its already
frayed capabilities, especially at the middle management level. It also demonstrated little
interest in its public sector-strengthening role. OPP suffered also from pressures to
restrict Government capital spending under the rigorous fiscal limits in effect most of this
time. These factors caused a deficiency of Central Government management and
oversight of the TAL.
G. Conclusions
30.   Despite these shortcomings, the Project successfully helped start and, to some
extent, implement important changes in the areas of its main objectives. There was
positive progress towards: (a) righting the financial sector back onto a more self-
sustaining basis; (b) raising the management level of pivotal Government agencies which
had been slipping; and (c) launching public sector reform initiatives. Also, some useful
analyses were performed and well-targeted financial and social sector projects identified
and prepared. Significantly in the process, the adjustment program was sustained and the
way prepared for later advances in some areas.



- 10-
31.   The Government and the Bank collaborated during this period in useful
institutional improvements which were agreed under SAL 11-but which were achieved
outside of TAL II. These included performance betterment in the water and
telecommunications companies and progress towards tightening management of the state
power entity. These in fact surpassed the SAL II targets. In addition, parallel Bank
project activity helped revamp the Montevideo Port for privatization and upgrade its
operations.
32.   However, TAL H's performance was seriously weakened, apart from the
inadequate attention given by the Government, by several other flaws:
the rushed preparation of several of its components, particularly the financial
sector activities. TAL II was effectively designed alongside of and
contemporaneous with SAL II, but did not receive as much attention. This
resulted in a weak analytical base for several functions.
the thin Bank experience with private commercial bank rescue operations
complicated the determination of appropriate project instruments and loan
conditions. The difficulties in this TAL component showed that international
banking experts shouid have managed the restructuring exercise from the outset.
(Their involvement much later in project execution was however unsuccessful.)
Clearer deficiencies were the imprecise definitions of the mechanism for the
operation and the criteria for a satisfactory restructuring plan and the banks'
readiness for sale. These clouded the TAL II component.
unfavorable political circumstances for advancing adjustment reforms. This was
manifested especially in the Government's inability to obtain opposition legislators'
support for rationalizing the social security system. The same factor also
weakened the administration's zeal for reforming BROU, which impaired the
related TAL component.
H. Bank and Borrower Performance
33.   The Bank's actions in this operation exhibited flexibility and responsiveness in
seeking to help the Government resolve important immediate needs in the financial sector.
It also invested substantial resources in helping to develop and trying to introduce
solutions to these problems. However, some of these approaches were not well prepared,
which reduced their ultimate benefits. In addition, the Bank was somewhat lax in its
oversight of the slow-moving activities.
34.   The Borrower's management of TAL II was minimal and poor in quality during
much of project execution. It failed to focus the project and to adequately monitor and
control its activities, resulting in haphazard management of the Loan funds. It bears
repeating though that this was largely a deficiency of involvement by an undermanned
administration preoccupied with pressing short-term macroeconomic difficulties.
I. Sustainability
35.   Some of the accomplishments under the Project should have a favorable and long
lasting impact. The two privatized banks sold are now operating independently under



- I1 -
private ownership, with no apparent reason to foresee their reversion to insolvency.
Banco Comercial moreover became a significant competitor to BROU in domestic lending
soon after its re-privatization. Less dramatic changes and impact can be expected from
the short-term, limited goal inputs for upgrading the information systems of DGI
(Direcci6n General de Impuestos) and BPS (Banco de Previsi6n Social). However, there
is no evidence of or reason to expect their deterioration either. The same is true for the
work done in BROU. In fact, the IDB's Financial Sector Project loan (which was based
considerably on SAL II) has already amplified the SAL/TAL II-supported changes in
BROU, as well as the tightening of Central Bank prudential regulations and banking
system supervision. The latter incidentaliy helped strengthen IBRD-IDB coordination in
Uruguay.
J. Assessment of Outcome
36.   The project met a large measure of its objectives. There were however some
notable shortcomings, resulting mainly from SAL II performance deficiencies in the areas
of public sector and social security system reforms. Therefore, TAL II's achievement in
terms of development objectives is considered marginally satisfactory, the same rating that
OED gave to SAL 1I in its Memorandum to the Board on that adjustment operation.
However, the likelihood of sustaining these achievements is mixed and on the whole,
considering the poor performance of the Borrower and the Bank, and the rating categories
available, the project is rated unsatisfactory.
K. Lessons Learned
37.   The main lessons are:
(a)   Uruguay's public sector finances long ago entered a state of structural
crisis that will take many years to overcome. The progress achieved to
date suggests that comprehensive public administration reform needs more
attention than has so far been devoted to it.
(b)   Projects such as TAL II are unlikely to produce rapid, dramatic changes in
a country which has relatively fixed traditions and advances mainly through
popular consensus. However, these obstacles are surmountable. The
continuing support of both of Uruguay's main political parties for the
thrust of the reforms at issue here improves the likelihood of future pursuit
of the adjustment program goals. Moreover, experience indicates that the
measures which TAL-type projects seek to advance stand far better
chances of achieving lasting solutions in Uruguay's environment (once
consensus is built up) than in more volatile countries. There is thus some
merit in trying to do what is feasible for the time being, even where
political circumstances are not ideal and with the likelihood of only
middling success in the short run.
The design of future 3Bai-supported activity in Uruguay should ensure: (i) good
evaluations of Government political constraints; (ii) effective capability of and
undertakings by the responsible executing agency for rigorous monitoring of project
progress; (iii) limiting the number of participating agencies to be supervised by OPP or
comparable organizations; and (iv) provisions for thorough Mid-Term Reviews.






- 12-
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
URUGUAY
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PKOJECT(LOAN 3082-UR)
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES



I



- 13 -
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of            Substantial    Partial       Negligible           Not
Objectives                                                            Applicable
Macro policies                                                                  x
Sector policies                                                                 x
Financial objectives                             x
Institutional development                        x
Poverty reduction                                                               x
Other social objectives                  _       x
Public sector management                                        x
Private sector development                 l                            |       x
B.    Project Sustainability   Likely       Unlikely      Uncertain
C.    Bank Performance          Highly      Satisfactory   Deficient
Satisfactory
Identification                                   x
Preparation Assistance                                          x
Appraisal                                                       x
Supervision                                                     x=
D.    Borrower                  Highly      Satisfactory  Deficient
Performance             Satisfactory
Preparation        =                       _ _J                 x
Implementation          =_             _                         x
Covenant compliance                              x
E.    Assessment of             Highly      Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory    Highly
Outcome              Satisfactory  I _I _               _Unsatisfactory
r                              |               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~x



- 14-
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Loan                Purpose                Year of        Loan        Status
Approval    Amount         (FY96)
Preceding Operations
2836-UR    SAL I (structural adjustment)       1987        80.0      Disbursed
2843-UR    TAL I (technical assistance)        1987          1.0     Disbursed
3081-UR    SAL II (structural adjustment)      1989        140.0     Disbursed
Fofowing Operations
3323-UR    Support of External Debt and        1991         65.0     Disbursed
Debt Service Reduction
3517-UR    Public Enterprise Reform            1992         11.0     Disbursing
Table 3: Project Timetable
Date Actual/
Steps in Project Cycle            Date Planned   Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)
'jPreparation                          j                   7/88
Appraisal                                                  10/88
Negotiations                                             5/3-5/5/89
Board Presentation                                         6/8/89
Signing                                                   7/19/89
Effectiveness                              9/15/89        12/18/89
Project Completion                         6/30/92         5/6/96
Loan Closing                               12/31/92       12/31/95



- 15 -
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
FY89    FY90    FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96
Appraisal Estimate        1.5      5.5      6.5
Actual                   0.0       1.4      1.4     1.9      3.0      4.7      5.4         5.5
Actual as % of estimate  0.0      25.0    22.0
Date of final disbursement                                                              5/6/96



- 16-
Table 5: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Study                    Purpose as Defined at              Status             Impact of Study
Appraisal/Redefined
Banking Study            Analyze requirements and define solutions   Not carried out
for sector problems:
financial sector        * assessment of financial sector's future
requirements, covering BROU's role, and    Not carried out
ways of meeting any future bank
restructuring situations.
* foreign exchange risk  * examine ways of covering the foreign
exchange risk in commercial borrowing.
* deposit insurance      * evaluate adequacy of Uruguay's
experience with the existing deposit   Not carried out
insurance mechanism created in 1965.
Not carried out
(i) Sector Investment    Increased ability of Government ministries   Altered to  Creation of USPI provided
Planning Machinery;      and state enterprise to properly prepare,  strengthen OPP   Government with information
(ii) Budget Procedures &   carry out and monitor development project,  control and  necessary for planning,
Investment Planning;     following Planning and Budget Office   evaluation of    coordinating and
and (iii) Performance   initiatives.                            public invest-   implementation of projects.
Evaluation of State                                             ment.            USPI also provided critical
Enterprises                                                                      information for budget
allocation decisions.
Project Implementation    See above.                             Completed       See above.
and Medium Public
Investment Plan for
19914 (carried out by
USPI).
Tax Administration       Diagnose and find solutions to tax evasion.   Completed  Produced critical information for
budget allocation decisions, and
provided information for
planning, coordination and
implementation of projects.
Civil Service Reform     Analyses of public entities for diagnosis of   Completed  Reports being used by the
possible civil service rationalization.                 current Government in its
reform initiative.
PLADES - Tariff          Aimed at improving the collection of tariffs   Completed  Better control of the manifests
for imported goods.                                     (sea, land, air) and use of
information from imported
goods documentation for audits
of enterprises and customs'
personnel.
Social Sector Studies    Development of socio-geographical       Completed.      Provided Government
(carried out by PRIS)    infonnation system.                                     institutions with a tool to
support the development of
social policies. Provided an
analytical basis for subsequent
IBRD Health and Education
projects.
Trade and Fiscal Policy    * labor sector study                 Completed        COEX studies provided
* consumer protection                                   analytical support for
* legal sector                                          international and regional trade
* 1994 accounting practices                             agreement negotiations. Impact
* drawback mechanism for import duties on               of other studies uncertain.
export products, implicit tax on public
enterprise pricing policies
* COEX



- 17-
Table 6A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate (USSM)    ActualLatest Estimate
(USSM)
Item                         Local       Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign  Total
Costs       Costs  L           Costs    Costs
1. Social Security Finances      -         1.4        1.4      -       0.2      0.2
Administration
2. TaxAdministration and        0.1        0.8        0.9      0.4      1.7     2.1
Public Investment Program
3. Commercial Bank              1.5        0.8        2.3     2.0      0.4      2.4
Supervision
4. Modernization of BROU        0.1        2.7        2.8       -      0.1      0.1
5. Restructuring                 -         1.8        1.8       -      0.1      0.1
6. Studies (Line H)                         -          -      0.6      2.6      3.1
7. Scholarship Program           -          -          -       -       0.5      0.5
TOTAL                        1.7        7.5 _    9.2        3.0      5.5     8.5
Table 6B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate          Actual/Latest Estimate
(US$M)                        (USSM)
Item                   Local  Foreign   Total   Local            Foreign     Total
Costs    Costs              Costs         Costs
1BRD/1IDA                        6.5        6.5                    5.5        5.5
BROU                     -        1.0       1.0        -           0.0        0.0
Government              1.7       -         1.7       3.0                     3.0
TOTAL                1.7       7.5       9.2       3.0          5.5        8.5



- 18-
Table 7: Status of Legal Covenants
Areet             Secton          Type of             Preset                      Declption                 Comments
Cove_nt            status                      of Covenant
Loan. No. 3932-    3.01 (a)       5                   CP             Government to cary out project with    Done
UR                                                                    appropriate administrative and financial
practices (BPS" for Parl A, "BROU" for
Part F, "Banco Central" for Parls D and E)
and to provide funds, facilities, services
antd other resources as required.
3.01 (b)        3                   CD             Govemment to relend proceeds of loan   Done
under gubloan agreements entered into
with "Banco Central", "BROU' and,
"Corporaci6n" under terms acceptable to
the Bank
3.01 (c)        3                   C              Governmcnt to make proceeds of loan    Done
allocated for social security finances
administration available to "BPS" on terms
and conditions approved by the Bank.
3.01 (d)        10                  C              Goverunent will not assign, amend,     Done
abrogate or wave any of the Subsidiary
Loan Agreements or Grant Agreements
without Bank approval.
3.02 (b)        10                  CD             Consultants hired by each commercial   Altered by mutual
bank involved in resaucturing to be hired    agreement
no later than 120 days after CEO begins
duties
3.02 (c)        10                  C              Coordinator ia hired no later than 60 days    Pogition is subsequently
after at least two CEOs begin duty.   eliminated
3.03(aXi)       9                   CD             Government to exchange views with Bank   Partially fulfilled
on execution of each study included in the
ProjecL
3.03(aXii)      9                   CD             Government to discuss findings and     Partially fulfilled
recorrmendations of each consultant report
l________        and provide action plan and timetable.
3.03 (b)                            NC             Study in Part G of the Project (Banking  Unfulfilled
Study) to be completed by July 1991; and
promptly thereafter Government to furnish
to Bank a plan of action and timetable for
actions taken in respect to the studies.
4.01 (a)(b)      I                  C              Government to have project records and
accouits, including the Special Account,
for each fiscal year audied, in accordance
with appropriate aditing principles, by
independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank.
Audits to be furnished no later than April    Audit reports habitually
after the end of each fiscal year.    overdue in large pail
because of incapability of
NC                                                    Bank requirements and
UNDP procedures.
4.01 (c)        I                   NC             Anmual Audits to include separate auditon   Audit reports habitually
opinion on withdrawals made on the basis   overdue in large part
of satemnents of expenditure.         because of incapability of
Bank requirements and
UNDP procedures
4.02             1                  NC              Records, accounts and financial statements   Audited financial
of aCoporaci6n" and each commercial   satements not routinely
bank involved in Resunuring to be     forwarded to the Bank
audited each fiscal year, and furnish to the   after 1993, when Cenral
Bank, no later than April after the end of    Bank took over activities
each fiscal year, copies of audited financial  to privatize the banks.
xstanates and auditors' reporL
Covenant Types:
I - Accounts/Audits                    S - Indigenus people                 Present Status:
2 - Financial performance/review generation  9 = Monitoring, review and repoting  C =  covenant comnplied with
from beneficiaries                10 - Projed implementation not        CD  complied with after delay
3 - Flow and utilization of projed funds  covered by categories 1-9         CP - complied with partially
4 - Counterpart funding               11 - Sectoral or croas aectol         NC = not complied with
5 = Managmet aspecd ofthe                 budgetry or other resource
projed or executi agency               allocation
6 - Enmi'rolntal coveant              12 = Sectoral or croas-aectal policy/
7 - Involunty restlement                  regulatory/imditutional action
13 - Other



- 19 -
Table 8: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs'
Stage of Project        Planned             Revised              Actual2
Cycle
Weeks   US$    Weeks    US$             Weeks    USS
Preparation to        Preparation of TAL II was done in concert with SAL II.
Appraisal             Resources -both $ & S/W-were charged SAL II.
Appraisal                 -     -          5          9.5      2.4         5.3
Negotiations                               -          -        -          -
through Board
Approval
Supervision              64     118.1   100.9       183.4      93.6       193.1
Completion               20       22.9    12.4       25.1       8.6        23.4
TOTAL                  84     141.0   118.3       218.0    104.6        221.8
Table 9: Bank Resources: Missions
I _______________  ______  ________  _______   _____________    Perform ance  Rating3
Stage of      Month   Number  Days in    Specialized   Implemen-  Develop-   Types of
Project Cycle    /Year      of      Field     Staff Skills   tation       went    Problemss
Persons            Represented4     Status    Objectives
Through appraisal   07/88      1        _   EC
Appraisal through    10/88    3               EC, CO, S
Board approval
Supervision
07/89      4               CO, EC, RA, C       1 
07/90      3               EC, CO, S           2           2
07/91       1              EC                  2           1
11/91      2               CO, EC              2          2
02/93      2               CO,S                2           2
08/93      3               CO, EC, C           2           2      SP, M&E
06/94      3               2EC C               S           S      SP
01/95      1               C                   S           S
09/95      1               C                   S           S
Completion         01/95       1              C
09/95      1    .          C
I Includes Bank-financed and trust fund consultants. Dollars are direct costs only.
2 Through 3/31/96.
3 2/S = Satisfactory.
4 EC = Economist, CO = Country Ofricer, C = Consultant, S- Banking Sector Specialist, RA =
Research Assistant..
5 SP = Studies Progress, M&E = Monitoring and Evaluation.



I






I






IMAC I i'K
Report No:         158 '6
T:ype: IM'



