Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
aA)  3D8Z
Report No. P-5074-UR
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF H1TE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT OF US$6.5 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF URUGUAY
FOR A
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
MAY 11, 1989
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALEN¶LS
(December 30, 1988)
US$1 - NU$451
NU$1.0 - US$0.00222
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)               1=O,00m2            -   2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)              -     0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km2)            100 ha
1 metric ton                        1,000 kg
1 kilogram                    =     2.2 pounds
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AFE     -  Government Railway Company
BCU     -  Central Bank of Uruguay
BPS     -  Social Security Bank
BROU    -  Banco Rep6blica
CND     -  National Development Corporation
DGI     -  Tax Bureau
GDP     -  Gross Domestic Product
IDB     -  Interamerican Development Bank
Il4F    -  International Monetary Fund
OPP     -  Office of Planning and Budgeting
OSE     -  Government Water Company
TAL     -  Technical Assistance Loan



FOR OFMCL USE ONLY
URUGUY
TEC8NICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT IT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUIlARY
Borrowers                  Government of Uruguay
Beneficiaries:             Office of Planning and Budgeting (OPP)
Central Bank of Uruguay (BCU)
Tax Bureau (DGI)
Social Security Bank (BPS)
Banco Repdblica (BROU)
National Development Corporation (CND)
Amounts                    US$6.5 Million
Term.s                     15 years, including 5 years of grace, at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Financing Plan:            IBRD               US$6.5  million
Banco Rep6blica    US$1.0  million
Government         US$1.7  million
Total           US$9.2  million
Econamic Rate of Returns   n.a.
Staff Appraisal Beports    n.a.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the petfonnace
Of their officia duties. Its contents may not otherwris be discbsed without Wodd Bankz authowintion.|



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF TUE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT TO
THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF URUGUAY
FOR A SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$6.5 MILLION
1.       I submit the following memorandum and recommendation on a proposed
technical assistance loan to the Republic of Uruguay for the equivalent of
US$6.5 million. It would finance the services and related inputs required
in the policy areas included in the Second Structural Adjustment Loan which
is submitted for your approval under a separate cover (ref. P-5071-UR).
The loan would have a term of 15 years, including 5 years of grace, at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate.
2.       Background.  Since its assumption of power in March 1985, the
Government developed and has been carrying out a medium-term economic
program. This was designed to stabilize the economy (which had been deep
in recession since 1982) and restore economic growth, reduce the external
debt burden, improve public finances, and encourage investment and
production. The program has embodied a consistent macroeconomic framework
with important structural reforms in key policy areas. This ongoing
program includess (i) a policy and incentive framework geared to the expan-
sion of exports of goods and services, including a floating and competitive
exchange rate, further rationalization of tariff protection and a comple-
mentary tax policy; (ii) freedom of capital markets, interest rates and
foreign exchange transactions, and an almost total absence of price
controls; (iii) measures to slow inflation and maintain fiscal and monetary
discipline, to achieve a sustainable current account balance of payments
deficit, and to balance better resource allocation between the public and
private sectors; (iv) actions to modernize the public sector, e.g., stream-
lining the social security system and inefficient public enterprises; and
(v) focusiug the public investment program on providing essential infra-
structure and inputs for private sector productive activity.
3.       In 1987, the Bank approved SAL X and a complementary TA project to
buttress Uruguay's program in an initial measure of assistance over the
envisaged three-to-five year adjustment period. The Bank's assistance was
concentrated on trade policy and export promotion, public financial manage-
ment, financial sector improvements and public investment programming.
These had been identified as priority areas in the Government's plan for
reactivating the economy without reigniting inflationary pressures. As
reported in the memorandum to the Board regarding SAL I, dated May 27, 1988
(ref. Sec M88/615), there was satisfactory progress in the adjustment pro-
gram which was then (and still is) on track, with the medium-term outlook
continuing to favor growth and employment generation. In the process, the
Government readily met the conditions of SAL I, all of whose funds have now
been disbursed, and demonsttated considerable receptivity to Bank advice.
The first TA loan financed consultant services, training fellowships and
related equipment to help the Government carry out the adjustment program.
It has been successful in meeting its goals although the pace of disburse-
ments has been slow. There were administrative delays in purchasing



equipment; several studies were conducted at less cost than anticipated;
and other studies were carried out under the aegis of other loans. The
Government has now requested a second SAL, again with supporting technical
assistance.
4.       Rationale for Bank Involvement.  The Bank's involvement in the
proposed technical assistance operation is directly linked to the main
emphasis in the overall country strategy on advancing the fulfillment of
the Government's adjustment program. The Bank's presence would provide the
Government with ti.-? important backing it considers necessary to achieve
this program's objectives, particularly int (i) reducing the public sector
deficit and improving its management; and (ii) restructuring failed commer-
cial banks and overcoming regulatory, supervision and other deficiencJes in
the financial sector. The project's provision of the services and other
inputs to prepare and guide the incremental policy changes and institut-
ional reforms would help ensure the level of skills needed to carry out
these segments of SAL II properly. It would further help guarantee the
ear.'y availability of the team needed to implement the banking system
char.gee, to which the Government attaches great priority. Uruguay's
improved economic management provides encouragement that the Government can
continue its adjustment efforts in 1989-91, and confirms the Bank's past
decision to provide significant resources for these purposes; it also
warrants further support. Experience has also shown effective Government
use of adjustment lending to achieve significant policy reforms, far more
than has been feasible under investment projects.
5.       Project Objectives.  The proposed project supports the Govern-
ment's objectives to restore effective competition in domestic banking and
to improve the regulatory framework and Central Bank supervision of the
banking system. It also encompasses the targets of further rationalization
of the costly social security system, improved tax administration and more
comprehensive public investment programming (ref. SAL II President's
Hemorandum (MOP), para. 46). Accomplishment of these objectives would
assist the Government to meet the proposed conditions for release of the
SAL II second trpnche.
6.       Project Description.  The project would finance the cost of
studies designed to provide the framework for future reforms, and training
and equipment needed for their implementation: (i) on social security
finances and administration, aiming at more effective Social Security Bank
(BPS) verification of contributions and detection of evasion (US$1.4 mil-
lion, 16 percent of project costs including contingencies). This would
help improve revenue controls and reduce BPS' future deficits; (ii) on
financial sector reforms, aiming at first rehabilitating and later
reprivatizing three insolvent commercial banks (US$3.1 million, 35 percent
of project costs). This component would help these institutions to develop
and implement new operating policies and procedures, reduce branches and
staff, and regain financial viability for their envisaged reprivatization;
(iii) on tightened Central Bank supervision, so as better to detect and
avert potential future problems within the banking system and to help
ensure adequate compliance with new prudential rules. This would help to
reinstate an adequate regulatory framework (US$684,000, seven percent of
project costs); (iv) regarding the Banco de la Repiblica, to revamp BROU's
accounting system, computerize its operations and install modern



- 3 -
information systems and training activities (US$3.0 million, 33 percent of
project costs); (v) regarding Uruguay's banking system development, a
comprehensive study of BRCU's role, more adequate institutional
arrangements for the future exit and/or rehabilitation of distressed banks,
the need for a new deposit insurance system, and ways of managing the
foreign exchange risk predominant in present commercial banking
(US$114,000, one percent of project costs); (vi) on tax administration, to
computerize Tax Bureau record-keeping and collection systems (US$230,000,
two percent of project costs; and (vii) on public investment planning,
aiming at extending the recent system programming improvements to a wider
range of public sector agencies (US$518,000, five percent of project
costs). A breakdown of costs and the financing plan are shown in
Schedule A. Amounts and methods of procurement and the disbursemelt
schedule are shown in Schedule B with details on consultant services
contained in Schedule C. The project processing timetable is shown in
Schedule D. A detailed description of the p'3ject's components is provided
in Annex I. Annex II presents a matrix detailing objectives, components,
expected outputs and impact of the project.
7.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$9.2 million equi-
valent with a foreign exchange component of US$7.5 million. The loan would
cover 86 percent of foreign costs and 71 percent of total costs on the
grounds of the high policy and institutional impact of the project
components in relation to the Government's adjustment program. It is also
considered justified in the light of the Government's nroblems in launching
and carrying out the financial restructuring program on its own.
Consultants would be selected and equipment purchased in accordance with
Bank guidelines. The Office of Planning and Budgeting (OPP), which
successfully supervised the similarly oriented TA I Project, would be
responsible for directing the successor operation. The Central Bank (BCU),
National Development Corporation (CND), Tax Bureau (BCU), Social Security
Bank (BPS) and BROU would execute their respective components with portions
of the loan which the Government would make available under agreed terms
and conditions. These proceeds would be on-lent to BCU and BROU on
substantially the same terms as the Bank loan for their portions of the
loan. The corresponding amounts for the central government executing
agencies and BPS would be made available to them as grants. The remaining
proceeds, directed to the financial sector component, would be on-lent to
CND for repayment in local currency but otherwise closely reflecting the
overall financial terms and conditions of the Bank Loan. CND, thereafter,
would relend to each of the banks the corresponding portions of the
proceeds on the same terms and conditions on which it received the funds.
8.       ARreed Actions.  The actions already taken include agreement on
project arrangements and components with the Government; CUD's designation
to oversee the financial sector rehabilitation program; and the latter's
approval by the pertinent legislative committee. The Central Bank has
drafted in consultation with the Bank new prudential regulations, whose
issuance would be conditions of effectiveness for the SAL. Agreement has
been reached on the qualifications of the three banks' new Chief Executive
Officers (CEOs) to be employed for managing the banks' restructuring and
their employment prior to disbursement of the SAL II loan's financial
sector component.  Conditions of TA loan effectiveness would include the
execution of the subsidiary loan agreement with the CND. The other



- 4 -
agreements referred to in para. 7 above, also satisfactory to the Bank,
will condition disbursements of the respective components. It is proposed
that project funds supplement CND's compensation for the consultants CND
would employ to serve temporarily as the banks' CEOs and their main
subordinates on a temporary basis and for a finite task. Uruguay has
limited expertise in this area. Strong incentives are needed to attract
speedily such personnel and to motivate their speedy completion of the
banks' restructuring. The rigidities of the Government's budget controls
and its low salary levels would impede the recruitment of able individuals.
Therefore, the proposed loan would provide US$2,000 per month for each of
the CEOs and CND's Coordinator and US$1,000 per month for their four senior
managers over 24 months, along with CND's lawyer and por* )lio collection
manager.
9.       Benefits.  The project is expected to bring about major improve-
ments in the effectiveness of the social security system, tax adminis-
tration, financial sector regulation, competitiveness of commercial banking
and the public investment process. Regarding the financial sector reforms,
the project will play a particularly important role in ensuring the avail-
ability of high caliber, internationally experienced experts to assist in
guiding the restructuring operation and the changes in the Central Bank's
regulatory system. In addition, since SAL II may be rapidly disbursed, the
proposed TA loan may provide grounds for Bank support for financial sector
development over the next several years. Further, the project is expe-ted
to produce a valuable input for policy discussions witb the new Adminis-
tration.
10.      Risks.  While the Government's successful completion of SAL/TAL I
indicates its commitment to sustained structural reforms, the politicel
uncertainties surrounding an election year and new leadership subsequently
may present risks on the extent of continued follow-up of the measures,
which the TA project would support. This has been taken into account in
the design of the project. The risks attendant to restructuring of the
insolvent banks are considerable. They are, however, overshadowed by the
firm Government decision to implement these measures and the high costs of
alternative solutions. The presence of skilled technical experts should
help as well.
11.      Recommendation.  I am satisfied that the proposed loan would
comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank, and recommend that the
Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Barber B. Conable
President
By Mr. Moeen A. Qureshi
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 11, 1989



-5-
Schedule A
URUGUAY
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN II
ESTIMATED COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN a/
(US$ thousands)
Estimated Costs                              Local     Foreign       Total
A. Consultant Services
Public Investment Planning              30        75           105
Commercial Banks Restructuring      1,104      1,375         2,479
Banking Study                          20         80           100
Sub-total                     1,154      1,530        2,684
B. Equipment
Banco Rep0blica                      --        2,000         2,000
Social Security Bank                 --        1,200         1,200
Tax Bureau                           _-          200           200
Planning Office                      _-          100           100
Central Bank                          -          100           100
Sub-total                          0        3,600        3,600
C. Training
Banco Repdblica                       120        542           662
Central Bank Supervision               100       400           500
Commercial Banks                        50       200           250
Public Investment                       50       200           250
Sub-total                          320      1,342        1,662
Total Base Costs                    1,474      6,472         7,946
Contingencies                          212       997         1,209
TOTAL PROJECT COST                       1,686     7,469         9,155
Financing Plan                               Local     Foreign       Total
---    (U.S. Thousands)-----
IBRD                                      __       6,500         6,500
Banco Repdblica                           --         969           969
Government                               1,686       --          1,686
TOTAL                                1,686      7,469         9,155
a/ The estimated costs of the project do not include taxes and duties.



-6-
Schedule B
URUGUAY
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN II
Procurement Method
(US$ Thousands)
Items                       LIB           Other          Total Cost
Consultant Services                              3,151          3,151
(1,830)        (1,830)
Goods                            4,104                          4,104
(3,100)                        (3,100)
Training                                        1,900           1,900
(1,570)        (1,570)
TOTAL                        4,104          5,051           9,155
Total from Loan             (3,100)         (3,400)        (6,500)
Notes:   (1)  Cost estimates do not include duties and local taxes, which
are negligible.
(2) 'Other" methods include local shopping and purchase of
services from consultants consistent with Bank guidelines.
(3) Figures in parentheses are the respective anounts to be
financed from the proposed Bank loan.
Disbursements Category             Amount               Percentage
(US$000)
A. Consultant Services           3,410      100? of foreign expenditures
and Training                          and 80t of local expenditures
B.  Equipment                    2,000      1002 of foreign expenditures
(except 502 for BROU) and 802
of local expenditures
C.  Unallocated                  1,090
Estimated Disbursements           1989         1990          1991
------ US$000 by Bank FY
Annual                     1,500        4,000         1,000
Cumulative                 1,500        5,500         6,500



-7-
Schedule C
Page 1 of 2
URUGUAY
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN II
CONSULTANT SERVICBS
(US$ thousands)
Local      Forei&n      Total
A.  Public Investment Planning                 30           75        105
1. Experts for Investment
Programming and Sectorial
Planning Units (8 months)              10          30          40
2. Expert in Performance
Contracts and Control
Mechanism for Public
Enterprises (8 months)              10           25          35
3. Experts in Macro-Planning
and Organization Planning           10           20          30
B. Commercial Banks Restructuring           1,104       1,375       2,479
1. Management
a. Restructured Commercial
Banks (24 months each)         936          504      1,440
3 CEOs (US$2,000 a month)        216          144        360
3 Financial and Planning         144           72        216
Managers (US$1,000 a month)
3 Marketing of Banking           144           72        216
Services Specialists
(US$1,000 a month)
3 Personnel and Branch Office   144            72        216
Managers (US$1,000 a month)
3 Legal Advisors (US$1,000       144           72        216
a month)
b.  CND (24 months each)              168         120         288
1 Coordinator (US$2,000 a         72           48        120
month)
1 Lawyer (US$2,000 a month)       48           48         96
1 Portfolio Collection
Manager (US$1,000 a month,      48           24          72



SW edule C
Page 2 of 2
Local     Forei8n       Total
2.  Technical Specialists                 --          751        751
a. High-caliber Specialists for
short-term assignments in
support of CND and the CEO's
tabout 13 months of services
altogether at US$1,200 a
day; travel and subsistence
expenses for US$100,000)         --         501         501
b. Project Execution Advisors
(some 6 months of services
at about US$1,200 a day;
travel expenses budgeted at
US$5,000)                        __         250         250
C.  Banking Study                             20           80        100
2 Consultants (6 months each
at US$10,000 a month;
travel expenses total
US$20,000)                      20          80         100
TOTAL      1,154        1,530      2,684
_ _ ,m



-9-
Schedule D
URUGUAY
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN II
Timetable of Rey Processing Events
(a)      Time taken to prepare project:       5 months
(b)      Project Prepared by:                 Planning and Budgeting Office
(c)      First Bank Mission                   July 1988
(d)     Appraisal Mission:                    October 1988
(e)      Negotiations:                       May 3-5, 1989
(f)      Planned date for Effectiveness:      July 1989
(g)     List of relevant PCRs and PPARs       None



- 10 _
Schedule E
Page I of 2
,URUAY
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN II
Status of Bank Group Operations in Uruguay
(as of March 31, 1989)
(US$million)
Amount
Loan                                                     (Less cancellations)
NO.    Year    Borrower    Purpose                     Bank    Undisbursed
Loans fully disbursed                                  421.5
1831    1980    Uruguay      Agricultural Develop.      24.0           1.5
1930    1980    Uruguay      Industrial Credit          13.7            .1
2033    1982    ANTEL '      Telecommunications         24.0          14.3
2238    1983    Uruguay      Highways                   45.0          16.5
2484    1985    UTE 2/       Power                       4.0           3.5
2622    1985    UTE 2/       Power                      45.2          44.5
2802    1987    ANCAP        Refinery Modernization    24.4           21.2
2843    1987    Uruguay      Technical Assistance        1.0           0.8
2921    1988    Uruguay      Water Supply Rehab.        22.3          22.2
3021    1989    Uruguay      Transport                  80.8          80.8
Total                                        705.9
of which has been repaid                   252.9
Total now outstanding                        453.0
Amount sold                                    4.6
of which has been repaid                      4.6
Total now held by Bank                       448.4
Total undisbursed                            205.3
1/ National Telecommunications Administration.
2! National Power Company.
3/ National Fuel Company.



- 11 -
Schedule E
Page 2 of 2
URUGUAY
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN II
Statement of IPC Investments in Uruguay
(as of March 31, 1989)
Fiscal                               Type of        (Amount in US Million)
Year          Obligor                Business        Loan   Equity   Total
1979    Fabrica Uruguaya de      Motor Vehicles       3.80    -         3.80
Neumaticos*            and accesories
1979    Acodike Suergas S.A *    Chemicals and        0.95     -        0.95
petrochemicals
1979/   Astra Pesquerias          Food & Food         7.40     2.25    9.65
1983      Uruguayas S.A.           processing
1980/   Sur Invest Casa          Money and capital  20.80      1.79   22.59
1989      Bancaria S.A.            market
1985    Azucitrus S.A.           Food and food        7.61     2.40   10.01
processing
Total gross commitments                      40.56     6.44   47.00
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                       22.98      .     22.98
Net held by IFC                              17.58     6.44   24.02
Total Undisbursed                             1.48     0.45    1.93
*Fully repaid



ANNSX I
Page I of 12
URUGUAY - TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN
I. BACKGROUND
1.       The Bank has financed substantial technical assistance in previous
operations as followss
(a) Highways III (Loan 2238-UR). This loan includes technical
assistance to the planning unit of the Ministry of Transport
and various expert services in the areas of highway engine-
ering and traffic safety:
(b) Agricultural Develipment (Loan 1831-UR). The loan includes
funds for staff training and transfer of agricultural
technology;
(c)  Telecommunications (Loan 2033-UR).  The loan provides funds
for a management and administration study;
(d) Power Engineering (Loan 2484-UR) and Power Sector
Rehabilitation (Loan 2622-UR). These loans finance various
operational and planning studies designed to improve
operating practices and reduce system losses;
(e) Technical Assistance I (Loan 2843-UR). The loan supports the
program of reforms of SAL I and the preparation of studies
for other actions under SAL II. It covers fiscal reform,
public investment programming, social security, capital
markets, and administrative reforms;
(f) Water Supply Rehabilitation (Loan 2921-UR). The loan
provides funds for technical cooperation and training through
a corporate twinning arrangement with a foreign water
company, and technical cooperation for planning and
coordinating project execution; and
(g) Transport I (Loan 3021-UR). The loan provides funds for
technical cooperation and training to support policy reforms
and institutional development of the Ministry of Transport
and Public Works and the National Port Administration.
2.       The experience with provision of technical assistance to Uruguay
has been generally satisfactory; consultants' recommendations have been
given adequate attention with a reasonable share of the recommendations
properly implemented. However, consultant recruitment often takes longer
than expected because of the complex approval procedures involving various
agencies. Other procurement actions have been delayed by firms whose bids
were unsuccessful, exercising their rights of appeal. Procurement problems
have lessened since the new Government came to office in March 1985.   TA I
supported some of the reforms of SAL I (e.g social security, corporate and
other legislative reforms) and is also providing analytical underpinning



ANNIX .
Page 2 of 12
for reforms under SAL II. It also financed consultants for the preparation
of reform elements, such as performance contracts in the case of the water
company (OSE) and railroads (AFE).
I1. PROPOSED COMPONENTS
3.       The proposed project consists of several components related to
important reform areas which are addressed under the proposed SAL II as
follows:
A. Social Security Finances
Background
4.       The Government's reform agenda continues to emphasize bringing
Uruguay's social security system more in line with the country's financial
means. The system has developed extensively since its origin in the early
part of this century. Its cost loomed large in the overall Central Govern-
ment deficit in the initial 1980s. Social security expenditures on the
- d-age, survivors and disability (IVS) program of BPS and the armed
forces, family allowances, health and unemployment insurance represented
about 11.2 percent of GDP in 1986, exceeding revenues by 3.1 percent of
GDP. The social security deficit was an important factor also in under-
mining the pre-announced exchange rate policy of the late 19708 and early
1980s through its impact on the fiscal deficit.
5.       The major issues of the IVS system of BPS are: (i) reducing
retirement and other benefits to a level that Uruguay can afford over the
long term, (ii) financing these benefits while reducing the fiscal deficit;
and (iii) improving the system's administration. These reflect Uruguay's
low population growth (0.5 percent a year), aging population with high life
expectancy, and low ratio of active workers to beneficiaries. Additional
details on the evolution of the system, past reform efforts and policy
proposals may be found in Report No. 7067-UR, entitled "Uruguay - An
Inquiry into Social Security.'
6.       Under SAL I, the Government modified the IV program in a manner
which should ensure that it will be financially self-sufficient by year
2000. This has been determined in accordance with a methodology
satisfactory to the Bank. In addition, reasonable progress was achieved in
reducing the deficit of the IVS program. Legislation approved in 1987
introduced new earmarked taxes which are expected to reduce the deficit of
the old age, survivors and disability program of BPS (which was about 1.2
percent of GDP in that year) by 0.2 percent of GDP in the short run. For
SAL II, the authorities intend to obtain additional improvements along
these lines. Specifically, they propose to modernize and tighten BPS'
controls on revenue collections and inspections. This would be accompanied
by reforms to strengthen further the system, including reductions of the
wage replacement ratio.
7.       Evasion of social security system contributions is high with
substantial nonpayment and under-declaration of wages. The greatest
leakage has been detected in industry and commerce. About 27 percent of



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 12
workers in these sectors do not report, and actual payroll contributions
comprise 52 percent of the estimated total obligations. Of the estimated
evasion level in industry and commerce, 38 percent is attributed to non-
payment and 46 percent to underreporting. The Government considers that
reducing these levels of evasion provides an excellent opportunity to
improve the retirement program's finances. Accordingly, with the aid of
enhanced BPS computerization to be financed under the loan, the authorities
intend to effect administrative improvements and to install better control
mechanisms. These would help bring about the introduction of social
security (or comparable) control numbers, individual accounts on each
worker's lifetime contributions, records which could be cross-checked with
tax records, the data for identifying underpayment or late payment, etc.
Achievement of these goals is one of the conditions established for the
release of the second tranche of the proposed SAL II loan.
Objective
8.       The principal aim of the technical assistance is to enable the BPS
to monitor more efficiently contributions, in particular revenue collect-
ion, and the programming of in situ inspections, lifetime contributions and
benefits.
Scope
9.       The proposed technical assistance will be directed to the revenue
collection unit of the Social Security Bank. The latter's computer equip-
ment currently is insufficient for the unit's requirements and is largely
obsolete. The proposed new equipment would supplement BPS' own scheduled
investment outside of the project of some US$1 million for computers to
handle benefit payments. The project would provide:
(a) acquisition of computer equipment and software (about
US$1.0 million of base project costs); and
(b) technical support to design the corresponding programs
(about US$200,000 of base project costs).
B. Tax Administration
Background
10.      The adjustment program places considerable emphasis on Government
actions to improve public finances so as to increase public savings, and
contribute to a better balance in resource allocation between the private
and public sectors. This was intended to follow up on the fiscal reforms
initiated in the early 1970s to streamline the tax structure, eliminate
distortions in relative prices between capital and labor, and to give
greater weight to export activities. Under the new program, the Government
moved to reduce import tariffs and agriculture export taxes, revise agri-
culture producers' income taxes, and extend the value added tax to
agriculture sales. These reforms, as well as the growing economy, resulted
in increased tax revenues of about 4 percent of GDP in 1986-87 over the
1984-85 level.



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 12
11.      The Government also is undertaking tax studies, financed under TAL
I, to analyze the impact of its recent reforms, along with possible ways of
restructuring the system so as to provide greater incentives for productive
investments and exports, as well as reduced evasion. These are intended to
provide the basis for new'legislative proposals. The completion of these
studies would be one of the factors to be monitored in connection with the
release of the second tranche of the proposed SAL II. For the future, the
Government intends to maintain the growth of tax revenues as a percentage
of GDP in order to reduce the inflationary impact of the public sector
deficit on the economy. For this purpose, it has set the targets of a
further reduction in tax collection lags and increases in assessments, with
a view to helping to cut the overall public sector deficit to 3.5 percent
of GDP in 1989. It also desires, apart from advancing the aforementioned
tax law changes, to press ahead with further improvements in tax
administration. It has already progressed with the automatization of
processing and simplification of declarations in the systems covering VAT,
consumption, net worth and corporate taxes; with upgrading the Tax Bureau's
supervision and auditing; and centralizing taxpayers accounts. This
yielded a revenue increase of about 0.6 percent of GDP in 198b. The
proposed project includes provisions for expanding on these accomplishments
through further computerization of tax administration, supplementing
collateral technical assistance from the German Government, the IDB and the
IMF.
Objectives
12.      The principal aim is to support the effort underway to modernize
the tax collection system and reduce tax evasion.
Scope
13.      Computer equipment and related services will be acquired under
this component (US$200,000 of base project costs).
C. Public Sector Programming and Investment
Background
14.      The direction of public sector investment has taken on special
importance in Uruguay. The economic crisis of 1982-85 brought investments
to new lows, exacerbating the effects of the extended economic contraction
from the mid-1950s to the mid-1970s. The need to expand these low levels
has had to be reconciled with relatively limited national savings and the
need to generate adequate fiscal transfers for servicing the high external
debt obligations. Another factor in the equation is the Government's
strong preference for private sector control of productive activity.
15       The adjustment program sets as a target designing the public
investment program so as best to meet the essential inputs, infrastructure
and services for a revitalized private sector, while also addressing pres-
sing social problems. This has necessitated strengthening programming
mechanisms, starting with the Office of Planning and Budgeting (OPP), which
was achieved under TAL I. The 1989-90 program envisages a continuation of
this activity and its expansion to the full scope of public sector



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 12
agencies. Existing planning units in the transportation, public works and
water organizations would be reinforced; new ones are being established in
telecommunications, health and education agencies. The planning units
would concentrate on the preparation of the 1990-95 investment program for
the consideration of the next Government. Completion of its first phase,
updating the 1989-90 slicO in line with the Government's Development Policy
Statement, is one of the proposed conditions foi release of the SAL II's
second tranche.
Ob3ective
16.      The objective is to strengthen further the Planning and Budget
Office and sectoral planning units to improve the formulation of
macroeconomic development programs and the corresponding investment
programming and project formulation, execution and monitoring.
scope
17.      The technical assistance will cover:
(a) strengthening of the structure and procedures used by the
main implementing agencies to identify, prepare, select and
follow-up on projects;
(b) improvements of budgetary procedures and their relationship
to programming public investments over a multi-year period;
(c) development of p rformance contracts and/or other evaluation
systems for public enterprises; and
(d) analysis of the institutional framework and procedures for
determining the level and composition of public investment in
each sector, monitoring projects under execution, and
preparation of new projects;
The base costs of the required consultants, related equipment and training
is estimated at US$455,000.
D. Tightened Supervision of Commercial Banks
Background
18.      The major objectives of the Government in the financial sector are
to reestablish a sound banking system, restore the necessary safeguards to
credit operations and strengthen the regulatory framework of commercial
banks. There are significant deficiencies in these areas resulting largely
from a combination of misguided past macro policies and lax enforcement of
regulatory and supervisory standards. To avoid a repetition of previous
nmistakes, the authorities recognize that strengthened prudential
regulations and supervision by the Central Bank are essential (ref. paras.
86-87, SAL President's Report).



ANNEX I
Page 6 of 12
Objective
19.      The basic objective is to accomplish stronger supervision over the
commercial banks and to adapt the regulatory framework to new international
standards (Basle agreement) so as to enhance the health of the banking
system. The program aims at upgrading the skills of the existing and new
Central Bank supervision staff as well as at increasing the number of bank
inspections. It will also review the organization, staffing, salaries and
budget of BCU's supervision department and improve computerized inspections
and internal reporting.
20.      The Government's Letter of Development Policy underscores the
importance of obtaining stricter application of BCU supervision procedures
and an increased number of its annual inspections. It also states that the
underlying purposes are to: (i) improve the transparency and quality of the
commercial banks' financial reporting; (ii) improve these banks' operating
practices; and (iii) reinforce Central Bank control over the Banco
Repdblica. For this purpose, the Central Bank has developed new prudential
regulations, whose issuance would be a condition of effectiveness of the
SAL. Under these regulations, new capital adequacy guidelines will be
introduced, along with a system of risk weights for assessing this
adequacy. Stricter norms would be introduced for determining which loans
are non-performing, and there would be a similar tightening of provisioning
requirements to cover bad loans. St-ndards and the performance of external
auditors will be reviewed to ensure that certification by these auditors
meet accepted international standards, detect potential problems and permit
early corrective actions by the banks on their own or at the request of the
Central Bank. To meet these objectives, the Central Bank is increasing its
supervision staff. New personnel will need to be trained in supervision
techniques, partly through exchanges of experiences with peer institutions.
Scope
21.      The technical assistance is composed of:  (i) training of BCU
supervision staff; (ii) reviewing BCU's computerized reporting system to
improve commercial banks' reporting and upgrade auditing procedures;
(iii) introducing new computer models to evaluate commercial banks'
financial posit.on; and (iv) acquiring computers and related materials.
Their estimated jase costs are US$600,000. The training program will
require a combination of on-the-job training, classroom instruction and
seminars:
(a) a program of in-house seminars, with the support of
foreign instructors, to train the new inspectors as
well as upgrade the skills of those already on the
job in such areas as risk assessment, solvency
ratios, and adequacy of networth; portfolio
analysis, and provisioning; asset and liability
management, and foreign exchange risk management;
and the main elements for computerized and in situ
inspections;



ANNEX I
Page 7 of 12
(b) training to improve the evaluation of computerized
reports and to detect reporting errors, as well as
to introduce new computer models to evaluate the
financial position of commercial banks;
(c) participation of supervisory personnel in courses
and/or seminars conducted by other central banks or
regulatory agencies;
(d) foreign specialists to participate as instructors
in three seminars to be held annually in the
Central Bank for the next three years; and
(e) books, reference materials, instructional aids, and
any other necessary materials.
E.   Rehabilitation of Commercial Banks
Background
22.      After an intensive review of the condition of several insolvent
local banks in which the Government had to intervene, together with the
effects of this situation on the financial sector and the economy, the
Government has decided to revitalize these institutions (ref. SAL II
President's Report, para. 68). Its intention is to convert them into
viable entities suitable for acquisition by the private sector. The
Government plans to remove the banks from the control of Banco Repcblica
which temporarily absorbed these institutions under special arrangements.
The plan is to restructure three of the banks, and to liquidate the fourth
(which is not viable). The National Development Corporation (CND) would
provide the necessary legal framework for cleansing the three banks'
portfolios, and to oversee generally their restructuring. The planning and
execution of these programs would be accomplished, however, by new chief
executive officers (CEOs) of the banks and their teams (credit, financial
and planning, marketing, legal and personnel managers). CND would provide
supporting services (a lawyer and portfolio collection specialist) in
addition to a coordinator for the overall operation.
23.      These CEOs would be responsible for preparing complete
restructuring programs for their banks to cover financial, organizational,
managerial and staff arrangements. Their contents and proposed action plan
would be based on criteria to be specified in the CEOs' contracts, to be
agreed with the Bank prior to SAL II disbursements for this component. The
"rescue packagesf would meet such criteria as adequacy of capital, asset
quality, management excellence, earning capacity, and liquidity. They
would also provide for cuts in personnel and number of branches and the
introduction of new services and stringent lending policies, as required
for each bank's individual needs.



ANNEX I
Page 8 of 12
Ob ectives
24.      The proposed technical assistance for the restructuring program
involves supporting the appointment of the chief executive officers and
their senior managers in 6rder to help ensure that these posts are filled
by suitably qualified professionals. This suppc-t would also help provide
the services of high level specialists in this field to advise the CND and
the three banks' new CEOs and management teav.s on carrying out this
program. The training of the banks' staffs in new policies and procedures
is included as well.
Sope
25.      The components are:
(a) New Management Teams. The banks' new CEOs would
command the major authority and bear the principal
responsibility for restructuring their respective
institutions, for which they would be supported by
the aforementioned credit and other managers. They
would be accountable, through performance contracts
for such tasks as reductions of employees and
branches, as well as organizational realignments.
These responsibilities will demand the recruitment
of high level personnel, with skills not in great
supply in Uruguay, for which attractive
compensation arrangements will be needed. Further,
their performance contracts would specify the
objective of achieving improvements on a speedy
basis for the projected privatization. On these
accounts, plus the importance of solving the
financial sector problem, the proposed loan would
include provision for their salary supplements on a
temporary basis and for finite tasks. These would
average US$2,000 per month for each of the new CEOs
and US$1,000 per month for each of their four
senior managers over a 24-month period. The CEOs
and their subordinates would be obtaining US$3,000
and US$2,000 per month respectively from the CND as
their base salaries. The US$2,000 supplement would
be given also to CND's coordinator, legal advisor,
and portfolio collections specialist of the
restructuring operation. The base cost under the
project is estimated at US$1.4 million.
(b) Technical Specialists. The new CEOs will design
restructuring programs for their institutions to
cover financial, managerial, operating and staffing
improvements. They will need to install stringent
lending policies; improve competitiveness and
profitability; and achieve operating efficiencies
in turning around the distressed banks. For
accomplishing these purposes, the Government has



ANNEX I
Page 9 of 12
requested the services of five advisers (who may be
employed individually or provided by a firm) to
assist the CEOs and also counsel the CND over an up
to 30-month period. Their cost is estimated at
US$500,000 million. In addition, high level
technical eXperts would be employed under the
project to visit periodically Uruguay for purposes
of providing independent diagnoses of and counsel
on the restructuring operation to the Government
and the Bank. Their services are estimated to cost
US$250,000.
(c)  Training.  Managerial and professional level
training is required at all three banks. It will
be necessary to conduct seminars in the most
critical at,-as of credit, asset, risk assessment,
and liabilities management, foreign exchange risks,
financial analysis, portfolio supervision and
recovery and new management practices. Part of
this assistance may be requested from established
banking training institutes experienced in
providing such services. US$250,000 is required
for this purpose.
F.  Banco de la Rep6blica del Uruguay (BROU)
Background
26.      BROU is a sound state-owned commercial bank, which offers an
extensive array of financial services to the public. BROU's operating and
accounting practices are, however, old-fashioned and conservative. They
are in need of a major effort to bring them to modern standards, to
introduce computerization of operations, and to analyze lending operations
better. This will be initiated through the implementation of a plan of
action for the development of a comprehensive and integrated management and
financial information system, which will be put in place in conjunction
with the revision of the Central Bank's accounting system. The separation
of BROU's accounts between banking and von-banking functlons is one of the
proposed conditions for release of the SAL II's second tranche. Also, the
new accounting framework will be needed to ensure BROU an efficient
mechanism for the modernization of its operations as well as the production
of information required for assessing debtors' obligations (including
arrears, accrued interest and other elements that would supplement the
standards defined under the new regulatory framework of the Central Bank).
Assistance for these purposes would be paralleled by an assessment of
BROU's future role in the sector (ref. para 30).
Objective
27.      The objective is to assist BROU to strengthen its information
systems capability and increase its efficiency.



ANNEX I
Page 10 of 12
SCo
28.      The components are:
a.   Development'of a comprehensive and integrated
management and financial information system by
means of the following activities:
(i) Definition of the scope of the information
systems to be introduced. This will
include: undertaking a requirements
definition study for planning, budgeting,
control and operations in all areas of BROU;
and identifying areas for improvements and
information necessary for more effective
functioning of BROU; quantifying the
expected benefits to be derived from their
implementation and establishing priorities
for action;
(ii) Isplementation of the information system
strategy to include the acquisition and
utilization of the computer equipment and
software required therefore and the
following activities:
(a) defining the major elements of
application systems necessary for
integrated operations;
(b) assessing the institutional capacity to
absorb the new technology and
distribution of data processing and
analysis capabilities, as required; and
recommending a phased implementation
program;
(c) recommending software packages and
defining the computing equipment and
communication links required;
(d) reviewing BROU's data processing section
and as needed, recommending new
organization responsibilities.
b. Development of and carrying out a training program
for purposes of: (i) upgrading staff skills in
overall bank management, lending operations and
supervision thereof, planning and financial
management, and liability management, along with
recent developments and techniques in commercial
banking; (ii) improving accounting and auditing
standards; and (iii) upgrading the quality of
management systems.



ANNEX I
Page 11 of 12
Cost Estimates
29.      The base cost of computer equipment to be installed in the
83 branches of BROU and its main offices, applications software, reference
material is estimated at US$1.1 million. To strengthen BROU's capability
and to raise its efficiency as well as its information system, specialized
expertise is needed from the outside. One project manager would be
contracted to coordinate the establishment and implementation of the
information system. One banking expert and one system expert would also be
appointed. Provision is made for 24 months of consulting services for
additional supporting activities. Total cost of providing these experts is
estimated at US$900,000. In addition, approximately US$662,000 is
requested to meet the base costs of teaching aids, providing experts to
conduct seminar and/or courses in Uruguay; and sending EROU's staff abroad
for training.
G. Banking Study
30.      The project would include a comprehensive study regarding three
important aspects of Uruguay's banking system. The first would be an
assessment of the financial sector's future requirements, covering among
others, BROU's role and a new institutional mechanism for the rescue and
rehabilitation of private banks in the future. The second assessment would
evaluate Uruguay's experience with the existing deposit insurance
mechanisms created in 1965.   A third would examine ways of covering the
large foreign exchange risk in commercial banking at present. US$100,000
is budgeted for the two consultants to be recruited for the study, which
would be completed by July 30, 1991. Subsequently, the Government will
review with the Bank the findings and recommendations of the study and
prepare, as appropriate, plans of followup action including a timetable
for their completion.
III. OPERATIONAL CONSIDERATIONS
31.      Project Cost and Financing.  Total cost of the technical assis-
tance program, net of taxes and duties, is estimated at US$9.2 million
equivalent. This total includes: consultants costing US$2.6 million;
equipment, US$3.6 million; training, US$1.6 million; and price contingen-
cies, US$1.2 million. The loan would cover 86 percent of the foreign
exchange cost and 71 percent of total costs. This proportion of financing
is recommended on the grounds of the high policy and institutional impact
of the project components in their relation to the Government's adjustment
program. It would help ensure the early availability of the teams needed
for the financial restructuring component.
32.      Procurement and Disbursement.  Contracting of consultants will be
carried out in accordance with Bank guidelines. Procurement of computing
equipment for the tax, social security, public investment, BCU and BROU
components, estimated to cost US$3.6 million aggregate, would be carried
out under limited international bidding procedures on the basis of
quotations from at least three suppliers. Training materials would be
purchased through local shopping. Contracts above US$50,000 will be



ANNEX I
Page 12 of 12
submitted for prior Bank review. The Bank would disburse 100 percent of
the foreign, and 80 percent of the local, costs of consultants and
training.  The same formula would apl.y in the case of equipment wit4 the
exception that BROU would finance 50 percent of foreign expenditures for
computing equipment. The target date for completion of the project would
be June 30, 1992, and the Closing Date would be December 30, 1992. A
special account would be set up in the Central Bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, with an initial deposit of US$1.4 million. This
proportion of the Loan is justified by the short-run nature of the program.
Retroactive financing of up to US$0.7 million equivalent would be available
for expenditures after January 15, 1989. Disbursements would be made on
the basis of full contractual documentation for all contracts valued at
US$50,000 or more, local consultants' fees, and training materials. All
other disbursements would be made on the basis of certified statements of
expenditure, which would be retained by the Central Bank and made available
to the Bank upon request.
33.      The OPP and other executing agencies would establish and maintain
accounts for all project expenditures under the proposed loan in a clearly
identifiable manner. Such accounts and supporting records would be audited
annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and the audit
reports would be submitted to the Bank within six months after the end of
the year.
34.      Benefits and Risks.  The technical assistance to be provided under
the proposed loan is designed to support implementation of the Govern-
ment's Structural Adjustment Program, both in carrying out policy actions
and programs already agreed, as well as in preparing the way for additional
reforms in key areas. The program will support the Government's efforts to
reduce the fiscal deficit by controlling transfers to the social security
system, and improving tax structure and collection. The studies will also
support better public sector investment programming.
35.      There is a risk of delays in the appointment of consultants which
could jeopardize timely implementation. However, since the completion of
some studies is required as a condition of disbursement for the second
tranche disbursement of the SAL II, we expect that the delays will be mini-
mized. Thera is also a risk that some recommendations of the studies will
not be implemented as fully or in as timely a fashion as desired, given the
political nature of some of the issues. However, implementation of policy
recommendations and specific action programs would be closely monitored as
part of continuing discussions between the Bank and the Government in the
context of the Structural Adjustment Program. This and the Government's
satisfactory record in obtaining Parliamentary approval of sensitive
economic measures provide favorable grounds for presuming success.



ANNEX 11
Pogo I of a
SECO  TE0HICAL ASSIUS   PROCT
Goevn=a t Objectiva                                 Co poenmt Aetivittis                      ExpeOte  O1tputl11pact
1. Reduction of Social Security
financial deficit to 2%
Project Goal:  Improve monitoring of            Acquire computing equipment for             A computer-supported system to enable
compliance with Social Security contribution    Social Security Bank (BPS) staff to         BPS to monitor contributions more
requirements; Increase control of               devolop better reporting and                offectivelyand program its inspections
contributions (Annex I, paras. 4-9).            controls.                                   better.  It is expected that revenue
collections would significantly improve
as a result.
2.  Increase Control of Tax Revonues
by 1 X of CDP
Project Goal:  Improve monitoring of            Acquire computing equipment for Tax         A computer-supported system to enable
compliance with VAT, income and capital         Bureau (DCI) staff to improve               DOI to monitor contributions more
taxes (Annex I, paras 10-19).                    reporting and controls.                    effectivelyand program its Inspections
better.  It Is expected that revenue
colloctions would significantly improve
as a result.
8. Expanded Public Investment Planning
upgrading
Project Goal:  Ioprove formulation              Consultants and equipment ft.r              Increased ability of Government
development programs, and correspording         carrying out studies on (1) sector          ministries and stato enterprise to
formulation, oxecution and monitoring of         lnvesotmnt planning machinery; (ii)        properly prepare carry out and monitor
Investment projects (Annex I, pars. 14-17).   better relating budget procedures             development projects, following
and Investment programing; and             Planningand Budget Office Initiatives.
(1t1) performanc  evaluation of
state enterpriss.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 8
4. TIghtened Central Bank Supervision of
Commercial Bank
Project Goal:  Enhance new prudential            Training of new and upgrading of            Increased efficiency of supervision
regulations; implement upgraded reporting by    prosent Central Bank supervision             staff to audit commercial banks'
and supervision of commercial banks (Annex       stiff and purchase of computer              financial reporting and discharge their
r, paras. 18-21).                                equipment to modernize reporting and        inspectionson a more frequent basis.
inspection activitios.                      Itis expectedthat the banks' practices
willimprove substantially as
aconsequence.
5. RestructurIng of Insolvent banks
Project Goal: Revitalize three distressod        Consultants and training for                The financial and manazerial improve-
banks to regain their viability and permit       advising the banks' new CEO's to            monts would permit the termination of
their reprivatization (Annex I, paras.           restructure their operations;               the present Covernment operational
22-25).                                          Improving their staffs' policies and        support ofthe banks, and facilitate
procedures; and providing                   theirestoration to a more self-
specialized advice to the National          sustaining basis, and thus  battertheir
Devolopment Corporation on the              prospects for sale to new private owners.
management of the restru'turing             Bankingaystem competitiveness would
program                                     increaso accordingly.
Improved capability of the CND to
Supplement incentives for new CEOs          obtainthe requirod level of consultants
through salary increments,                  for thebanks' CEO positions and four
principal managers. thus facilitating
prompt, successful termination of the
restructuring process.
6.  Improvement ot Banco Repfiblica
Project Goal: Modernize BRORU s accounting       Acquire computing equipment and             Inereased ability of BROU to met
and data systems (Annex I, pares. 26-29).        train staff to help BROU to devolop         Central Bank reporting norms, better
a comprehensive management and              assess credit requests and upgrade the
financial information system.               lovel of its administrative operations.



ANNE U1
PagO 8 of a
7. Improved Financial Sector Institution
Policies
Project Goal:  Analyze requ;resents and          Consultants to conduct the study on         Improvod ability of the Government to
define solutions for sector problems             (1) financial sector's future               deal with distressed banks; to reduce
(Annex I, para. 80)                              requirements covering BROU's role           distortions resulting from the
and ways of meeting any future bank         "dollarization" of banking; and to
restructuring situations; (;t)              definoan appropriate level of
covering the foreign exchange risk          protectionfor local and offshore
In commercial borrowing; and (lii)          depositors in Instances of banking
tho adequacy of present deposit             distress.
Insurance provisions.



