Page  1
                                                  November 11, 1989
Mr. Ricardo Zerbino Cavajani
Minister of Economy & Finance
Ministry of Economy & Finance
Colonia 1089, 3rd Floor
Montevideo, Uruguay
Dear Mr. Minister:
            Re:   Loan 3082-UR (Second Technical Assistance Project)
                  Amendment to the Loan Agreement
      We refer to the Loan Agreement, dated July 19, 1989, between
the Republica Oriental del Uruguay and the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank). We are pleased to inform
you that the Bank agrees to your request to amend the Loan Agreement
in order to redefine the conditions of effectiveness of the Loan.
Specifically, the change would provide for a distinction between the
conditions for disbursements applicable to those loan components
which concern financial sector objectives and the remaining
provisions of the Loan.
      Therefore, the Bank proposes to amend the Loan Agreement as
follows:
      1.    Sections 6.01 and 6.02 of the Loan Agreement are hereby
            deleted, and Section 6. 03 thereof is re-numbered as
            Section 6.01.
      2.    The following sub-paragraph is hereby inserted in
            paragraph 3(b) of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement, as
            sub-paragraph (vii)     thereof, and the word "and" is
            moved from the end of sub-paragraph (v) to the and of
            sub-paragraph (vi), both subparagraphs of the aforesaid
            paragraph 3(b).
            "(vii) under Parts D, E P and G of the Project and,
            without prejudice to the provisions of sub-paragraphs
            (ii) through (vi) herein, sub-Category (c) of each of
            Categories 1 and 2, sub-Categories (d) through (g) of
            Category 2, sub-Category (d) of Category 1 and
            sub-Category (h) of Category 2, and sub-Category (c) of
            Category 2, respectively, Subsidiary Loan Agreement
            between the Borrower and Corporacion and legal
            opinions."
      In addition, after consideration of the reasons for delay, the
Bank has extended the terminal date for effectiveness of the Loan to
December 18, 1989.
      Please confirm your agreement to the proposed amendments by
signing and dating the enclosed copy of this letter and returning
the countersigned copy to the Bank.
      Because of their interest in this matter, copies of this
letter are being sent to Messrs. Davrieux, Vispo and Balsa.
                         Very truly yours,
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                       /s/  Pieter Bottelier
                             Director
                           Department IV
              Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Page  2
CONFIRMED:
REPUBLIC OF URUGUAY
   /s/Ricardo Zerbino Cavajani
By
   Authorized Representative
cc:   Mr. Ariel Davrieux, Director
      Mr. Carlos Balsa, Lawyer
      Office of Panning & Budgeting
      Edificio Libertad
      Luis Alberto de Herrera 3050
      Montevideo, Uruguay
      Mr. Enrique Vispo Baston, President
      National Development Corporation
      Rincon 328 - p.7 Casilla Correo 977
      Montevideo, Uruguay
