Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
DUTCH GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2322 BO
(Agro-Export Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of Grant Funds
provided by the
MINISTER FOR DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION
OF THE NETHERLANDS
Dated May 26, 1992
DUTCH GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2322 BO
DUTCH GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 26, 1992, between REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA (the Recipient) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) acting as Administrator (the 
Administrator) of grant funds provided by the MINISTER FOR DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION OF 
THE NETHERLANDS (the Minister).
WHEREAS: (A) pursuant to a Development Credit Agreement (Agro-Export Development 
Project), dated March 4, 1992, between the Recipient and the Association (the IDA 
Credit Agreement), the Association has agreed to extend to the Recipient a credit in 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to sixteen million six hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 16,600,000) to assist in the financing of the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to the IDA Credit Agreement (the Project);
WHEREAS (B) pursuant to an agreement dated December 11, 1986 between the 
Minister and International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and the 
Association (the Arrangement), the Minister has appointed the Bank and the 
Association, and the Bank and the Association have agreed, to administer grant funds 
to be made available by the Minister for the financing of certain programs and 
projects supported by the Bank and the Association, as the case may be, in accordance 
with the provisions of the Arrangement;
WHEREAS (C) the Minister has agreed to make available to the Recipient a grant 
out of said grant funds (the Grant) to assist the Recipient in carrying out the 
Page  2
Project on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS (D) the Minister and the Association have agreed to amend the Schedule 
to the Arrangement for purposes of including the Project therein;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Development Credit Agreements of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the 
modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
 
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8), (9), (12) 
and (13), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
 
(iv)
Sections 4.01 and 4.05;
 
(v)
Article V;
 
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (g) and (h), 6.03, 
6.04 and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
 
(viii)Sections 9.01, 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08;
(ix)
Article X; and
 
(x)
Article XI.
 
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
 
(i)
the term "Association", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
other than in Section 6.02 (e) thereof, means the International 
Development Association acting as Administrator of the Grant 
pursuant to the Arrangement, except that in Section 6.02, the term 
"Association" shall also include the International Development 
Association acting in its own capacity;
(ii)
the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient;
(iii)
the term "Development Credit Agreement", wherever used in the 
General Conditions, means this Agreement except that in Section 
6.02 (a), the term "Development Credit Agreement" means the IDA 
Credit Agreement;
(iv)
the term "Credit", wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the Grant;
(v)
the term "Credit Account", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the Grant Account, an account opened by the 
Administrator on its books in the name of the Recipient to which 
the amount of the Grant is credited; and
(vi)
Section 4.01 shall be modified to read:
 
"Withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be made in Dutch guilders; 
provided, however, that if the expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Grant have been paid or are payable in another currency, the 
Administrator shall, at the request of the Recipient, purchase such currency 
with the proceeds of such withdrawal."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
Page  3
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions, in the Recitals to this 
Agreement and in the IDA Credit Agreement have the respective meanings therein set 
forth, and the following terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Dutch guilders" and "DGL" mean the currency of the Netherlands; and
 
(b)
"Dutch Special Account" means the account to be opened by the Recipient 
pursuant to Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to make available to the Recipient, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in the 
amount of sixteen million three hundred eigthy thousand (DGL 16,380,000) Dutch 
guilders.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account to finance 30% of the expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so 
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of the items included in 
Categories (1), (2) and (3) of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the IDA 
Credit Agreement, provided, however, that no withdrawals shall be made in respect of 
payments made for expenditures made: (i) prior to the date of the IDA Credit 
Agreement; and (ii) by an Investment Enterprise unless the condition set forth in 
paragraph 3 of such Schedule 1 has been complied with.
(b)
The Recipient shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain 
in dollars a special deposit account in its Central Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Administrator. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Dutch 
Special Account shall be made, mutatis mutandis, in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to the IDA Credit Agreement, provided, however, that the amount of the 
"Authorized Allocation" referred to in paragraph 1 (c) of Schedule 3 to the IDA Credit 
Agreement shall be an amount in dollars equivalent to one million four hundred 
thousand Dutch guilders (DGL 1,400,000) or such other amount as the Association shall 
specify.
Section 2.03. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, goods and 
services to be financed out of the Grant shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement (Agro-Export Development Project), 
dated March 4, 1992, between the Association and Bolivia Export Foundation.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997 or such later date as 
the Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the 
Recipient of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.O1. (a) Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, Articles III 
(other than Section 3.01 (b) thereof), IV and Section 5.01 of the IDA Credit 
Agreement, including the Schedule referred to therein, are hereby incorporated into 
this Agreement with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein, 
it being understood that all references in said Articles and Section to the 
"Association", the "Borrower", the "Credit" and the "Special Account" shall be deemed 
to be references to the Association as Administrator of the Grant under this 
Agreement, the Recipient, the Grant and the Dutch Special Account, respectively.
(b)
The Recipient shall make the proceeds of the Grant available to BEF under 
the Subsidiary Agreement to be entered into between the Recipient and BEF pursuant to 
Section 3.01 (b) of the IDA Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Effectiveness
Section 4.01. (a) This Agreement shall become effective upon the Effective Date 
(as such term is defined in the General Condtions) of the IDA Credit Agreement, and 
the Administrator shall promptly notify the Recipient of such date.
(b)
This Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereto shall terminate 
Page  4
if the IDA Credit Agreement shall terminate pursuant to Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions for failure to become effective.
Section 4.02. Subject to Section 4.01(b) of this Agreement, this Agreement shall 
continue in effect until the Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this 
Agreement have fulfilled their obligations hereunder.
ARTICLE V
Representation
Section 5.01. The Minister of Planning and Coordination of the Recipient is 
designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Ministerio de Planeamiento y
   Coordinacion
La Paz
Bolivia
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINPLANEACION
3280 (MINCORD)
La Paz, Bolivia
For the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS 197688 
(TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized  
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names as 
of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
By /s/ Jorge Crespo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of the Grant
By /s/ Yoshiaki Abe
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
Page  5
