Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2322 BO
(Agro-Export Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
BOLIVIA EXPORT FOUNDATION
Dated March 4, 1992
CREDIT NUMBER 2322 BO
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 4, 1992, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and BOLIVIA EXPORT FOUNDATION (BEF).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Republic of Bolivia (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to 
make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to sixteen 
million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 16,600,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that 
BEF agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in 
this Agreement;
(B)
by the Subsidiary Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
BEF, the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement 
will be made available to BEF on the terms and conditions set forth in the Subsidiary  
Agreement; and
WHEREAS BEF, in consideration of the Association's entering into the Development 
Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth 
in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have 
the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. BEF declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, environmental, technological and 
research standards and practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly 
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. BEF shall carry out, and cause to be carried out, the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively).
Section 2.04. BEF shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, BEF shall not take or 
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or 
waiving or failing to enforce the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) BEF shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of 
its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement, and other 
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
BEF shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by BEF of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement.
Section 2.06. Without limitation or restriction upon its obligations under this 
Agreement, BEF shall at all times act in accordance with the procedures, standards and 
arrangements contained in the Operational Manual, and to this end, and without 
limitation, BEF undertakes that, unless the Association shall otherwise agree:
(a)
market research and technology transfer shall be carried out, management 
skills and technical assistance provided, assistance in development of quality control 
systems shall be given, and, as necessary, pilot projects carried out, all in 
accordance with the Operational Manual;
(b)
Investments will be made and Investment Projects shall be identified, 
appraised and carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual 
and the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(c)
it shall enter into contractual arrangements with the Investment 
Enterprises (the Investment Contractual Arrangements), under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association which shall include those provided in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement;
(d)
it shall exercise its rights in relation to each Investment Contractual 
Arrangement in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Association and of 
the Borrower; (ii) enable the Borrower to comply with the provisions of the 
Development Credit Agreement and ensure compliance of the Borrower and BEF's 
obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes of the 
Project; and 
Page  3
(e)
it shall not amend, suspend, abrogate, modify, or fail to enforce any 
provision of the Operational Manual without the prior written consent and approval of 
the Association.
Section 2.07. Throughout the duration of the Project and without limitation to 
its obligations under Article IX of the General Conditions, BEF shall:
(i)
not later than three months after the Effective Date in the first 
year of the Project, and thereafter by November 30 in each year, 
submit to the Association the Annual Business Plan relating to the 
coming year, for its approval; and
(ii)
by June 30 and December 31 of each year, to provide to the 
Association a progress report, identifying the main Project 
implementation and financial issues, if any, together with 
recommendations regarding remedial measures, if any, to be taken 
in relation to BEF's business, for the Association's review and 
comment.
Section 2.08. BEF shall:
(a)
retain: (i) during the first three years of the Project the Management 
Firm under the Management Contract; and (ii) for the fourth and fifth years of the 
Project, the Management Firm under the Second Management Contract; provided always 
that if the performance of the Management Firm appointed under the Management Contract 
has been satisfactory to BEF and the Association, such Management Firm shall be 
retained during the fourth and fifth years of the Project under the Second Management 
Contract;
(b)
cause the Management Firm not to replace its key personnel for the 
duration of the Management Contract and the Second Management Contract; and
(c)
promptly inform the Association of any condition, act or omission, or 
potential dispute which interferes or threatens to interfere with either party's 
performance of the Management Contract or the Second Management Contract.
Section 2.09. BEF shall: (a) hire independent consultants, pursuant to the 
provisions of Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, to review and assess, by not 
later than the date thirty months after the Effective Date, BEF's overall performance 
and the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project; (b) by no later than 
three months after the commencement of the review referred to in (a) above, submit a 
report and remedial action program, based on the recommendations of such review, to 
the Association for its review and comments; (c) take into account such comments in a 
manner satisfactory to the Association; and (d) put into effect the remedial action 
program and take all such other actions as shall be necessary, in the opinion of the 
Association, to achieve the objectives of the Project and to carry out the Project as 
provided in Section 2.01 of this Agreement.
Section 2.10. (a) BEF shall assist the Borrower at all times and in all manners 
and shall use its best endeavours to improve economic and social conditions for all 
Investment Projects carried out by BEF; and (b) BEF shall not appraise a potential 
Investment Project without having carried out environmental assessments and studies, 
satisfactory to the Association, with a view to stabilizing, and safeguarding the 
environment and enhance good environmental practices and procedures within the 
territory of the Borrower in which such potential Investment Project may be situated.
Section 2.11. BEF shall, within six months from the Effective Date, establish 
and thereafter maintain a monitoring and control system to inter alia (i) monitor 
production, marketing and financial activities of the Investment Enterprises for the 
purposes of providing decision-making criteria within BEF, satisfactory to the 
Association; (ii) issue instructions and guidelines for the preparation of Annual 
Business Plans; and (iii) monitor the provision of technical assistance under Part C 
of the Project.
Section 2.12. BEF shall not lend any of its funds or provide any financial 
guarantee for the benefit of any third parties without the prior written consent of 
the Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of BEF
Page  4
Section 3.01. BEF shall carry out its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, environmental, technological and 
research standards and practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced 
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. BEF shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, 
administrative, financial, environmental, technological and research practices.
Section 3.03. BEF shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make 
other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and 
in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. BEF shall maintain on its Board of Directors persons possessing 
skills, qualifications and relevant and sufficient experience (in accordance with the 
requirements of the Statutes) satisfactory to the Association, and shall consult with 
the Association regarding a replacement or appointment of any director or new 
director, prior to any such replacement or appointment.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) BEF shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, records, 
accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses 
and related statements) adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices its operations and financial condition, including records and separate 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project and each Investment 
Project.
(b)
BEF shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so 
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the BEF shall:
(i)
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, or cause to be retained, until at least one year after the 
Association has received the audit reports for the fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audits referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
reports of such audits contain a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
Page  5
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the BEF shall 
not incur any debt, if after the incurrence of such debt the ratio of debt to equity 
shall be greater than 70 to 30.
(b)
For purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of BEF maturing by its 
terms more than one year after the date on which it is originally 
incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement, on 
the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been 
entered into.
(iii)
The term "equity" means the sum of the total unimpaired paid-up 
capital, retained earnings and reserves of BEF not allocated to 
cover specific liabilities.
(iv)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency 
is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of 
servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis 
of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Association.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of BEF 
hereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms and the Association shall notify BEF thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA)
Page  6
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
For BEF:
Avenida Arce 2017 esq. Goitia
Casilla 13478
La Paz - Bolivia
(or such other address as shall be notified
in writing to the Association as BEF's new
registered office, within sixty days of the date
of signing this Agreement)
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of BEF may be 
taken or executed by the person or persons as the Board of Directors of BEF shall 
designate in writing, and BEF shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of 
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin American and the Caribbean
BOLIVIA EXPORT FOUNDATION
By /s/ Jorge Crespo Velasco
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of more than $3,000,000 per contract shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in Bolivia may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Preference for Domestic Contractors
 
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference to domestic contractors in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Page  7
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:
Local or International Shopping
 
Goods and works estimated to cost the equivalent of $3,000,000 or less per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with established 
commercial practices in Bolivia acceptable to the Association, provided that, whenever 
deemed appropriate by the Association, such goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list 
of at least three qualified suppliers or contractors, as the case may be, from at 
least two elgible countries, eligible under the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines), and in 
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Part E:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to: (i) each contract for goods or works estimated to cost 
the equivalent of more than $3,000,000; and (ii) the first two contracts for goods or 
works estimated to cost the equivalent of $3,000,000 or less, the procedures set forth 
in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for 
each such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be 
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be 
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to 
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in 
respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for each such contract are to be made out of the Special 
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of 
the contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to the 
Development Credit Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals on the basis 
of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist BEF in the carrying out of the Project, BEF shall employ 
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment 
shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in 
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis 
of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World 
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 2
Terms and Conditions of Investments
1.
No expenditures for goods or services required for an Investment Project shall 
be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit unless the Investment for 
such Investment Project shall have been approved by the Association and such 
expenditures shall have been made not earlier than ninety days prior to the date on 
which the Association shall have received the application and information required 
under paragraph 2 of this Schedule in respect of such Investment.
2.
When presenting an Investment to the Association for approval, BEF shall furnish 
to the Association an application, in form satisfactory to the Association, together 
with (i) a description of the Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment 
Project, including a description of the expenditures proposed to be paid out of the 
proceeds of the Credit; (ii) the proposed terms and conditions of the Investment; and 
(iii) such other information as the Association shall reasonably request.
3.
Investments shall be made on terms whereby BEF shall obtain, under the 
Page  8
Investment Contractual Arrangements, rights adequate to protect the interests of the 
Association and the Borrower, including, to the extent that it shall be appropriate, 
the right to:
(a)
require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate the Investment 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, 
environmental, financial and managerial standards;
(b)
require the Investment Enterprise to maintain records and separate 
accounts for the Investment Project and to have such records and accounts for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied by independent auditors acceptable to the Association and BEF;
(c)
require that: (i) the goods, works and consultants' services required for 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (ii) such goods, 
works and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Investment 
Project;
(d)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Association if 
the Association shall so request, such goods, works, plants and construction included 
in the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and 
documents;
(e)
require that: (i) the Investment Enterprise shall take out and maintain 
with responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as 
shall be consistent with sound business practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon 
the foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to the 
place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a 
currency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or repair such goods;
(f)
obtain all such information as the Association, the Borrower, or BEF 
shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, 
operations and financial condition of the Investment Enterprise and to the benefits to 
be derived from the Investment Project; and
(g)
suspend or terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise to the use of 
the proceeds of the Credit upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform its 
obligations under the Investment Contractual Arrangement.
