Page  1
December 27, 1993
His Excellency 
Fernando Illanes de la Riva 
Minister of Finance and Economic Development 
and/or Mr. Fernando Cossio Cossio 
Secretary of finance 
Ministry of Finance and Economic Development 
Cajon Postal -Ministerio de Finanzas 
Calle Bolivar esq. Indaburo No. 688 
La Paz, Bolivia
Mr. Hugo Castellanos
President
Bolivia Export Foundation
Casilla 13478
La Paz, Bolivia
Re:
Credit 2322-BO (Agro-Export Development Project)
Third Amendment
Dear Sirs:
Please refer to the Development Credit Agreement entered into between the 
Republic of Bolivia (the Borrower) and the International Development Association 
(the Association) dated March 4, 1992, as amended on January 15, 1993 and 
December 3, 1993 and to the Project Agreement of the same date entered into 
between the Association and Bolivia Export Foundation (BEF).
Pursuant to your request, the Association agrees to amend the Development 
Credit Agreement as follows:
A.
Development Credit Agreement
1.
Preamble:
(a)
Whereas (D): The word "and" is deleted at the end of the paragraph 
(D).
(b)
New whereas (E) and (F) are added to read as follows: 
"(E) the Borrower has obtained from the Government of the Swiss 
Confederation (Switzerland), a grant (the Swiss Grant), in the amount of 
four million five hundred thousand Swiss Francs (SwF 4,500,000) to 
assist in financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set 
forth in an agreement (the Swiss Grant Agreement) entered into between 
the Borrower and Switzerland on December 16, 1993; 
(G) Switzerland and the Association intend to enter into an 
agreement making arrangements for the Association to process 
applications for withdrawal of the proceeds of the Swiss Grant and 
regulating certain matters of common interest in connection with such 
grant; and"
2.
Section 1.02. The following new definitions are added in alphabetical 
order, and the remaining definitions are redesignated accordingly:
(i)
"Credit Special Account" means the account referred to in 
Section 2.02 (c) (i) of this Agreement;
(ii)
"Grant Special Account" means the account referred to in 
Section 2.02 (c) (ii) of this Agreement;
(iii)
"Special Accounts" means collectively the Credit Account and 
the Grant Account;
(iv)
"Swiss Grant Account" means the account established by 
Page  2
Switzerland for the purposes of the Swiss Grant.
3.
Section 2.02 is deleted and replaced by:
"Section 2.02 (a). The amount of the Credit and the Swiss Grant 
may be withdrawn from the Credit Account and the Swiss Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) 
amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, amounts to be paid) 
by BEF on account of withdrawals made by an Investment Enterprise to 
meet the reasonable cost of goods and services and other costs required 
for the Investment Project in respect of which the withdrawal from the 
Credit Account and/or the Swiss Grant is requested; and 0i) expenditures 
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods, works, services and other costs required 
for Parts A and C of the Project as contained in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and/or 
the Swiss Grant.
(b)
Except as the Association and Switzerland shall otherwise 
agree, the allocation and withdrawal of the proceeds of the Swiss Grant 
shall be governed mutatis mutandis by the provisions of the General 
Conditions.
(c)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project: (i) and 
the Credit open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in its 
Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association; 
and (ii) and the Swiss Grant, open and maintain in dollars a special 
deposit account in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits int6, and 
payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be made in accordance with 
the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement."
4.
Section 4.01. Paragraphs (c) and subparagraph (ii). The words "Special 
Account" where they appear therein are deleted and replaced by the words 
"Special Accounts".
5.
Schedule 1: Withdrawals. The heading, and paragraphs 1 and 2 are deleted 
and replaced by those in Attachment I to this Amendment letter. 
6.
Schedule 3 is deleted and replaced by the Schedule in Attachment II to 
this Amendment letter.
B.
Proiect Agreement
Section 2.02 is deleted and replaced by:
"Section 2.02. (a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) below and 
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Swiss Grant shall 
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b)
Procurement of Used Goods for Investment Projects as defined 
in paragraph (2) (e) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement and used goods 
under On-farm Trial Special Costs referred to in paragraph 2 (f) of 
Schedule 1 to this agreement required for the Project, and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Swiss Grant, shall be made in  accordance 
with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing by signing and dating the 
attached confirmation copy of this letter and returning the same to the 
undersigned.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Krishna Challa
Acting Director
Country Departrn~I
Latin America and the Caribbean
Page  3
CONFIRMED:
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
By /s/ Fernando Illanes de la Riva
Authorized Representative
Date:
January 17, 1994
BOLIVIA EXPORT FOUNDATION
By /s/ Hugo Castellanos
Authorized Representative
Date:
January 17, 1994
