Page  1
December 3, 1993
His Excellency 
Fernando Manes de la Riva 
Minister of Finance and Economic Development 
and/or Mr. Fernando Cossio Cossio
Secretary of Finance 
Ministry of Finance and Economic Development 
Cajon Postal - Ministerio de Finanzas 
Calle Bolivar esq. Indaburo No. 688 
La Paz, Bolivia
Mr. Hugo Castellanos
President
Bolivia Export Foundation
Avenida Arce 2017 esq. Goitia
Casilla 13478
La Paz, Bolivia
Re: BOLIVIA - Credit 2322-BO
(Agro-Export Development Project)
- Amendment
Dear Sir:
Please refer to the Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Bolivia 
(the Borrower) and the International Development Association (the Association) and the 
Project Agreement between the Association and Bolivia Export Foundation (BEF) on the 
above-mentioned Project, both dated March 4, 1992.
We are pleased to inform you that, pursuant to your request, the Association 
hereby agrees to amend the Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement as 
follows:
1. Development Credit Agreement
(a) Section 1.02: A new paragraph "(p)" is added, and the remaining paragraphs 
are redesignated "(r)" through "(v)", such new paragraph to read as follows:
"(p)"
"Modified Lease Contract" means a lease of BEF's office space 
contracted under the provisions of Article 1429 of the Borrower's Civil Code 
whereby the payment of such lease will be advanced in full to the landlord or 
landlady; "
2.
A new Section 4.02 is added to read as follows:
"Section 4.02. Without limitation or restriction upon its other 
obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower shall promptly as required, 
take all actions necessary to ensure that BEF fulfills it obligations under 
Section 2.13 of the Project Agreement."
3.
Project Agreement
A new Section 2.13 is added to read as follows:
"Section 2.13. In the event the Association shall have determined that, 
in respect of any Modified Lease Contract, any portion of the amount advanced 
for 
payment of the lease of BEF's office space will not be required to cover 
such 
expenditures, BEF shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund 
to the Association such outstanding amount."
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing by signing and dating the form of 
confirmation below and returning the same to the undersigned.
Very truly yours,
By /s/ Yoshiaki Abe
Country Director
Page  2
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
CONFIRMED:
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
By /s/ Fernando Illanes de la Riva
Authorized Representative
Date:
January 13, 1994
BOLIVIAN EXPORT FOUNDATION
By /s/ Hugo Castellanos
Authorized Representative
Date:
January 13, 1994
