Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
t
Rep"t No. 7684
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
(CR. 931-CE)
MARiH 31, 1989
Agricultural Operations Division
Country Department I
Asia Regional Office
Uhis document has a restricted distribution and may be used b! recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
AEPD    -   AgriculturaL Economics and Projects Division
AI      -   Agricultural Instructor
AO      -   Agricultural Officer
ARC     -   Adaptive Research Centre
CF      -   Contart Farmer
DA      -   Director of Agr.culture
DOA     -   Department of Agriculture
EMEU    -   Economics, Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
FF      -   Follcwer Farmers
COSL    -   Government of Sri Eanka
KVS     -   Krisnikarma Viyaptha Seveka
MADR    -   Ministry of Agricultural Development and Research
RRC     -   Regional Research Centre
RTC     -   Regional Training Centre
RTWC    -   Regional Technical Working Croup
SMO     -   Subject Matter Officer
SPU     -   Special Project Unit
T&V     -   Training and Visit System



FOB OUVU=AL U3 ONLY
TrE WORLD BANKM
Washngton. D.C 20433
US.A
oI.ce di Oftw4VGUt
OpwaSmuu Ivsaktrin
March 31, 1989
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Sri Lanka Agricultural
Extension and Adaptive Research Prolect (Credit 931-CE)
Attached, for i,sformation, is a copy of * report entitled
'Project Completion Report on Sri Lanka Agricultural Extension and
Adaptive Research Project (Credit 931-CE)" prepared by the Asia
Regional Office. Full evaluation of this project has not been made by
the ^perations Evaluation Department.
Attachment
|This documenthas a restricted distribution and may beused by recipients only in the performance|
of their official duties. tscontents ma ynot otherwise hedisclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVZ RESEARCH PROJECT
PROJZCT COMPLZTION REPORT
Table of Cont-nts
Page No.
PPZACE    ......................................................                   i
BASIC DATA SHEET                 i............................................    i
EVALUATION SUM)IARY          ......................   ......................      iii
I.   INTRODUCTION .........................................                 1
II.   PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL ....                 1
A. Project Oricin ..........         .........................        1
B. Appraisal and Effectiveness .....            .................     2
C.  Project Descriptioa and Detailed Features            ........     2
-   Project Description ......          ....................      2
-   Detailed Features .......         .....................       3
III.   IMPLEMENTATION ..........          .............................       6
A.  Start Up ...........        ..............................        6
B. Revision .........................................                 6
C.  Reporting ...........        .............................        6
D. Project Costs ........          ............................       7
E. Disbursement by Categories .....            ..................     7
F.  Implementation of Specific Components           . . .             7
- Civil Works . .                                                 7
-   Procurement of Vehicles and Equipment                         8
- Staffing Performance   .                   .
- Training                        . .9
- Operating Expenses .                      .                     9
-   Technical Assistance and Overseas Training                   10
- Monitoring and Evaluation                 .        .10
IV.   INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE ......            ......................    11
A. Project Organization and Management ....            ..........    11
B. Extension ...........         .............................       11
C.  Research ............       .............................        12
D. Education and Training ......            .....................    13
Z. Consultants ...........                                           13
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their officia! duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



V.  PROJECT IMPACT ..................                               14
A.  Intended Impact .toooeo ... ..... *.... a                   14
B. Observed Impact  ....... .........  off  .....              14
-  Farmers' Response          ..                            14
-  ProduCtion Impact                          .   .         15
-    Rate  of  Return  .* ............. .    ......         15
VI.  IDA PERFORMANCE .........15
VII.  CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED   ....................          16
TABLES
1. Appraisal Cost Estimates and Actual Costs
2. Project Disbursements
3. Progress of Civil Works
4. Procurement of Vehicles
5. Project Staffing
6. Training
7. Technical Assistance
8. Overseas Training
9. Monitoring and Evaluation
10. Indicators of Monitoring Survey
11. Comparison of Improved Practices
12. Comparison between pre-project and with-project crop yields
ATTACHMENTS
1. Leaflets, Journals and Magazines produced by DOA



SRI i LyAN
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPT'IVE RMSEARCH PROJECT
PROJUCT COEPLUTIOI REPORT
Preface
ThLs Project Completion Report reviews implm_ntation of the
Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research Project in Sri Lanka for which
Credit 931-CE in the amount of US$ 15.5 million was approved on June 12, 1979.
The Credit was closed on June 30, 1986 and the undisburged balance of USS 7.54
million was cancelled.
The PCR was prepared by South Asia Region staff on the basis of a
project evaluation report prepared by the Borrower, &s well as the Etaff
Appraisal Report (No. 2396-CE, dated May 17, 1979), Development Credit
Agreement (dated July 24, 1979), IDA supervision mission reports, a review of
the correspondence files, and discussions with Government of Sri Lanka
officials.
The draft report was sent to the Borrower for comments on January 18,
1989; however, no comments were received.



SRI LANKA
ACRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
CREDIT 931-CE
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT - BASIC DATA SHEET
KEY PROJECT DATA
Appraisal                   Actual 2 of
Estimate      Actual   Appraisal Estimates
Project Cost (USs million)               22.4         12.2              54
Credit Amount (US$ million)              15.5          7.96             51
Date Physical Components completed  Dec. 1985   Dec. 1986               -
Institutional Performance               Good          Good
Agro-Economic Performance                Good         Good
CUMULATIVE DISBURSEMENT
FY80  FY81  FY82  FY83  FY84  FY85  FY86  FY87
Appraisal Estimates (USS million)   0.7   4.5   7.8  11.0  14.0  15.5    -              -
Actual (US$ million)                     -     -    1.4   2.2   3.2   4.7   6.0   7.96
Actual as Z of Appraisal                 -     -    18    20    23    30    39    51
Date of Final Disbursement              December 31, 1986
PROJECT DATES
Original                  Actual
Negotiations                                                 05/07/79
Board Approval                                               06/12/79
Credit Signing                        -                      07/24/79
Credit Effectiveness               10/24/79                  10/04/79
Credit Closing                     06/30/85                  06/30/86
STAFF INPUT (staff weeks)
FY79 FYn   FY91  0Y32 FYS FYr4 FY65 FY36 FY37 FYN  Tet_
Preeppralsal      .1   9.0  -      -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -        9.9
Appraisal        -    59.7  -      -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    $9.7
Negotiation      -      4.0  -     -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -        4.8
Supervielon      -      2.6  M0.4  16.4 19.1 15.8  19.1  12.9  7.4 18.2  4.0 140.1
Other            -       .6  -     -      .4  -    -    -    -    -    -       1.6
TOTAL           .1  76.9 30.4  10.4 19.5 15.8 19.5 12.9  7.4 18.2  4.0 215.6



-111-
OTHER DATA
Borrower              Government of the Democratic Republic of Sri Lanka
Fiscal Year       :   January 1 to December 31
Name of Currency :   Rupees (Rs)
Exchange Rate
Appraisal Year              :   1978      US$1 * 15.80
Invervening Years/Average :   1979         "   = 15.57
1980       "   - 16.58
1981           = 19.25
1982           = 20.80
1983           = 23.53
1984           = 25.44
1985           = 27.16
Average            = 21.19
Completion Year                 1986            = 27.95
MISSION DATA
Date    No. of   Man Days  Specifi-   Perf.        Rating    Type of
Mo/Yr   Persons  in Field  cationl/  Status2/  Trend 3/  Problems4/
Appraisal              10/78       4                A,B,C,D       -         -           -
Supervision I          07/79       4         19     A,C.D,F       1         2          H
Supervision II         01/80       2          9     B,E           2          1         M
Supervision III       7-8/80       1         11     B             2         2          M,T
Supervision IV         11/80       1          6     B             2          1         M,T
Supervision V          07/81       4         15     A,B,C         2          1         M,T
Supervision VI         02/82       2         10     A,B           2          i         M,T
Supervision V,I        09/82       3         i2     B,C,E         2          1         M
Supervision VI'I      7-8/83       4         17     B,C,D,E       2          1         M
Supervision IX         03/84       2          9     A,B           2          1         M,F
Supervision X        9-10/84       1          7     A             2         1          F
Supervision XI         03/85       1          5     A             2          1         M,F
Supervision XII      9-10/85       1         13     A             2          1         M,F
Supervision XIII       02/86       1         12     A             2         2          M,F
Supervision XIV        04/87       1          ;     A             2         2           -
1/  A - Agriculturist; B = Agricultural Economist; C = Extension Specialist;
C a Rural Development Specialist; E = Agricultural Extsnsion/Research;
F a Engineer.
2/  1 - Problem free; 2 - Satisfactory; 3 = Deterioraring.
3/  1 = Improving; 2 = Stationary; 3 = Deteriorating.
4/  F * Financial; M = Managerial; T = Technical; D = Others.



-iv-
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
PROJECT COKPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMKARY
1.      The Training and Visit system (T6V) of extension was first introduced
in Sri Lanka on a pilot scale in 1976, as a component of the IDA-supported
Tank Modernization Project (Cr. 666-CE). The pilot effort was successful
and, in June 1978, the Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) submitted to IDA a
report requesting assistance for a project to strengthen extension, training,
and adaptive research facilities in the whole country. The project was
appraised by IDA in October 1978. The Credit Agreement was signed on July
24, 1979 and became effective on October 24, 1979. The Credit closed on June
30, 1986 after a year's extension.
Objectives
2.      The project's objectives were: (i) to establish an unified extension
system in the whole of Sri Lanka for all crops (except tea and rubber) and
animal husbandry, patterned on the training and visit system of extension;
(ii) strengthen adaptive research facilities end research-extension linkages;
and (iii) to improve and expand the training of extension personnel.  The
project included funds for: (a) establishment of the training and visit
system of extension; (b) establishment of an adaptive research network on the
basis of the agro-ecological regions; (c) improvement and expansion of
agricultural training institutions; (d) foreign training of extension and
research staff; (e) 138 man-months of technical assistance; (f) construction
of offices, laboratories, and staff housing; (g) purchase of vehicles and
equipment; and (h) incremental staff and operating costs.
3.      The Department of Agriculture (DOA) of the Ministry of Agricultural
Developmen. and Research (MADR) was the implementing agency. A Project
Coordination Ccmmittee (PCC) was to be formed under the chairmanship of the
Secretary MADR. PCC was expected to ensure interministerial coordination
and previde full support for the establishment of T&V extension in the
country. The Director of Agriculture was to be responsible for day-to-day
implementation of the project and assist   in implementing project activities
relating to extension, adaptive research, training and monitoring and evalua-
tion by the respective Deputy Directors of extension, research, training, and
agricultural economics and projects divisions.



Implementation Experience
4.    During implementation, the technical assiatance program (138 man-months)
was drastically reduced to 50 man-months. Civil works construction and
procurement of vehicles and quipment started late. The scope of the civil
works program was reduced because bids received were substantially above
appraisal cost estimates and at the time there was no indication of the
sizable local currency devaluation vis-a-vic the US dollar that materialized
uubsequently. Staff recruitment was slow due to administrative procedures and
increase in the pro-service training period of the villag- level extension
worker, Krushikarma Viyaptha Seveka (KVS), from 12 months to 24 months. About
87% of staff positions estimated at appraisal were approved by the Treasury
and 99% of tnese were filled. dowever, due to budget cuts by the Treasury,
adequate operating funds were not made available.
5.    Because of the delays in the start of civil works, procurement of goods,
and foreign training, the project fell behind its implementation schedule.
The extension of the Credit closing date by one year from June 30, 1985 to
June 30, 1986 enabled DOA to complete civil works which had started, and
complete procurement of goods and the training program.
6.    Project reporting and completion of monitoring and evaluation survey.
and studies were reasonably regular.
7.    Though separate accounts were maintained in a systematic manner, DOA did
not provide to IDA the required audit reports and certified statement of
expenditures (SOEs) on "Staff Salaries and Allowances." Consequently, IDA
stopped disbursements against "Staff Salaries and Allowances" after June 30,
1986.
8.    As of December 31, 1986 (date of final disbursement), an amount of
US$1.96 million had been disbursed against the total credit of US$15.5
million. The balance of US$7.54 million was carcelled. The surplus was
mainly due to the scaling down of civil works program, reduction in the
technical assistance program, and a substantial local currency devaluation
vis-a-vis the US dollar of about 30% between 1979 and 1986.
Project Impact
9.    The Department of Agriculture has successfully established the T&V
extension in the entire country, organized a network of adaptive resaarch
stations, and has expanded and strengthened the training institutions.
Extension staff have visited farmers at regular intervals, furtnightly
training was held regularly, and in-service training programs have been geared
to meet farmers' needs and research findings. A mechanism to provide feedback
of farmers, problems, through adaptive research, is in place. Research-
extension linkages have been established and strengthened through Regiontl
Technical Working Group meetings, monthly research-extension dialogues, and
the adaptive research program. Though the foreign training program for staff
started late, it has been successfully completed.
10.   Contrary to the decision at appraisal, the project was not able to
establish a unified extension system. GOSL decided that the Ministry of Rural



-vi-
Industries Development would maintain its own extension *ystem for animal
husbandry. Zxtension work on minor export crops and coconut was included in
the last two years of the project. However, a well-organised extension syst-m
for field crops with adequate support from training and research is in place.
Sustainabilitv
11.   Notwithstanding the problems faced in project implementation, DOA has
been ablo to establish a well-organized extension system that draws good
support from research and trairing. Monitoring and Evaluation studies have
identified an important weakness in implementation, i.e., excessive
concentration on contact farmers. Encouraging rosults have been achieved in
terms of use of improved varieties, adoption of improved cultural practi-ces,
and increased and better use of fertilizer. Production increases estimated at
appraisal have been exceeded. In order to bring about qualitative
Improvements in the extension system and research-extension linkages, and to
ensure sustained development, a second phase of the project is essential.
Findings and Lessons
12.   The main lespons learnt are:  (a) extension support for animal husbandry
should not have been excluded from the project as it would have provided a
whole-farm approach; (b) extension staff should get appropriate guidance on
the need to contact as many farmers as possible during field visits, instead
or concentrating on contact farmers alone; (c) technical assistance needs
should be assessed on a realistic basis and a firm commitment obtained at
appraisal from the highest authority in the concerned Ministry to guard
against subsequent drastic changes; (d) at the beginning of the pioject,
emphasis should be given for preparation of a detailed action plan for
implementation; (e) provision should be made for operational funds to carry
out monitoring and evaluation studies; and (f) appropriate guidance should be
provided to the Borrower on IDA requirements for submission of audit reports
and certified SOEs, and procurement procedures.



SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01    Before the implementation of the IDA-assisted Agricultural Extension
and Adaptive Research Project, agricultural extension in Sri Lanka was widely
dispersed within the Ministry of Agricultural Development and Research
(MADR), the Mahaweli Development Authority, Ministry of Coconut Industry, and
the Ministry of Rural Industrial Development. The Department of Agriculture
(DOA) with a total of about 2,300 field staff did not have a well-organized
extension system. The situation was no better in other departments. DOA's
own extension work was inadequate due to lack of trained staff and restrained
in their field visits due to lack of transport; performance of non-extension
activities; and lack of an efficient system to maintain contact with farmers
to understand their problems and provide technical support. The existing
training institutions were not well equipped with training material and
systems for delivery of extension messages to farmers were weak.
1.02    DOA research was reasonably well established with a strong rice
breeding program. Five Regional Research Centres (RRC) had been established
based on agroecological variations. These RRCs covered only five of the nine
agroecological regions of the country.  The sLaffing and other facilities at
RRCs were inadequate to provide multidisciplinary research suppcrt. Linkages
between research and extension were poor except for the organization of
mini-kit trials.
1.03    The Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research Project was designed
co establish the training and visit system (T&V) of extension to cover the
entire country, strengthen adaptive research and research-extension linkages,
and to improve and expand the training of extension staff.
II. PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
A. Project Origin
2.01    T&V extension was first introduced in Sri Lanka on a pilot scale in
1976 as a component of the IDA-supported Tank Irrigation Modernization
Project (Cr. .666-CE) in Anuradhapura district. This pilot work demonstrated
that the system was effective in maintaining close contact with farmers and
transmission of extension messages to them. It also revealed that a need
existed for strengthening adaptive research and establishment of close
linkages between research and extension. As part of the reorganization of
research, extension, and training of DOA, on UNDP/FAO project "Reorganization



-2-
of National Research, Extension, and Training Resources for Agriculture" was
initiated in January 1977. In June 1978, COSL submitted to IDA a report
prepared by the UNDP/FAO project team, requesting assistance for a project to
strengthen extension, training, and adaptive research facilities in the whole
country.
B. Appraisal and Effectiveness
2.02    The project was appraised by IDA in October 1978 and a report issued
on May 17, 1979--Sri Lanka Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research
Project, Report No. 2396-CE. The main difference between the prepared and
appraised project was the deletion of the headquarters complex, increase in
infrastructure development in the field, and strengthening of the supervisory
capacity of DOA's Civil Engineering Unit. The establishment of a Project
Coordination Committee wa8 a condition of Credit effectiveness.
2.03    The project's oojectives concentrated on helping COSL to apply T&V
extension to the cntire country, to strengthen adaptive research and
research-extension linkages, and to improve and expand training of extension
personnel. The project was approved on July 24, 1979 set to become effective
on October 24, 1979. The project became effective on October 4, 1979.
C. Project Description and Detailed Features
Project Description
2.04    The Project was designed to provide funds for:
(a)  strengthening of extension services by the establishment of an
unified T&V extension organization for all crops (except tea and
rubber) and animal husbandry for the entire country;
(b)  establishment of an adaptive research network on the basis of the
country's agroecological regions;
(c)  improvement and expansion of agricultural training institutions of
DOA;
(d)  strengthening of the Economics Unit of DOA and expanding its func-
tions to include conducting a benchmark survey, continuous project
evaluation with about 5,000 farmers, helping adaptive research teams,
and Regional Training Centres (RTC);
(e) strengthening of the planning and supervisory capability of DOA's
Civil Engineering Unit (CEU);



-3-
(f)  provision of funds for salaries and allowances for a total of 1,789
incremental extension, adaptive research, training, economics and
civil engineering staff required as a consequence of the project;
(g)  provision of 1,323 buildings consisting of 1,203 living quarters for
incremental staff and 120 buildings for training centres, offices and
laboratories and workshops;
(h)  provision of appropriate vehicles (jeeps, cars, buses, motorcycles
and bicycles) for incremental staff and equipment for farms,
laboratories and workshops;
(i)  provision of incremental operating and maintenance costs for project
works, buildings, vehicles and equipment;
(j)  provision of six months training at various International Agricul-
tural Research Centres (IARC) for three senior training officers, 14
Research officers and 14 Subject Matter Officers (SMO) of DOA, and
short-term visits to India of 120 Village level extension officers
(KVS), 48 Agricultural Instructors (A'), 24 Subject Matter Officers
(SMO), and 24 Agricultural Officers (AO). Another three senior
training officers were to be trained overseas in training
methodology;
(k)  provision of 138 man-months of consultancy for a team leader and
specialists in animal husbandry, coconut/undercrops, water manage-
ment, plant protection, coarse grains, grain legumes, root and tuber
crops, and vegetables to assist in implementing the project.
Detailed Features
2.05    Strengthening of Extension Service.  An unified T&V extension
organization for all crops (except tea and rubber) and animal husbandry
(excluding veterinary services and supplies of improved animal breads) was to
be established for -he entire country. By the introduction of the unified
extension system throughout the country, extension operations were to be
integrated in the following manner: (a) extension staff were expected to do
full time extension work and their training and visit schedules were not to
be interfered at any time; (b) the Ministry of Rural Industrial Development
(MRID) and the Ministry of Coconut Industries (MCI) would support the unified
extension system by designating their District level officers to serve as
subject matter officers on animal husbandry and coconut cultivation for
training of extension officers of DOA, who would pass on extension messages
to farmers; and (c) the Ministry of Mahaweli Development and Lhe Ministry of
Land and Land Development would entrust extension wor'. in Mahaweli Canga
development projects, irrigation projects, and special project areas to DOA.



-4-
2.06    Additional staff were to be provided to achieve staffing patterns in
accordance with agreed norms based on--one Krishikarma Viyaptha Seveka (KVS)
for every 750 farm families; one Agricultural Instructor (AI) for every 4-5
KVSs; one Agricultural officer (AO) for 8-9 AIs and 2-3 AOs per district
(each supervising a division within the district); and each district was to
be headed by a Distri-... Agri-ultural Extension Officer (DAEO) assisted by a
number of subject matter officers (SMO).
2.07    The farm families covered by each KVS (750 an average) were to be
divided into about eight "clusters," containing an average of 95 families in
each cluster. Some seven to eight farmers in each cluster were to be
selected by KVS as contact farmers. Visit programs of extension staff,
supervision, and training artd technical support, were to be implemented in
accordance with T&V extension methodology.
2.08    To assist extension staff maintain the required regular and frequent
farm visits, field staff were to be provided housing by constructing new
houses at suitable locations; loans for purchase of bicycles and motorcycles
were to be made available for appropriate level of field staff; and addi-
tional vehicles provided at headquarters, district, and division levels.
Incremental vehicle operating costs were to be provided along with staff
travelling allowances.
2.09    3trengthening Adaptive Research.  The Regional Research Centres (RRC)
were to be responsible for planning, executing, and supervising adaptive
research in order to provide practical answers to farmers' problems and to
evolve appropriate technological recommendations adapted to local conditions.
Adaptive research was to be conducted on farmers' fields and the annual plans
were to be prepared by RRCs in consultation with extension staff. Suitable
mechanism for technical coordination among research, extension, and training
was provided for.
2.10    About 24 Adaptive Research Centres (ARC) were to be established.
Each ARC was co be provided with a simple laboratory, office, and technical
staff. Funds were provided for construction of three new RRC buildings and
for other facilities such as equipment, vehicles, staff, and operating costs.
2.11    Training Institutions.  The existing training institutions of DOA
were to be strengthened with additional buildings, vehicles, equipment,
incremental staff, and operating costs to provide pre-service training to KVS
and in-service training to all categories of extension staff.
2.12    Monitoring and Evaluation.  The Economics Unit of DOA was to be
strengthened to carry out a Benchmark Survey in the project area, evaluation
of the adaptive research program, and monitoring and evaluation of the exten-
sion system through sample surveys and special studies.



2.13    Civil Engineering Unit.  The Civil Engineering Unit of DOA was to be
strengthened to supervise the Civil Works program.
2.14    Overseas Training an;. Technical Assistance.  Overseas training was to
be provided by sending 216 ex.tension staff on study tours to India and
six-month studies prcvided at international institutions for 31 research and
extensior. staff and training officers.
2.15    About 138 man-months of technical assistance was to be financed to
employ consultants in the fields of extension, animal husbandry, water
management, and specific crops (coarse grains, legumes, root/tuber crops, and
vegetables).
2.16    Project Costs and Financ.rl   The project was estimated to cost
US$22.4 M (over a five-year period) inclusive of US$0.4 M as taxes and duties
and US$5.0 M as physical and price contingencies. Civil Wurks (US$5.4 M base
cost) and machinery and equipment (US$4.0 M base cost) together made up more
than half of the total Lase costs.  Operating costs such as staff salaries
and aliowances, and vehicle and machinery operation; overseas training; and
technical assistance made up the remainder. IDA credit was for US$15.5 M
which was to finance about 70Z of project costs, net of duties and taxes.
The credit was to rover all foreign expenditures (US$9.7 M) and about 46% of
local costs (US$5.3 M).  Appraisal cost estimates and actual expenditure for
the project are given in Table 1.
2.17    Organization and Management.  The Department of Agriculture of MADR
was the project implementing agency.  A ministry-level Project Coordination
Committee (PCC) was to be formed under the chairmanship of the Secretary MADR
to coordinate policy matters with GOSL and to ensure interministerial coor-
dination and support to the unified T&V extension. In addition to senior
officers of MADR, PCC was to include senior representatives from MRID, MCI,
Ministry of Mahaweli Development, Ministry of Land and Land Development,
Ministry of Finance and Planning, and the Ministry of Plan Implementation.
The establishment of PCC was a condition of Credit effectiveness.
2.18    The Director of Agricuiture (DA) was the Project Director.  Project
activities relating to extension, adaptive research, training, monitoring and
evaluation, and civil works were to be under the charge of Deputy Directors
of extension, research, training, agricultural economics, and civil engineer-
ing of DOA. A Special Project Unit was to be established in DOA under the
chairmanship of DA to monitor project implementation. The concerned minis-
tries participating in the project were expected to nominate an officer to
liaise with DA on project matters.



III. IMPLEMENTATION
A. Start Up
3.01    With the assistance of an IDA supervision mission in July 1979, early
progress was made in .3tablishing the organizational and administrative
framework for project implementation. The project became effective in just
over t;o months after signing of the Credit Agreement. By the end of calen-
dar year 1979, preliminary administrative and operational systems had been
established. These included pre-project training, preparation of extension
guidelines and training material, establishment of an Operating Unit in DOA,
establishment of Regional Technical Working Groups (RTWG), and finalization
of adaptive research trials at seven ARCs. However, extension work at
farmers' level was slow in taking off, and construction work and other
procurement were considerably delayed.
B. Revision
3.02    Significant changes in project design took place during implementa-
tion. The Ministry of Rural Industries Development (MRID), with the backing
of the Cabinet, decided that the Department of Animal Production and Health
(DAPH) would maintain its own extension service for livestock development.
The 138 man-months of expatriate consultancies were drastically reduced and
overseas training was increased. Despite continuous pressure from IDA,
extension staff were not fully relieved of some non-extension activities and,
together with other constraints, the tortnightly visits were reduced to six
days.
3.03    Due to delay in the start of civil works and a sharp escalation of
construction costs, IDA agreed to a scaling down of the civil works programme
especially the construction of a staff quarters.  Although no provision was
made at appraisal for staff quarters at Kandy, DOA requested and IDA approved
the purchase of 30 staff quarters at Kandy and also the construction of an
office building for the Economics, Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (EMEU).
3.04    Mainly because of delays in civil works construction and procurement
of goods, the Credit closing date was extended by one year from June 30, 1985
to June 30, 1986.
C. Reporting
3.05    The Agricultural Economics and Planning Division (AEPD) of DOA was
responsible for sending half-yearly progress reports to IDA. Reporting was
fairly regular and contained detailed information on progress of
project-related activities.
3.06    DOA maintained separate project accounts and disbursement requests
were made regularly. Submission of audit reports was delayed and not one



report had been made available to IDA at project closing. The earlier IDA
supervision missions did not provide suitable guidance for submission of
audit reports and certified statements of expenditures. Due to non-receipt
of audit opinion on statements of expenditures (by June 30, 1986), IDA dis-
bursements were discontinued from July 1, 1986.
D. Project Cost
3.07    An amount of Rs 287.7 M (81% of the appraisal estimate of Rs 354.4 M)
was spent during the project period. Due to substantial local currency
devaluation of about 30% against the US dollar between 1979 and 1986 and
scaling down of the civil works program, the total project cost was only
US$12.2 M, about 54% of the appraisal estimate of US$22.4 M (Table 1). Other
reasons for the shortfall were the substantial reduction in the technical
assistance component, and delays in civil works construction, procurement of
goods, and staff recruitment.
E. Disbursement by Categories
3.08    The IDA Credit of US$15.5 M was expected to finance 70% of project
costs. Of this amount, US$7.96 M (51%) had been disbursed as of December 31,
1986 and the balance of US$,.54 M was cancelled effective January 1, 1987.
Appraisal estimates and actual disbursements against different categories are
given in Table 2.
F.  Implementation Experience of Specific Components
3.09    Civil Works.  It became apparent soon after the start of the project
that the proposed buildings program would be impossible to achieve because of
considerable increase in construction costs. With the approval of IDA, the
programme was reduced to about 50% of the appraisal estimates.
3.10    There were delays in identification of building sites and qualified
and reliable contractors in rural areas. Not much work could be done in the
first two years. Once work started, contractors could not complete construc-
tion on schedule and DOA had to complete works by force account. In several
cases, contracts had to be re-awarded. Delays were also caused by changes to
existing designs and poor supervision of contractors' work.
3.11    Construction started in 1980 and performance was better in implement-
ing the revised construction program, especially in the latter years of the
project. Although no provision had been made at appraisal, IDA agreed to a
request by DOA to purchase 30 staff quarters at the Hantana complex in Kandy
and for the construction of an office for the Economics, Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit. By the end of the project, most of the buildings included
in the revised program had been completed. The average quality of works was
satisfactory and the shortfall in numbers was mainly in the construction of



-8-
staff quarters. Details of the civil works program indicating appraisal
estimates, revised estimates, and buildings completed are given in Table 3.
3.12    Procurement of Vehicles and Equipment.  DOA encountered procedural
delays in following International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Further delays
were caused due to la.'k of clear instructions on items to be purchased by the
Mechanical Engineering Division of DOA and other technical divisions.
3.13    DOA made the right decision to initially purchase two-wheel vehicles
(staff-owned) and allot them to staff, who paid for them at cost through
deductions from salaries over five years. This ensured the procurement of
right type of vehicles at uniform prices and repayment terms and, through
standardization, eased maintenance problems.
3.14    The types and numbers of vehicles purchased under the project are
given in Table 4. Shortfall in respect of jeeps and vans resulted in
non-formation of mobile units for the adaptive research progvam and weak
field supervision. Early in the project, 15 Romanian jeeps were procured
following IDA guidelines despite the Government's reluctance because of
uncertainties in a'ter-sales service. As a result, only three jeeps out of
the 15 are currently in use, with frequent breakdowns for lack of replacement
parts.
3.15    In November 1985, DOA obtained approval from IDA to purchase an
additional 200 motorcycles and 250 bicycles. Procurement was, however,
abandoned because the delivery date fell after closure of the Credit.
3.16    Most of the equipment and machinery were purchased.  Main items
identified, but not purchased, were the radio communications network, mobile
units for adaptive research, and the electronic workshop equipment for the
Training Division.
3.17    Staff Performance.  Staffing has been reasonably good.  Recruitment
of staff was the responsibility of DOA. However, creation of staff positions
had to be approved by the Treasut, which imposed limits on numbers of staff
to be appointed. By the end of the project, the Treasury had approved a
total of 1,568 positions out of the 1,789 estimated at appraisal (87%), out
of which 1,549 positions had been filled (an achievement of 99%). Details
are given in Table 5.
3.18    The worst affected in terms of staff shortages were the Extension
Division (KVS - 181 positions, AI - 28, AO - 5, and SMO - 11) and the Educa-
tion and Training Division (Technicians - 18 positions and Support Staff -
57). The shortage of experienced technical staff for adaptive research was
partially compensated by the appoirtment of 38 Research Assistants not
foreseen at appraisal.



-9-
3.19    The significant increase in field activities and the decentralization
of administrative and operational functions, increased the requirements of
support staff. Although this was partially made up by some increase in
numbers of approved positions of clerks and typists compared to appraisal
estimates, che number of support staff was insufficient to cope effectively
with increased adminiitrative and accounting requirements.
3.20    Training.  At the commencement of the project, three Regional Train-
ing Centres (RTC) were in operation. Five more RTCs have been added under
the project and the existing three RTCs strengthened. The buildings at 14
District Training Centres (DTC) have been renovated and some additions made
to increase intake. The School of Agriculture, Kundasale has been
strengthened under the project. DOA upgraded the pre-service course for KVS
to a two-year diploma and increased the intake at Agricultural Schools from
the appraisal estimate of 200 to 300 a year and established (1986) two new
Schools of Agriculture and six DTC from funds received through other agen-
cies.
3.21    The schedu!id training required under T&V extension has been properly
followed, i.e., fortnightly training of KVSs, AIs, and AOs by SMOs and
research staff; pre-season training of all staff; and the Research-Extension
Dialogue onze every month. Another special feature of the DOA training
program at RTCs has been the provision of short-term in-service training for
all categories of extension staff including SMCs. These courses have been
condLcted by staff of RTC and the Regional Research Stations and covered
structured subject matter courses and special problem-oriented topics iden-
tified during fortnightly training sessions and monthly research-extension
dialogue sessions. In addition, special short courses have been conducted
for farmers, and youth and women groups.
3.22    The Training Division organized training in the production and use of
audio visual material and has produced training material for extension staff
in the form of leaflets, booklets, journals, and magazines. A list of these
publications is given in Attachment 1.
3.23    Overall, the performance of the Training Division has been satisfac-
tory. The project has raised the morale of the trainers and the quality of
teaching, and the number and content of technical messages hcs improved.
Details of training programs implemented are given in Table 6.
3.24    Operating Expenses.  In FY 1983, the Treasury imposed restrictions on
travel allowance and vehicle operating costs. Amounts allocated were
one-third of the normal required for efficient implementation of the exten-
sion program and although some concessions were obtained for the project,
staff travelling allowances and funds for vehicle operation were not fixed
according to needs but according to grades resulting in KVS receiving the
least (travel funds). While the Training and Research Divisions allowed
flexibility within the overall budget, the Extension Division adhered



-10-;
strictly to the monthly limits. In the end, however, though there were
complaints of inadequate funds, overall savings were recorded each year under
this all.ocation due to inefficient planning.
3.25    Technical Assistance and Overseas Training.  From the very beginning,
DOA was reluctant to utilize the estimated 138 man-months of consultancy
services because consultants were very expensive and some of the expertise
was available within the country. Subsequently, after detailed discussion,
IDA agreed to reduce the man-months to about 50 which was fully utilized.
Details of man-months utilized is given in Table 7.
3.26    Under the overseas training program, problems were encountered in
organizing study tours for 170 extension staff in India. After the first
visit of 24 persons to India, because of difficulties in obtaining clearance
from the Government of India, 146 persons have visited other
countries--Indonesia (80), Bangladesh (59), Thailand (2) and Reading, UK (5).
The short-term training programme was revised upward from 31 to 47
participants and 45 persons were trained.
3.27    To make use of savings arising from the Technical Assistance
programme, IDA agreed to a request made by DOA for sending 17 staff (from
Extension, Research, Education and Training, and Economics Divisions) for
long-term training to a masters degree. About 16 staff were able to obtain
Masters Degrees. Details of achievements under overseas training is given in
Table 8.
3.28    Monitoring and Evaluation.  The Economics and Monitoring and Evalia-
tion Unit (EMEU) of the Agricultural Economics and Projects Division (AEPO)
of DOA was responsible for the Benchmark Survey, project progress reports,
monitoring surveys and studies on the effectiveness of T&V extension,
socio-economic profile of contact farmers and follower farmers and their
adoption rates, and data collection for cost of cultivation and project
evaluation.
3.29    Field surveys and data analysis, particularly the Benchmark Survey,
were delayed. Only 17 Economic Assistants (EA), out of 26, estimates had
been recruited.  Thus, KVS were used in conducting several surveys.  Separate
funds were not provided for field surveys, data processing, and reporting.
Travel allowances were restricted. Most of the data analyses were carried
out manually due to non-availability of computer facilities.  In case of the
Benchmark Survey, the initial sample size of 100,000 was reduced to 25,000,
and 22,067 farmers were interviewed. Because of the non-availability of
suitable computer facilities, analysis was carried out cn a further reduced
sample of 4,904 of the questionnaires.
3.30    Despite limited staff, vehicles, equipment, operating funds, EMEU
performed the assigned tasks satisfactorily and produced useful reports,
particularly the Benchmark Survey and on the constraints and effectiveness



-ll-
of T&V extension and its impact. A list of reports produced by EMEU is given
in Table 9.
IV. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
A. Project Organiza;on and Management
4.01    MADR gave full support to the project, by taking immediate action at
the national level to resolve problems encountered by DOA in project
implementation. The Project Coordination Committee (PCC) was established
quickly, thereby advancing credit effectiveness. Despite problems of bring-
ing together representatives from different ministries, PCC met nine times
between January 1980 and July 1986 to discuss implementation problems. A
Project Implementation Committee (PIC) established under the chairmanship
of the Director of Agriculture, met as many as 28 times between January 1980
and July 1986 to resolve problems and improve project implementation.
4.02    It had been agreed at appraisal that a Special Project Unit (SPU)
would be established in DOA. This unit was only established in January 1983
with a Deputy Director in-charge and responsible to the Director of Agricul-
ture (DA). Till the establisiment of SPU, AEPD was made responsible to
coordinate project activities. With the retirement of the Deputy Director
| '         SPU in 1984, the unit was placed under AEPD.  This arrangement continued till
the end and did not affect project implementation and DA monitored progress
regularly.
4.03    Though GOSL imposed restrictions on many areas of public ex?enditure
because of budgetary constraints, judged by cuts in allocation to other
ministries, DOA received favorable consideration with regard to appropria-
tions in support of the project. Fiscal policies of the Governmenit also made
it easier to make local procurement. Similarly, administrative procedures
for study tours and training abroad were such that the training program was
implemented without difficulty.
4.04    The decision of the Government to exclude animal husbandry from T&V
extension was unfortunate since livestock constitutes an integral part of the
farming system. Simple messages on husbandry, nutrition, and animal housing
could have been handled to the advantage of farmers by an increasingly
popular extension ser"ice.
B. Extension
4.05    Shortage of staff at the beginning of the project restricted the full
implementation of T&V extension to only four districts during the main season
(Maha) of 1979/80 while the remaining districts were fully covered over a
period of two years.  At full development, it was expected that about 2,137
KVS would be employed to benefit about 1.6 million farm families. With only
1,859 KVSs (87%) in position, the number of farm families per KVS was higher



-12-
in some areas than expected at appraisal (750 farm families per KVS). This
diluted the efforr of KVSs. Similarly, the shortfall in supervisory posi-
tions (AI - 28 positions, AO - .5, and SMO = 11), affected the supervision
of extension work in some areas.
4.06    DOA found it 1;fficult to establish new agencies to take over
programs like seed distribution, rallies and exhibitions, and fruit subsidy
schemes and the extension staff had to look after these activities. The
number of scheduled visits by KVS was reduced from eight to six days a fort-
night despite repeated interventions from IDA supervision missions. Other
management problems encountered in project implementation were inadequate
mobility of staff for effective supervision and initial delays in maintenance
of field records.
4.07    Some of the weaknessses observed in the implementation of extension
program were: (a) excessive concentration on contact farmers in the early
years of the project at the expense of other farmers; (b) only 70% awareness
among contact farmers of their role; and (c) vibits by KVS not always being
regular, i.e., as per schedule. With better understanding of the T&V exten-
sion methodology, there has been improvement in the coverage of follower
farmers during KVS visits. Better supervision over time helped in improving
the regularity of visits. However, it would need more time and promotional
efforts by all levels of extension staff to bring about further qualitative
improvements.
4.08    Overall, the project has been able to establish the institutionql
framework for an effective extension system, though not enough attention was
given to horticulture, minor export crops, and coconut extension. Field
visits by extension staff have been fairly regular and fortnightiy training
sessions were held on scheduled dates, With guidance from IDA supervision
missions, the quality of training improved sufficiently to allow better
delivery of extension messages and an increased adoption rate by farmers.
Participation of extension, research, and training staff in joint discussions
helped in identifying and analyzing farmers' problems requiring research and
training backstopping. With help from IDA supervision missions, DOA has
tried with some success the grouping of farmers for the delivery of extension
messages without departing from the principles of T&V extension.
C. Research
4.09    The project emphasized on adaptive research on farmers' fields and
strengthening eight RRCs. Adaptive research was organized on farmers' fields
at 24 new ARCs established under the project, under the guidance of RRCs
(five existing and three new). Except for the non-establishment of mobile
units, the proposed facilities under the project were completed.
4.10    Adaptive research trials were conducted with the help of extension
staff and farmers. In the initial stages the difference between applied and



-13-
adaptive research was not clear to research staff but through the guidance of
IDA supervision missions, a satisfactory methodology was instituted. Trials
on farmers' fields were non-replicated and concerned fertilizer use, improved
varieties, and cultured practices.
4.11    Research-Exte-nion Linkages.  In each of the eight agroecological
regions, a Regional Technical Working Group (RTWG) was etablished and met
twice a year before each cropping season. RTWG meetings were chaired by the
Deputy Director of the concerned RRC with the Regional Training Officer
acting as Secretary. These meetings have been attended by senior agricul-
tural and research staff of the region co discuss field problems, progress
and impact of adaptive research, action plan for adaptive research in the
next crop season, production strategy for the next season, and priority crop
and extension messages. A monthly research-extension dialogue was organized
by each RRC in which .ield staff of the region such as SMO, Agricultural
Inbtructor, Agriculture Officer, DAEO, and research staff participated. Till
the end of 1985, discussions centered around day-to-day problems encountered
in the field; subsequently preparation of lesson plans for the fortnighty
training sessions also have been included as part of the research-extension
dialogue.
4.12    The close inte action between research and extension staff resulted
in improving the quality of technical recommendations and also the training
programs. Research staff have also helped as subject matter trainers at the
RTCs.
D. Education and Training
4.13    The RTCs were responsible to organize pre-service training of KVS,
pre-season RTWG meetings, research-extensicn dialogues, and other subject
matter training and special courses. Notwithstanding the problems relating
to shortage of core staff (subject matter), inadequate support staff and
operational funds, and turnover of staff, RTCs had put up a commendable
performance. A considerable number of training material was also produced.
Like the Research and Extension divisions who have performed well in their
respective areas, the Education and Training Division also has contributed
towards building the foundations of a good training program for extension
workers and farmers.
E.  Consultants
4.14    At appraisal, 138 man-months of consultancies were provided.  During
implementation, however, rDA agreed to reduce the consultant requirement to
50 man-months. The performance of the nine consultants eventually appcinted
was satisfactory. The work of the Agricultural Engineering (tools and equip-
ment) consultant was rated excellent by project management. He developed
simple farm tools and equipment which have become very popular with farmers.
However, it was felt that the consultancy period of two monchs for extension



-14-
management was too short co allow the consultant to make a more ef:ecti_e
contri'bution.
V. PROJECT IMPACT
A. Intended Impact
5.01    As in most IDA-assisted agricultural extension and research projects,
no attempt was made at appraisal to quantify the economic rate of return
(ERR) due to: (a) difficulty in separating benefits attributable to exten-
sion, research, and use of inputs, and (b) uncertainties regarding che timing
and extent of adoption of extension recommendations by farmers. However,
since che project relied primarily on the reorganization and strengthening of
an existing extension system and on more intensive use of proven research
results, the annual incremental costs per family (US$1.2) and per hectare
(US$1.0) were very low. Hence it was estimated that the project would gener-
ate an ERR of more than 50%, if at full development in 1985 (year 6), yields
were 1.5% higher than they would have been in the "without project" situa-
tion. This wag to have been achieved by an increase in yield of 51
kg/hectare of paddy, 9.7% kg for corn, 66 kg for sweet potato, and 7.0 kg for
cowpeas.
B. Observed Impact
5.02    The project's overall objective of reorganization of the extension
services on the lines of T&V extension, imoroving research-extension
linkages, and strengthening related training programs has been achieved.
However, in view of the complexity of the extension system, qualitative
improvements have come gradually. Wi h the foundation of the extension
system and other complementary activities firmly in place, fu;-ther efforts
have tc be nace to bring about qualitative improvements.  Certain indicators
of the progress  lade are discussed below.
5.03    Farmers' Response.  Farmers' response to the T&V extension has
generally been encouraging. The usefulness of fortrightly visits has been
much appreciated by contacc farmers (CF) and follower farmers (FF) who have
had direct contacts with KVS. The main findings of monitoring surveys show
that about 52% of CF and 28% FF have fully adopted KVS recommend2ations; 15%
CF and 19% FF have partially adopted the recommendations; and 33% CF and 53,'
FF have not adopted the recommendations.  About 77% of CF and 55;  FF have
reported on the usefulness of the extension service. It was encouraging to
note that about 65% of CF have discussed extension messages with FF. A
summary of th, results of the last monitoring and evaluation survey (19853'86)
is giver in :ab'e 10.
5.04    The use o` improved varieties remains the most adopted practice.
There have been shifts from broadcasting to transpianting of rice and a wider
use of herbicides, especially in the wet and dry zcnes.  Details are given



-15-
Table 11. There is also evidence of a trend towards increased fertilizer use
and its split application as well as increased use of pesticides.
5.05    Production Impact.  In the context of research and extension, maximum
efforts were devoted to paddy where significant gains have been made. Other
field crops and vegetables were given a lower priority. A comparison between
pre-project average harvested yields (1975 to 1979/80) and those obtained
during the project years (1980/81) ate given in Table 12. Yield of paddy
increased about 5% per year, while average yield of other crops (cowpea,
manioc, green gram, groundnut, and chillies) increased by between 2-5 percent
annualLy. Yield increase in potatoes was about 0.5% per annum, that of
onions nil, and for the coarse grains and sesamum it was negative. Frequent
occurrence of drought in recent years also contributed to decrease in yields,
particularly of coarse grains and sesamum.
5.06    Rate of Return.  The appraisal report did not include a fcrmal rate
of return calculation. Because of this, and as the reasons for not doing so
still apply, it would be inappropriate to make this calculation now. The
ava'lable production data presented above show that yield increases projected
at appraisal have been met.
VI. IDA PERFORMANCE
A.  Appraisal
6.01    The appraised project was comprehensive and put in place at the right
tLime. The project provided detailed guidelines for establishing T&V exten-
sion and putting training programs on a sound footing. Adequate emphasis was
given to establish sound research-extension linkages through the organization
of RTWCs. monthly research-extension dialogues, and the strong adaptive
research program. The project also provided for a system of continuous
monitoring and evaluation of project activities and assessment of their
impact.  The principal weaknesses in project design related to: (a) provision
of technical assistance (138 man-months) without a firm commitment from COSL
resulting in an ad hoc reduction of consultancies to 50 man-months during
implementation; (b) inadequate operational funds for Benchmark Survey and
other monitoring and evaluation activities; (c) optimistic assumptions on
phasing of procurement and buildings program; and (d) the expectation that
COSL would have the financial resources for the considerable investment on
nanpower and infrastructure.
.  Supervision.
n7.02    Soon after negotiations and aven before the signing of the credit
agreement, IDA mounted a mission to discuss project implementation and
proided assistance in the preparation of operational guidelines for exten-
sim work, thereby he ping the project to make a good start.  This first
mss;:in was fo'lowed by 12 supervision missions.  These supervision missions



-16-
were very thorough, continually making suggestions for improvement in all
activities and agreeing to modifications in ptoject design to suit changing
conditions (technical assistance, overseas training, procurement of goods,
and civil works).
6.03    While supervsi:on missions were pressing DOA to submit audit reports,
the difference between normal audit reports and certified statements of
expenditures (SOEs) in respect of "staff salaries and allowances" was not
made clear till the end of December 1985. In the absence of certified SOEs,
IDA disbursements against "staff salaries an,! allowances" were discontinued
by IDA after June 1986.
VII. CONCLUSIONS AND LES'ONS LEARNED
Conclusions
7.01    Contrary to the decision at appraisal, the project was not able to
establish an unified extension system for all crops (except tea and rubber),
and animal husbandry for the whole country. With the support of GOSL, the
Ministry of Rural Industries Development was successful in deciding to main-
tain a separate extension system for animal husbandry. Extensio:. work on
minor export crops and coconut was included in the last two years of the
ptoJEct. However, the pro;ect's main objective of the establishment of an
extension service for field crops based on T&V extension, establishment of an
adaptive research program and research-extension linkages, and strengthen-
ing-related training programs for the entire country, was achieved. Field
staff have visited farmers at fairly regular intervals, fortnightly training
is held fairly regularly, other training programs have been reorganized, and
a mechanism to provide feedback of farmers' problems through adaptive
research is in place. Research-extension linkages have been established and
strengthened through RTWC meetings, monthly research-extension dialogues, and
the adaptive research program. Train-ng programs were being geared to
farmers' needs and research findings. All these have resulted in improving
the quality of technical recommendations.
7.02    The principal shortcomings in project implementation relate to: (a)
inadequacy of operational funds for efficient utilization of facilities
created under the project; (b) excessive concentration by extension workers
on contact farmers; and (c) the exclusion of animal husbandry from T&V ex:en-
sion and late inclusion of extension support for minor export crops and
coconuts.
7.03    While the six-year proiect has been able to establish the institu-
cional framework for an effecrive T&V extension and the methodology for sound
research-extension linkages, these achievements can only be sustained, con-
solidated, and qualitative improvements brought about through a follow-up
second phase project which should provide for: (a) better training of exten-
sion staff especially SMOs; (b) improving the quality of technical messages;



-17-
(c) improving mobility and providing operating funds tc ensure better super-
vision; (d) housing for field staff; and (e) provision of facilities to
develop adequate training material. Such a project would also ensure that
the extension service is stabilized and the first-phase achievements are
consolidated. l/
Lessons Learned
7.04    The main lessons learned were:
(a) Extension support to animal husbandry si- uld not have been excluded
during project implementation as i. would have helped in the exten-
sion of simple messages on husbandry practices, nutrition, and animal
housing to farmers;
(b) Extension staff should be provided appropriate guidance on the need
to contact as many farmers as possible during each visit instead of
meeting only conta:t farmers;
(c) The first supervision mission should help the borrower in the
preparation of an action plan for detailed planning in the implemen-
tation of various timebound activities like civil works, procurement
:                of equipment, appointment of staff.  This would help in timely
implementation;
(d)  Technical assistance needs should be assessed on a realistic basis
and details such as number and disciplines of consultants and
man-month requirements should be discussed at the highest level in
the concerned Ministry and firm commitments obtained. This would
help avoid drastic changes during implementation;
(e) Adequate operational funds should be provided under Monitoring and
Evaluation to carry out Benchmark Survey, monitoring studies, and
special impact studies; and
(f) Tha borrower should be provided detailed guidance in the early stages
of the project on IDA requirements in respect of audit reports and
certified statements of expenditures, and procurement procedures.
1/ With this objective in view a second phase is being implemented in all
the countries of the Region, where T&V extension has been introduced,
except Sri Lanka.



-18-
Table 1
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVh RESEARCH PROJECT
Appraisal Cost Estimates and Actual Costs
Appraisal Estimates       Actual Costs
Rs.M   US$ M           Rs.  US$ M
Buildinas                          86.1    5.4             95.0    4.0
Vehicles                           44.3    2.8             42.2    1.8
Equipm.ent                         18.6    1.2             27.3    1.2
Technical assistance
Overseas training                24.8    1.6             27.9    1.2
Salaries and allowances            65.6    4.2             77.9    3.3
Ooerating costs                    34.5    2.2             17.4    0.7
Base cost                    273.8   17.4           287.7   12.2
Physical contingencies             27.4    1.7               -       -
Price contingencies            53.2    3.3              -       -
Total Cost              354.4   22.4           287.7   12.2



-19-
Table 2
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Project Disbursement
Appraisal Estimates        Actual Disbursement
Total Cost  IDA Share   Total Cost  Disbursement
Rs. M       US$ M         Rs. M        Uss M
Buildings                        7.0        4.4           4.0          2.49
Vehicles & equipment             5.0         4.3          3.0          2.38
Operating costs                  2.2          -           0.7           -
Salaries & allowances           6.3          3.4          3.3          2.00
Overseas training &
technical assistance           1l)          1.7          1.2          1.09
Unallocated                       -          1.7           -            -
22.4        15.5         12.2          7.96



-20-
Table 3
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Progress of Civil Works
Appraisal Estimates    Revised Target    Achievements
------------------ No. of Buildings --------
Extension                        40                     27                 27
Education & training             23                     14                 16
Adaptive research                27                     31                 30
Economics, monitoring
& education office              -                       1                  1
Staff quarters                1,035                    428 /a             408 /a
1,125                    501               482
/a Includes 30 staff quarters purchased in Kandy (Hantana Complex).



-21-
Table 4
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Procurement of Vehicles
Appraisal Estimates          Actuals
-------------Units
C&r                               5                      9
Jeep/van                        169                   115
Audio visual unit                17                      1
Minibus                           8                      2
Motorcycle                      461                   410
Bicycle                       1,530                 1,710



-22-
Table 5
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Total Project Staff
Approved by                 Actual as
Post                       SAR     Treasury         Actual    % of SAR
Agricultural Officers                 71        66             66           93
Subject Matter Specialists            39        28             28           72
Agricultural Instructors             275       267            257           93
Krishikarma Viyaptha
Seveka (KVS)                    1,111       923            923            83
Research Officer                      40        35             36           90
Research Assistant                     -        38             38            -
Laboratory Assistant                  30        10             10           33
Economist                              7         7              7          100
Economic Assistants                   26        17             17           65
Computer Programmer                    1         1              -            0
Programme Assistant                    -         4              .            -
Agricultural Engineer                  3         4              4          133
Farm Mechanical Inspectors            11         8              6           55
Assistant Engineer                     2         2              -            0
Work Inspectors                        5         5              5          100
Electronic Foreman                     1         1              -            0
Roneo Operator                         4         1              1           25
Artist                                 8         7              7           66
Cinema Operators                       5         3              4           80
Photographer                           7         6              3           43
Draughtsman                            1         2              2          200
Accountant                             -         1              1            -
Clerk/Typist                          61        72             71          116
Driver                                17        18             18          106
Labour (Stores)                        4         4              -            0
Total                     1,789    1,568            ,49            87



SRI LANKA
AGRICtlLTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCHl PROJECT
Summar y of Training Act ivit ies in a I In-Service Training Inst i t,ntes (up to Dec ember 1985)
1980               1981              1982               1983               1984               1985              Total
No.   U-days    No.   U1-days    No.   U-days            Nu    M-days    No.   U-days    No .   M-days   No.   M-dayt
Pre -seasonial
training            3.92Z   11.910    3.28Z   9,809    4.38:1  10.529    4,175   11.766    2.862    8,4J5   4,J17   IU,621   22.941    63.090
i- weekly
training                                 -        -          433      433       b(1(     600       285       324      247       277    1,565      1,634
E.tension
methodology                                41       lot              -                             240       627        46      184       327       912
Research
E.tensinn-
t f d i F1 i 1-9
dialogue                       -          Z88      358       564    1.615    1.941    1.732    Z.139         818      818       818   4.817       5.820
S Other
trdining la        12,H54  28,549  10,663  28.453    H,12   27,824   17.5T3   36,067    R,926  22.18    10,879  23,781 
16,77b  40.479  14,724  38,721   339  _39,5 239                   50,374 14,045 .;3,711  16,307 35,681  98
.   _  _ , _ _  _ _ , _ _ _ , , _ __                                               _ _ _  
/a  In-service training to extension staff and SUOs covering structured 5ubject matter Courses and problem oriented topics; special short
courses for fdamvrs, and youth arid women groups
I r
.-
eS



-24-
Table 7
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Technical Assistance
Specialization                        Appraisal Estimate        Actuals
man-months          man-months
Team Leader: Management                       24                  -
Animal husbandry                              18                  -
Coconut intercropping                         18                  -
Goose grain                                   12                  -
Grain legume                                  12                  -
Root/tubes crops                              12                  -
Vegetable                                     12                  -
Water Management                              15                  -
Plant Protection                              15                  6
Extension Management                           -                  2
Training                                       -                  6
Adaptive research                              -                  2
Agronomy                                       -                  2
Farm Economics                                 -                 12
Agricultural Engineering                       -                 12
(tools and equipment)
Monitoring and evaluation                      -                  6
138                 50



-25-
Table 8
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEaRCH PROJECT
Overseas Training
No. of Person
Study Tours                                 SAR      Revised        Actual
KVS                                         120                       72
AI                                           48                       68
AO                                           24                       11
SMS                                          24                       13
Eccnomit                                      -                        6
Sub-total                               216          170          170
Short-term Training (6-month) /a
Training Officer                              3                       14
Research Officer
(Agricultural Officer)                      14                       14
SmS                                          14                       10
Economist                                     -                        6
Accountant                                    4                        1
Sub-total                                    31           47          45
Long-term Training (12-month)
Extension                                     -                        8
Research                                      -                        3
Economic                                      -                        2
Education & Training                          -                        3
Sub-total                             -           17          16
Total                         247           234         231
/a  Five places on Animal Husbandry at CIAT and four places for Coconut
Production at IRHO were dropped.



-26-
Table 9
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Monitoring and Evaluation - Reports and Studies
Name of Study                             Period             Completion
Benchmark survey                        Maha 1979/80
Yala 1980               1984
Monitoring Survey I                        n.a                   1981
Monitoring Survey II                    Maha 1981/82             1983
Monitoring Survey III                   Maha 1982/83
Yala 1983               1984
Monitoring Survey IV                          1984               198'
Monitoring Survey V                     Maha 1984/85             1986
Cost of cultivation                     Annual-starting
in Maha 1978/79
(except for Yala
1980
Studies of effectiveness
of extension and socio-
economic profile of
contact farmers -
five studies                              n.a                  1984
Ex-post evaluation                      Nov. - Dec. 1985        1986



-27-
Table 10
Page 1
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Indicators of the Monitoring Survey on T & V Extension System
(Maha 1985/86)
1. Preception of Role & Designation
CFs who knew their role                                        76%
FFs who knew their role                                        25%
CFs who knew themselves as CFs                                 91%
FFs who knew their FFs as FFs                                  76%
FFs who knew their CFs as CFs                                  56%
CF              FF
____(z)
2. Awareness of Visiting Schedule
Knew KVS should visit once in 14 days                  75               33
ReguLarity of the fornightly visits                     59              12
Visiting of a fixed day of the week                     58               9
3. Recollection of the KVS Visits
Per month +2                                            70              16
1                                          16               26
0                                          14               58
100             100
Per season +10                                          11               2
6-10                                     47               21
1-5                                      36              46
0                                         6               31
100             l00
4. Receipt and Adoption of Information
Receipt:  (a) Fully + partially                         70              40
(b) Not received                            30               60
100             100
Adoption: (a) Fully                                     52              28
(b) Partially                               15               19
(c) Not adopted                             33               53
100             10G
5. Perceived usefulness of the Extension Service
Reported useful                                         77              51
Reported not useful
(includes Z who did not respond)                     23               49
100             100



-28-
Table 10
Page 2
6. Farmers meeting as a Group
CFs meeting as a group                                       45Z
FFs meeting as a group                                       16Z
7. Information flow via CFs
CFs s'id to have discussed technical
messages with FFS                                          65Z
FFs said to have discussed same with
their FFS                                                  41%



-29-
Table 11
Page 1
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Comparison of Methods of Weed Control in Paddy (Maha) /e
Combination of
Mechanical      Chemical.       Different
Districts            Hand Weeding      Weeding          Control         Methods
79/80  85/i86      85186        79/80  85/86        85/86
-------------- Z of Area Covered --------------------
Dry Zone
Anuradhapura          4.4   24.0          4.U        63.3    35.8         36.2
Kalawena              1.8   12.7         4.5         62.5    82.8           -
Polonnaruwa           4.5   27.4         4.1         23.3    54.7         13.8
Ampara               57.1   41.5          0.7        96.3    58.8           -
Batticaloa          25.6   20.2          0.1         62.5    79.8           -
Trincomalee          13.0   10.4           -         51.8    89.6           -
Jaffna              29.6   89.2          0.2         40.2    10.7           -
Vavuniya             11.4    9.1           -         84.3    90.9           -
Mannar               10.7   38.2           -         65.7    45.8         16.0
Kilinochchi            -    45.2           -         69.4    54.5           -
Moneragala           10.7   26.9          7.7        34.3    65.4           -
Puttalam            22.5   11.7          2.2         47.4    76.5          9.6
Hambantota           12.3    6.7         4.0         78.3    78.2         11.1
Wet Zone
Colombo              15.3   10.7         0.9         20.8    78.5          9.9
Campaha              18.7   11.3         0.3         44.4    81.7          6.8
Kalutara              2.2   15.7          1.0        18.2    83.3           -
Galle                 0.4    8.3          1.2        15.0    74.0         16.5
Matara                 -     8.8         4.0         51.5    37.1         50.0
Kegalle             63.7   87.8            -         26.3    11.6          0.7
Kandy               90.7   69.3          8.7         13.9      1.4        20.5
Nuwara Eliys         79.3   98.0          1.8         0.1      0.2          -
Ratnapura           21.5   47.0           1.5        49.6    47.4          4.1
Intermediate Zone
Badulla              71.8   60.5        13.3         10.0    14.6         11.6
Kurunegala           21.9   39.8         8.1         47.1    45.1          7.0
Matale               32.3   55.8         16.9        67.8    26.0          3.3
Sri Lanka             -     30.5          3.6          -      54.5         1.4
/a Only districts with comparable data shown.
Source: Department of Agriculture.



-30-
Table 11
Page 2
Comparison of Varietal Distribution of Paddy (Maha) /a
District          New Improved Variety    Improved Variety            Traditional
79/80    85/86          79/80    85186        79/89    85/86
______________________ (% of ha) ------------------------
Dry Zone
Anuradhapura           94.1      93.7          5.5       6.3          -         -
Kalawena               99.6    100.0           0.4        -           -         -
Polonnaruwa            96.8    100.0           1.9        -          1.3        -
Ampara                 98.3    100.0           1.8        -           -          -
Batticaloa             35.8      87.7         58.6      11.1         5.6       1.2
Trincomalee            57.2      98.9         42.8       1.1          -        0.1
Jaffna                 36.6      29.8         49.7      42.8        13.0      27.4
Vavuniya               52.5      82.9         37.3      17.1         3.4         -
Mannar                 77.6      96.2         22.2       3.8          -          -
Moneragala             74.8      96.5         20.6       2.6         4.7       0.9
Puttalam               62.9      96.2         16.5       3.8        21.0        -
Hambantota             96.0    100.0           1.7        -          2.5         -
Wet Zone
Colombo                43.0      96.9          6.1       2.1        50.9       9.0
Campaha                42.5      94.1          2.3       0.1        38.8        5.8
Kalutara               26.3      81.8         13.5       2.9        60.3      15.2
Galle                  17.9      78.4          3.1       1.2        79.0      20.4
Matara                 49.8      90.7         17.5       9.3        32.7         -
Kegalle                95.6      98.9          0.8       1.1         1.6         -
Kandy                  90.7      69.3          8.7      13.9         1.4      20.5
Nuwara Eliya            8.1      61.9         88.9      38.1         8.1         -
Ratnapura              53.6      87.2         17.3       3.5        29.1       9.3
Intermediate Zone
Badulla                55.3      79.1         44.5      20.7         0.1       0.2
Kurunegala             89.0      98.0          6,2       1.7         1.1       0.3
Matale                 77.8      99.4         19.3       0.3         2.1       0.2
Sri Lanka               -        92.2           -        5.2          -        2.6



-31-
Table 11
Page 3
Comparison of Methods of Establishment of Paddy (Maha) /a
Random                  Row
District              Broadcasting           Transplanting         Transplanting
79[80   85/86           79/80  85/86         79/89   85/86
------------------------   (%     of    ha)  ------------------------
Dry Zone
Anuradhapura          66.9      92.3         33.1      4.9           -       2.8
Kalavena              80.9      92.1         18.8    24.2           0.3      3.7
Polonnaruwa           ,7.0      45.0         22.1    52.0            -       3.0
Ampara                98.9      99.5          1.1       -            -       0.5
Batticaloa           100.0    100.0            -        -            -        -
Trincomalee          100.0      93.8           -       4.1           -       2.0
Jaffna               100.0      99.5           -        -            -       0.5
Vavuniya              87.1      94.0          2.4      6.0           -        -
Mannar                57.7      62.2         42.3    37.8            -        -
Kilinochchi            n.a      97.4         21.3      2.6           -        -
Puttalam              97.7      92.4           -       6.6         2.4      1.0
Hambantota            96.1      78.6          3.9    17.0           -      4.4
Wet Zone
Colombo              100.0      96.1           -       3.5          -      0.4
Campaha               89.5      77.5         10.3    21.9          0.2      0.6
Kalutara             100.0      98.0           -       1.8          -      0.2
Galle                100.0      98.7           -       0.5          -       0.7
Matara                98.9      86.7          0.3      8.1         0.8      5.2
Kegalle               35.7      21.1         64.3    78.6           -      0.2
Kandy                 13.5       5.0         83.3    87.7          3.4      7.3
Nuwara Eliya           7.8       4.4         89.1    91.4          3.1     4.2
Ratnapura             94.3      75.2          4.3    23.6          0.5      1.2
Intermediate Zone
Badulla               41.1      32.3         53.5    52.9          5.3    14.8
Kurunegala            79.0      54.9         15.3    38.3          5.8      6.8
Matale                63.0      50.2         34.6    46.6          2.7      3.4
Sri Lanka               -       74.1           -      23.0          -       2.9



SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Comparison between Pre-Project and With-Project Crop Yield /a
(Metric ton per Hectare)
Without                                               With
Project                                              Project
Average                                             Average
75/76  76/77  77/78  78/79  79/80  75J76-79/80  80/81  81/.2  82/83  83/84  84/85  80/81-85/86    Ch
Paddy          2.3    2.5    2.6    2.7    2.9          2.6        2.9    3.2    3.5    3.0    3.4          3.2 /b       124
Cowpea         0.6    0.7    0.8    0.6    0.9          0.7        1.0    1.1    0.7    0.7    0.8          0.9          129
manloc         9.8   10.0   12.3   11.4   13.0         1-.3       11.2    9.9   16.4   12.4   13.0         12.6           II
Soyobean       1.0    1.1    1.2    1.1    1.0          1.0        1.0    1.3    0.H    0.7    1.1          1.0
Black Gram    0.5    0.8    0.6    0.7    0.7           0.6        0.7    0.9    0.7    0.2    0.7          0.6            -
Green Gram    0.7    0.6    0.7    0.8    0.9           0.7        1.0    0.9    0.6    0.6    0.7          0.8          114
millet         0.8    0.9    0.8    0.8    0.8          0.8        0.9    0.8    0.6    0.4    0.6          0.7           88
Groundnut      0.9    0.8    0.9    0.9    1.5           1.0       1.2    1.0    1.4    0.8    1.0          1.1          110
Gingelly       0.5    0.6    0.6    1.0    0.8          0.7        0.6    0.8    0.6    0.5    0.5          0.6           86
Potatoes      13.6   11.1   11.2   12.5   14.7         12.6       13.6   11.8   12.4   12.4   14.2         12.9          102
Chillies       0.8    0.7    0.8    0.8    1.0          0.8        0.9    1.0    0.9    0.9    1.1          1.0          125
Red Onion      9.9    8.1   11.5   10.6   10.6         10.0       11.3   11.4   11.9    4.8    9.7         10.0            -
Maize          1.0    1.1    1.2    1.1    1.3          1.1        1.3    1.1    1.1    0.9    0.9          1.1
/a  Harvested yields.
/b  For paddy 1980/81-1985/86.
Source; Census and Statistics.



-33-
Attachment 1
Page 1
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTUqAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Leaflets, Journals and Magazines printed at the
Department of Agriculture Press, Cannoruwa
1978-79 Publications
1. Manual for Agricultural Extension Worker - English, Sinhala and Tamil.
2. Teaching Extension Skills - Sinhala and Tamil.
(Translation of the English version, written by Geoffrey Mosses and
James Harrison).
3. Agricultural Extension. The Training and Visit System - Sinhala and
Tamil. (Translation of the Englishs version, written by Daniel Bhenor
and James Harrison).
4. A Training Course in Animal Husbandry Documented. Published in Sinhala
and Tamil (for librarips of training institutes).
5. Plant Protection Manual. Proceedings of a Workshop on Plant Protection
held in 1978 - Sinhala and Tamil.
6.  Evaluation of Rice Fields of the Kandy District - Sinhala and Tamil
(for the Field Day participants - December 13-15, 1979).
1980 Publications
1. Fertilizer Recommendations for Vegetables and other Fruit Crops -
Sinhala and Tamil.
2. Training in Agriculture - English, Sinhala and Tamil.
3. Home Gardening - Sinhala and Tamil.
4. Pests and Disease that Cause Damage to Home Garden Crops - Sinhala
and Tamil.
5. New Fertilizer Recommendation for Rice and Other Field Crops - Sinhala
and Tamil.
6. Walagambahuwa Concept - Sinhala and Tamil.



-34-
Attachment 1
Page 2
7. Field Programme on Soil, Climate and Rice Lands of the Northern Region -
English only (for the Field Day in Northern Region).
8.  Abstracts of Project Reports of the Final Year Students 1975-79, Faculty
of Agriculture, University of Peradeniya - English.
9. Proceedings of the Workshop on Agricultural Extension Management -
English (July 16-17, 1980).
10. Crop Production Manual for Field Workers - Sinhala and Tamila
(produced on the guidelines of working paper 5 of the AE and ARP).
11. New Rice Varieties - English, Sinhala and Tamil.
12. Short Course Syllabus - Sinhala and Tamil (District Training Centres
and Participants).
1981 Publications
1. Training in Agriculture - English, Sinhala and Tamil.
2. Proceedings of the Workshop on Library Systems and Services - English
(for participants of the Workshops and AOO and ADD of the Districts).
3. A Bibliography on Agriculture in Sri Lanka 1945-1975 - English
(published for the FAO Project SRL).
4.  Major Pests and their Control with Insecticides - English, Sinhala
and Tamil.
5.  Family Health and Food - Tamil (participarts of the training classes
held at ISTI Gannoruwa).
6. Animal Drawn Implements - English.
7. Hand Implements - English.
8. Wheat Cultivation - English.
9. Curriculum for Training of Subject Matter Officers - English.
10. Biogas - Sinhala.



-35-
Attachment 1
Page 3
1982 Publications
1.  Major Crop Pests of Sri Lanka and Their Control - English
(participants of the Workshop only and Libraries).
2. Major Crop Diseases of Sri Lanka and their Control - English
(participants of the Workshop only and the Libraries).
3. Soyabean Food and Preparation - Tamil.
4.  Tapioca Food Preparation - Tamil.
5.  Major Pests of Crops and their Control - Sinhala and Tamil.
6.  Updating of the Crop Manual with the Regional Recommendations and
Farmers Practices - Tamil (for the Northern Region).
7.  Rural Seed Paddy Production - English, Sinhala and Tamil.
8. Index of Seminar - English (for RBG).
9. Citrus Cultivation for Small Fruit Farmers - Sinhala (for Monaragala
District).
1983 Publications
1. Towards Self-Sufficiency in Rice - English and Sinhala (for the
Exhibition held in Kandy).
2. Rice Straw and Fertilizer - Sinhala (for the Exhibition in Kandy).
3. Potato Storage Record File - Sinhala (for Farm Division).
4. Improved Rice Varieties - English, Sinhala and Tamil.
5. Improved Varieties o Coarse Grains and Grain Legumes - English, Sinhala
and Tamil.
6. Bee Keeping Reprint - Sinhala.
7. Bee Boxes - Sinhala
8. Training in Agriculture - English.
9. Major Crop Pests and their Control with Pesticides - English.
10. Paddy Cultivation - Sinhala and Tamil.



-36-
Attachment 1
Page 4
1984 PublicaLions
1. Govikam Sangarawa - Sinhala, 1982/83.
2. Kamatholil Vilakam - Tamil, :982/83.
3. Tapioca and Sweet Potato Cultivation - Sinhala and Tamil.
4.  Maize - Sinhala and Tamil.
5. Mango - Sinhala
6. Avocado - Sinhala
7. Potato - Sinhala
8. Lime and Lemonime - Sinhala
9.  Avocado - Sinhala
10.  Orange and Mandarin - Sinhala
11. Rice Yellowing Decise - Sinhala
12. Papaw - Sinhala
13. Green gram, Black gram and Cowpea - Sinhala and Tamil.
.4. Soya Cultivation - Sinhala and Tamil.
1985 Publications
1. Potato - Tamil.
2. Mango - Tamil.
3. Vegetable Cultivation - Sinhala and Tamil.
4. Bee keeping - Hand-out - Sinhala.
5. Tropical Agriculturist - 1983 Journal - English.
6. Govikam Sangarawa - 1984 Journal - Sinhala.
7. Kamatholii Vilakkam - 1984 Journal - Tamil.



-37-
Attachment 1
Page 5
1986 Publications
1.  Lime and Lemu.ime - Tamil.
2. GOange and Mandarin - Tamil.
3. Papaw - Tamil.
4.  Pesticides Recommendations - English.
5. Tropical Agriculturist Journal - English.
6.  Tropical Agriculturist - 1985 Journal - English.
7. Govikam Sangarawa - 1985 Journal - English.
K o        8.  Kamatholil Vilakkam, 1985 - Tamil.



