Document of
The World Bank  FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2396a-CE
SRI LANKA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
May 17, 1979
South Asia Projects Department
Agriculture Division A
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00            =  Rupees (Rs) 15.8
Rs 1               =  US$0.0633
Rs 1 million (m)  =  US$63,291
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 long ton (1t)         =   2,240 lb   =   1.016 metric tons (mt)
1 hundred weight (cwt) =       112 lb   =   50.8  kg
1 bushel (bu) of paddy =        45 lb        20.4  kg
1 acre (ac)                      =           0.405 hectare (ha)
1 foot (ft)                              =   30.5  centimeters (cm)
I mile (mi)                              =   1.609 kilometers (km)
I square mile (sq mi)          640 ac        259   ha
FREQUENTLY USED ABBREVIATIONS
AGENCIES
ADA      -    Agricultural Development Authority
AER      -    Agro-Ecological Region
ARC      -    Adaptive Research Center
CARI     -    Central Agricultural Research Institute
CCB      -    Coconut Cultivation Board
DA       -    Department of Agriculture
DAPH     -    Department of Animal Production and Health
DAS      -    Department of Agyrarian Service
DCS      -    Department of Census and Statistics
DTC      -    District Training Center
GOSL     -    Government of Sri Lanka
IRRI     -    International Rice Research Institute
MADR     -    Ministry of Agri'cultural Development and Research
NLDB     -    National Livestcock Development Board
RRC      -    Regional Research Center
RTC      -    Regional Training Center
OFFICERS
AI       -    Agricultural Instructor
AO       -    Agricultural Officer
DAEO     -    District Agricultural Extension Officer
KVS      -    Village Level Extension Officers
(Krushikarma Viyaptha Sevaka)
SMO      -    Subject Matter Officer
SMS      -    Subject Matter Specialist



GLOSSARY              FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Chena      -   Slash and burn or shifting agriculture.
District   -   The principal administrative unit in the country.
There are 24 Districts in Sri Lanka.
Division   -   An administrative unit under the district.
There are about 160 Divisions in the country.
Electorate -   A unit from which Parliment members are elected.
Its boundary is roughly equal to a Division.
Range      -   A part of a Division.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






SRI LANKA
APPRAISAL OF THE
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   SECTORAL BACKGROUND                 ...................................  1
General . ............................ ............. .            1
Role of Agriculture in the Economy ...............               I.
Performance and Problems ....... .................               2
Objectives and Strategy for the Future ...........               2
Bank Group Support to Agriculture              ................  3
II.    THE PROJECT AREA . ...................... .... ............. .         3
Physical Environment ...             ......................... .  3
Agricultural Production and Trend .............O...              4
Land Holdings and Tenure .........................               6
Agricultural Administration and Services .........               7
Administration .................................................  7
Research .........................                          8
Extension .........................................         9
Training .......................................... ..... .o.o  9
Agricultural Statistics and Economics  .......            10
Supply of Inputs ..       . .-- ..         .... ...-..    11
Fertilizers    ................................ ... o.......-o o o.o  11
Seeds   .........  o......... ........................ o o oo o -   12
Pesticides and Herbicides  .......                   12
Marketing and Price .......o....         ..............   13
III.   THE PROJECT ......... .- ............................. ooo..ooo.... o..  14
Objectives and Approach .......o...................             14
Project Components .. . .. . -... -. -.. ..... ...              14
Detailed Features ...... oo.......o......o...........           15
Strengthening of Extension Service ..........             15
Strengthening of Adaptive Research o-........             18
Strengthening of Training Institutions ......             18
Strengthening of Agricultural Economics,
Statistics and Project Monitoring and
Evaluation.-.. ..... .     -..o     --... .... .        21
Strengthening of Civil Engineering Unit
of the Department of Agriculture ..........             21
Overseas Training and Technical Assistance ..             23
This report is based on the findings of an Appraisal Mission that
visited Sri Lanka in October 1978 and included: Messrs. H.T. Chang and
F. Lowenstein (IDA) and Z. Matmor and V.C. Agarwal (Consultants).



-2-
Table of Contents (Cont.'d)
Page No.
IV.    PROJECT COSTS AND SCHEDULE OF EXPENDITURES               ............   24
Cost Estimates and Schedule of Expenditures ......                24
Financing ........................................................  26
Procurement ...................................................   27
Vehicles ......................................................  27
Buildings ........ ...........................              27
Overseas Training and Technical Assistance ..               27
Disbursements ......... .. . . . .  .................................... .  27
Accounts and Audits . ..................... ...  .....            28
Cost Impact on the Budget and Society    ............             28
V.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND OPERATION   ..................               29
Project Implementation and Coordination ..e ........              29
Implementation Schedule   ..........................              30
Monitoring and Evaluation ......  .................               31
Operation and Maintenance ........................                31
Building Construction Capacity of DA ........ .....               31
DA's Financial Management ........................                32
VI.   PRODUCTION AND MARKETING . ......................... . . . .             32
Production ....................................................   32
Marketing   ...........................................           33
Farmer Incentives ........ . . . .  ............................... .  33
VII.    BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ....................o.... . ..                34
Economic Justification ............................               34
Social Benefits  -....... .-.............................-... - ... oo.  34
Project Risks . . .... ... . ... ......... ........ .. ...        34
VIII.    RECOMMENDATIONS  ...o.o.o.o. -.. . .-.......... oo- ..-                  35
ANNEXES
Annex 1   -    Production Constraints on Agricultural Production and
Available Research Information for Extension in Sri Lanka
Annex 2   -       Tables Concerning Crop Production
Annex 3   -       Tables Concerning Incremental Staff
Annex 4   -       Tables Concerning Project Cost Estimates
CHARTS
Chart 1   -       Organization Chart of the Department of Agriculture
Chart 2   -    Project Organization Chart
Chart 3   -    Project Implementation Schedule



- 3 -
Table of Contents (Cont.'d)
MAPS
Map 14076  -    Sri Lanka, Agro-Ecological Regions
Map 14077R -    Sri Lanka, Soils
Map 14078R -    Sri Lanka, Agricultural Research Stations and Training
Institutes






SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE
RESEARCH PROJECT
I. SECTORAL BACKGROUND
General
1.01      Sri Lanka has a total area of 25,300 sq mi (16.2 M ac) and had an
estimated population of 14.4 M in 1978. About three-quarters of the popula-
tion live in the wet zone in the southwest quadrant (about 23% of the
country) where population density reaches 1,800 per sq mi, compared to only
about 200 per sq mi in the dry zone (about 64% of the country). Over the
last 20 years, Sri Lanka has had low output and employment growth. Per capita
GDP has grown by only 1% per year and currently averages about US$190.
1.02      Sri Lanka, however, compares favorably with neighboring countries
in providing social services to its population for education, health, other
social welfare, and rural communication. Its literacy and life expectancy
are high, and the nutritional level is adequate. Its population growth rate
is declining and currently is a moderate 1.7% per annum.
Role of Agriculture in the Economy
1.03      Sri Lanka's wide variations in precipitation, topography and soils
make it possible for the country to grow a wide range of crops. About 5.5 M
ac of Sri Lanka's total land is used for permanent farming. There are about
2.4 M ac under tree crops, including tea (0.6 M), rubber (0.5 M), coconut
(1.2 M), and minor tree crops (0.1 M), about 1.6 M ac of paddyland and
1.5 M ac under a wide range of rainfed mixed farming and home gardens. In
addition, about 0.5 M ac are annually planted to assorted field crops, on an
estimated 2.5 M ac of slash and burn land, locally called "chena."
1.04      Agriculture accounts for 39% of the GDP of Sri Lanka and provides
over 50% of total employment and 75-80% of export earnings. Tea and rubber
alone provide more than 60% of total export earnings and about 40% of Govern-
ment revenues, through export taxes and duties. Coconut products, after
having satisfied local requirements, are also exported. Local production of
rice, sugar and subsidiary food crops fall short of demand and have to be
supplemented by annual imports. 1/ Production, handling, processing, trans-
portation, trading and servicing of crops and livestock form the main
occupations of the rural population.
1/   Rice imports ranged from 0.7 M mt to 1.0 M mt per year between 1970
and 1976. Wheat flour imports ranged from 0.3 M mt to 0.5 M mt per
year during the same period.



-2-
Performance and Problems
1.05      The agricultural sector's performance during the 1960s was mixed.
Paddy and rubber production grew at good rates of 4% 1/ and 5% per year,
respectively, but tea and coconut production grew at only 1% per year. The
increased paddy production enabled Sri Lanka to raise its food self-sufficiency
from 50% in 1960 to about 80% in 1970. The poor performance of tea and coco-
nut production and adverse price trends in the international market, however,
caused the net surplus (in current prices) of agricultural commodity trade
to decline from about US$200 M in 1960 to only US$120 M in 1970.
1.06      The performance in the 1970s took a down turn.  Production of paddy
from 1970 to 1977 showed an annual increase of about 0.7%, while those of
tea, rubber and coconut were negative. Some of the subsidiary food crops
and spices registered larger production increases because more area was
planted to these crops, following curtailment of imports. The reasons for
unsatisfactory performance are mainly related to sectoral strategies and
policies, the impacts of which have been reflected over the years in lowered
private initiative and investment, particularly in the tree crop subsector;
ineffective and demoralized support services, particularly in rural credit;
lack of maintenance of irrigation facilities and general failure of schemes
designed to avert high unemployment of educated youth.
Objectives and Strategy for the Future
1.07      The agricultural goals of Sri Lanka have always been:  to achieve
food self-sufficiency; to diversify crop production while sustaining produc-
tion of tree crops; and to increase employment, particularly of educated
rural youth. GOSL recognizes that these long-term goals are in line with
the country's needs and resources, but policies and strategies need to be
adjusted to bring the rural based economy out of the slump of the last decade.
Accordingly, GOSL now gives high priority, inter alia, to the following
agricultural policies and programs:
(a)  establishment of appropriate price incentives for producers;
(b)  strengthening of agricultural supporting services, such as
research and extension, rural credit, input and farm power
supply;
(c)  improvement of irrigation systems and their management;
(d)  improvement of state controlled plantations and living
conditions of plantation workers; and
(e)  acceleration of Mahaweli River basin development to more
rapidly expand the irrigated area in the dry zone.
1/   Average year to year changes, calculated by using semi-log regression.



Through these and other measures, the Government hopes to step up the overall
agricultural growth rate to 4.5% per annum for the next five years, and
increase employment of rural youth along with a speedier development in both
public and private sectors.
Bank Group Support to Agriculture
1.08      During the past decade, Bank Group lending to Sri Lanka has heavily
emphasized agriculture and rural development. Since 1968, a total of ten
projects with a total credit of US$137.0 M have been financed in this sector
including: Lift Irrigation (Cr. 121-CE, US$2.0 M); Drainage and Reclamation
(CR. 168-CE, US$2.5 M); Mahaweli Ganga Development I (Ln. 653-CE, US$14.5 M
and Cr. 174-CE, US$14.5 M); Dairy Development (Cr. 504-CE, US$9.0 M); Agri-
cultural Development (Cr. 595-CE, US$25.0 M); Tank Irrigation Modernization
(Cr. 666-CE, US$5.0 M); Mahaweli Ganga Development II (Cr. 701-CE, US$19.0 M);
Tea Rehabilitation (Cr. 818-CE, US$21.0 M); Tree Crop Diversification (Cr.
819-CE, US$4.5 M); and Kurunegala Rural Development Project (Cr. 891-CE,
US$20.0 M). The first two of these projects have been completed. The others
are progressing satisfactorily except for the Mahaweli Ganga Development II
and the Tank Irrigation Modernization Project.  The principal problems are
in the quality of construction and weak project management. Steps are being
taken to remedy these shortcomings.
II. THE PROJECT AREA
Physical Environment
2.01      The proposed project would cover the entire country of Sri Lanka.
The complex cropping patterns of the different parts of the country, with
which the project must deal, is due to the complex physical setting of the
island. The island is commonly divided into seven major agro-ecological zones:
Wet zone, (low-country, mid-country and up-country), intermediate zone (low-
country, mid-country and up-country) and dry zone (low country). 1/ 2/ These
seven zones are further sub-divided into 22 well defined agro-ecological
regions (AER), each with its unique combination 3/ of rainfall pattern, ele-
vation, land form, temperature range and types of soils as shown in Map 14076
1/   Wet zone (90 inches annual rainfall or more), intermediate zone (60-90
inches) and dry zone (60 inches or less).
2/   "Up-country, mid-country, and low-country" are commonly used terms in
Sri Lanka to mean: Up-country (3,000 ft above mean sea level or
higher), mid-country (1,000-3,000 ft) and low-country (0-1,000 ft).
3/   Mean air temperature ranges from 600F to 830F.  The 75% expectancy value
of annual rainfall from 20 inches to 125 inches. Land form varies from
mountainous, steeply dissected hills to rolling, undulating and flat
(Map 14076).  There are 17 major soil groups and associations (Map 14077).



-4-
and Map 14077. The combination of these factors determine the prevailing
land use, cropping pattern, crop calendar, production constraints and devel-
opment potentials in different AERs (Annex 1). Sri Lanka began in 1974/75
to reorganize its research, training and extension according to AERs. The
packaging of extension messages under the project would recognize these AERs
and their varied physical settings.
2.02      Generally speaking, temperature is not a limiting factor to crop
production in Sri Lanka, except for possible frost damage in the coldest
months to small areas of annual crops grown at high elevations. Unreliakle
rainfall and frequent dry spells, however, are a feature of the entire dry
zone from January through September, and in the intermediate zone low-country
from June to September. On the other hand, flooding and poor drainage are
features of the wet zone low-country. Localized flash floods occur frequently
even in the dry zone in October and November.
2.03      Soils of Sri Lanka pose many problems to agriculture (Annex 1).
Major soil groups with the fewest problems are the Red Yellow Podzolic soils
in the heart land of the wet zone, which supports the bulk of tea, rubber,
coconut and lush home gardens, and the Low Humic Gley soils in the dry and
intermediate zones which support the bulk of the paddyland in these zones.
For various reasons, other major soils in the dry zone are all underutilized
at present. The Red Brown Earth is the single largest soil group in Sri
Lanka. It has low water holding capacity and its moisture range which is
suitable for animal plowing is narrow. It loses water and hardens quickly
after each rain. Compounded by frequent dry spells, this soil characteristic
is a major constraint to dry zone agricultural development. The Non-Calcic
Brown soils on the east coast have very low natural fertility. The Red Yellow
Latosols in the northern tip of the island where groundwater is close to the
surface and can be easily tapped, are intensively cultivated with high value
crops. Those at the base of the Jaffna Peninsula are very much underutilized,
due to the great depth and excessive permeability of soil. In these areas,
tanks cannot be built and groundwater is beyond the reach of farmers. There
are also some bog and half bog soils in the wet zone and saline and alkaline
soils along the coastal belt of the island.
Agricultural Production and Trend
2.04      Paddy "harvested area" in Sri Lanka varies from year to year, but
increased from about 1.4 M ac in 1960, to about 1.7 M ac in 1970 and to about
1.9 M ac in 1977. The national average yield per ac increased quite steadily
from 36 bushels (0.78 mt) in 1960 to 51 bushels (1.04 mt) in 1970, but stag-
nated at the level of about 45 bushels (0.92 mt) from 1971 through 1975, fell
to 41 bushels (0.84 mt) in 1976, and rebounded to 48 bushels (0.98 mt) in
1977. These variations accounted for the healthy 4% per annum of paddy pro-
duction during the 1960s and the disappointing 0.7% increase in the 1970s
increase (para 1.05 and 1.06). Paddy production increased from 43 M bushels
(0.88 M mt) in 1960 to 77 M bushels (1.57 M mt) in 1970, and to 85 M bushels
(1.73 M mt) in 1977, but production was much below the 1970 level from 1971
through 1976 (Annex 2, Table 1).



2.05      During the decade from 1967 to 1976, the area under coconuts
remained around 1.1 M ac, while production varied between 1,900 M and 2,900 M
nuts and yield between 2,000 and 2,600 nuts per ac (Annex 2, Table 2). As
will be explained later (para 3.02), tea and rubber are not included in this
project. Therefore, a detailed discussion of these two crops is not included
in this report.
2.06      During the same decade, the total area of field crops other than
paddy remained at the level of 0.60 to 0.65 M ac until 1972, and then increased
to slightly over 1 M ac (Annex 2, Table 3) because of high prices, caused by
restriction of imports. About 40% of the present area is planted to root and
tuber crops, particularly manioc (cassava). About 17% is under condiments,
14% under oilseeds, 14% under coarse grains, 10% under "minor exportable tree
crops", and the balance, 5% is under grain legumes, industrial crops, vegetables
and fruits. Although the acreages of the above categories of crops are small
and yields are generally low, they have either local commercial importance, in
the wet and intermediate zones and the Jaffna Peninsula, or good potential for
area expansion and yield increases in the dry zone. In these crops, lie the
long cherished hope of Sri Lanka to diversify its agricultural base.
2.07      For the 15 upland field crops 1/ analyzed for the period from
1960-74, only potatoes showed a significant upward trend for both yield and
area, in both maha and yala seasons (Annex 2, Table 4). Cowpeas showed the
same trend, except that there was no clear yield increase in the yala season.
Green gram showed yield and area increases in the yala season, but not in the
maha season. Of these 15 crops, seven 2/ revealed declining yield trends of
varying degrees, but production increased due to expansion in area into mar-
ginal lands. Yields per ac of all field crops are low (Annex 2, Table 3(b)).
2.08      About 65% of the paddyland, 100% of sugarcane planted by State
plantations and some commercially grown vegetables are under irrigation,
while the rest of the crops are largely rainfed. The overall cropping
intensity varies from about 170% in the wet zone to about 100% in the dry
zone with a national average of about 120%. The corresponding figures for
paddyland are 175%, 110% and 130%, respectively.
2.09      The low paddy yields in Sri Lanka are basically due to poor water
management in the dry zone and adverse soil properties caused by drainage
difficulties in the low country wet zone. Rainfed cultivation is one of the
basic causes of low yields for other field crops. Another cause is the
general weakness in agricultural supporting services, including extension,
supply of inputs and rural credit. The combination of natural and infrastruc-
tural constraints has largely bound farmers to traditional practices. How-
ever, there was wide adoption of rice HYVs, which entailed little cash outlay,
1/   Chilli, red onion, maize, sorghum, cowpeas, green gram, mustard, kurrakan,
groundnut, sesame, potato, manoic, sweet potato, ginger and turmeric.
2/   Chilli, onion, sorghum, groundnut, manoic, sweet potato and ginger.



- 6 -
during the 1960s. Rapid yield increase achieved during the period of
initial HYV adoption levelled off in the 1970s. Another visible adoption
of modern technology has been the use of tractors in the dry zone by more
well-to-do farmers to prepare the difficult Red Brown Earth (para 2.03).
Sri Lanka has also identified natural constraints in various AERs more clearly
than have most other countries in Asia and has a modest backlog of research
information (Annex 1, para 21-27).
2.10      Sri Lanka has some 1.8 M head of cattle, 0.8 M buffaloes, 0.6 M
sheep and goats, 7.8 M poultry and a small number of pigs. Some 60% of the
ruminants are in the dry zone, where one of the physical constraints is the
scarcity of natural forage for grazing in the driest months of June, July and
August. Most of the dairy cattle, however, are in the intermediate and wet
zone (the Kandy area). Pigs are mostly in the wet zone, while poultry follows
human population concentrations. Grazing is mainly on natural grasses, except
for,oome improved pasture recently established under coconut. Concentrates
for dairy and poultry are mainly from locally produced copra and rice bran.
The Director of the Department of Animal Production and Health has enumerated
five priority tasks for livestock development: (i) reliable supply of feeds;
(ii) improvement of milk marketing; (iii) veterinary service to small farmers;
(iv) checking the depletion of the national herd of draft animals, and
(v) sustaining meat supply to the population.
Land Holdings and Tenure
2.11      According to data from the Department of Census and Statistics
(DCS), the number of holdings "other than estates" increased from 0.85 M in
1946 to 1.17 M in 1962 and 1.63 M in 1977. The total area of these holdings
increased from 2.82 M ac to 3.13 M ac and 3.48 M ac, while the average size
of holdings declined from 3.32 ac to 2.68 ac and 2.13 ac, in the same years.
The 1973 Census of Agriculture showed that Sri Lanka has a large population
of small farmers but few landless families. About 45% of total holdings were
under 1 ac and covered only 6.4% of the land; 88% (or 1.43 M holdings) were
5 ac or less and covered 47% of the total agricultural land, while the remain-
ing 12%, of more than 5 ac each, covered 53% of the land. Only 7% of the farm
operators owned no land. Since the 1973 Census, some changes have occurred,
because of: (a) actions taken under the Land Reform Law of 1972 1/ affecting
about 1 M ac; (b) the allocation of some 560,000 ac of land by the Land Reform
Commission to cooperative and collective farms, Government agencies, coopera-
tives, other bodies and smallholders; and (c) an increase in the number of
holdings caused by population trends and settlement schemes since 1973.
2.12      Though tenancy has been and is still widely practiced, statistics
on land tenure in Sri Lanka are not readily available. It is estimated that
about 30% of the paddyland is cultivated by tenants. However, the rights of
1/   The Law sets an ownership limit of 25 ac of paddyland and 50 ac of land
for all other crops. Actual land acquisition took place in 1974/75.



- 7 -
tenant farmers in Sri Lanka are much better protected by laws 1/ than in
neighboring countries. Although legal provisions have not been strictly fol-
lowed in all cases, it is a fact that a landlord in Sri Lanka cannot readily
evict his tenants from the land, nor fix rent or crop-sharing percentage at
his own will.  In some parts of the country if the landlord charges a rent
of more than one third of the crop, he would supply some of the production
inputs. Water charges, where applicable, are paid by the landlord. In this
context, the existence of tenant farming in Sri Lanka is a much smaller im-
pediment to the adoption of improved farming techniques than in neighboring
countries.
Agricultural Administration and Services
2.13      Administration. After a major reorganization of GOSL's Central
Ministries in September 1978, six ministries are now concerned with agri-
cultural extension as follows:
(a) Department of Agriculture (DA) of the Ministry of Agri-
cultural Development and Research (MADR) -- Extension
work on paddy, other field crops and minor exportable
crops.
(b) Department of Animal Production and Health (DAPH) of the
Ministry of Rural Industrial Development -- livestock
extension.
(c) Coconut Cultivation Board of the Ministry of Coconut
Industries -- extension work on coconut.
(d) Land Commissioner's Department and Irrigation Department
of the Ministry of Land and Land Development -- extension
work in Special Projects and new major irrigation projects.
(e) Mahaweli Development Authority of the Ministry of Mahaweli
Development -- extension in Mahaweli development project
areas.
(f) Ministry of Plantation Industry -- tea and rubber extension.
With the exception of the Ministry of Plantation Industry, all five other
Ministries would participate in the project.
2.14      For the first time in Sri Lanka's history, GOSL announced appoint-
ment of District Ministers on October 5, 1978. The Government Agents, up to
now the senior officials in the Districts have been made Secretaries of the
Districts. The new District administration is expected to have the power of
coordinating development activities in the District.
1/   Paddyland Act No. 1 of 1958.  Agricultural Productivity Law No. 2 of
1972, Land Reform Law of 1972, and Agricultural Lands Law No. 42 of
1973.



-8-
2.15      Also there have been major changes in rural institutions since
January 1978. The activities of the Cultivation Committees at the village
level and Agricultural Productivity Centers at the range level have been
substantially curtailed. To continue some of the functions of the Culti-
vation Committee, about 4,000 Cultivation Officers have been recently
recruited by the Agrarian Service Department (DAS). A new Agricultural
Development Authority (ADA), chaired by the Secretary of MADR, would coor-
dinate DAS activities in supplying inputs and of the People's Bank and Bank
of Ceylon in supplying credit, for supporting the extension service.
2.16      Research.  Under the supervision of a Deputy Director (Research)
and a headquarters staff of Subject Matter Specialists, the Department of
Agriculture (DA) of MADR conducts research on paddy, other annual field crops,
and "minor exportable tree crops". For research on the first two categories
of crops, the Department, with assistance from FAO/UNDP project SRL-75/058,
started in 1975 to establish eight Regional Research Centers (RRCs) to cater
to the research needs of different AERs. Five RRCs with a total of twelve
branch stations have been established so far by upgrading existing experiment
stations. In addition, DA has a Central Rice Experiment Station and a Minor
Exportable Crops Research Institute. Locations of various DA and other research
institutions are given in Map 14078. Sri Lanka has always been strong in rice
breeding and local rice HYVs were widely adopted by farmers long before IRRI
varieties came into being. However, only in recent years has DA stepped up
research on other crops. National Coordinated Research Programs are now in
operation for ten groups of crops, 1/ with different RRCs participating. New
improved varieties and cultural practices are expected to be forthcoming
during the next five years for both paddy and other field crops. From the
view points of conception, infrastructure and knowledge accumulation on a
broad front, Sri Lanka's agricultural research on paddy and other field crops
is now in a much stronger position to provide technical support to extension.
However, further strengthening is necessary. Three new RRCs are yet to be
established in three large areas 2/ (Map 14076). Two existing RRCs are not
yet adequately equipped and staffed. Completion of staffing for multi-
disciplinary research teams for crops other than rice is urgently needed for
all RRCs. Furthermore, linkage between research and extension exists only
for rice in the form of Field Extension Trials (Minikits and production kits)
handled by extension officers. Such links do not exist for other crops, nor
for rice trials beyond those for varieties, fertilizers and agro-chemicals.
Further information on DA research is given in Annex 1.
1/   Rice (in cooperation with USAID/IRRI), cropping system (IDRC of Canada),
coarse grains (CIDA of Canada), grain legumes (IDRC), root and tuber
crops (IDRC and International Potato Center), soybean (UNDP/UNICEF/CARE),
vegetables (vegetable cultivars from Asian Vegetable Research and Devel-
opment Center), oilseeds and fiber, condiments and fruits.
2/  Map 14076:  (a) East coast (DL2), (b) far north and northwest (DL3 and
DL4), (c) Intermediate zone low-country (ILl, IL2 and IL3).



-9-
2.17      DAPH (para 2.13 (b)) has five research stations (Veterinary, Central
Poultry and Mid-country Pasture in Kandy, Central Livestock in Polonnaruwa,
and Sheep in Badulla) and a Vaccine Testing Center at Kandy. Coconut research
is conducted by the Coconut Research Institute at Lunuwila under the Ministry
of Coconut Industry. Tea and rubber research is conducted by Tea and Rubber
Research   Institutes under the Ministry of Plantation Industry and is not
covered by this project.
2.18      Extension.  The management of agricultural extension is presently
much more diverse than research. The Extension Division of DA is the main
stay with a total of 2,285 field officers at District, Division and Village
levels. However, under the same Ministry (MADR): (a) the Minor Export Crops
Department provides support for promoting spice and beverage minor tree
crops; and (b) the Land Commissioner's Department administers 25 Special
Projects 1/ in ten Districts wherein project extension officers report direct-
ly to the headquarters of the Extension Division of DA instead of to District
Agricultural Extension Officers. The Mahaweli Development Authority has a
similar arrangement with DA, but on a more intensive scale. Livestock has its
own extension services; with 97 veterinarian officers at the Range level and
600 KVS level officers at the Village level. The Ministry of Coconut Industry
has its own field officers at regional, district and Division levels who
process subsidies, arrange for credit and input supplies and do some exten-
sion work for coconut.
2.19      The present situation is obviously confused and unsatisfactory.
First of all, DA's own extension officers are deficient in number (each
responsible for an average 1,200 farm families), and are restrained from
village visits by scarcity of vehicles, suitably located housing and the lack
of systematic up-to-date technical backstopping. They frequently have to
perform non-extension duties on instructions by local authorties. Moreover,
DA has to comply with other agencies' demands for special arrangements for
extension services in the project areas of these agencies; in itself this is
a result of general deficiencies of the existing service. Coconut Development
Officers are posted at Regional, District and Division levels, and are occupied
mainly by non-extension duties. There are no coconut officers at the village
level. Livestock village level officers provide mainly veterinarian services
at present. There is, therefore, wide variation in the density, quality and
delivery system of extension work both area-wise and crop-wise; lack of a
coordinated and clearly defined annual plan for deciding priority extension
messages to be passed on to farmers; uneconomic use of already understaffed
extension officers, and, most of all, lack of an efficient system for deliver-
ing extension messages to small farmers.
2.20      Training.  DA's facilities for providing pre-service and in-service
training to extension officers now consists of: (a) three Regional Training
Centers (RTCs) for providing in-service pre-seasonal training of Subject Matter
Officers (SMOs), Agricultural Instructors (AIs) and Village Extension Officers
(KVSs); (b) District Training Centers (DTCs) in 14 Districts for providing one
1/   A total of about 300,000 ac of paddyland and upland in major irrigation
schemes.



- 10 -
year pre-service training of KVS with an enrollment of 639; and (c) one School
of Agriculture for providing a two year diploma level training to youths with
a GCE 1/ level certificate to become AIs, with an enrollment of 160. Aside
from training DA's regular extension officers, these institutions also accom-
modate training sessions for other rural and agricultural activities, such as
home economics for women extension workers, supervisory officers of rural
youth colonies, agrarian service officers, coconut officers, etc. The loca-
tions of these training institutions are shown in Map 14078. The existing
training facilities need to be strengthened and the teaching staff substan-
tially expanded to meet project objectives.
2.21      DA has already acquired a certain quantity of audio-visual training
aids which are being serviced inadequately by a workshop at the Central
Research Station at Gannoruwa (set-up with assistance from FAO/UNDP Project
SRL/75/058 for repairing research apparatus of research stations). This work-
shop will be expanded under the project.
2.22      Training of Coconut Development Offcers is provided by the Coconut
Research Institute, and Livestock and Veterinary officers by training centers
of DAPH.  There is adequate research information for training extension offi-
cers on coconut and livestock for supporting the level of extension envisaged
for the project, but training material needs to be updated, and systems for
delivery of extension messages to farmers needs to be strengthened.
Agricultural Statistics and Economics
2.23      Agricultural statistics with reasonable reliability and consistency
are essential for planning and measuring the impact of agricultural develop-
ment programs. Sri Lanka is particularly weak on statistics for field crops
other than rice. There are two sets of data, one from the Department of
Census and Statistics (DCS), Ministry of Finance and Planning, dating back to
early 1950s, and one from DA initiated in 1971. The duplicating years of the
two sets (from 1971 through 1974) show wide discrepancies, in many instances.
DCS has been the only source of rice statistics and the Ministry of Plantation
Industry is the only source of statistics for the three major tree crops. In
the future, the Ministry of Coconut Industry will issue statistics on coconut.
The project will encourage collaboration between DCS and DA in collecting crop
statistics (para 3.25).
2.24      The DA's Economic Unit is staffed at present with two Agricultural
Economists at headquarters and 22 Economic Assistants, one in each District.
The present functions of the Unit are: to collect farm record sheets from
1,000 sample farmers to develop for DA production estimates of field crops
other than rice; to help DCS in collecting rice data, and to perform economic
analysis of various kinds for DA and MADR. This unit will be strengthened
under the project, in particular to undertake project monitoring and
evaluation.
1/   General Certificate of Education, equal to high school diploma.



- 11 -
Supply of Inputs
2.25      Fertilizers.  Total annual consumption of fertilizers in Sri Lanka
from 1961 to 1976 fluctuated between 341,800 mt in 1971 to 210,000 mt in 1975
(Annex 2, Table 5(a)). During these 15 years, there has been a general decline
in consumption of fertilizers by tree crops, while there has been an increase
in those consumed by paddy and other field crops as shown below:
Table 2.1:  FERTILIZER CONSUMPTION BY CROPS (1,000 mt)
Crop             1961      1964      1967     1970      1973      1976
Tea             143.5    172.5    142.2    106.7        91.9      95.3
Rubber           28.6      26.7     21.9      20.4      14.6      13.0
Coconut          43.0      48.4     49.4      63.8      38.6      30.7
Paddy            29.0      60.1      73.2     87.1    125.5       72.4
Other Crops      33.8      31.9     49.5      56.5      54.1      52.9
Total     277.9    339.6    336.2    334.5    324.7    264.3
Source: Ceylon Fertilizer Corporation.
2.26      The highest national averages for fertilizer nutrient application
rates per ac ever reached in Sri Lanka for various crops were: tea 170 lb
(1964); rubber 25 lb (1961); coconut 40 lb (1970); paddy 72 lb (1973) and
other crops 60 lb (1971). In 1976, the respective rates were: tea 118 lb,
rubber 13 lb, coconut 20 lb, paddy 42 lb, other crops 32 lb, with an average
for all crops of 40 lb/ac. Yearly data are presented in Annex 2, Table 5(b).
Even at the record highs, the average rates per ac 1/ were still very low,
except for tea. In the last decade, fluctation in fertilizer consumption by
paddy and other field crops seemed to be affected by frequent adjustments in
fertilizer prices and subsidy rates (para 2.29) and relaxation and tightening
of rural credit discipline rather than by the changing needs of farmers. The
effect of fertilizer prices on farmer incentives are discussed in para 6.03.
2.27      Fertilizers are imported solely by the Ceylon Fertilizer Corpora-
tion, but are distributed to farmers through various channels. Fertilizers
for paddy and other field crops go through three channels: the Agrarian
Servic,e Center godowns of DAS; the multi-purpose cooperative societies, and
private dealers. Fertilizers for tree crops are provided mainly by private
firms which own private mixing plants, take delivery of imported fertilizers
from the Fertilizer Corporation ex-wharf, and distribute mixed fertilizers to
plantations through their own network of authorized dealers. The Tea and
Rubber Control Boards and Coconut Cultivation Board have separate arrange-
ments for supplying fertilizers to smallholders, either directly or through
cooperatives.
1/   Actual application rates, of course, vary widely, i.e., between paddy
grown in major irrigation schemes and in bog and half-bog soils along
the SW coast, and among other crops; between "exotic vegetables" in
Nuwewa Eliya and pulses and oilseeds in the heart of the dry zone.



- 12 -
2.28      DAS, as a Government channel for fertilizer distribution, coordinates
fertilizer user Departments and Boards to review seasonally the supply, dis-
tribution and stock situation, and to determine requirements for imports by
the Fertilizer Corporation. The Fertilizer Corporation has records on the
quantities of fertilizers distributed through different channels which are
intended for different crops. But no agency at present is able to adequately
keep track of the quantities of fertilizers sold and the stock remaining in
the pipeline of different channels at various times during the fertilizer
distribution season. Nor is there reliable information on how much fertil-
izer is actually used by different crops, as intercrop shifting of fertil-
izers undoubtedly takes place.
2.29      The fertilizer subsidy for paddy was first introduced in 1962.
From September 1968 to July 1974, the subsidy rate remained at 50%. The
subsidy was removed in July 1974 but reinstated at 33% in October 1974.
In November 1975, the rate was readjusted back to 50% for paddy and all
other crops. In 1977, the subsidy rate was raised to 75%, but was brought
back to 50% in 1978.
2.30      One of the main functions of ADA (para 2.15) will be to coordinate
fertilizer supply from the different sources at the local level in support
of the extension service. ADA has a full time Board of Directors, chaired
by the Secretary of MADR, nine Provincial Directors and plans to appoint
a manager in each electorate (roughly equal to a Division). As of May, 1979,
it had appointed managers in 45 electorates, out of a total of about 160 in
the country. Other improvements in the fertilizer distribution system are
obviously needed, but it is beyond the scope of this project.
2.31      Seeds.  Under DA's management, about 1,100 seed growers in the yala
season and 1,500 in maha season produce about 300,000 to 400,000 bushels of
certified HYV paddy seeds per annum. This output would meet approximately
10% to 15% of the total seed requirement of 1.2 M ac of maha rice and 0.6 M ac
of yala rice (at about 1.5 bushels per ac). The production of certified seeds
for other crops by DA is minimal mainly because of the lack of outstanding
HYVs. Potato and "exotic" (Western type) vegetable seeds are largely imported
each year. DA has 42 seed farms in different Districts with a total area of
about 12,200 ac, of which about 8,000 ac are being used. These farms have
received some equipment under the Agricultural Development project, IDA
Cr. 595-CE, USAID, CIDA and German aid projects. The supply of certified
seeds of field crops other than rice is expected to improve when new varieties
become available. To compliment DA's seed multiplication and distribution
system, the extension service will help by teaching farmers to keep their
own seeds pure and viable, so that the impact of the limited quantity of
certified seeds now being distributed, can be maintained for a longer period.
2.32      Pesticides and Herbicides.  Pesticides and herbicides are being
imported and distributed by private firms. Shortages have arisen in the past
due to import restrictions and the lack of knowledge by the firms concerning
stocks of the right kind of chemicals, in the right quantities, at the right
time. With the liberalization of imports, and the strengthening of the



- 13 -
extension service, the agro-chemical dealers are expected to have better
information and receive better guidance on what and how much to stock. How-
ever, future developments need to be monitored by the Government (i.e. ADA)
to ensure adequate and timely supply of agro-chemicals to farmers as demand
increases.
Marketing and Prices
2.33      Government purchase of paddy is currently handled by the Paddy
Marketing Board (PMB) of MADR.  PMB has about 4,000 purchasing centers. 1/
Between 1971 and 1977, the annual PMB paddy procurement fluctuated from
32.4 M bushels in 1971 (48.4% of total paddy production) to 11.3 M bushels
in 1975 (20.5%). The purchase in 1977 was 24.6 M bushels (30.6%). PMB pur-
chases at prices set by the Government according to the "Guaranteed Price
Scheme" (GPS) and stores paddy in its 280 warehouses throughout the island.
Rice milled from the PMB paddy stock is transferred to the Food Commissioner
for distribution under the Government's ration system. The GPS price paddy
is now Rs 40/bushel and generally lower than market prices. Most of the
crop is, therefore, marketed through commercial channels.
2.34      The Marketing Department of the Ministry of Trade plays an active
role in vegetable and fruit marketing. It performs interregional transporta-
tion, storage, and price regulation. It holds and releases stocks, and
improves packing of vegetables and fruits. The Department owns some 120
trucks and operates common and cold stores. It has 67 collecting centers,
127 retail shops and ten people's markets in large cities. It handles 20-25%
of the total vegetables and fruit output in the country. Beginning in 1974,
the Department started to purchase coarse grains and grain legumes. In 1977,
it purchased some 1,900 tons of these crops. The Cooperative Marketing
Federation entered the vegetable and fruit marketing field in recent years,
handling about 5% of the produce. Thus, private traders operate most of the
marketing of paddy, vegetables and fruits, as well as for other field crops
and prices are set in commercial markets.
2.35      The Coconut Marketing Authority (CMA) under the Ministry of Coconut
Industry operates Copra Sales Rooms where copra dealers and estate owners
auction off copra to oil millers or copra shippers. The copra auction prices,
well known in the trade, are used to derive prices for fresh nuts or other
coconut products by dealers at different levels -- the lowest level buys
fresh nuts from smallholders. Retail consumer prices are roughly twice farm
gate prices. CMA also has many other activities, such as promotion, regula-
tion and licensing of traders.
2.35      A Market Research Unit has recently been established by MADR for
conducting necessary research on agricultural marketing. The Unit is for
the time being attached to the Agricultural Research and Training Institute
of MADR in Colombo.
1/   Branch Offices of Multi-purpose Cooperative Societies.



- 14 -
III. THE PROJECT
Objectives and Approach
3.01      The project would help Sri Lanka to apply the T&V extension system
to the entire country, to strengthen adaptive research and to improve and
expand training of extension officers. As such it would compliment all
on-going and future agricultural, irrigation and rural development projects
financed by the Bank Group and other donors. The project was prepared by
the FAO/UNDP financed Project SRL-75/058 executed by FAO 1/ in close colla-
boration with DA.
3.02      The project aims at raising production and income levels on estab-
lished and newly settled farms covering about 4.8 M ac of permanent and chena
farm land cultivated by about 1.4 M farm families, 2/. Rice, a wide range of
upland crops, coconut and undercrops, minor exportable beverage and condiment
crops, vegetables and fruits, and associated livestock would be the subject of
project activities. The project will not deal with tea and rubber which are
grown mainly in large contiguous blocks not in association with field crops.
Project Components
3.03      Specifically, the proposed project would include:
(a)  Strengthening of extension services by the establishment
of a unified T&V extension system for all crops (except
tea and rubber), and animal husbandry for the entire
country;
(b)  Establishment of an adaptive research network on the basis
of the country's agro-ecological regions (AERs);
(c) Improvement and expansion of agricultural training insti-
tutions of DA;
(d) Strengthening of the Economic Unit of DA;
(e) Strengthening of the building construction capability of
DA;
(f) Provision of funds for salaries and allowances for incremental
extension, adaptive research, training, economics and civil
engineering staff required as a consequence of the project;
1/   The project is entitled "Reorganization of Research, Extension and
Training Resources for Agriculture," and it is a parallel project to
an IDA-financed Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 595-CE).
2/   Out of a total of about 1.6 M holdings minus smallholders of tea and
rubber and those with only a house lot.



- 15 -
(g) Construction of necessary living quarters for incremental
staff and buildings for training quarters, offices, labora-
tories, and workshops;
(h) Provision of appropriate vehicles for incremental staff,
and equipment for farms, laboratories, workshops, offices,
extension and training;
(i) Provision of incremental operating and maintenance costs
for project works, buildings, vehicles and equipment;
(j) Overseas training of project staff from DA, DAPH and CCB; and
(k) Provision of consultants to assist in implementiang the
project.
Detailed Features
3.04      Strengthening of Extension Service.  A unified T&V extension system
for all crops (except tea and rubber) and animal husbandry (excluding veteri-
narian services and supplies of improved animal breeds) will be established for
the entire country. The T&V Extension system was introduced into Sri Lanka in
1976 as a component of the Tank Irrigation Modernization Project (Cr. 666-CE)
in the Anuradhapura District. This effort has revealed the existence of a
number of problems: (a) diverting AIs and KVSs from time to time to non-
extension jobs, thus interferring with their visit and training schedule;
(b) outside pressure for replacing extension officers with new ones, thus
impairing the effectiveness of bi-weekly training tied to local crop calendars;
(c) delays in appointing additional SMOs, AIs and KVSs, and in procurement of
vehicles; and (d) improper selection of some of the contact farmers by appoint-
ing rich farmers around whom small farmers would not normally gather and with
whom small farmers would not feel free to discuss extension messages. On the
other hand, Cr. 666-CE demonstrated that transmission of extension messages was
much more effective by the T&V extension system than the traditional system
when there was no interference with the scheduled work of extension officers;
where contact farmers were properly selected and where AIs and KVSs were able
to follow the pre-determined schedule. Agreements have been obtained from GOSL
that (a) Extension Officers (AO, SMO, AI and KVS) in all districts would attend
full time to extension education work, and their training and visit schedules
would not be interferred with at any time; these officers would not be trans-
ferred out or replaced by new men except for unsatisfactory performance of
their scheduled duties and at the discretion of responsible officials of DA
including DAEOs; (b) the Ministry of Rural Industrial Development and the
Ministry of Coconut Industry would support the unified T&V extension system
by designating their District level officers to serve as subject matter
officers on animal husbandry and coconut cultivation for training the village
and range level extension officers of DA, who would pass on extension messages
to farmers; and (c) the Ministry of Mahaweli Development and Ministry of Land
and Land Development would entrust extension work in Mahaweli Ganga develop-
ment projects, irrigation projects and special project areas to DA.



- 16 -
3.05      The number of DA extension officers would be increased by a total
of 1,260 at different levels as follows:
Table 3.1: INCREMENTAL REQUIREMENT OF DA EXTENSION STAFF
To be
Incre-                   Financed
Project   mental               Total   Under    Net
Present  Require-  Require-  Replace- Incre-  Kurune-  Incre-
Level           Total     ment       ment       ment    mental  gala RD  mental
Office (KVS) /a    496        496       -
Village (KVS)    1,187    2,137          950      150      1,100    140       960
Range (AI)          421       496         75       32        107       4      103
District (SMO)      127       259        132        16       148       9      139
(AO)      20        58         38       12         50       3       47 /b
(DAEO)      22        24          2 /b    -           2       -         2 /b
Headquarters
(AO/SMOS)          12        21         9        -           9      -         9
Total        2,285    3,491      1,206       210      1,416     156   1,260
/a   In Offices of AI at Agricultural Service Centers.
/b   Two new Districts have recently been added.
3.06      The present ratios work out to about 1,200 farm families (on the
basis of 1.4 M families) supervised by one field KVS, three KVSs' to one AI,
21 AIs to one AO, and only one AO under the DAEO in each district. Under the
project, these ratios would be adjusted to, on average, 750 farm families per
KVS (on the basis of 1.6 M families 1/ by the fifth year), 4-5 KVSs' per AI,
8-9 AI per AO and 2-3 AOs' per district. The number of SMOs would be doubled
from about 5 to 10 per district. Actual numbers of various officers vary with
districts according to density of farm families and diversity of crops (Annex
3, Tables 1 and 2).
3.07      Under the charge of DAEO, each district would be divided into two
to three groups of divisions, each supervised by an AO. The number and dis-
cipline of SMOs would depend on the crops and needs of the district. SMOs
would provide bi-weekly, one-day training sessions to AIs and KVSs in the
AO territories by rotation, and would be responsible for conducting field
demonstrations. A basic bi-weekly training schedule for KVSs and AIs for all
crops other than coconut would be prepared each year. There would be separate
schedules for the maha and the yala seasons for each AO territory, according
to local crop calendars. Training schedules in the first year would be devoted
to rice, one or two other crops of local importance and animal husbandry.
1/   From 1.4 M families before project with a natural growth of 30,000 fam-
ilies per year (para 2.11) and 10,000 families per year to be settled
under the accelerated settlement under Mahaweli Ganga Development Program
and other settlement projects.



- 17 -
Sessions on livestock and coconut would be inserted into the basic schedule
according to a schedule to be determined by the livestock and coconut officers.
In IDA assisted Dairy Project (Credit 504-CE) areas, the National Livestock
Development Board (NLDB) would appoint officers to train KVSs and AI of DA on
extension messages concerning dairy husbandry. In these areas, the KVSs
would coordinate their scheduled visits to villages with NLDB dairy cooperative
personnel in the area. DAEOs would coordinate the overall scheduling. The
schedules would be revised each year; messages already widely accepted by
farmers would be dropped while new crops and innovations would be added.
3.08      The farm families covered by each KVS (750 on average) would be
divided into about eight "clusters," containing on an average 95 families in
each cluster. Some seven to eight farmers in each cluster would be selected
by the KVS as "contact" farmers, each representing a group of about 12 to 13
follower farmers. At full development, the 2,137 field KVSs are expected to
visit about 130,000 contact farmers each fortnight and through them to pass
extension message on to 1.6 M farm families. Since the field demonstrations
would be mainly on selected contact farmers' fields, AIs and KVSs would super-
vise the demonstration plots and explain the practices to follower farmers
during their scheduled visits with contact farmers.
3.09      The messages conveyed by KVSs to farmers would be simple and would
concentrate on practices which would produce quick and profitable responses.
The specific practices would vary with each AER. Such practices would include
inter alia:
(a)  for paddy and other field crops -- the use of new HYVs
of different growth duration, timing of land preparation
and planting (improved seed beds), removal of bad seeds
before sowing, treatment of seeds, plant population,
weeding, soil moisture retention or on-farm drainage as
needed, manure and fertilizers, and protection against
pests.
(b)  for coconut -- removal of senile trees, filling in missing
plants by replanting, soil moisture conservation or drainage
as needed, proper underplanting, economic sharing of fertil-
izers by coconut and undercrops.
(c)  for livestock -- animal sanitation, benefit of vaccination,
efficient use of available natural and commercial feeds,
care of young and pregnant animals.
3.10      Depending on the level of husbandry and financial capacity of
farmers in different AERs, different technical packages would be recommended
(detailed in Annex 1, Table 2). The simplest packages would concentrate on
the use of improved cultural practices, and would involve little or no additional
cash inputs. Increasingly, other packages would include cultural practices
together with increased levels of fertilizer and pesticides.



- 18 -
3.11      Incremental staff, living and office quarters, vehicles and equip-
ment would be provided under the project and are detailed in Annex 4, Tables
3 to 9.
3.12      Strengthening of Adaptive Research.  RRCs will be responsible for
planning, executing and supervising the adaptive research program. Extension
officers will be released from supervision of field trials. Adaptive research
will be conducted in farmers' fields as a link between research and extension.
The activities would include field trials on new varieties, improved cultural
practices and use of inputs for all field crops as these technologies emerge
from research conducted by RRCs and their sub-stations. The existing mini-kit
and production-kit trials for rice would be incorporated into the new program.
3.13      Some 24 Adaptive Research Centers (ARCs) would be established to
cover most of the 22 AERs and all Districts, and would be manned by a total of
52 Experiment Officers and 17 Experiment Assistants. Each center would con-
sist of a simple agronomy laboratory and offices for the staff, whose job
is to supervise trial plots laid out in farmers' fields. The ARCs would
be supervised by eight mobile teams based in and backstopped by the five
existing RRCs. Each mobile team would consist of, on average four research
officers. Disciplines of the team members would vary with major agro-
climatic zones.
3.14      In addition to the adaptive research centers, an initial building
would be built on sites of each of the three proposed new RRCs, which are yet
to be established (para 2.16) by DA. These prebodies of RRCs would be provided
with a new staff consisting of eight Research Officers, eight Experiment
Officers and 13 Experiment Assistants. Until fully developed, they would
function as additional branch experiment stations of the existing RRCs and as
additional mobile teams for supervising adaptive research work in their areas.
3.15      Annual plans for adaptive research would be prepared by RRCs in
consultation with DAEOs. Technical coordination between research, extension
and training is discussed further in para 5.03. The Deputy Director (Research)
would call meetings of all RRCs to achieve inter-regional coordination.
3.16      The numbers of incremental adaptive research staff required is given
in Annex 3, Table 6. Incremental personnel, housing, laboratories cum office
buildings, vehicles and equipment would be provided under the project and are
detailed in Annex 4, Tables 20 to 24.
3.17      Strengthening of Training Institutions.  Under the project, the
DA's existing training facilities would be improved, new centers built and
equipped and training staff expanded and upgraded, in order to provide better
quality training to: (i) incremental extension, adaptive research, and eco-
nomic staff of DA required by the project; and (ii) Cultivation Officers of
DAS, and field officers of other agencies. The number of new DA recruits
to be trained annually are estimated as follows:



- 19 -
Table 3.2: ESTIMATED ANNUAL PRE-SERVICE TRAINING REQUIREMENTS OF
DA INCREMENTAL PROJECT STAFF
Level
Officers            Graduate   Diploma   Certificate
Extension                  12        51           220
Training                   12         5            23
Adaptive Research          10        13             4
Agricultural Economic       2         9             -
Total                36         78           247
3.18      The number of institutions for pre-service training of AIs and KVSs
would remain unchanged; the number of centers for in-service pre-seasonal
training of all levels of extension staff would be increased from three to
eight under the project. The number of training staff would be increased
from the present 123 to 323 as follows:
Table 3.3: SUMMARY OF INCREMENTAL DA TRAINING STAFF
Present      Project       Incremental
Level                      Total      Requirement    Requirement
AO                              4            23              19
SMS                            15            50              35
AI                             51            76              25
KVS                            33            49              16
Electrical Engineer            -              1               1
Electrician Technician         -              4               4
Others (Annex 3, Table 4)    20             120             100
Total                   123           323             200
A detailed breakdown by training center is given in Annex 3, Table 4.
3.19      Training and living quarters of the School of Agricultural at
Kundasal which provides two years pre-service training to candidates of
all diploma level agricultural officers, needs only renovation and additions
to accommodate an annual intake of about 200 students. According to past
records, DA took only about 40-60% of the graduates into its AI service, while
the remaining graduates were employed by other agencies or went into private
business.
3.20      Buildings at the existing 14 District Training Centers (Map 14078)
which offer a one year certificate level pre-service training course to
candidates for KVS level officers, also need renovation and additions to
accommodate the project requirement. These centers, each with 50 beds, have
a total capacity for 700 trainees. They would take in about 500 trainees
annually, from which the DA would recruit about 250 as KVSs in different
branches of the Department. The other half of the graduates would be absorbed



- 20 -
by other agencies. The remaining 200 beds (in 14 centers) would accommodate
special short period trainees such as officers for womens' programs, local
youth cooperative or collective farms, multi-purpose cooperatives, etc.
3.21      There are three existing Regional Training Centers (RTCs) located
at three of the five existing RRCs (Map 14078). Under the project, an initial
building would be built for each of the three new RRCs to be established by
DA (para 3.14). Eventually there would be eight RRCs (Map 14078). Five new
RTCs, each with a 50 bed capacity, will be built so that there would be eight
RTCs, each next to a RRC. RTCs would be used for in-service training of all
levels of extension staff. Each year, a total of about 3,000 1/ would attend
pre-season refresher training courses for ten days, five days during February
and March (yala) and five days during July and August (maha). For four months
in a year, therefore, the eight RTCs will be fully used by DA's extension
staff. The seeming over-capacity of RTCs is due to the need for completing
pre-seasonal trainings in batches of 50 officers within four months so that
all extension officers could go back to their posts during the crop growing
seasons. In the remaining eight months, RTCs would accommodate in-service
training sessions, organized upon request from DAS for its 4,000 Cultivation
Officers, also in batches of 50, which would take another four months. In-
service training sessions organized upon requests from agencies, such as the
Mahaweli Development Authority, the Coconut Cultivation Board, the Sugar
Corporation, etc., and workshops and training sessions organized by RRCs for
research and adaptive research officers and assistants, would also use RTCs.
3.22      Physical facilities of existing training centers would be adequately
strengthened, where necessary, for upgrading the working efficiency of the
training centers. More importantly, the project would seek to significantly
improve the quality of training provided by these institutions in a number of
ways: (a) subject to IDA agreement to retroactive financing up to US$200,000,
DA would conduct pre-project training of SMOs beginning May, 1979, so that
sufficient number of SMOs would be ready to train AIs and KVSs when imple-
mentation of this project commences; (b) a systematic effort would be made
to update the training material for all crops, animal husbandry, on-farm water
management and plant protection with assistance from consultants (para 3.34);
(c) training methodology would be made a part of the training of the field
extension staff. 2/
3.23      Incremental staff, housing, vehicles and equipment would be provided
under the project and are detailed in Annex 4, Tables 10 to 19.
1/   2,137 field KVSs, 496 AIs, 259 SMOs, 58 AOs, 24 DAEOs and 21 AOs/SMSs
at DA headquarters.
2/   Under FAO/UNDP project SRL/75/058, two training methodology experts
from New Zealand conducted a two month training course in Sri Lanka.
As a result, an extension methodology instructor is now available in
each District serving under the DAEO. Two senior staff of DA Training
Division, undertaking training abroad on training methodology, were
to have returned in 1979.



- 21 -
3.24      Strengthening of Agricultural Economics, Statistics, and Project
Monitoring and Evaluation. Under the Project, the staff of the Economics
Unit of DA would be expanded as follows:
Table 3.4: INCREMENTAL DA ECONOMIC STAFF
Existing           Incremental          Final Total
Category          DA  RRC  Districts  DA  RRC  Districts  DA  RRC  Districts
Ag. Economists        2    -       -        3    4 /a    -       5    4       -
Eco. Assistants /b   -    -       22 /b    -    -        26      -    -      48 /c
Computer Programmer  -    -        -        1    -       -       1    -       -
/a   Each Economist would serve two RRCs.
/b   There is one Economic Assistant in each of the former 22 districts at
present.
/c   Two new Districts were created in 1978.  There will be two Economic
Assistants in each of the present 24 districts.
3.25      The responsibilities of the Unit, in addition to its present functions
(para 2.24) would be expanded to include:
(a) conducting a benchmark survey in cooperation with DCS.
(b) establishing and maintaining a sampling system under which
farm record sheets would be maintained continuously by
5,000 farmers (1,000 at present), and as a part of conti-
nuous project evaluation, to analyze data seasonally to
provide up-to-date estimates of trends of use in inputs and
credit, farm gate prices of various crops and the relationship
between farm costs and incomes. The analysis is also expec-
ted to throw light on ways to improve farm management in
various AERs.
(c) helping Adaptive Research Teams of RRCs in evaluating the
economics of proposed changes in cropping systems and tech-
nologies and helping RTCs in incorporating farm management
in the pre-service training of KVSs and AIs; and
(d) monitoring and evaluation of the project.
3.26      Incremental staff, housing, vehicles and equipment would be provided
under the project and are detailed in Annex 4, Table 25.
3.27      Strengthening of Civil Engineering Unit of DA.  The existing staff
of the Civil Engineering Unit (para 5.11) would be modestly strengthened as
follows:



- 22 -
Table 3.5: INCREMENTAL DA CIVIL ENGINEERING STAFF
Present           Incremental           Final Total
Head-                Head-                Head-
quarters Districts  quarters Districts  quarters Districts
Superintending
Engineer               1         -          -          -          1         -
Engineer (graduates)    4          -           3         -          7         -
Engineer Assistants
(Diploma)              6        -           2          -         8          -
Inspectors
(Certificate)          -       19           -          5         -         24
Overseers                -        50          -          -          -        50
Draftsmen                5         -           1         -          6         -
Total              16       69           6          5        22         74
DA would stop carrying out construction by force account, except for routine
maintenance and repairs, and its civil engineering staff would be fully
mobilized to supervise construction done by private local contractors. After
project completion, the expanded staff would be responsible for future con-
struction of DA and maintenance and repair of all the DOAs' buildings.
Agreement has been obtained that GOSL would ensure timely supply of building
materials for the project according to the need and an agreed time table.
3.28      Assurances have been obtained from GOSL that DA would submit a plan
satisfactory to IDA before December 31, 1979, including:
(a)  agreement to cease construction by force account
except for routine maintenance and repairs;
(b)  immediate appointment of additional civil engineering
staff as listed in Table 3.5 above;
(c)  designs and cost estimates of all buildings to be
constructed during the first year of the project;
(d)  estimates of quantities of building materials required
for the first year construction indicating kinds and
quantities of materials for which assurances of timely
supply by the Government are needed.
3.29      Incremental staff, housing, vehicles and equipment would be pro-
vided under the project and are detailed in Annex 4, Table 26.



- 23 -
3.30      Overseas Training and Technical Assistance.  Overseas training
provided under the project would send selected field level extension officers
to observe the operation of the T&V extension system in India, where the
system has been in operation for more than three years and is highly success-
ful. Secondly, it would assist Sri Lanka in building up capabilities and
expertise in the senior level officers of extension, research and training
in disciplines where the present manpower is thin.
3.31      For meeting the first objective, the project would finance, over a
five year period, the visit of a total of 120 KVSs, 48 AIs, 24 SMOs and 24 AOs
to suitable areas of India. The AOs, SMOs and AIs would spend one month in
India. They would be joined by KVSs towards the end of their stay for ten
days.
3.32      For meeting the second objective, the project would finance, over
a five year period, six month overseas studies of three senior training officers
on training methodology. The project would also finance, six month overseas
studies at international research institutions by 14 Research Officers and 14
Subject Matter Specialists. The allocation of trainees among subject matters
would tentatively be as follows:
(a) 3 research officers and 1 SMS on Coarse grains - at ICRISAT.
(b)  3 research officers and 1 SMS on Grain Legume - at ICRISAT.
(c)  3 research officers and 1 SMS on Root and Tuber Crops -
at IITA.
(d)  3 research officers and 1 SMS on Rice - at IRRI (one research
officer each on plant protection, problem soils, and multiple
cropping).
(e)  2 research officers and 1 SMS on Vegetables - at AVRDC or other
appropriate institute.
(f)  5 SMSs on Animal Husbandry - at CIAT; and
(g)  4 SMSs on Coconut production - at IRHO.
3.33      This effort is to help build up multi-disciplinary teams of research
officers, and to upgrade SMSs who are to provide leadership in extension,
particularly on crops other than rice. The five existing RRCs have at least
one complete team of agronomist, breeder, entomologist, pathologist and soil
expert for rice. Teams for crops other than rice are mostly incomplete and
less experienced. Most RRCs have one team working on many crops. The animal
husbandry and coconut trainees, upon return, would concentrate on digesting
proven research information and systematically upgrading extension and training
materials presently being used.



- 24 -
3.34      To further assist DA to strengthen the linkage between research,
training and extension, the project would finance 138 man months of con-
sultants including:
(a) 24 man-months of a team leader (general extension agricul-
turist with administrative and management experience);
(b) 18 man-months each of an animal husbandry specialist and
a coconut/undercrop specialist;
(c) 15 man-months each of an on-farm water management specialist
and a plant protection specialist; and
(d) 12 man-months each of a coarse grain specialist, a grain
legume specialist, a root/tuber crop specialist and a
vegetable specialist.
The consultants would assist DA in (a) reviewing current research and in
identifying therefrom technologies which are ready to go into the adaptive
research program, the demonstration program and into extension; (b) designing
various adaptive research projects and, methods of analysing results, and
(c) systematically upgrading the extension and training materials for crops
and livestock. Assurance has been obtained from GOSL that the project con-
sultants would be appointed not later than January 31, 1980 according to
terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA.
3.35      Costs of overseas training and consultants would be provided under
the project and are detailed in Annex 4, Table 26.
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND SCHEDULE OF EXPENDITURES
Cost Estimates and Schedule of Expenditures
4.01      Total project costs over the five year project period (1980-1985)
are estimated at US$22.5 M equivalent. The foreign exchange component is
estimated at US$9.7 M or about 43% of the total project cost. The estimated
$12.8 M local currency cost includes about US$0.4 M of taxes and duties. Cost
estimates are based on unit prices adjusted to 1979 levels. Physical con-
tingencies of 10% for all costs are included. Price contingencies have been
estimated at 8% per annum for vehicles and equipment and 10% per annum for
civil works and other cost items, for both foreign and local costs.



- 25 -
4.02       Major elements in the cost estimates are buildings (US$5.4 M),
vehicles (US$2.8 M), equipment (US$1.2 M), incremental salaries and allow-
ances (US$4.2 M), overseas training and technical assistance (US$1.6 M),
and incremental operating and maintenance costs during the project period
(US$2.2 M). The base project cost is estimated at US$17.4 M. Physical con-
tingencies (US$1.7 M) and price contingencies (US$3.4 M) bring the total
project cost to US$22.5 M. Estimated project costs, detailed in Annex 4,
are summarized below (Table 4.1 and 4.2).
Table 4.1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COST BY EXPENDITURE
Foreign                    Foreign            Percent-
Local  Exchange  Total   Local  Exchange  Total    age
--------Rs M---------    -------US$ M---------
Buildings                  60.3      25.8    86.1    3.8       1.6       5.4      24.0
Vehicles                    2.2      42.1    44.3       .1     2.7       2.8      12.4
Equipment                     .9     17.7    18.6       .1     1.1       1.2       5.3
Vehicle Operating and
Maintenance Costs         1.3      11.9    13.3       .1      .8        .9       4.0
Other Operating and
Maintenance Costs        19.3       1.9    21.2    1.2        .1       1.3       5.8
Incremental Salaries
and Allowances           65.6       -      65.6    4.2        -        4.2      18.7
Overseas Training and
Technical Assistance       -       24.8    24.8      -       1.6       1.6       7.1
Base Cost            149.6    124.2   273.8    9.5        7.9      17.4     74.3
Physical Contingencies   15.0        12.4    27.4       .9       .8      1.7       7.6
Price Contingencies        37.0      16.3    53.2    2.3       1.0       3.3      15.1
Total Cost          201.5    152.8   354.4   12.7         9.7     22.4    100.0
Note:  Inconsistencies due to rounding.



- 26 -
Table 4.2: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COST BY COMPONENT
Foreign                   Foreign           Percent-
Local  Exchange  Total   Local  Exchange  Total    age
--------Rs M---------    -------US$ M---------
Extension                 91.3      56.1   147.4    5.8      3.5       9.3     41.5
Adaptive Research         20.8      14.7    35.4    1.3        .9      2.2      9.8
Training                  32.8      22.7    55.1    2.1      1.4       3.5     15.6
Economics, Monitoring
and Evaluation           3.7       3.0     6.7      .2      .2        .4      1.8
Overseas Training and
Technical Assistance    -         24.8    24.8      -      .1.6      1.6      7.2
Engineering and
Adminstration            1.4       2.9     4.3      .1       .2       .3      1.3
Base Cost           149.6    124.2   273.8    9.5       7.8      17.3     77.2
Physical Contingencies   14.9       12.4    27.4      .9       .8      1.7       7.6
Price Contingencies       37.0      16.2    53.2    2.3      1.0       3.4      15.2
Total Cost          201.5    152.8   354.4   12.8       9.7     22.4    100.0
Note:  Inconsistencies due to rounding.
Financing
4.03      The proposed IDA credit of US$15.5 M would finance the full foreign
exchange cost and about 46% of the local cost or about 70% of total project
cost, net of taxes and duties. GOSL would provide the remaining costs of
US$6.9 M equivalent from its annual budgets. The proposed financing plan is
summarized below:
Table 4.3: PROPOSED PROJECT FINANCING
Total Cost    IDA      GOSL
----------Rs M-----------
Buildings                      86.1       59.4      26.7
Vehicles                       44.3       42.1       2.2
Equipment                      18.6       17.7       0.9
Vehicle O&M Costs              13.3        -        13.3
Other O&M Costs                21.2        -        21.2
Salaries and Allowances       65.6        45.3      20.3
Overseas Training and
Technical Assistance        24.8        24.8       -
Contingencies                 80.5        55.6      24.9
Total                   354.4       244.9    109.5



- 27 -
Procurement
4.04      Vehicles.  Four-wheel vehicles with spares and equipment with an
estimated cif cost of US$2.1 M (net of contingencies) would be procured
through international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank
Group guidelines. A preference limited to 15% of the cif price of imported
goods or the import duty, whichever is lower, would be extended to local
manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. ICB would be impractical for pro-
curement of bicycles and motorcycles (cif cost of US$0.6 M, net of contin-
gencies) which are to be purchased by departmental staff in accordance with
their own preference. The concerned agencies would provide loans to staff
for the purchase of bicycle and motorcycles, following procedures satisfactory
to IDA. Small off-the-shelf items costing less than US$10,000, which cannot
be purchased in packages suitable for international tendering and items
needed urgently for expeditious project implementation together with certain
specific items requiring standardization (such as laboratory equipment) would
be procured through prudent shopping. Non-ICB purchases would be limited to
an aggregate of US$1.2 M.
4.05      Buildings.  Most buildings (base cost US$5.4 M) would be unsuitable
for ICB because they would be small, low cost and scattered throughout the
rural areas of the entire country, and, as such, would cost more if grouped
into large contracts. Accordingly, construction of buildings would be awarded
to local contractors through local competitive bidding to be executed at the
District level by the Civil Engineering Unit of DA, following GOSL procedures
acceptable to IDA. The supervision capacity of the Unit would be adequately
strengthened (para 3.27 and 3.28). DA would obtain allocations from Government
for cement, steel products, lumber and roofing material and will then use these
allocations to facilitate procurement of construction material from regional
or District level go-downs (of the Building Material Corporation, Cement
Corporation, Timber Corporation and Steel Corporation) by local contractors.
4.06      Overseas Training and Technical Assistance.  Overseas training of
project staff (base cost US$355,000) would be conducted according to plans
prepared by DA and concurred with IDA. Hiring of consultants for assistance
in project implementation and overseas training (base cost US$1.3 M) would
be in accordance with IDA guidelines (para 3.34).
Disbursements
4.07      Disbursements would be made for: 1/
(a) 100% of cif cost of equipment, vehicles and spares procured
through ICB;
(b) 100% of ex-factory cost or 65% of local cost of equipment,
vehicles and spares procured through non-ICB procedures;
(c) 100% of the cost of technical assistance and overseas
training;
1/   All costs listed in this paragraph include base costs plus price con-
tingencies.



- 28 -
(d) 65% of the cost of building construction, including con-
struction material; and
(e) 65% of costs of salaries and allowances of incremental staff.
Disbursement for item (e) would be made against Government statement of
expenditures, the documentation for which would be audited and retained for
review by IDA supervision missions. All other disbursements would be made
against full documentation. The Project Director, the Director of DA,
would be responsible for submitting applications for IDA reimbursement.
4.08      It is expected that disbursement would be completed by March 31,
1985, about six months after the end of project implementation. The semi-
annual schedule of disbursements is estimated to be as follows:
1979/80   1980/81   1981/82   1982/83    1983/84    1984/85
IDA Fiscal Year
and Semester    1    2    1    2    1    2    1        2      1    2      1    2
Cumulative
Disbursements   0   .7    2.1  4.5  6.1  7.8  9.5  11.0  12.6 14.0  15.5 15.5
(us$ M)
Any funds remaining in the credit account, after the end of project imple-
mentation, would be cancelled unless, subject to IDA's concurrence, suitable
project related expenditures can be identified.
Accounts and Audits
4.09      Assurances have been obtained from GOSL that agencies involved in
disbursing project funds (DA, DAPH, CCB) would prepare and maintain separate
accounts for the project in accordance with sound accounting practices; that
such accounts, together with disbursement documents, would be audited annually
by independent auditors acceptable to IDA, that the Project Director would
consolidate the accounts from the various agencies and submit to IDA certified
copies of the audited accounts together with the auditor's reports within six
months of the end of each fiscal year; and that the audit report would include,
inter alia, a statement verifying that funds disbursed by IDA against state-
ments of expenditures had been used for the purpose for which they were
provided.
Cost Impact on the Budget and Society
4.10      The capital cost of the project, excluding all operating costs but
including contingencies, would amount to about US$16.1 M, about US$10 per
farm family and US$3.5 per ac of cultivated land (excluding tea and rubber
land). Incremental annual operating costs at full development would amount
to US$1.6 M, US$1 per farm family or less than US$0.5 per acre. The capital
cost, which would be spread over five years would amount to about 85% of DAs
capital budget before project implementation. Incremental operating costs
at full development would amount to about 30% of DA's current annual operat-
ing budget.



- 29 -
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND OPERATION
Project Implementation and Coordinat:ion
5.01      The Department of Agriculture (DA) of the Ministry of Agricultural
Development and Research (MADR) would be the project implementing agency.
A Ministry level Project Coordination Committee would be formed under the
chairmanship of the Secretary of MADR to coordinate policy matters with GOSL
and to ensure interministerial coordination and support of the unified T&V
extension system. Membership of the Committee, in addition to MADR senior
officers, would include senior representatives from the following Ministries:
(a) Ministry of Rural Industrial Development -- the directly
concerned agency under the Ministry is the Department of
Animal Production and Health (DAPH) and the Livestock
Development Board (NLDB) (paras 3.04, 3.07, 3.09 and 3.33).
(b) Ministry of Coconut Industries--Coconut Cultivation Board
(CCB) (para 3.04, 3.07, 3.09 and 3.33).
(c) Ministry of Mahaweli Development--Mahaweli Development
Authority (para 3.04).
(d) Ministry of Land and Land Development--Department of
Irrigation (DI) and Department of Land Commissioner (DLC)
(para 3.04).
(e) Ministry of Finance and Planning.
(f) Ministry of Plan Implementation.
Appointment of the Project Coordination Committee would be a con-
dition for credit effectiveness.
5.02     The Director of DA would be the Project Director.  Project activities
relating to extension, adaptive research, training, economics and civil engi-
neering would be under the charge of Deputy Directors for extension, research
and training, the Chief Economist and Superintending Engineer of DA, each
supported by their staff. An organization Chart of DA is given in Chart 1.
A special Project Unit would be established in DA under the Chairmanship of
the Director in order to monitor the project implementation and manage the
project account. DAPH, NLDB, CCB, DI, DLC and the Mahaweli Development
Authority would each appoint a Senior Officer who would be responsible for
liason with DA on project matters under their jurisdiction. Director of DA
would call meetings of other agencies when needs arise, or at the request of
other agencies.



- 30 -
5.03      Close dialogue among officers engaged in research, adaptive re-
search, extension and training would be fostered by the establishment of
Regional Technical Working Groups headed by Directors of RRCs. DAEOs in the
region, Director of RTCs, economists attached to RRCs, their respective
senior technical staff concerned and senior subject matter specialists of
livestock and coconut in the region would meet at least twice a year and as
often as necessary to discuss such matters within AER as:
(a)  Farmers' responses to adaptive research and demonstration
plots.
(b)  Results of adaptive research and field demonstrations
of the season just ending and plans for the next season.
(c)  Priority crops and animals and priority extension messages
for the next season.
(d)  Upgrading of extension and training materials.
5.04      At the District level, the DAEO would be responsible for formula-
ting the extension program for each season in his District and supervising
the program implementation through AOs, SMOs, AIs and KVSs serving under
him. He would report to the Deputy Director for Extension of DA. He would
be responsible also for coordinating (a) with livestock and coconut officers,
who report to their own Departments, for providing training to KVSs and AIs
(para 3.07), and with ADA and DAS officers on supply of inputs in the District.
Director of DTC, Economic Assistant, and Civil Engineering Inspector and
Overseers stationed in the District would report to Deputy Director for Train-
ing, Chief Economist and Superintending Engineer of DA respectively, but DAEO
would maintain close lateral administrative coordinations among officers of
different branches of DA. No project committee is deemed necessary, because
activities for extension, training, research and economics are quite self-
contained. Technical dialogue would be achieved by the Regional Technical
Working Group (para 5.03) while routine inter-Divisional liason can be main-
tained within DA's own administrative hiearchy.
5.05      The DAEO would submit copies of his seasonal (maha and yala) plans of
project activities to the District Minister and Secretary for review, and would
follow-up with periodic progress reports. He would also provide the material
to the District level officers of other agencies participating in the project.
A project organization chart is given in Chart 2.
Implementation Schedule
5.06      It would take five years to complete the project (Chart 3).  The
implementation of most components would be spread over 4-5 years. Exceptions
would be: (a) recruitment of additional civil engineering staff of DA,
(b) procurement of four-wheel vehicles and equipment, and (c) employment of
project consultants, all of which would be concentrated in the first two years.



- 31 -
The T&V extension system is scheduled to cover all Divisions of the country
over a four year period. Existing IDA project areas would be given priority in
phasing.
Monitoring and Evaluation
5.07      Monitoring of the project's progress would be through quarterly and
annual reports by all participating agencies and by field units of DA. The
format of these reports would be agreed between MADR, DA and IDA. These
periodic progress reports would be submitted by the Project Director to the
Project Coordination Committee, other Government agencies concerned, and IDA.
5.08      The evaluation of the project impact would be conducted on a con-
tinuous basis through the seasonal collection and analysis of farm record
sheets from a sample of about 5,000 farmers (para 3.25 (b)). This work would
be done by the Agricultural Economic Unit of DA. The Unit would submit annual
reports to the Project Director for transmittal to the Project Coordinating
Committee, other concerned Government agencies and IDA. A plan for this
evaluation work would be agreed between DA and IDA.
operation and Maintenance
5.09      The operation of the T&V system of extension as well as the adaptive
research and other project activities would continue after project completion.
The DA would continue to be the agency responsible for the work and incre-
mental staff appointed under the project would continue to be employed to
perform their respective work.
5.10      Operation and maintenance of project constructed buildings would
be carried out by the Civil Engineering Unit of DA. Project procured four
wheel vehicles and farm machinery would be maintained by the Mechanical
Engineering Unit of DA; research and audio-visual aid equipment, by the
Equipment Repair Workshop of the Central Rice Research Station. Motorcycles
and bicycles sold to project field staff would be maintained by private work-
shops. Funds for operation and maintenance expenditures after the project
completion, would be financed through annual budgetary appropriation by GOSL
to DA. Assurances have been obtained from GOSL that after the project comple-
tion, it would provide adequate funds to DA for the satisfactory operation of
the extension services, adaptive research and other project activities,
continuous employment of the project staff and for the satisfactory operation
and maintenance of all necessary equipment, vehicles and buildings through
the annual budget appropriation.
Building Construction Capacity of DA
5.11      The Civil Engineering Unit of DA is one of two branches under a
Deputy Director (Engineering), the other branch being for Agricultural Engi-
neering. The Unit is headed by a Superintending Engineer and has a head-
quarters staff of four Engineers (graduates), six Engineers' Assistants
(diploma), and five draftsmen, and a field staff of 19 inspectors (Technical



- 32 -
School Certificate) and 50 overseers. The Department's current building
program is worth about Rs 7 million (US$450,000) a year, about half by force
account and the balance by contracting out to local private contractors.
Under the project, the Civil Engineering Unit will be adequately strengthened
to handle an annual building construction program about three times that of
DA's current program (paras 3.27 and 3.29).
5.12      Because of sharply increased demand from the accelerated Mahaweli
Ganga development projects, increased externally assisted projects and lively
private construction as a result of the liberalized economic policy, Sri Lanka
is experiencing a shortage of building material of all kinds.   The quantity
of building material required by the project will only be a small fraction of
the total need in the country. However, project construction would involve a
large number of widely scattered small buildings and it is not possible to
have centralized procurement of building material. Small contractors would
experience difficulty in obtaining supplies unless they paid exhorbitant
prices. However, GOSL has agreed to facilitate the supply of building
material for this project (para 4.05).
DA's Financial Management
5.13      Under the present financial management system of DA, the DAEOs and
officers in charge of research and training centers are given a petty cash
advance of Rs 500, renewable on request. Within the same amount, any single
expenditure item of more than Rs 100 requires prior approval of DA. The above
limitations are deemed overly restrictive for expeditious implementation of
the project. Assurances has been obtained from GOSL that the financial man-
agement system of DA would be decentralized and DAEOs and the heads of
research and training institutions would be authorized to disburse against
expenditures within limits of an approved budget, and that the new system
would become effective before December 31, 1979.
VI. PRODUCTION AND MARKETING
Production
6.01      Paddy yield and production in Sri Lanka recorded significant in-
creases during the 1960s, but took a down turn in early 1970s (para 2.04),
despite the increased use of fertilizers (para 2.25). During the 1970s, how-
ever, work on identifying production constraints in different AERs (Annex 1,
para 10-18) and development of new rice HYVs with different growth duration
and other field crops have made substantial progress. Under the project, the
new knowledge and varieties would be used to good advantage in an effort to
increase yields and to reduce crop exposure to risks and failures (para 3.09
(a)). It would be reasonable to expect, as a consequence of the project,
that production of paddy and other crops would increase substantially over
the "without project" conditions.



- 33 -
Marketing
6.02       Government purchases paddy through the Paddy Marketing Board which
has the paddy milled and rice distributed under the Government's ration
system. About 31% of the paddy crop was purchased by the Board in 1977. The
Ministry of Trade and the Cooperative Mtarketing Federation market about 25%
of the fruits and vegetables produced in the country and the Coconut Marketing
Authority helps market coconuts by operating copra auction floors and by the
regulation and licensing of traders (para 2.33 to 2.35). Despite these
Governmental activities, most of the marketing of food products is handled by
the private trade, and with the liberalization of economic policy under the
new Government, private marketing activities are expected to expand according-
ly. Since Sri Lanka imports significant quantities of food, the increased
domestic output would substitute for imported food and would be marketed
through some of the facilities currently used to distribute imported food.
The existing marketing facilities for copra are adequate to market the increase
in coconut production expected in the future. There are also ample local
facilities to handle the larger production of livestock products expected
from the project. In short, marketing does not appear to be a constraint
on the effectiveness of the project.
Farmer Incentives
6.03      Prices for paddy have recently been strengthened by increasing the
Guaranteed Purchase Price from Rs 33/bushel to Rs 40, by the purchase of rice
by the Food Department through open market tender and by raising the price
for imported flour through gradual removal of the subsidy on flour. These
measures raised market prices for paddy about 20% in 1978 to about Rs 44/
bushel. The profitability for minor food crops, such as onions, chillies,
potatoes and other fresh vegetables has been quite good in recent years and
prices for fresh coconuts were recently increased by 30%. Seasonal credit
was readily available to farmers in 1977/78, but poor collections may cause
some tightening of credit for farmers in 1978/79. Prices for fertilizer were
increased in 1978 because of a decline in the subsidy from 75 to 50%. For
example, the price of NPK increased by more than 55% to about Rs 1,650/metric
ton. This price compares with the market price for paddy of about Rs 2,156/
metric ton--a ratio of paddy to fertilizer of 1.3:1. Higher prices for inputs
and the tightening of the supply of seasonal credit may cause some reluctance
on the part of farmers to increase the use of inputs. However, prices for
commodities are at the moment, high enough to provide incentives to many
farmers, especially those with small holdings, who can increase output by the
adoption of the labor intensive packages which will be promoted under this
project (para 3.09 and 3.10). In the long run, a rational agricultural
pricing policy would be essential. The proposed work of the DA's Economics
Unit under the project would produce information necessary for the imple-
mentation of such a policy.



- 34 -
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
Economic Justification
7.01      Attributing a precise level of benefits to this type of project is
difficult since it is impossible to determine what proportion of the benefits
expected from improved agricultural practices are due to extension alone and
what are due to past research efforts or additional purchased inputs. In
practice, it is often the combination of all these, with extension playing a
catalytic role, that brings the desired benefits. However, since the project
relies primarily on reorganization and strengthening of an existing extension
structure and on more intensive use of proven research results, the incremental
cost per hectare and per farm family of the project is very low (para 4.10).
Hence, even very small and slow production increases generate a high rate of
return. For example, this project would generate a rate of return of more
than 50% if by 1985 yields are 1.5% higher than they would have been without
the project. Such an increase would imply an increase in yield per acre for
paddy of only 1 bushel (45 lbs) per acre, for corn of 0.15 bushels (8.6 lbs),
for sweet potatoes of 0.52 cwt (58 lbs) and for cowpeas of only 0.10 bushels
(6.3 lbs). Where the T&V extension system has been effectively applied for a
few years in India, yield increases have far exceeded these levels. Moreover,
the practices initially stressed by the extension service usually focus on
improved cultural practices (para 3.09) which usually involve better use of
labor but little cash outlay. They are, thus, particularly well suited to
the needs of the small cultivator.
Social Benefits
7.02      In the past, agricultural development strategy has been aimed at
achieving production increases mainly through investment in irrigation, land
reclamation/settlement and through recommendations for the use of "optimal"
packages of practices, involving improved varieties with substantial doses of
fertilizer, pesticides and herbicides. These improvements were frequently
financed by credit, often not available to small farmers. The extension
service under the project would focus first on improved cultural practices and
farm management combined with low cost inputs; this would primarily involve
more labor--an asset most small farmers have in abundance. It thus provides an
opportunity for small and marginal farmers to enjoy the benefits of increased
productivity. Aside from generating high economic benefits at low costs, in
general, the project would, therefore, also have a considerable beneficial
impact on the lot of small and marginal farmers.
Project Risk
7.03      The transfer of multipurpose field workers and the establishment
of a single, unified, professional extension service marks a major departure
from past practice in Sri Lanka. The fact that such a significant reform
will be undertaken in the entire country reflects a strong commitment to
developing an extension system capable of serving all farmers well. Never-
theless, because of pressure from interested parties, it is sometimes difficult



- 35 -
for governments to maintain such decisions. The main risk, therefore, is that
the Government will find it difficult to maintain a single line of command from
extension headquarters to full time KVSs who work exclusively on agricultural
extension. To reduce these risks, substantial efforts were made during project
preparation and appraisal to ensure full understanding of the importance of
this commitment. GOSL has agreed that extension officers will spend full time
on extension education work and that responsible DA officials, including the
DAEOs, will control the transfer of extension officers (para 3.04).
7.04      Experience in other countries has shown other risks to be minimal.
Farmer responsiveness to recommendations has been generally excellent wherever
visits are made systematically. The ability of extension services to develop
and disseminate recommendations leading to yield increases well above the
1.5% needed for a 50% rate of return has also been demonstrated. Initially,
technology has not been a major constraint, as there is a backlog of research
findings as yet not widely adopted. Just bringing the production of the
average farmer up to that of the best brings major yield increases. To reduce
the risk of technological constraints which could lower anticipated project
benefits, the project supports a program of adaptive research and improved
training.
VIII. AGREEMENT REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      Agreements on the following points have been reached with GOSL:
(a) Extension officers (AO, SMO, AI and KVS) in all districts
would attend full time to extension education work, and their
training and visit schedules would not be interferred with at
any time. These officers would not be transferred out or
replaced by new men except for unsatisfactory performance
of their scheduled duties and at the discretion of respon-
sible officials of DA including DAEOs (para 3.04).
(b) Ministry of Rural Industrial Development and Ministry of
Coconut Industry would designate their District level
officers to serve as subject matter officers on animal
husbandry and coconut cultivation for training the village
and range level extension officers of DA who would pass on
extension messages to farmers (para 3.04).
(c) Ministry of Mahaweli Developoment and Ministry of Land and
Land Development would entrust extension work in Mahaweli
Ganga development projects, irrigation projects and special
project areas to DA (para 3.04).
(d) GOSL would assure timely supply of building material for
the project according to the need and an agreed timetable
(para 3.27).



- 36 -
(e) DA would submit a plan for strengthening its building
construction capability satisfactory to IDA before
December 31, 1979, and would implement the agreed plan
accordingly (para 3.28);
(f) Consultants would be appointed before January 31, 1980
according to terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA
(para 3.34).
(g) Agencies involved in disbursing project funds (DA, DAPH, CCB)
would prepare and maintain separate accounts for the project
in accordance with sound accounting practices. Such accounts,
together with disbursement documents, would be audited annually
by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. The Project Director
would consolidate the accounts from the various agencies and
submit to IDA certified copies of the audited accounts
together with the auditor's reports within six months of
the end of each fiscal year. The audit report would include,
inter alia, a statement verifying that funds disbursed by
IDA against statements of expenditures had been used for
the purpose for which they were provided (para 4.09).
(h) After the project completion, GOSL would provide adequate
funds to DA for the continued satisfactory operation of the
extension services, adaptive research and other project
activities, continuous employment of the project staff and
for the satisfactory operation and maintenance of all neces-
sary equipment, vehicles and buildings through the annual
budget appropriation (para 5.10).
(i) The present financial management of DA would be decentralized
and DAEOS and officers in charge of research and training
institutions would be authorized to disburse against expen-
ditures within limits of approved budgets, and that the new
system would become effective before December 31, 1979
(para 5.13).
8.02      A condition for credit effectiveness would be the appointment of
Project Coordination Committee (para 5.01).
8.03      With the above assurances and conditions, the proposed project
would be suitable for an IDA credit of US$15.5 M on standard IDA terms. The
Borrower would be the Democratic Republic of Sri Lanka.
May 17, 1979



ANNEX 1
PEage 1
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE
RESEARCH PROJECT
Production Constraints on Agricultural Production
and Available Research Information for Extension
in Sri Lanka
A. Physical Environment
1.        Sri Lanka's 16.2 M ac of land is divided into three climatic zones:
a wet zone of 3.8 M ac in the southwest quadrant, a dry zone of 10.3 M ac
comprising the bulk of the island in the northeast, north, west and south-
east, and an intermediate zone of 2.1 M ac sandwiched in between the two.
Land Form
2.        The three climatic zones are subdivided into seven major agro-
ecological zones by altitude and land form. Both the wet and intermediate
zones range from "low-country" (0-1,000 ft above MSL), "mid-country" (1,000-
3,000 ft) to "up-country" (3,000 ft-8,000 ft). The big dry zone has only
the low-country. The land form of low-country varies from flat to undulating,
while the mid- and up-country vary from undulating, rolling, hilly, steeply
dissected to mountainous (Map 14076).
Rainfall
3.        Mean annual rainfall varies from 90 inches to 200 inches in the
wet zone, 60 inches to 90 inches in the intermediate zone and 35 inches to
60 inches in the dry zone. Rainfall generally increases from low-country
towards up-country, and from coastal areas towards the heart land. The
northern tip of the island and southeast coastal area have the lowest rain-
fall. Rainfall over the island follows a bimodual pattern under the influ-
ence of the NE (October to January) and SW (May to September) monsoons. The
pattern is most distinct in the dry zone, and becomes increasingly less dis-
tinct towards the intermediate zone and the wet zone low-country. In the
wet zone mid- and up-country, the bimodual pattern is blurred by heavy inter-
monsoon cyclonic rains.
4.        What is important to agriculture is the sufficiency and reliability
of rainfall. The 75% annual rainfall expectancy value of the wet zone varies
from 125 inches to 55 inches, the intermediate zone, 85 inches to 35 inches,
and the dry zone, only 35 inches to 20 inches. A 75% expectancy of dry
spells occur only in late January through early March in the Wet Zone, June
through September throughout the intermediate zone (also February through June
in low-country) and January through September throughout the dry zone (Map
37



ANNEX 1
Page 2
14076). Thus, the wet zone has a year round sufficiency of moisture; instead,
drainage and floods are constraints to crops grown on low land. The high
frequency of dry spells is the major constraint for agriculture in the dry zone
and intermediate zone low-country.
Temperature
5.        A 30 year average (1931-60) of maximum and minimum air temperatures
varies from 68 F and 510F at wet zone up-country stations to 89 F and 770F in
lowland dry zone stations. Temperature is not a limiting factor for crop
production, except at high altitude where farmers avoid growing certain annual
field crops due to risk of frost damage during the coldest months.
Soils
6.        Map 14077 shows 17 great soil groups and sub-groups.  At a glance,
the center area consists of major soil groups each forming large contiguous
units while, the coastal area consists of a complex of minor soil groups. The
distribution of the more important soil groups are summarized below. Their
implication on land use and management problems are discussed in paras 10
through 18 in connection with research and extension.
7.        Dry Zone Soils.  The predominant soil group in both the north and
south dry zones is the Red Brown Earth. This one soil group, in association
with Low Humic Gley Soils (on valley depressions) occupies about 5.00 M ac 1/
or about 30% of Sri Lanka's total land area. The lion's share of the Mahaweli
Ganga development project and all of the Tank Irrigation Modernization Project
areas have such an association of soil groups. The second important soil
group in the dry zone is the Alluvial Soils which exist in all Dry Zone
Districts in the form of scattered flood plains and riverine lands of differ-
ent sizes, with a total area of about 1.0 M ac. The third major group is
the Red and Yellow Latosols with a total area of about 0.75 M ac. This
group dominates in NW and NE Coast Areas and the Jaffna Peninsula. The
East Coast between Trincomalee and Amparai is dominated by the Non-Calic
Brown Soils (about 0.45 M ac) and the alluvial soils mentioned above. Other
soil groups along the coasts of the Dry Zone include sandy regosols (elevated
beech plains, sand bars), alkaline and saline soils, and some black clay
soils, with a total of about 1.00 M ac.
8.        Wet Zone Soils.  The dominant soil group in the Wet Zone is the
Red Yellow Podzolic Soils. It covers a total of about 3.50 M ac in the
heartland of the Wet Zone where tea, rubber and coconut plantations are
concentrated. It also covers a substantial part of the better drained paddy
fields and lush home gardens of the Wet Zone. Along the SW Coast, there are
Bog and Half Bog Soils, and sandy regosols, totalling about 0.25 M ac.
1/   Areas of different soil groups given in para 7 through 9 are not precise.
They are quoted to give an order of magnitude.
38



ANNEX 1
Page 3
9.        Intermediate Zone Soils.  The Kurunegala District typifies the
transition of the Dry Zone and Wet Zone soils. Its northern part belongs
to the dry zone and has the typical Red Brown Earth and Low Humic Gley
Soils association. The middle part of Kurunegala is typified by Red Brown
Earth on the rounded top and upper slopes of the undulating topography,
Non-Calcic Brown Soils on middle slope, and Low Humic Gley Soils in the
valley bottoms, totalling about 0.4 M ac, while the southern part is domi-
nated by the Red Yellow Podzolic Soils, typical of the Wet Zone, in asso-
ciation with Low Humic Gley Soils in valley bottoms, totalling about 0.40 M
ac. To the immediate southwest of Kurunegala (parts of Matale and Kandy
districts) is a solid block of Reddish Brown Latosolic Soils in association
with Immature Brown Soils, totalling about 0.30 M ac. Circling around the
NE, E and SE boundaries of the Wet Zone, and neatly separating solid blocks
of Red Brown Earth of the Dry Zone and Red Yellow Podzolic Soils of the Wet
Zone is a contiguous winding belt of Red Brown Earth in association with
Immature Brown Loams, the former on gentler slope and the latter on steeper
slopes, totalling about 0.75 M ac.
B. Regional Research Centers (RRC) and Major Crop Management
Problems in Their Respective Regions
Distribution of RRCs and Special Stations
10.       The distribution of RRCs and other important stations of DA is
shown in Map 14078. The agro-ecological regions these stations serve are
given as follows:
RRC and Special Stations           Districts        AER Served (Map 14076)
Existing RRC
Maha-Illuppallama               Anuradhapura        DLI North.
Angunakalapellessa              Hambantola          DLU  South, DL5.
Gannoruwa                       Kandy               WM, WM2, WM3.
Bombuwela                       Kalutara            WLI, WL2, WL3, WL4.
Bandaraweda                     Badulla             IUI, IU2, IU3.
New RRC (to be established)
Karadiyan Aru                   Batticaloa          DL2.
Parahthan                       Jaffna              DL3, DL4 far North.
Katugampola                     Kurunegala          ILl, IL2, IL3.
Central Rice Res. Station       Kurunegala          Rice Research countrywide.
Sita Eliya                      Nuwewa Eliya        Root, tuber crops and vege-
table research, WUl, WU2, WU3.
Minor Exportable Crop           Kandy               Research on Minor Exportable
Research Institute                                Crops.
39



ANNEX 1
Page 4
C. Present Land Use and Major Crop Management Problems in
Different Regions
11.       Maha-Illuppallama Regional Research Centers (MI-RRC):
(a) Agro-Ecological Region - Dry zone, low-country, North (DLl).
(b) Major soil groups present - Red Brown Earth on mounds and
slopes of an undulating topography and Low Humic Gley soils
in valleys.
(c) Present land use -- in simplified terms, the rural scene
of this region may be visualized as a vast expanse of natural
monsoon forest opened up over many centuries at many places
for settlement in colonies where irrigation tanks have been
built. In tank command areas, the Low Humic Gley soils are
planted entirely to rice in both maha and, in smaller acreage,
yala seasons; the Red Brown Earth adjoining the Low Humic
Gley Soils are planted also to rice and some other field
crops in the maha season. Significant irrigated sugarcane
development of the Kantalai plantation is mainly on Red Brown
Earth. Outside the tank command areas, rainfed rice is grown
on Low Humic Gley soils, while rainfed coarse grains, grain
legumes and sugarcane for making brown sugar are grown on
Red Brown soils on very gentle slopes. Slash and burn
(chena) cultivation of rainfed coarse grains, grain legumes,
chillies, oil seeds, etc., is widely practiced in the forest
land and low yielding home gardens are grown on housing plots
of settlers' homestead, both mainly on Red Brown Earth.
(d) Major crop management problems include a:
(i) Need for improving on-farm water management prac-
tices for fuller use of rain and economical use
of tank water on maha rice, so that higher yields
of maha rice can be obtained and larger areas of
yala rice planted. Sophisticated practices to
this end are being introduced under the Tank
Irrigation Modernization Project (Project Cr.
666-CE), while less sophisticated practices
are to be promoted in this northern part of the
Kurunegala District under the Kurunegala Rural
Development Project (Cr. 891-CE).
(ii) Need for coordinated use of available tractor and
animal power for early completion of land prepara-
tion on Red Brown Soils. A Farm Power Study is
being conducted by a UNDP Umbrella project.
40



ANNEX 1
Page 5
(iii) Need for providing adequate drainage to rice fields
on Low Humic Gley Soils (Included under Cr. 666).
(iv) Need for weed control and prevention of soil surface
sealing in early growth stages of crops grown on Red
Brown Earth.
(v)  Need for land selection for growing rice, coarse grains,
grain legumes, oil seeds and other field crops, and use
of drought tolerant varieties for all crops on Red
Brown Earth.
(vi) Need for judicious use of varieties with different
growth durations for growing rice on upper and lower
terraces and valley bottoms.
(vii) Need for stabilizing or prolonging the land use period
of chena cultivation (study will be included in a CIDA 1/
assisted Dryland Farming Research Project starting
October 1978).
11.       Kardiyan Aru RRC
(a)  Agro-Ecological Regions - Dry Zone Low Country East (DL2).
(b)  Main Soil Groups Present - Red Brown Earth, Noncalcic Brown
Soils, Low Humic Gley Soils, Alluvial Soils. The Low Humic
Gley soils occur in association with either the Red Brown
Earth or Noncalcic Brown Soils in same manner as described
in para 10 (b). The Alluvial soils occur along rivers
draining into the Indian Ocean on the east coast, forming
large tracts along and between the two pronged river mouth
of the Mahaweli Ganga and also along and between rivers
which drain the large lakes in the National Wildlife
Sanctuary of the Ampari District.
(c)  Present Land Use -- The land use pattern of the Red Brown
Earth/Low Humic Gley Association is the same as described
in para 10. The Noncalcic Brown Soils have a similar land
use pattern as, but a significantly lower productivity than
the Red Brown Earth, because of its poorer natural fertil-
ity and higher droughtiness and erodibility. The Gal-Oya
Sugar Plantation is largely on noncalcic brown soils. The
alluvial soils are flood prone. Where soil texture is suf-
ficiently heavy or where irrigation is available, they are
being used for growing paddy. On light texture soils, some
vegetables and tobacco are being grown. Seasonally flooded
sandy beaches provide natural grassland for pasturing.
1/   International Development Agency of Canada.
41



ANNEX 1
Page 6
(d) Major Crop Management problems:
(i) Red Brown Earth and Low Humid Gley Soils same as para
10 (d).
(ii) Noncalcic Brown Soils - is more friable and therefore
easier to plow than the Red Brown Earth. Problems
mentioned in para 10 (d) (iv) through (vii) apply
to this soil group. It requires higher rate and more
split applications of fertilizers than the Red Brown
Earth to achieve satisfactory crop yields because of
its low natural fertility and sandier texture. Pro-
longing chena cultivation on these soils is more
difficult than on Red Brown Earth.
(iii)  Alluvial Soils - The main problem is flood prevention,
and the need for land selection for cultivation of
different crops, because of the wide variation in soil
texture (from sandy to clayey) and drainage (good to
very poor).
12.       Paranthan RRC
(a) Agro-Ecological Regions -- Dry Zone far North, (DL3, DL4).
(b) Major Soil Groups Present - Red Yellow Latosols, Calcic Red
Yellow Latosols, Alluvial Soils, Alkaline and Saline Soils,
Sandy regosols (beaches and dunes). The main body of the Red
Yellow Latosols, interspersed by alluvial soils, form a semi-
circle at the base of the Jaffna Peninsula, while the calcic
Red Yellow Latosols and other minor soil groups are prevalent
on the peninsula itself. Joining these two areas is a long
corridor dominated by Sandy Regosols on recent beach and
sand dunes.
(c) Present Land Use -- Red Latosols occur on mounds and slopes
of gently undulating land and have excessive permeability
while the Yellow Latosols are in the shallow depressions and
are imperfectly to poorly drained. Both are very deep soils.
Because of the rapid water infiltration rate of the Red
Latosols, tanks could not be constructed. There is, there-
fore, a conspicuous lack of organized settlements on these
soils. The present land use is mainly chena cultivation,
except for fairly extensive rainfed "Manawari rice" 1/ on
alluvial soils, and small patches of chillies, onions and
groundnuts where irrigation is available. On the other hand,
the Calacic Red Yellow Latosols in the Jaffna Peninsula, where
the groundwater is close to surface, supports highly intensive
cultivation of paddy, chillies, onions, tobacco and commer-
cially grown vegetables by lift irrigation. Palms and
42



ANNEX 1
Page 7
cashews are grown successfully without irrigation. The
alkaline and saline soils are largely barren except for
some paddy cultivation on saline soils during the maha
season. The Sandy Regosols are occupied by coconut,
cashews, scrub trees and natural coarse grasses.
(d) Major Crop Management Problems:
(i) Red Yellow Latosols -- These soils are presently under-
utilized. Research being conducted for intensive
cropping on Calcic Red Yellow Latosols, however, would
be applicable when Mahaweli Phase III reaches these
soils, or a deep tubewell project becomes feasible.
Some groundwater surveying has been done by the Irri-
gation Department. At present, "manawari" rice land
needs drought tolerant varieties.
(ii) Calcic Red Yellow Latosols -- These soils are already
being intensively cultivated with high value commercial
crops. Remaining problems are mainly agronomical, such
as further improvement of crop varieties, economic use
of fertilizers, pesticides and irrigation water, and
use of better seeds.
(iii) Alkaline and Saline Soils -- Not much can be done for
these soils until reclamation projects become feasible.
For the time being, selection and extension of salt
tolerant HYV's for existing maha rice fields would
be helpful.
(iv) Sandy Regosols -- Not much further improvement can be
done for these soils at the present level of technology,
except advising split application of fertilizers on
tree crops being grown.
13.       Angunakolapellessa RRC
(a)  Agro-Ecological Regions -- Dry Zone South, DL1 and DL5.  DL5
has the lowest rainfall and rainfall reliability in the entire
country.
(b)  Main Soil Groups Present -- Red Brown Earth/Low Humic Gley
soils association predominant, alluvial soils in finger strips
along small rivers entering ocean, alkaline/saline soils and
Sandy Regosal (beaches and dunes) along the southeast coast.
(c)  Present Land Use -- of DLl South is similar to DLI North, but
with more sugarcane for brown sugar and cotton. The A'pelessa-
RRC was established originally for cotton research under an
ADB assisted Uda Walawe Project managed by the River Valley
43



ANNEX 1
Page 8
Development Board, but was later transferred to DA. The
land use of alluvial soils is similar to those given under
para 11 (c). Sandy beaches and dunes are mainly covered by
natural coarse grasses for goat grazing.
(d) Major Crop Management Problems -- Problems faced by the
A'pellessa-RRC are similar to those of the Maha-Illuppallama-
RRC, but with greater emphasis on cotton, and more severe
drought hazards and saline and alkaline soil problems in
D 5 coastal areas.
14.       Gannoruwa RRC
(a) Agro-Ecological Regions -- Wet Zone mid country, WM1, WM2,
WM3.
(b) Major Soil Groups Present -- Red Brown Latosolic soils and
Immature Brown Soils in the north (WM3) and Red Yellow
Podzolic soils in the south (WM1 and 2).
(c) Present Land Use:
(i) Red Brown Latosolic Soils -- On slope land, tea, rubber,
coconut, mixed home gardens; on level and very gently
sloping land, vegetables and fruits, coconut, cocoa,
coffee, pepper, etc. and in valleys and terraced
slopes, rice.
(ii) Immature Brown Soils -- Where soils are deep, same as
Red Brown Latosolic soils; where soils are shallow,
vegetables, yams, etc., pasture in valleys and rice on
terraced slopes.
(iii) Red Yellow Podsolic Soils -- Tea, rubber, coconut,
pepper, coffee, cocoa, fruits, vegetables, rice, pasture.
(d) Field Crop Management Problems -- All above soils are well
drained and productive. The region generally does not suffer
from water shortage. The crop management problem faced by all
three soil groups is extensive soil erosion caused by the
prevailing steeply dissected hilly and rolling topography.
The Red-Yellow Podzolic soils have additional problems of
high acidity and localized minor element deficiency and
needs liming for high yield of most crops except rubber.
In ill-drained valley bottom rice soils, iron and/or
aluminum toxicity pose localized problems.
15.       Bombuwela RRC
(a) Agro-Ecological Regions -- Wet zone lowland WL1, WL2, WL3,
WL4.
44



ANNEX 1
Page 9
(b) Major Soil Groups Present:
(i) WLI and WLZ - Red Yellow podzolic soils and variations.
(ii) W.0 - Red Yellow Podzolic soils with laterites.
(iii)  WL4 - Bog and half bog soils and Red Yellow Podzolic
soils with laterites.
(c) Present Land Use:
(i)  Red Yellow Podzolic Soils -- Same as those described in
para 14 (c) (3).
(ii) Red Yellow Podzolic Soils with Laterites -- Mixed home
gardens, coconut, rubber, rice, pineapple.
(iii) Bog and Half Bog Soils -- Long duration traditional rice
varieties, reeds for mat weaving and waste land.
(d) Major Crop Management Problems:
(i)  Red Yellow Podzolic Soils -- Same as described in para
14 (d).
(ii) Red Yellow Podzolic Soils with Laterites -- Shallow
depth, presence of hard pan, low water-holding capacity
inspite of moderate infiltration rate, strong acidity.
(iii) Bog and half Bog Soil -- Strongly acidic when wet,
flood prone, can be cultivated only by hand labor,
prone to salt water intrusion, localized iron toxicity
and minor element deficiency.
16.       Bandarawela RRC
(a) Agro-Ecological Regions -- Intermediate Zone up-country,
IU1, IU2, IU3.
(b) Major Soil Groups Present -- Red Yellow Podzolic Soils and
Mountain Regosols.
(c) Present Land Use -- Forest, tea and grassland on mountain
slopes, temperate commercial vegetables, potatoes, temperate
fruits, and some paddy in valleys.
(d) Field Crop Management Problems:
(i) Non-utilization of rice land for about three months
from October to December because of the low temperature
and wetness of soil.
45



ANNEX 1
Page 10
(ii) Under-utilization of rice land during the semi-dry
months of June through August (only one rice crop
a year January to May). Land with better moisture
conditions, however, are planted to potatoes from
June to September.
(iii) Under-utilization of upland. Potato and vegetables
are grown from November to January while the rest of
the year is largely fallowed, because of the high
intensity rain from March to April and dryness from
June through August.
(iv) Soil erosion hazard of cultivated slope land.
(v) Failure for most "exotic" (meaning western type) vege-
table varieties to flower and set seeds, and failure
to produce sufficient virus free seed potatoes (cur-
rent production meets only about 10% of the country's
need).
(vi) Diseases and insects for all commercial crops.
(vii) Farmers in this region are already using a large amount
of fertilizers and pesticides on vegetable and potatoes
because of the high returns. They have a tendency to
use an overdose of fertilizers and pesticides. The
problem is to optimize the usage of cash inputs.
17.       Katugampola RRC
(a)  Agro-Ecological Regions -- Intermediate Zone Low-Country, ILl
and IL3.
(b)  Major Soil Groups Present.
(i) ILl -- Red Yellow Podzolic soils with strongly mottled
subsoils or with laterites, Low Humic Gley Soils,
Latosols and Regosols on old red and yellow sands.
(ii) IL3 -- Red Brown Earth, Noncalcic Brown soils, Low Humic
Gley Soils.
(c) Present Land Use.
(i) Red Yellow Podzolic Soils with Strongly Mottled Subsoils --
Coconut, mixed home gardens, rubber, forest and chena
cultivation.
(ii) Red Yellow Podzolic Soils with Laterites -- Coconut, mixed
home garden, rubber and pineapple.
46



ANNEX 1
Page 11
(iii)  Low Humic Gley Soils -- Paddy.
(iv)  Latosols and Regosols -- Coconut and cinnamon.
(v)   Red Brown Earth and Noncalcic Brown Soils -- Coconut
(thinning out), home gardens (less luxurious), and rain-
fed sugarcane for brown sugar. Where irrigation is
available, coarse grains and grain legumes are grown
in the maha, while chillies, onions and groundnut are
grown in the yala season.
(d) Major Crop Management Problems
(i)  Red Yellow Podzolic Soils -- Same as para 14 (d).
(ii)  Low Humic Gley Soils -- Same as para 10 (d) (3).
(iii)  Latosols and Regosols -- Presence of impervious layers
and perched water tables impairing root penetration of
coconut and home garden trees.
(iv)  Red Brown Earth and Noncalic Brown Soils -- Same as
para 10 (d) (1) (2) (4) and para 11 (d) (2).
18.       Sita Eliya (Special Station for Vegetables and Potatoes)
(a)  Agro-Ecological Zone -- Wet zone up-country, WUl, WU2, WU3.
(b)  Major Soil Groups Present -- Red Yellow Podzolic soils with
or without strongly mottled subsoils, Low Humic Gley Soils,
and Mountain Regosols.
(c)  Present Land Use -- Tea, forest, natural grasses, cardamon,
temperate vegetables fruits and potato.
(d)  Field Crop Management Problems:
(i)  Farmers do not plant annual crops in June and July
because of the very heavy rain, strong wind and low
temperature (down to 10-120C), nor do they plant
annual crops during December and January because
of possible frost damages.
(ii) Other Problems -- Same as Bandarawela RRC.
47



ANNEX 1
Page 12
D. Availability of Research Information for
Supporting the Extension Service
19.       In summarizing the above, solutions to some of the basic constraints
of different AERs caused by rainfall and soil characteristics as outlined in
paras 10 through 18 cannot be obtained without the help of irrigation or
drainage projects, improved farm power supply and research at a more sophis-
ticated level. The current research program of the Department of Agriculture
is mainly for evolving varieties and cultural practices adaptable to different
agro-ecological conditions as they exist. A thorough review of agricultural
research in Sri Lanka is beyond the perview of this report. In following
paragraphs, the current status of research on rice and other field crops will
be briefly reviewed with a limited purpose of identifying research results
which might be available for putting into extension, field demonstration and
adaptive research during the course of the next five years.
General Status
20.       There is an accumulation of rice research information in Sri Lanka
which can be put to use immediately through a strengthened extension system.
In recent years, research on other field crops has also been stepped up.
There are now ten on-going National Coordinated Research Programs as follows:
Crop-2/                 3/        2/           Con-                     5/
1/  ping   Coarse 3/ Grain  Roots &  Oilseeds   di- Vege-4/             Soy-
Station         Rice   System   Grain    Legume Tubers   & Fibers  ment tables Fruits Beans
Batalogoda       **        -         -         -       -          -       -    -       -
Gannoruwa        *         *         -         -      **         -        -    *       *      **
Maha-
Illuppallama    *          **       **        **      -          **       *    -       -      *
Bandarawela      *         *         *         *      *          -        **   *       -      -
Angunakolape-
lessa          -         *         *        *       -          *        *    *       -      *
Bombuwela        *         *         -         -       -          -       -    -       -
Sita Eliya            -              -         -      *          -        -   **      **
Thirunelvely    -          -         *         *      *           *       *    -       -
Aluttarama       *         -         -         -       -          -       -    -        -
Ambalantota      *         -         -         -       -          -       -    -              -
Parathan         *         *         -         -       -          -       -    -        -
Bentota          *         -         -         -       -          -       -    -       -
Mapalona         *         -         -         -       -          *       *    -        -
Labuduwa         *         -         -         -       -          -       -    -       -
Walpita          -         -         -         -       *          -       -    -       *
Karadianaru      *         -         -         -       -          -       -    -        -
*    Participating station.
**   Coordinating station.
-    Not participating.
1/   In cooperation with USAID/IRRI; 2/ With IDRC, and IPC on potatoes; 3/ With
CIDA; 4/ vegetables cultivars from AVRDC, and 5/ With UNDP/UNICEF/CARE.
48



ANNEX 1
Page 13
Status of Rice Research
21.       Rice HYVs have long been widely adopted by farmers in Sri Lanka.
In the 1977 yala season, 417,000 ac were reportedly planted to new HYVs and
102,000 ac to old HYVs, totalling 519,000. In the 1977/78 maha season,
854,000 ac were planted to new HYVs and 318,000 ac to old HYVs totalling
1,172,000 ac. The above total HYV areas are about 76% of the total 1977 yala
area (Annex 2, Table l(b)) and perhaps of an even higher percentage of the
total 1977/78 maha area (not yet available). Even allowing for over-reporting
of HYV areas, the data is sufficient to indicate that acceptance of rice HYV
is no longer a problem in Sri Lanka. The following table reveals that tradi-
tional rice varieties persist particularly on bog and half bog soils, saline
and alkaline soils, and soils with phosphorous deficiency and/or iron toxicity,
and the old HYVs (Taller than new HYVs) persist particularly on other types
of rainfed low land and rainfed upland. 1/
% of Area
Type of Paddy Land                 New HYV    Old HYV    Traditional    Total
Major Irrigation Schemes              82          18             0           100
Minor Irrigation Schemes              63          32             5           100
Rainfed Low Land
Well drained soils              32          36            32           100
Imperfectly drained             74          15            11           100
P205 deficient & Iron
toxicity                   15          29            56           100
Iron toxicity                   21          32            47           100
Bog and half bog,
saline and alkaline             0           3            97           100
Low temperature                  3          66            31           100
Manawari land                    6          63            31           100
Mawee land                      60           5            35           100
Rainfed upland                         0          84            16           100
Source: Estimated from a chart by Central Rice Research Institute,
Batalagoda.
22.       In view of the above, the current coordinated Rice Research Pro-
gram is aimed at: (a) breeding new HYVs adaptable to different AERs (includ-
ing drought resistante for the dry zone, flood tolerance for wet zone low
country, cold tolerance for mid- and up-country, and tolerance to problem
soils and insect/disease resistance in all AERs. Detailed rice research
objectives for different AERs are summarized in Table 1 of this Annex,
(b) conducting cropping system studies for increasing cropping intensity
on paddyland in conjunction with research on other field crops, particularly
on the rainfed and partially irrigated paddyland in all three major climatic
zones, and (c) conducting detailed survey, classification and mapping of
1/   Area of different type of land are given in Table 1 of this Annex.
49



ANNEX 1
Page 14
about 0.5 M ac of paddyland in the wet and intermediate zones where complex
land forms require different varieties and cultural practices for lands on
upper terraces, lower terraces and in valley bottoms in close proximity.
The above work is being assisted by USAID/IRRI. International Development
Research Council--Canada (IDRC) has completed in 1978 a two year assistance
project on cropping system studies.
23.       Some varieties which meet or partially meet the desired character-
istics of different conditions (Table 3) are already available. During the
next five years, new HYVs more suitable for the northern dry zone are expected
to be increasingly made available by the Maha-Illupallama RRC and Thirunelvely
Experiment Station, and those more suitable for the ill-drained soils and
problem soils of the wet zone low country, by the Bombuwela RRC. These new
HYVs could flow into adaptive research, demonstration and extension as soon as
they are ready. From the cropping system study, recommendations on varieties
and cultural practices for early planting of maha rice in order to utilize
maha rain more efficiently could run the same course, and hopefully enter the
extension stage towards later years of the project. Along with the extension
of available information on basic cultural practices, the use of fertilizers
and plant protection practices are expected to become more effective.
Status of Research on Other Field Crops
24.       Under the National Coordinated Research Programs, variety collection,
preservation and breeding programs for different crop categories have been
significantly strengthened, with assistance from cooperating external agencies
(para 20). Improved varieties derived from selections made from local and
introduced cultivars for different crops adaptable to different AERs may be
expected to become available during the course of the project. Those from
hybridization, mostly still in early generations, are not expected to yield
significant impact during the project period.
25.       Fertilizer and plant protection experiments for different crops
have also been expanded. Some of these experiments may be expected to yield
information useful to the project for higher value crops, i.e. potato, vege-
tables, irrigated chillies and onions and other condiments, but generally are
still constrained by a few research officers at each station having to cope
with a large number of crops.
26.       Along with improved varieties, on-going research on cultural
practices are expected to yield extension messages useful to the early years
of the project. These experiments are uncomplicated and can be handled quite
well by young officers. Examples of this type of experiment may be cited
as follows:
(a) Time of planting in relation to yield and disease incidences
and plant population in relation to yield and fertilizer
application rates being conducted for a wide range of crops
at many stations;
50



ANNEX 1
Page 15
(b) Irrigation frequency and method of irrigation for grain
legumes, vegetables, chillies, onions, and potatoes and
method of cutting seed potatoes (Thirunelvely, Jaffna);
(c) Organic and inorganic manures for condiment crops and
optimum time for harvesting potatoes (Banderawela RRC);
and
(d) Control of weeds in gingelly by cultural and agronomical
methods (Maha-Illuppallama RRC)..
The above type of experiments will yield extension messages which would help
to increase crop yields without requiring additional cash inputs, and at the
same time, they would enhance crop yield response when farmers do use fertil-
izers. Information on basic cultural practices being used by farmers presently
obtaining higher yields than others can also be used for extension to other
farmers in early project years.
27.       In summary, crop research in Sri Lanka is being carried out in a
practical manner commensurate to the capability of the present research staff.
It can be said quite categorically that availability of research information
in Sri Lanka will not be a constraint to effective implementation of this
project.
E. Packages of Extension Messages
28.       The messages to be conveyed by KVSs to farmers would be simple
and concentrated on practices which could produce a quick and profitable
response. Depending on the level of husbandry and financial capacity of
farmers in different AERs, different technical packages would be recommended.
The simplest packages would involve mainly improved cultural practices, but
little or no additional cash inputs. Increasingly other packages would include
cultural practices together with higher levels of fertilizers and pesticides.
29.       Varieties.  As a part of the initial extension package (Table 4,
Package A), the research and extension staff would: (a) articulate the adapt-
ation of existing rice HYVs with different growth periods (3 months, 3-1/2
months, 4-4-1/2 months) to different land forms (i.e. upper, mid and lower
terraces and valley depressions) and prevailing rainfall patterns in different
AERs, as well as in different parts of the same AER, to further the replacement
of old HYVs and traditional varieties with new HYVs; (b) articulate type of
land and soils most suitable for new varieties of other field crops, and (c)
include such information in extension packages, and select suitable land for
laying out adaptive research and demonstration plots.
30.       Cultural Practices.  Another important part of the initial exten-
sion package would be the improved cultural practices which involve mainly
increasing crop yield by more effective use of labor. Examples of such
practices include the following:
51



ANNEX 1
Page 16
(a) Paddy and other field crops - Selection of land and soil;
timing of land preparation and sowing; improved nurseries
(i.e. paddy and chilli); spacing (plant population); depth
of sowing or planting; weeding; soil moisture retention or
on-farm drainage as needed; timing and placing of fertilizers;
timing of irrigation if available; proper way of spraying;
special handling in harvesting, threshing, drying and stor-
age of seeds; selection of planting material from the proper
part of the matured plants (manioc, sugarcane, pineapple),
or the vine (sweet potato); proper methods of cutting seed
potatoes, etc. Such information is already available in DA
extension bulletins and leaflets, but has not been widely
dessiminated to farmers. Under the project, they would be
further specified for different AERs together with different
varieties to be used, and incorporated into the training and
extension material.
(b) Coconut - Identification of senile trees which should be
removed; proper nursery tree management and replanting after
the removal of senile trees; identification of signs where
soil conservation or drainage is needed; method of soil con-
servation and laying out drainage system; proper methods of
undercropping, with reference to (a) above; and proper sharing
of fertilizers between coconut and undercrops; etc.
31.       Extension packages involving increased use of fertilizers and agro-
chemicals are illustrated in Table 2, Packages B and C. The application rates
of these inputs and the expected crops yields given in Table 2 are only illus-
trative, rather than actual recommendations, as for different types of land
(irrigated or rainfed) and soils, the Regional Technical Working Group would
work out their respective recommended input application levels for different
packages for various crops (Main Report, para 5.03). Furthermore, future
fluctuations in prices of crops, inputs, farm wages, costs for hiring tractors
or draft animals would alter production costs, returns and benefit-cost ratios.
Such changes and economic feasibility of recommended extension packages would
be closely followed by the Economic Unit of DA (Main Report, para 3.25).
52



SRI LANKA                                             ANNEX 1
Table 1
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT                          Page 1
Rice RrpeA4ng Objectives for the Respective Edaphic Regimes
]    CDIIATIC ZONE  EDIPI7IC      ACREAGE    AVG.YIELD        RANGE: OF AGE CIA SS        SPFCIAL                         P. .A   I-
AND SOIL R3MION    RE3.IIE       (APPROX.)  LEVEL AID'         MAIR        YA1A            CONSIDERATIONS                 IDUO-TYPB
(1)        ~~~(2)           (3)'       Du   / AO (4          (5)                     (6),                             7)
L.Io  Country      1. A,%Jor
Dry Zono and        irriSF-       4.00,000         >125        344        3-34              High post and           Short or:ot type
a'oui-dry           timti                                                                                                high fortilisor
Intormo(into                                                                                 dstcrosponiso                       t.
zono~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eitm                                                           rna_ .  .
Alfiaolp          2. Minor
la and 1b            irrigp-       250,000     75 - jOO         3 -34      3                A&4ptbbln to             Intornmodlto typo with
tion                                                                   Somi-irrigetod          high fortilizor rnsponso
oo>tiwng                n'torato fortilisor
UDgoarl,y
at.agesof growth.
3. 4ainfod
3- nari     125,000     45 - 50          3 -4                        Drought tolrnwoo         hrl;r saidig hbilt & h4gh
FarA high root          fortilisor 1)ponao at low
vigour                  fortilisor lovol
4. Rainfod      125,000      40 - 45          3 -4      _                 Drought tolormnco       ltsrly  hading habit & high
Chomr                                                                  and high root           fortilizor rospo.so at low
tigour                  fortilisor lovol.
2. Low oountry       5(a) lrriga-      75,000     80 -100          4 -5      34             i.  High pest and           Imtvwo4a  t;po with
wot sozlL anrk'         tod and                                                              disaeRse resistanoe     high fortilisor
aomi-wet               no flood                                                           . 'i^l-re.e tc             response at moderate
intormodiato           Ztasard                                                               bronxing                featlisow  lovol
Sango ui.                                                                             iii.  Tolessme to
ing B     ultr                                                                               lo  P.
5(b) Irrigt-                                                       ioot tolamm n                   rator mddto *P" wVit
Ul    o*   tod with,                                                 at sarly stages         high fartilisor weOOop
2 ,2b & 2o               sOQO         25,000      60   80          4 -6     J                  of growth               at n&oMA't# ffrWl3ow
flood                                            -ii.  Tolrancon to                           level.
bronsing
Ln                                                                                   iii.  Tolerance to low I



ANNEX 1
Table l
Page 2
j (i )             ( 2 )           ( 3 )      (4)           ( 5 )                          ( 6)                 (7)
2. Lor count~ry     6. Rainfoml,                                                       i. Hi2h pepst and             irly s1r1ing and
wnt L <onO coundtryreRwLs r        200 ooo      50 - 70      4 - 6            - 5      disona.so rosistanco       Intrrnmo4into plant
wot zono and        strnpi, f -A    200,000    50  70       4   6             5       Tole rance to              typo with h.f.r. at
sIntemot dnd spriU  bronzing                                                                                      norerato fertilizer
zont, includ-                                                                      ii. Photo sonsitivity          lovol
ing ultra                                                                               ( for soro tracts in
wot rogions                                                                              xurunagana District)
b   Ultisols                                                                       iv. Toloraneo to low P.
2a8 2b & 2c
'continustion )    _-           -__                          _ ,
30 Low counttry     7. Swampy,         70,000     40 - 60    4 - 6           41 - 6    i. High post and              Intormoitn to tal
wot zono            Marshy,                                  and             nd         disease resistanco        p]nt typos with h.ftr.
ill-drainod         flood                                   3 - 3                  ii. Flood tolernanc  at        to low      wihzer    r.
lowlanda            pronn                                                      4        all stgo  of              tolorfrtlzw vh
ii. Tolrnrnce to salinity     Non-lodging ald medium
Histosols                                                                              at tidal oInvationS        tall typos fcr low
3-                                                                               iv. Photo sensitivity          elevations in bog soils.
v. Tolerance to
bronzing
4. Mid-country      8. Tcracs,                                                           iAdcqunto paniclc
wet and             saopos and   115,000        90 - 125    4 - 5        3 - 4          devolbpment boforo        Intermediate typo with
Intormodiato        narrow vrallys,                                                     floworing in orler        h.f.r. to moderate
zone                strraRm And                                                       -to onsure propor Sink      fertilizor lovola
fltiaoss spring fod                                                                     sizo
t                                                                                    ii.Toloranco to low P.
4s a: &b                                                                            iiiAdaptable to  w3da, modn
_     .                            .                                  and goda kumbura
5. Up country wot  9. brrow vnllOy                                                       I.Qold toloraneo              1Sgh photo synthotic
& Intonzediuto    sprir   f                                               A.      ii.TpIlornOo to low P.         officioscy
wno lilMap1b:b to 1 &v
M.&  "a eoda  bu*s
S 8alin&Adk1a     jtO. IrrieRt,d &                                                        Rlidt^Q to                   Intenaiato type
6                9somi-1rritt   45,000    80 - 10  34                3             salino nad /Or               with high fortilistt
6  infed                                                            alklU                        response to mlcdeorto
oonditions                   fertilizers levels.
Source: Research Division, Department of Agriculture



Table 2
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
SAMPLE EXTENSION PACKAGES AND ESTIMATED PRODUCTION COSTS AND RETURN
producIt4.w  Cost                                                                     .8&M&                                 Incremental
Crop                         Seed or planting   Fertilizer   Nutrients         Agro-         Animal or   Misc.   Total Cost           Labor         Total   Yield   Price         Gross       'Return to          return
Extension Package            Material                lb/ac                   Chemicals      Tractor              Ex-Labor      Manday/            Cost      per    per unit   Return         Labor
Unit/ac   Rs/ac       N    P205   R20   Es/ac       Es/ac          Rs/ac     Es/ac    Es/ac            ac     Es/ac   Es/ac    ac          Ra.    Rs/ac   Es/ac  Rs/Manday   Incre. Cost
Paddy                                                                                                                                                                   Per
Bushel                                                                                                                          Bushel   Bushel
Present practice             2.0       90        34    11    10        97         90           250        100       627           46       460    1,087    46          44       2,024   1,397        30           -
Package A                    2.0       90        34    11    10        97         90           270        110       657           51       510    1,167    50          44       2,200   1,543        30          2.2
Package B                    1.5       68        46    14    14       131        110           270        120       699           54       540    1,239    55          44       2,420   1,721        32          3.1
Package C                    1.5       68        58    17    17       162        125           270        130       755           58       580    1,385    60          44       2,640   1,885        33          2.3
Maize (Rainfed)                lb.                                                                                                                            Cwt.   Per Cwt.
Present practice             15        15        18    12      8       68         50           180         60       373           40       400       773    12         92       1,104      731       18           -
Package A                    15        15        18    12      8       68         50           180         60       373           44       440       813    13         92       1,196      823       19          2.3
Package B                    15        15        27    18    13       103         60           180         70       427           46       460       887    16         92       1,472   1,045        23          3.7
Package C                    15        15        35    24    17       135         75           180         80       485           48       480       965    19         92       1,656   1,171        24          2.4
Cowpea (Rainfed)                                                                                                                                             Cwt.    Per Cwt.
Present practice             35        47         6    12      9       47         -            180         60       334           35       350       684      8       138       1,104      770       22           -
Package A                    35        47         6    12      9       47         -            180         60       334           39       390       724     9        138       1,242      908       23          3.5
Package B                    35        47         9    18    13        70         20           180         70       387           41       410       797    12        138       1,656   1,269        31          5.8
Package C                    35        47        12    24    17        94         30           180         80       431           43       430       861    14        138       1,932   1,501        35          4.3
Manioc (Rainfed)            Cuttings                                                                                                                          Cwt.    Per Cwt.
Present practice          5,000       450        17      8    17       71         -            180         60       761           33       330    1,091    40           34       1,360     599       18           -
Package A                 5,000       450        17      8    17       71         _            180         60       761           38       380    1,141    44           34       1,496      735      19          2.7
Package B                 5,000       450        35    16    34       143         _            180         70       843           42       420    1,263    60           34      2,142   1,299        31          5.3
Package C                 5,000       450        52    24    50       222         _            180         80       932           45       450    1,382    75           34       2,550   1,618        36         3.4
Sesame (Rainfed)              lb.                                                                                                                            Cwt.    Per Cwt.
Present practice              8        18         4      8     6       30         -            180         -        228           27       270       505    2.5        220         550      322       12           -
Package A                     8        18         4      8     6       30         -            180         -        228           30       300       528    3.0        220         660     432       14          5.0
Package B                     8        18         8    16    12        63         -            180         -        261           32       320       581    3.5        220         770     509       16          2.1
Package C                     8        18        12    24    17        94         -            180         -        292           34       340       632    4.0        220         880      588       17         2.2
Chilli (Irrigated)            lb.                                                                                                                             Crt.    Per Cwt.
Present practice              1        30        21      8    11       69         70           270        100       539          100    1,000    1,539       .8        620      4,960   4,424        44            -
Package A                     1        30        21      8    11       69         70           270        100       539          120    1,200    1,730        9        620      5,580   5,041        42          3.1
Package B                     1        30        42    16    23       140        100           270        150       690          140    1,400    2,090    11           620       6,820   6,130       44          3.5
Package C                     1        30        63    24    34       209        150           270        200       859          160    1,600    2,459    13           620      8,060   7,021        44          3.4
Source of Data:  (1)  Adopted or adjusted from "Costs of Production of Some Selected Crops of Sri Lanka, Agricultural Economics Study No. 15.  Department of Agriculture, July, 1976.
(2) Fertilizer prices in term of nutrients -- calculated from IMF Consultation data, 1978.
(3) Present yields -- Annex 2, Table 3.
(4)  Fertilizer rates for package C -- Calculated from official ..r.onmnded ,Iosacm   e ,,.nteA in erticle era-A in (1   h.. eb
(5) Fertilizer rates for present practices, packages A and B -- Assumed percentages of recommended rates.
Note: The above table is schematic and illustrative, rather than actual recommendations. Obviously each AER would have its own specific recommendations to be decided by the Regional
Technical Working Groups (Main report, para. 3.15). Future fluctuations in prices of different crops, fertilizers and farm wages would alter costs, returns, and their ratios.
Such changes would be followed by the Economic Unit of the Department of Agriculture (Main report, para. 3.25). Improved cultural practices and varieties are important parts of
packages A, B, and C (para 31 of this Annex).



ANNEX 2
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Tables Concerning Crop Production
List of Tables
Table No.              Title
1.               - Paddy Statistics:
(a) "Asweddumized" Area
(b) Harvested Area
(c) Yield and Production
2.              - Coconut Area, Yield and Production 1960/76
3.               - Statistics of Other Crops:
(a) Area by Categories
(b) Area, Yield and Production of Selected Crops
4.               - Crop Trends, Growth Per Annum. 1960/74
5.               - Fertilizer Statistics:
(a) Crop Area and Fertilizer Use
(b) Nutrients per Acre
56(



ANNEX 2
Table 1 (a)
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Paddy Statistics (a) Asweddumized Area (ac)
Under             Under
Major             Minor             Under         Total
Year                     Irrigation        Irrigation        Rainfed       Acreage
1960                      325,242          338,013            496,842      1,160,097
1961                      339,306          344,258            496,454      1,180,018
1962                      337,538          351,525            508,036      1,197,099
1963                      361,935          364,163            504,398      1,230,496
1964                      365,950          370,414            512,798      1,249,162
1965                      381,456          376,576            514,632      1,272,664
1966                      402,331          388,583            532,403      1,323,317
1967                      401,626          385,393            544,033      1,331,052
1968                      413,795          380,237            555,025      1,349,057
1969                      429,971          394,967            560,771      1,385,709
1970                      441,255          400,602            566,562      1,408,419
1971                      447,564          403,424            568,207      1,419,195
1972                      454,805          411,835            581,763      1,448,403
1973                      465,561          407,612            566,701      1,439,874
1974                      485,353          416,804            596,330      1,498,487
1975                      501,542          428,591            605,707      1,535,840
57
Source: Dept. of Census and Statistics.



ANNEX 2
Table 1 (b)
SRI LANKA            58                  Page 1
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Paddy Statistics (b) Harvested Area (ac)
Under             Under
Major             Minor             Under       Total
Year                             Irrigation        Irrigation        Rainfed    Acreage
Maha      1959/60
Yala      l960
Culti* Year   1960                   -
Maha      1960/61           255,595           246,385           385,557    887,537
Yala      1961              203,415           129,643           186,227    519,285
Culti. Year   1961               459,010           376,028           571,784  1,406,822
Maha      1961/62           263,092           259,624           413,546    936,264
Yala      1962              214,441           152,211           189,347    555,999
Culti. Year   1962               477,533           411,835           602,893  1,492,263
Maha      1962/63           288,066           269,819           423,887    981,772
Yala      1963              212,970           148,765           181,836    543,571
Culti. Year   1963               501,036           418,584           605,723  1,525,343
Maha      1963164           282,117           275,872           421,837    979,826
Yala      1964              221,538           136,713           196,643    554,894
Culti. Year   1964               503,655           412,585           618,480  1,534,720
Maha      1964f65           254,029           207,730           333,937    795,696
Yala      1965              171,869           116,755           158,311    446,935
Culti. Year   1965               425,898           324,485           492,248  1,242,631
Maha      1965/66           303.560           273,405           430,106  1,007,071
Yala      1966              224,518           122,475           158,248    505,241
Culti. Year   1966               528,078           395,880           588,354  1,512,312
Maha      1966/67           302,128           281,108           423,772  1,006,408
Yala      1967              209,821           132,984           217,754    560,559
Culti. Year   1967               511,949           414,092           641,526  1,566,967
Maha      1967/68           330,958           298,176           488,719  1,077,853
Yala      1968              218,758           115,593           221,934    556,285
Culti. Year   1968               549,716           413,769           710,653  1,634,138
Maha      1968/69.          338,209           299,270           441,061  1,078,540
Yala      1969              177,879           100,473           182,533    460,885
Culti. Year   1969               516,088           399,743           623,594  1,539,425



ANNEX 2
Table 1 (b)
SRI LANKA                          Page 2
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Paddy Statistics (b) Harvested Area (acY
Under             Under
Major             Minor             Under       Total
Year                             Irrigation        Irrigation        Rainfed    Acreage
Maha     116t/70            348,051           323,545           443,629  1,115,225
Yala     19.7Q              281,429           154,825           224,418    660,672
Culti. Year   197Q               629,480           478,570            668,047  1,775,897
Maha     197G/71            352,410           288,537           448,019  1,088,966
Yala     1971               259,047           142,782           223,550    625,379
Culti. Year   1171               611,457           431,319            671,569  1,714,345
Maha     1971/72            363,814           260,316           411,361  1,035,491
Yala     1972               214,183           119,557           209,698    543,438
Culti. Year   1972               577,997           379,873            621,059  1,578,929
Maha     1972/73            377,006           282,377           425,741  1,085,124
Yala     1973               207,335           129,393           2.37,928    574,656
Culti. Year   1973               584,341           411,770            663,669  1,659,780
Maha     1973/74            407,490           323,081           506,066  1,288,362
x   51,725
Yala     1974               248,261           162,590           2,70,268    681,119
Culti. Year   1974               655,751           485,671            776,334  1,969,481
x   51,725196,8
Maha      1974/75           292,259           193,654           381,461
x    7,927    875,301
Yala      1975              191,416           131,822           275 ,34 66,483
x    1,899     60,8
Culti. Year   19.75              483,675           325,476           656,807
x    9,826  1,475,784
Maha      1975176           340,948           239,040           457,676  1,051,943
x   14,279
Yala      1976              213,798            98,947           205-4Ei     518,338
x      134
Culti. Year   1976               554,746           377,987            663,135  1,610,281
x   14,413
Maha      1976/77           433,457           318,459           491,608  1,250,013
x    6,4891,503
Yala      1977              245,050           155,314           27x   779    683,053
x    2,! 91 0
Culti. Year    1977              678,507           473,773            771,387  1,933,066
x    S'39919306
Sources: Dept. of Census and Statistics.                                             59
x = Other Land



ANNEX 2
Table 1 (c)
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSIDN AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Paddy Statistics (c) Yield and Producticn
_____________ yield per ac                                Production
Maha            Yala          Average         Maha           Yala          Total
Year      bushel  mt    hushel  mt    bushel  mt    hushel  mt    huahel  mt    buahel  mt
1960         36.1  0.72   36.8   0.74   36.4   0.73   26.3   0.53   16.7   0.33   43.0   0.86
1961         35.9  0.72   36.5   0.73   36.1   0.72   27.1   0.54   16.0   0.32   43.1   0.86
1962         38.0  0.76   37.7   0.75   37.9   0.76   30.2   0.60   17.8   0.36   48.0   0.96
1963         37.0  0.76   38.0   0.76   37.9   0.76   31.6   0.63   17.6   0.35   49.2   0.96
1964         38.6  0.77   38.9   0.78   38.7   0.77   32.1   0.64   18.4   0.37   50.5   1.01
1965         34.1  0.68   34.7   0.69   34.3   0.67   23.1   0.46   13.2   0.26   36.3   0.73
1966         35.9  0.72   35.0   0.70   35.6   0.71   30.7   0.61   15.0   0.30   45.7   0.91
1967         40.8  0.82   42.0   0.84   41.3   0.83   34.9   0.70   20.0   0.40   54.9   1.10
1968         47.5  0.95   44.5   0.89   46.5   0.93   43.5   0.87   21.0   0.42   64.5   1.29
1969         51.2  1.02   48.2   0.96   50.3   1.00   47.0   0.94   18.9   0.38   65.9   1.32
1970         52.2  1.04   49.8   1.00   51.3   1.03   49.5   0.99   28.0   0.56   77.4   1.55
1971         44.9  0.90   47.7   0.95   45.9   0.92   41.6   0.83   25.4   0.51   66.9   1.34
1972         48.1  0.96   44.5   0.89   46.9   0.94   42,3   0.85   20.6   0.41   62.9   1.26
1973         45.5  0.91   42.8   0.86   44.6   0.89   42.0   0.84   20.9   0.42   62.9   1.26
1974         47.7  0.95   41.7   0.83   46.0   0.92   52.6   1.09   24.2   0.48   76.8   1.54
1975         46.2  0.92   40.8   0.82   44.1   0.88   34.4   0.69   20.9   0.42   55.3   1.11
1976         47.8  0.96   40.3   0.81   40.7   0.81   46.0   0.92   22.0   0.44   68.0   1.36
1977         57.6  1.15   44.0   0.88   48,2   0.96   58.2   1.16   26.8   0.54   85.1   1.70
Source: Department of Census and Statistics.
60



ANNEX 2
Table 2
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Coconut Area, Yield and Production, 1960/76
Area             Yield/ac            Production
Year                      ('000 ac)         (nuts)             Million Nuts
1960                      1070                2040               2183
1961                      1070                2431               2601
1962                      1152                2440               2811
1963                      1152                2213               2549
1964                      1152                2596               2991
1965                      1152                2323               2676
1966                      1152                2095               2244
1967                      1152                2236               2577
1968                      1152                2400               2764
1969                      1152                2270               2616
1970                      1152                2261               2605
1971                      1152                2429               27g9
1972                      1152                2572               2963
1973                      1152                1679               1963
1974                      1152                2121               1935
1975                      1152                2213               2550
1976                      1152                1996               2300
Source:  Department of Census and Statistics.
1/ Area is that shown in Agricultural census for 1962. Lat:er data are not
avallable.
61



ANNEX 2
Table 3 (a)
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Statistics of Other Crops / (a) Area by Categories (1,000 ac)
1967     1968        1969     1970       1971       1972     1973       1974      1975      1976
Coarse Grains           93.3       95.7      104.9      98.8       98.2    105.5    137.4    186.4    189.1    137.1
Root Crops             246.8      236.2      216.2    193.0       211.6    190.3    358.8    520.0    458.2    400.6
Grain Legumes           26.1       21.6       22.1      20.6       19.6      26.0      31.0      41.6      53.6      86.4
Condiments              85.8       87.4       79.4      71.9       83.1    113.9    135.5    163.6    136.8    175.3
Oilseeds                66.4       68.9       63.6      59.9       57.0      82.5      88.6    121.8    122.0    138.3
Minor Tree Crops        75.0       78.0       85.0      84.0       80.0      79.6      85.2      91.0      93.2      94.4
Industrial Crops        88.2       60.2       56.2      69.2       62.2      55.5      47.6      44.3      49.4      61.0
Total-              681.6      648.0      627.4    597.4       611.7    653.3    884.1   1168.7   1102.3   1093.1
Source: Mission estimates based on acreage data from Department of Census and Statistics and Department of Agriculture.
i/ Not including vegetables tor which no statistics are available. Mission's estimate is about 20,000 ac of
commercially grown vegetables in addition to home garden vegetables.
a.



ANNEX 2
Table 3 (b)
SRI LANUA
AGUCULTUNAL ZENmU    m  AND ADAPTV  RPSUARCII PROJECY
Statistics of Other Crops (b) Area, Yield and Production of Selected Crops
Category          Selected Crops            1967    1968    1969    1970    1971    1972    1973    1974    1975    1976
Coarse Grains    Millet (Kurakkan)-
Area (1,000 ac)            55      53       52'    52        53       54       75     94       108       98
Yield/ac (bushels)         10.6    10.5    12.4    10.4       9.6      9.6      9.4    8.6    N.A.    N.A.
Production (1,000 bu)   584       552      650     539      507      524     701    803        N.A.    N.A.
Maize-
Area (1,000 ac)            35      41.      50       44      44       49      59      84        98      95
Yield/ac (bushels)         18.0    11.1    12.7    11.7    10.6    11.7    13.3   10.3    N.A.    N.A.
Production (1,000 bu)   637       453      628     518      466      574     786    860        N.A.    N.A.
Root/Tuber        Manioc (Cassava)L/
Crops             Area (1,000 ac)           196     182      164      147     167      146     285    394        407     374
Yield/ac (cwt)             39.3    46.4    48.2    47.4    43.6    42.8    38.0    34.6   N.A.    N.A.
Production (1,000 cwt) 7695    8436    7923    6963    7287    6281   10816  13614             N.A.    N.A.
Sweet Potatoesl/
Area (1,000 ac)            48      50       44      39       37       36      66    101        119     113
Yield/ac (cwt)             30.3    30.2    29.3    36.3    30.6    30.7    28.7    25.2   N.A.    N.A.
Production (1,000 cwt) 1444    1498    1303    1420    1130    1117    1888   2538             N.A.    N.A.
Potatoes-/
Area (1,000 ac)             3       5        7        7       8        8       8       8         8       8
Yield/ac (cwt)             67.7    77.1    72.3    93.3    72.8    78.4    62.7   124.2   N.A.    N.A.
Production (1,000 cvt)  227       356      530     639      552      607     519    981        N.A.    N.A.
Grain Legumes    Cow Pea-
Area (1,000 ac)            14      10       10      10 3/   10        14      13      14        22 2/   48 2/
Yield/ac (bu)               7.1     8.7      9.9    10.0      9.0      7.2     8.3      8.2      7.0 2/  5.0 2/
Production (1,000 bu)   103        88       97      96 3/   92        98     109    12        150 2/  237 2/
Green Gram 1/
Area (1,000 ac)            10      10       11      10        8       11      16      22        23 2/   212/
Yield/ac (bu)               8.6     8.7      8.6      6.5     8.7      7.9    10.5      8.0      9.6 2/  9.1 2/
Production (1,000 bu3    90        90       96      64       72       88     166    174        219 2/  188 2/
Condiments        Chillies 1/
Area (1,000 ac)            59      62       55      49       58       86     104    132        122     135
Yield/ac (cwt)              9.6     7.7      7.1    13.0      7.9      7.3      6.1     6.3   N.A.    N.A.
Production (1,000 cwt)  569       475      390     634      456      630     636    823       N.A.    N.A.
Cinnamon 1/
Area (1,000 ac)            36      39       44      46       49 3/   49 2/   53 2/  55 2}    54 2/   54 2/
Yield/ac (cwt)              6.5     6.0      5.3     5.3      5.7      6.3 2/  5.4 2/  6.2 2/  6.12/  6.4 2/
Production (1,000 cwt)  234       235      232     246      278 3/  310 2F  287 2f343 2/ - 328 2/  3473/
Red Onions 1/
Area (1,000 ac)            19      17       18      17       17       20      21      22        22      24
Yield/ac (cwt)             40.7    39.3    42.5    48.8    49.1    42.2    43.1   47.1    N.A.    N.A.
Production (1,000 cwt)  757       687      762     817      829      860     922   1054       N.A.    N.A.
Oil Seeds         Sesame (Gingelly) 1/
Area (1,000 ac)            32      34       32 3/   30       28       30      33      49       N.A.    N.A.
Yield/ac (bushels)         10.0     9.5    11.1       8.8     7.3      9.1     9.2    7.4    N.A.    N.A.
Production (1,000 bu)   321       321      351     260      207      276     305    365        N.A.    N.A.
Ground Nuts 1/
Area (1,000 ac)             9      17       13       13      11       16      33      49       N.A.    N.A.
Yield/ac (bushels)         19.9    16.6    17.0    13.2    15.7    15.7    10.0         6.i  N.A.    N.A.
Production (1,00 bu)    173       281      218     175      178      254     331    317        N.A.    N.A.
Minor Tree
crops             Cocoa 1/
Area (1,000 ac)            26      25       28      27       24 3/   21 2/   21 2/  22 2/    24 2/   24 2/
Yield/ac Ccwt)           N.A.    N.A.    N.A.    N.A.    N.A.         10.7 2/ 11.] 2/12.5 2/  12.3 2/ 12.0 2/
Production (1,000 cwt)  N.A.    N.A.    N.A.    N.A.    N.A.    224 2/  234 2/ 274 2/   296 2/  288 2/
Industrial
Crops             Tobacco 1/
Area (1.000 ac)            43      32       29      31       33       32      30      25        28 2/   33 2/
Yield/ac (cwt)           N.A.    N.A.    N.A.    N.A.    N.A.         25       33     28        28 2/   23 2/
Production (1,000 cwt)  N.A.    N.A.    N.A.    N.A.    N.A.    807          988    684        736 2/  742 2/
Sugarcane 1/
Area (1,000 ac)            16      26       25       36      27 3/   18 2/   16 2/  17 2/    17 2/   23 2/
Yield/ac (ton)             11.2     8.1    15.1    13.7    12.4        9.9 2/ 22.6 2/ 17.4 2/ 22.1 2/ 2522/
Production(1.000 tons)  179       211      377     492      336 3/  180.2/  370 2/294.8 'J 376.7.2/585.9 2/
1/  Source:  Department of Census and Statistics.
2/  Source:  Department of Agriculture.
3/ Source: Mission estimates, interpolation between preceeding and following year.
63



ANNEX 2
Table 4
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE.RESEARCH PROJECT
Crop Trends, Growth Per Annum, 1960/741 -1
(Average Annual Percentage Change)
Yield                Area                 Production
Paddy (1961/69
Maha              3.19                  2.15                5.50
Yala              2.40                  V                   1/
All               2.96                 1                    4.19
Paddy 1970/77
Maha              1/   1                1/                  1/
Yala              2.34                  V                   /
All                /                    1/                  1/
Chilli
Maha             -5.09                 11.30                5.64
Yala             -4.41                  9.04                4.23
All              -4.87                 10.31                4.93
Red Onions
Maba             -2.18                  4.23                2.63
Yala              1/                    3.38                2.77
All              -1.42                  3.80                2.33
Maize
Maha              1/                    7.14                7.69
Yala              1/                    3.22                4.22
All               Tl                    5.73                6.45
Sorghum
Maha              1/                    1/                  1/
Yala             -2.57                  1/                  T
All               1/                   T/                   1/
Cowpeas
Maha              1/                    5.12                7.03
Yala              3.07                  3.35                4.02
All               2.32                  4.01                6.85
Green Gram
Maha              1/                    1/                  1/
Yala              2.59                  1/                  4.65
All               1/                   T/                   3.29
Mustard                                     4.56
Maha              1/                    3.49                  T/
Yala              1/                   4.15                   1/
All               T
Kurrakan               -1/                    /                     i/
Maha                                   T2                      1/
All                1/                  Ti                      1
GroundOut175177
Mahn              2/21.593                                    17.57
Yala             -8.81                  22.3                  12.61
All              -5.00                  20.70                 1466
Gingelly                                       5/
Hahn              1/                                          Ti
Yala             -1.62                  2.86                  T-
Mkl               11                    1/
Potato193285
Hahn              7.76                  19.3068.5
Yale             13.46                  15.18                 30.168
All              10.00                  17.42                    .1
Manioc94561
mahn               1/                    7.26                   .419
Yala are                                 7..2
All              -2.43                   7.29                  46
sweat Potato                                                         43
Maha              1/                     6.81                   43
Yale              T/                     6.43                  54
All              -1.73                   6.61                  4.76
Ginger
Hahn              11                     2.35                1/
Yale             -1.65             b       95   a          ft
All               I/                     2.62                   1.18
TumerS-c43849
Hahn                                     5 .38                  4.391
Yalea/56
All               Ti                     5.08                  5.31
1/Etnare not shown for average changes below 90% probability.
2/ Trends for paddy are shown for two Periods. 1961/69 and 1970/77. Trends
-for other crops are not available beyond 1974 and trend for the period
1960174 are shawn for each.                                          64



ANNEX 2
Table 5(a)
SRI LANKA                                                                     Page 1
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Cropped Area and Fertilizer Use
1961     1962     1963      1964      1965     1966      1967     1968      1969     1970      1971     1972      1973     1974      1975     1976      1977
Paddy
Area ('000 A-res)      1406.8   1492.3   1525.3   1534.7   1242.6   1512.3  1567.0   1634.1   1539.4   1775.9   1714.3   1578.9   1659.8   1969.5   1475.8   1788.9   2046.2
Fertilizer
Total ('000 Tons)      29.0     38.1      47.1     60.1      42.0     44.1      73.2     85.2      83.5     87.1      95.4     88.4    125.5      96.       48.7     72.4    122.0
Per Acre (lbs)         46.2     57.2      69.2     87.7      75.7     65.3    104.6    L$4,5    121.5    109.9    124.7    125.4    169.4    109.6          73.9     90.7    133.6
All Nutrients
Total ('000 Tons)       7.7     10.0      12.2     15.8      11.4     13.9      24.5     29.7      29.2     31.9      38.8     38.8      53.1     42.9      22.7     33.3
Per Acre (lbs)         12.3     15.0      17.9     23.1      20.5     20.6      35.0     40.7      42.5     40.2      50.7      55.0     71.7     48.8      34.5     41.7
N
Total ('000 Tons)       4.0      5.5       6.9      9.8       6.7       8.0     12.5     17.7      16.4      18.6     24.1      23.9     30.5     26.5      15.9     23.0
Per Acre (lbs)          6.4      8.3      10.1     14.3      12.1     11.9      17.9     24.3      23.9     23.5      31.5      33.9     41.2      30.1     24.1     28.8
P2 05
Total ('000 Tons)       1.9      2.2       2.7      3.1       2.4      2.9       5.5      6.5       6.6      7.3       8.0       7.9     12.3       7.8      2.9      4.9
Per Acre ('ON Tons)   3.0        3.3       4.0      4.5       4.3       4.3      7.9       8.9      9.6       9.2     10.5      11.2     16.6       8.9      4.4       6.1
K2 0
Total ('000 Tons)       1.8      2.3       2.6      2.9       2.3      3.0       6.5      5.5       6.2      6.0       6.7       7.0     10.3       8.6      3.9      5.4
Per Acre ('000 TQoB)   2.9       3.5       3.8      4.2       4.1       4.4      9.3       7.5      9.0       7.6      8.8       9.9     13.9       9.8      5.9       6.8
Tea
Area ('000 Acres)       587.0    591.0    587.0    592.0    594.0    596.0    598.8    597.4    596.5    597.5    597.1    597.6    598.7    598.4    597.6    594.4
Fertilizer
Total ('000 Tons)    143.5    147.9    160.9    172.5    156.7    156.8    142.2    133.2    110.8    106.7    111.0            97.4     91.9    100.5      99.8     95.3
Per Acre (lbs)        547.6    560.6    614.0    652.7    590.9    589.3    531.9    499.4    416.1    400.0    416.4    365.1    343.8    376.2    374.1    359.1
All Nutrients
Total ('000 Tons)      36.8     37.9      41.4     44.8      41.2     40.2      34.7     35.2      31.3     30.8      32.7      28.5     27.1     29.6      31.0     31.4
Per Acre (lbs)        140.4    143.6    158.0    169.5    155.4    151.1    129.8    132.0    117.5    115.5    122.7    106.8    101.4    110.8    116.2    118.3
N
Total ('000 Tons)      18.4     20.1      21.3     23.0      21.2     22.6      20.1     20.5      17.9      17.9     18.2      16.3     15.5      17.8     17.9      19.1
Per Acre (lbs)         70.2     76.2      81.3      87.0     79.9      84.9     75.2      76.9     67.2      67.1     68.3      61.1     58.0      66.6     67.1      72.0
P2 05
Total ('000 Tons)       5.5      5.0       5.3      5.7       5.1       4.1      3.4       3.8      3.4       3.4      3.8       3.2      3.1       2.2      3.6       3.1
Per Acre (lbs)         21.0     19.0      20.2     21.6      19.2      15.4     12.7      14.2     12.8      12.7     14.3      12.0     11.6       8.2     13.5      11.7
K2 0
Total ('000 Tons)      12.9     12.8      14.8     16.1      14.9     13.5      11.2     10.9      10.0       9.5     10.7       9.0      8.5       9.6      9.5       9.2
Per Acre (lbs)         49.2     48.5      56.5     60.9      56.2     50.7      41.9     40.9      37.6      35.6     40.1      33.7     31.8      35.9     35.6      34.7
Rubber
Area ('000 Acres)       671.0    674.0    676.0    669.0    569.0    569.0    569.1    569.2    568.6    568.9    568.0    656.7    655.9    653.4    652.8    652.1
Fertilizer
Total ('000 Tons)      28.6     28.1      27.5     26.7      23.3      22.4     21.9      17.7     20.2      20.4     17.1      11.4     14.6      12.2      9.3      13.0
Per Acre (lbs)         95.5     93.4      91.1     89.4      91.7      88.2     86.2      69.7     79.6      80.3     67.4      38.9     49.9      41.8     31.9      44.7
All Nutrients
Total ('000 Tons)       7.4      7.2       7.1      6.8       6.0       6.0      5.7       4.7      5.6       5.8      4.9       3.2      3.9       3.0      2.6       3.8
Per Acre (lbs)         24.7     23.9      23.5      22.8     23.6      23.6     22.4      18.5     22.1      22.8     19.3      10.9      13.3     10.3       8.9     13.0
N
Total ('000 Tons)       2.3      2.3       2.2      2.1       1.9       1.8      1.8       1.4      1.5       1.5      1.3       0.9       1.1      1.1      0.9       1.2
rF- Auee (VIs)          7.7      7.6       7.3       ?.U      I.)       7.1      7.1       5.5      5.9       5.9      5.1       3.1       3.8      5.8      3.1       4.1
P2 0s
Total ('000 Tons)       3.0      2.9       2.9      2.8       2.4       2.3      2.0       1.7      2.1       2.1      1.8       1.2       1.5      0.8       1.0      1.4
Per Acre (lbs)         10.0      9.6       9.6       9.4      9.4       9.1      7.9       6.7      8.3       8.3       7.1      4.1       5.1      2.7       3.4      4.8
K2 0
Total ('000 Tons)       2.1      2.0       2.0       1.9      1.7       1.9      1.9       1.6      2.0       2.2      1.8       1.1       1.3      1.1      0.7       1.2
Per Acre (lbs)          7.0      6.6       6.6       6.4      6.7       7.5      7.5       6.3      7.9       8.7       7.1      3.8       4.4      3.8       2.4      4.1
Sources:  Mission estimates based on fertilizer consumption data from Ceylon Fertilizer Corporation and acreage data from
Department of Census and Statistics and Department of Agriculture.



ANNEX 2
SRI LANKA                                                                     Table 5(n)
Page 2
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Cropped Area and Fertilizer Use
1961     1962      1963      1964      1965      1966      1967      1968     1969      1970      1971      1972      1973      1974      1975     1976      1977
Coconut                                   1           /       1          /        1          /        1          /       1           /       1          /        1          /       l
Trii ('000 Acres)       1070.0   1152.0-  1152.0-  1152.0-  1152.01  1152.0-  1152.0   1152.0   1152.0   1152.0   1152.0   1152.0   1152.0   1152.0   1152.0   1152.0
Fertilizer
Total ('000 Tons)      43.6      42.6      45.3      48.4      48.4      52.2      49.4      62.7      59.3     63.8      58.2      48.2      38.6      39.5      26.6     30.7
Per Acre (Ibs)          90.0     82.8      88.1      94.1      94.1    101.5       96.1    121.9    115.3    124.1    113.2         93.7      75.1      76.8      51.7      59.7
All Nutrients
Total ('000 Tons)       14.3     14.2       15.1      16.2     1,9       17.2      16.2      20.3      19.2      20.7      18.8     16.5      12.6      15.4       9.'      10.3
Per Acre (lbs)          29.9     27.6       29.4     31.5      30.9      33.4      31.5      39.5      37.3      40.2      36.6     32.1      24.5      26.1      17.7      20.0
N
Total ('000 Tons)        3.3       3.2       3.4      3.6       3.4       3.7       3.5       6.6       6.2       6.7       6.1       5.1      4.1       4.1       2.8       3.0
Per Acre (lbs)           6.9       6.2       6.6       7.0       6.6      7.2       6.8      12.8      12.1      13.0      11.9       9.9      8.0       8.0       5.4       5.8
P2 05
Total ('000 Tons)        3.3       3.3       3.5       3.7      4.4       4.8       4.5       4.3       4.1       4.4       4.0      2.7       2.7       2.2       1.5       1.8
Per Acre (lbs)           6.9       6.4       6.8       7.2       8.6      9.3       8.8       8.4       8.0       8.6       7.8       5.2      5.2       4.3       2.9       3.5
K2 0
Total ('000 Tons)        7.7       7.7       8.2       8.9       8.1      8.7       8.2       9.4       8.9       9.6       8.7       8.7      5.8       7.1       4.8       5.5
Per Acre (lbs)          16.1      15.0      15.9      17.3     15.7      16.9      15.9      18.3      17.3      18.7      16.9      16.9     11.3      13.8       9.3      10.7
Other Crops                                                                                                                                                         (843.2)  (835.6)
Area ('000 Acres)        483.3    425.6    600.6    507.0    550.8    549.6    674.4    668.0    646.8    619.1    636.6    644.3    910.1   1192.7   1161.2   1150.7
Fertilizer
Total ('000 Tons)       33.8     34.8      29.9      31.9      45.9      54.1      49.5      64.3      63.9      56.5      60.2     48.9      54.1      45.8      25.9      52.9
Per Acre (lbs)         156.7    183.2    ilL.5    140.9    186.7    220.5    164.4    215.6    221.3    204.4    211.8    170.0    133.2                86.0      50.0    103.0
All Nutrients
Total ('000 Tons)        8.9       9.2       7.7       8.1      12.0     13.6      12.7      17.0      16.3      15.9      17.1      12.9     14.4      13.0       7.0      16.5
Per Acre (lbs)          41.2     48.4       28.7      35.8     48.8      55.4      42.2      57.0      56.5      57.5      60.2     44.8      35.4      24.4      13.5      32.1
N
Total ('000 Tons)        2.8      2.9        2.5       2.7      4.9       5.5       3.9       6.7       6.0       6.3       7.3       5.0      5.6       5.8       2.6       6.0
Per Acre (lbs)          13.0      15.3       9.3      11.9     19.9      22.4      13.0      22.5      20.8      22.8      25.7      17.4     13.8      10.9       5.0      11.7
P2 O
2To5al ('000 Tons)        2.8       2.9       2.5       2.6       3.0      3.0       3.3       3.4       3.6       3.5       3.5       2.5       3.1      2.3       1.8       3.3
Per Acre (lbs)          13.0      15.3       9.3     11.5      12.2      12.2      11.0      11.4      12.5      12.7      12.3       8.7      7.6       4.3       3.5     ,6.4
Total ('000 .Tons)       3.3       3,4       2.7       2.8       4.1       5.1       5.5       6.9       6.7      6.1       6.3       5.4       5.7       4.9      2.6       7.2
Per Acre (lbs)          15.3      17.9      10.1      12.4     16.7      20.8      18.3      23.1      23.2      22.1      22.2      18.8      14.0      9.2       5.0      14.0
All Crops
Area ('000 Acres)       4218.1   4334.9   4540.9   4454.7   4108.4   4378.9   4561.3   4620.7   4503.3   4713.4   4668.0   4629.5   4976.5   5666.0   5039.4   5338.1
Fertilizer
Total ('000 Tons)    278.0    291.4    310.6    336.3    316.5    329.5    336.1    363.2    337.7    334.5    341.8    294.3    324.8    294.4    210.3    264.3
Per Acre (Ibs)         147.6    150.6    153.2    169.1    172.6    168.6    165.1    176.1    168.0    159.0    164.0    142.4    146.2    118.5                 93.5    110.9
All Nutrients
Total ('000 Tons)       75.1     78.5       83.5     91.7      86.5      90.9      93.8    106.9    101.6    105.1    112.3          99.9    111.1    101.9       72.4      95.3
Per Acre (lbs)          39.9      40.6      41.2      46.1     47.2      46.5      46.1      51.8      50.5      49.9      53.9      48.3      50.0     41.0      32.2      40.0
N
Total ('000 Tons)       30.8      34.0      36.3     41.2      38.1      41.6      41.8      52.9      48.0      51.0      57.0      S1.v     5h8       55.3      40.1      52.2
P.r Are (ibs)           i6.4      17.b      17.9     20.7      20.8      21.3      20.5      25.6      23.9      24.2      27.4      24.8     25.6      22.3      17.8      21.9
P2 05
Total ('000 Tons)       16.5     16.3       16.9      17.9     17.3      17.1      18.7      19.7      19.8      20.7      21.1      17.5     22.7      15.3      10.8      14.5
Per Acre (lbs)           8.8      8.4        8.3       9.0       9.4      8.7       9.2       9.6       9.8       9.8      10.1       8.5      10.2       6.2      4.8       6.1
K2 0
Total ('000 Tons)       27.8      28.2      30.3      32.6     31.1      32.2      33.3      34.3      33.8      33.4      34.2      31.2      31.6     31.3      21.5      28.5
Per Acre (lbs)          14.8      14.6      14.9      16.4      17.0     16.5      16.4      16.6      16.8      15.9      16.4      15.1      14.2      12.6      9.6      12.0
Sources:   Mission estimates based on fertilizer consumption data from Ceylon Fertilizer Corporation and acreage data from
Department of Census and Statistics and Department of Agriculture.
1/  As reported in Census of Agriculture, 1962.



ANNEX 2
Table 5(b)
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Fertilizer Use, Nutrients per Acre, 1961-1976*
tlbs)
1961     1962      1963      1964      1965      1966      1967      1968       1969     1970      1971      1972      1973    1974    1975    1976
Paddy
N                   6.4       8.3      10i1      14.3      12.1      11.9      17.9     24.3       23.9      23.5      31.5      33.9      41.2    30.1    24.1    28.8
P205                3.0       3.3       4.0       4.5       4.3       4.3       7.9      8.9        9.6       9.2      10.5      11.2      16.6      8.9     4.4      6.1
K205                2.9       3.5       3.8       4.2       4.1       4.4       9.3       7.5       9.0       7.6       8.8       9.9      13.9      9.8     5.9      6.8
Total            12.3      15.0      17.9     23.1      20.5      20.6      35.0      40.7       42.5      40.2      50.7      55.0      71.7    48.8    34.5    41.7
Tea
N                  70.2      76.2      81.3      87.0      79.9      84.9      75.2     76.9       67.2      67.1      68.3      61.1      58.0    66.6    67.1    72.0
P2 05              21.0      19.0      20.2      21.6      19.2      15.4      12.7     14.2       12.8      12.7      14.3      12.0      11.6      8.2    13.5    11.7
K2 5               49.2      48.5      56.5      60.9      56.2      50.7      41.9     40.9       37.6      35.6      40.1      33.7      31.8    35.9    35.6    34.7
Total           140.4    143.6    158.0    169.5    155.4    151.1    129.8    132.0            117.5    115.5    122.7    106.8    101.4   110.8   116.2   118.3
Rubber
N                   7.7       7.6       7.3       7.0       7.5       7.1       7.1      5.5        5.9       5.9       5.1       3.1       3.8      3.8     3.1      4.1
P205               10.0       9.6       9.6       9.4       9.4       9.1       7.9      6.7        8.3       8.3       7.1       4.1       5.1      2.7     3.4      4.8
K20                 7.0       6.6       6.6       6.4       6.7       7.5       7.5       6.3        7.9      8.7       7.1       3.8       4.4      3.8      2.4     4.1
Total            24.7      23.9      23.5     22.8      23.6      23.6      22.4      18.5       22.1      22.8      19.3      10.9      13.3    10.3      8.9    13.0
Coconuts
N                   6.9       6.2       6.6       7.0       6.6       7.2       6.8      12.8      12.1      13.0      11.9       9.9       8.0      8.0     5.4      5.8
P2 05               6.9       6.4       6.8       7.2       8.6       9.3       8.8       8.4       8.0       8.6       7.8       5.2       5.2      4.3     2.9      3.5
K20                16.1      15.0      15.9      17.3      15.7      16.9      15.9      18.3      17.3      18.7      16.9      16.9      11.3    13.8      9.3    10.7
Total            29.9      27.6      29.4     31.5      30.9      33.4      31.5      39.5       37.3      40.2      36.6      32.1      24.5    26.1    17.7    20.0
Other
N                  13.0      15.3       9.3      11.9      19.9      22.4      13.0      22.5      20.8      22.8      25.7      17.4      13.8    10.9      5.0    11.7
P2 05              13.0      15.3       9.3      11.5      12.2      12.2      11.0      11.4      12.5      12.7      12.3       8.7       7.6      4.3     3.5      6.4
K20                15.3      17.9      10.1      12.4      16.7      20.8      18.3     23.1       23.2      22.1      22.2      18.8      14.0      9.2     5.0    14.0
Total            41.2      48.4      28.7     35.8      48.8      55.4      42.2      57.0       56.5      57.5      60.2      44.8      35.*    24.4    13.5    32.1
At! 1 rrps
N                  16.4      17.6      17.9      20.7      20.8      21.3      20.5      25.6      23.9      24.2      27.4      24.8      25.6    22.3    17.8    21.9
P205                8.8       8.4       8.3       9.0       9.4       8.7       9.2      9.6        9.8       9.8      10.1       8.5      10.2      6.2     4.8      6.1
K20                14.8      14.6      14.9      16.4      17.0      16.5      16.4      16.6       16.8     15.9      16.4      15.1      14.2    12.6       9.6    12.0
Total            39.9      40.6      41.2     46.1      47.2      46.5      46.1      51.8       50.5      49.9      53.9      48.3      50.0    41.0    32.2    40.0
*Totals may differ slightly from sums of items because of rounding.
Source:  Mission estimates based on fertilizer consumption data from Ceylon Fertilizer Corporation and acreage data from Department of Census
and Statistics and Department of Agriculture.
a,



ANNEX 3
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Tables Concerning Incremental Staff
List of Tables
Table No.               Title
1.              Extension Component - Requirement and Availability of
Extension Staff.
2.              Extension Component - KVS Requirement by District and
New Staff Phasing.
3.              Extension Component - Project Staffing.
4.              Education and Training Component - Staff Availability and
New Staff Requirements by Institutes.
5.              Education and Training Component - Staff Phasing.
6.              Research Component - Incremental Staff Requirements.
7.              Economics, Monitoring and Evaluation - Incremental Staff
Requirements.
8.              Civil Engineering - Incremental Staff Requirements.
68



ANNEX 3
Table 1
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Extension Component - Requirement and Availability of Extension Staff
1/
KVS                             AI                          SMD                          AO/DAEO                         AO/SMS
(Village Level)                (Range Level)              (District Level)               (District Level)                 (Headquarters)
Total   Project   New         Total   Project   New         Total  Project   New           Total   Project   New         Total   Project    New
Avail-  Require-  KVSs        Avail-  Requfre-  Als          Avail-  Require-  gMOs        Avail-  Require-  AOs         Avail-  Require-   AO
District           able    ment 1/   Required   able    ment         Required   able    ment       Required   able    ment        Required   able    ment        Required
Kurunegala              188       323        135       50        50         -         10        19         9         3         6         3
Kandy                   124       168         44       38        47         9          9        16         7         3         6         3
Matale                   71        86         15       17        20      (-)3          7        11         4         1         3         2
Vavuniya                 51        68         17       16        13         3          4        16        12         3        5          2
Anuradhapura            151       314        263       33        40         7          5        18        13         4         4         -
Kegalle                  57        83         36       15        14      (-)1          7        10         3         2         3         1
Colombo                 107       143         36       26        30         4          7        20        13         2         5         3
Kalutara                 63       103         40       16        19         3          5        10         5         2         3         1
Gaile                   83        123         40       16        33        17          5        10        5          1        4          3
Ratnapura                71       122         51       21        27         6          6         9         3         2         4         2
Pelonnaruwa              76        79          3       14         8      (-)6          5         9         4         1         3         2
Trincomalee              46        66         20       13        20         7          6         9         3         2         4         2
Jaffna                   78       122         44       20        17      (-)3          9        13         4         2         3         1
Nuwara Eliya             47        79         32       14        19         5          4        10         6         1         3         2
Badulla                  81       128         47       16        28        12          5        11         6         1         4         3
Batticalon               47        74         27       16        16         -          7         9         2         1         3         2
Moneragola               45        77         32       11        13         2          5        10         5         1         3         2
Ambarai                  87       134         47       18        24         6          5        12         7         3         4         1
Hambantota               60       104         44       10        10         -          4         9         5         2         3         1
Matara                   65       101         36       16        21         5          3        10         7         1         4         3
Pultalam                 49        82         33       14        15         1          5         9         4         2         3         1
Mannar                   36        54         18       11        12         1          4         9         5         2         2         -
TOTAL             1683       2633        860      421      496         75        127       259       132        42       82         40        12         21        9
2/
Replacement                                  140                           32                             16                            12
TOTAL             1683       2633       1100      421      496        107        127       259      148         42       82         52        12         21        9
_                                                                                                                       l _  _  I  _                   I
1/  Including office KVSs attached to Agricultural Service Centers (496), same as no of AIs.
aI  For retirements @ 2Z for KVSs x AIs. 5% for other staff per annum for 5 years (based on last 5 years data).
0C
ID



ANNEX 3
Table 2
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Extension Component - KVS Requirement by District and New Staff Phasing
District          No- of      No. of        Average             Average                   2  New            New KVSs-Phasing
Disarmct  No. of  Field KVS    Farm Families  Area Per        Total KVS-  KVSs         Year  Year  Year  Year
Families   (project) 1/ Per KVS (field)   Field KVS           Available   Required       1      2     3      4
('000)                                     (in sq miles)
Kurunegala          168          273              600               6.7            188        135         50    30    30       25
Kandy               121          121             1000               7.5            124         44         20    10    14        -
Matale               46            66             700              11.5             71          15        10      5      -      -
Vavuniya             20            55             400              26.0             51          17         10     7      -      -
Anuradhapura         74          274              425              16.0            151        163         33    20    10    100
Kegalle               90           69            1100               8.0             57          36        16    10    10        -
Colombo             135          113             1200               7.0           107          36         10    10    16        -
Kalutara            101            84            1200               7.3             63          40        10    10    10       10
Galle                96            90            1000               7.0             83         40         10    10    10       10
Ratnapura            78            95             800              13.0             71          51         21    10    10      10
Polonnaruwa          25            71             350              18.5             76           3          3     -      -      -
Trincomalee          13            46             300              22.0             46          20         10    10      -      -
Jaffna               74           105             700               9.0             78          44         20    14    10       -
Nuwara Eliya         32            60             500               8.0             47          32          -    12    10      10
Badulla              59          100              600              11.0             81         47                20    17      10
Batticaloa           38            58             650              16.5             47          27               10    10      '7
Moneragala            21           64             300              43.0             45          32               12    10      10
Amparai               50          110             450              10.5             87          47               10    20      17
Hambantota           48            94             500              11.6             60          44               10    20      14
Matara                71           80             900                6.0            65          36               10    10       16
Puttalam             54            67             800              17.0             49          33               10    10      13
Mannar                13           42             300              22.0             36          18               10      8       -
Total        14272/       2137             700 a/(av)        12.2 (av)    1683          960        223   250   235    252
Replacement Staff                                                                              140         35    35    35      35
lUlAL                                                                                 |1100      | 258   285   270    287
1/ Does not include office KVS's.
2/  Inclusive of office KVS's.
3/  Expected to increase to 1,600,000 farm families and 750 farm families per KVS on Year 5.
0



ANNEX 3
Table 3
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
1/
Extension Component - Project Staffing -
(Number of People)
Village Level                     Pre-Project  Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Post-Project
KVS - New Staff   -Yearl y/                      258       285       270      287
-Cumulative                   258       543      813      1100
Existing
Staff     -Cumulative       1683       1648      1871      2121      2356
Total       -Cumulative                   1906     2156      2391      2643          2643
Range Level
AI - New Staff    -Yearl 2/                       40        30        25        12
New Staff    -Cumulative                     40        70        95      107
Existing Staff                  421         413      445       467       489
Total         -Cumulative                   453       475      492       496           496
District Level
SMO-- New Staff   -Yearl 2/                      49        53       42         4
-Cumulative                    49      102       144       148
Existing Staff                127          123      168       217       255
Total        -eimutative                   172      221       259       259           259
AO    New -        -Yearly2/                      15        15        15         7
-Cumulative                    15        30       45        52
Existing                       42           39        51       63        75
Total       -Cumulative                     54        66       78        82            82
Headquarters Level
AO/AO/SMA New      -Year2y-/                       5         2         2         -
-Cumulative                     5         7         9        9
Existing Staff                 15           15        20       22        24
20       22        24        24            24
DD (Ext) - Existing                   1            1         1         1         1
Total  -Cumulative                      1       '                    1
1/ Numbers from Table 1.
2/ Inclusive of replacements for retirements, etc.
71



ANNEX 3
Table71
SRI LANKA
Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research Pro ect
Bducation and Training Component - Staff Availability and Neat Staff Requirement by Institutes
PRESENT STAFF                                               NEW STAFF REUIYRED
Institute                              o   n                                                                                                    I    i   h   =
so    o                         cij~~~o               a a 
0   rn   0                                        0  (                       C)  ~
Regional Training Centers - Existing
Peradeniya                                     19  6         -    1      1  2               2                      I    1                         2
Maha Muppallama                                1   1   3    _    1      -   4              3 2 3       2    -    1                  11
Bandarawela                                    1 -     4    1    1       -   4        _     2           2                      1        1 3    2
R.T. Centers - New
Angunakolapelessa                                                                                 1    5    4    1       1    1   2   1   2    5
Bembuwala                                                                                         1    5    4    1        1    1   2   1   2    5
Parantan                                                                                          1    5    4    1       1    1   2   1   3    5
Karadian Aru                                                                                      1     5    4                     2        3    5
Sita Eliya                                                                                        l    5    4    l       l    l   2   l   3    5
District Training Center/Practical Farm
Schools                                           - 3
Existing (14)                                                                                                      4 _  38    8    23      14     4      14
School of Agriculture
Existing (Kundasali)                           1   5                                                    5    5                     5
Electronic Repair Unit                              _        -        _ _                          7                                                   44
TOTAL 411 1.



ANNEX 3
Table 5
SRI LANKA
AGRICIJLTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
,ducation and Training Component - Staff Phasing
(Yearly & Cumulative)
Year 1     Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5
AO                  -Yearly           1           3          3          4         8
-Cumulative       1           4         7         11   .    19
SMS/Lecturer        -Yearly          10           5         10          5         -
-Cumulative      10          15        25         30         30
AI                  -Yearly           2           2          5          5         6
-Cumulative       2           4          9        14         20
FMI                 -Yearly           2           2          2          2         3
-Cumulative       2           4         6          8         11
Cenema Operator    -Yearly            1           1          2          1
-Cumulative       1           2         4          5          5
Photographer        -Yearly           3           1          2          1         -
-Cumulative       3           4         6          7          7
KVS                 -Yearly           2           2          2          2         3
-Cumulative       2           4         6          8         11
Artist              -Yearly           4           1          2          1         -
-Cumulative       4           5         7          8          8
Typist              -Yearly           9           2          6          3         -
-Cumulative       9          11        17         20         20
Clerk/Storekeeper  -Yearly            8           8          9          9        10
Blacksmith          -Cumulative       8          16         25         34        44
T/Operator
& Other
Electro Engineer   -Yearly                        1          -          -         -
-Cumulative                   1         1          1          1
Technician          -Yearly                       4          -          -         -
-Cumulative                   4         4          4          4
Clerk               -Yearly                       1          -          -         -
-Cumulative                   1          1         1          1
Laborer             -Yearly             73        4          -          -
-Cumulative                   4          4         4          4



ANNEX 3
Table 6
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH
Adaptive Research Component: Incremental Staff Requirements by -'ear/
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4   Year 5    Total
Research Officer              10         10        10         10         -          40
Experiment Officer            20         10        10         20         -          60
Laboratory Assistant          10         10        10          -         -          30
Drivers                        -         17         -          -         -          17
Typists                                   6                              -           6
Total              40         53         30         30        -         153
1/  Extension Officers who have been supervising field trials on part-time basis
will henceforth attend full time to extension;  there is, therefore, no
existing staff.
ANNEX 3
Table 7
Economics, Monitoring and Evaluation - Incremental Staff Requirements
Existing  Year 1   Year 2  Year 3  Year 4  Year 5   Total
Agricultural Economists         2         3        4            -        -             7
Economic Assistant/
Agricultural Instructor        22         9       17        -        -                26
Computer Programmer             0         1                 a -      -       -         1
Total               24        13        21       -        -                34
ANNEX 3
Table 8
1/
Civil Engineering - Incremental Staff-/
Existing  Year 1  Year 2   Year 3  Year 4  Year 5   Total
Superintending Engineer         1         0        -        -        -       -         0
Engineer (Graduates)            4         3        -        -        -       -         3
Engineer Assistants
(Diploma)                       6         2        -        -       -        -         2
Inspector (Certificate)        19         5        -        -        -       -         5
Overseers                      50         -        -        -        -       -         0
Draftsmen                       5         1        -        -        -                 1
Total               85        11         -       -        -        -       11
1/  All adaptive research staff will be new.  There is no existing staff.
74



SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH
Annex 4
Tables Concerning Project Cost Estimates
List of Tables
Table No.                         Titles
1.     Summary of Investment Costs
2.     Extension Component - Availability and Requirement for Houses
and Other Buildings
3.     Extension Component - Construction of New Buildings by Year, Number
and Cost
4.     Extension Component - Capital Costs, Equipment
5.     Extension Component - Capital Costs, Vehicles
6.     Extension Component - Staff Salaries, Incremental
7.     Extension Component - Recurrent Cost, Incremental Allowances
8.     Extension Component - Travel and Per Diem for Livestock and
Coconut SMOs to Train AIs and KVSs in Bi-Weekly Sessions
9.     Extension Component - Other Recurrent Costs
10.     Education and Train'tng Component - Cost of New Regional Training
Center, Each
11.     Education and Training Component - Incremental Costs, Existing
Regional Training Centers
12.     Education and Training Component - Incremental Costs, School of Agri-
culture, Kundasale
13.     Education and Training Component - Incremental Costs for Existing
District Training Centers
14.     Education and Training Component - Electrical Maintenance and Repair
Service
15.     Education and Training Component - Capital Costs, Buildings
16.     Education and Training Component - Capital Costs, Machinery and Equipment
17.     Education and Training Component - Capital Costs, Vehicles
18.     Education   and Training Component - Operational Costs
19.     Education and Training Component - Staff Salaries, Incremental
20.     Research Component - Cost of Building Construction for Incremental
Staff
21.     Research Component - Cost of Vehicles
22.     Research Component - Cost of Equipment
23.     Research Component - Cost of Incremental Staff Salaries and Allowances
24.     Research Component - Incremental Operations and Maintenance Cost During
the Project Period
25.     Cost of Economics, Monitoring and Evaluation
26.     Civil Engineering Unit - Cost of Equipment and Supplies
27.     Costs of Overseas Training and Technical Assistance



AMIEX 4
Table 1
Page 1 of 3
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Investment Costal/
(Rs '000)
Year 1                           Year 2                            Year 3
Foreign                          Foreign                           Foreign
Local     Exchange    Total      Local      Exchange    Total      Local      Exchange    Total
Extension
Buildings 2/                   5309.5      2275.5     7585.0    5791.8      2482.2      8274.0    6206.9      2660.1       8867.0
Vehicles 37                     687.8    13068.2    13765.0       472.6      8980.4     9453.0      428.8     8147.2       8576.0
Equipment 3/                    114.6      2177.4     2292.0       79.4      1508.6     1588.0       84.8     1610.2       1695.0
Furniture                       312.0         -        312.0      312.0         -        312.0      375.0                   375.0
Vehicle Operating Costs 4/       86.8       781.2      868.0      145.0     1305.0      1450.0      194.8     1753.2       1948.0
Other Operating Costs           600.0         -        600.0    1200.0          -       1200.0    1800.0          -        1800.0
Salaries and Allowances        4465.0         -       4465.0    7608.0          -       7608.0   10551.0          -       10551.0
Allowances for Livestock &
Coconut SMO's                 187.0         -        187.0      187.0        -         187.0      187.0         -         187.0
Base Cost                    1162.7    18302.3    30065.0   15795.8    14262.2    30072.0   19828.3    14170.7          33999.0
Physical Contingencies - 10%  1176.3       1830.2     3006.5    1579.6      1427.6      3007.2    1982.8      1417.1       3399.9
Price Contingencies - 10% p.a.  -             -          -       1568.5     1217.8      2786.3    4141.6      2550.4       6692.0
Total                       12939.0    20132.5    33011.5   1894J.9    16291.6    35865.5   25952.7    18138.2          44090.9
Education and Training
Buildings 2/                    466.2       199.8      666.0    2963.8       1270.2     4234.0    3935.4       1686.6      5622.0
Vehicles  3/                     98.4      1869.6     1968.0       53.9      1024.1     1078.0      103.2      1959.8      2063.0
Machinery and Equipment 5/       49.2       934.8      984.0      149.9      2848.1     2998.0      191.1      3630.9      3822.0
Supplies and Requisites         558.0         -        558.0      933.0         -        933.0    1408.0          -        1408.0
Vehicle Operating &
Communication 4/                7.0        63.0       70.0       10.5       94.5       105.0       15.0      135.0        150.0
Machinery & Building
Maintenance                    16.5        16.5       33.0       24.5        24.5       49.0       34.0        34.0        68.0
Salaries and Allowances         964.0         -        964.0    1379.0          -       1379.0    1815.0          -        1815.0
Base Cost                    2159.3     3083.7      5243.0    5514.6      5261.4    10776.0    7501.7       7446.3      14948.0
Physical Contingencies - 10%   215.9        308.3      524.3      551.5      526.1      1077.6      750.2       744.6      1494.8
Price Contingencies - 10% p.a.  -             -          -        547.3      448.7       996.0    1562.5      1320.0       2882.5
Total                        2375.2     3392.0      5767.3    6613.4      6236.2    12849.6    9814.4       9510.9      19325.3
Year 4                           Year 5                          Grant Total        t
Foreign                          Foreign                           Foreign
Local     Exchange    Total      Local      Exchange    Total      Local      Exchange    Total
Extension
Buildings 2/                   6806.1      2916.9      9723.0    6403.6      2744.4     9148.0   30517.9    13079.1       43597.0
Vehicles 37                                                                                        1589.2    30195.8       31785.0
Equipment 3/                                                                                        278.8      5296.2       5575.0
Furniture                                                                                           999.0         -          999.0
Vehicle Operating Costs 4/      204.1      1836.9      2041.0     204.1      1836.9      2041.0     834.8      7513.2       8348.0
Other Operating Costs          1800.0         -        1800.0    1800.0         -        1800.0    7200.0         -         7200.0
Salaries and Allowances       13017.0         -       13017.0   13332.0         -      13332.0   48973.0          -       48973.0
Allowances for Livestock
and Coconut SMO's             187.0         -        187.0      187.0         -        187.0      935.0         -          935.0
Base Cost                   22014.2      4753.8    26768.0   21926.7       4581.3    26508.0   91327.7    56084.3    147412.0
Physical Contingencies - 10%  2201.4        475.4      2676.8    2192.7       458.1     2650.8    9132.8       5608.4     14741.2
Price Contingencies - 10% p.a 7286.7       1573.5      8860.2   10176.2      2126.2    12302.4   23173.0       7647.9      30640.9
Total                       31502.3      6802.7    38305.0   34295.6       7165.6    41461.2   123633.5   69160.6    142794.1
Education and Training
Buildings 2/                   4782.4      2049.6      6832.0    3471.3      1487.7      4959.0    15619.1    6693.9       2231340
Vehicles 37                       33.8      642.2       676.0       9.9       188.1       198.0      299.2    5683.8        5983.0
Machinery and Equipment 5/       108.7     2065.3      2174.0       1.5        28.5        30.0      500.4    9507.6       10008.0
Supplies and Requisites        2058.0         -        2058.0    2258.0         -        2258.0     7215.0        -         7215.0
Vehicle Operating &
Communication 4/               21.0       189.0       210.0      23.0       207.0       230.0       76.5      688.5        765.0
Machinery & Building
Maintenance                    48.5        48.5        97.0      51.5        51.5       103.0      175.0      175.0        350.0
Salaries and Allowances        2051.0         -        2051.0    2279.0         -        2279.0     8488.0        -         8488.0
Base Cost                    9103.4      4994.6    14098.0    8094.2       1962.8    10057.0    32373.2   22748.8        55122.0
Physical Contingencies - 10%   910.3        499.5      1409.8     809.4       196.3      1005.7     3237.3    2274.9        5512.2
Price Contingencies - 10% p.a 3003.1       1460.2      4463.3    3755.3       888.5     4643.8      8868.2    4117.4       12985.6
Total                       13016.8      6954.3    19971.1   12658.9       3047.6    15706.5    44478.7   29141.1        73619.8
NOTE: Inconsistencies due to rounding.
76



AINRX 4
Table 1
Page 2 of 3
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Investment CoStsal
(Rs 000)
Year 1                               Year 2                               Year 3
Foreign                              Foreign                              Foreign
Local      Exchange    Total         Local      Exchange    Total         Local      Exchange    Total
Adaptive Research
Buildings 21                3500.0      1500.0        5000.0    3325.0       1425.0        4750.0    3325.0        1425.0       4750.0
Vehicles 37                  121.0      2299.0        2420.0        9.5       180.5         190.0        9.5        180.5        190.5
Equipment 3/                 126.6      2405.4        2532.0        3.1        58.0          61.0         3.0        58.0         61.0
Vehicles O&M 4/                 .2         1.8           2.0       54.4       489.6         544.0       57.6        518.4        576.0
Equipment & Building o&M    3.5             3.5          7.0      258.5       258.5         517.0       377.5       377.5        755.0
Other O&M                    102.0         -           102.0      188.0          -          188.0      255.0          -          255.0
Salaries & Allowances        386.0         -           386.0      830.0         -           830.0    1126.0           -         1126.0
Base Cost                4239.3       6209.7      10449.0    4668.4        2411.6        7080.0    5153.6       2559.4        7713.0
Physical Contingencies    423.9          621.0        1044.9      466.8       241.2         708.0      515.4        255.9        771.3
Price Contingencies            -           -             -        466.6       236.4         703.0    1081.7         527.1       1608.8
Total                    4663.2       6930.7      11493.9    5601.8        2889.2        8491.0    6750.7        3342.4      10093.1
Economics, Monitoring,
and Evaluation
Buildings                    539.0       231.0         770.0      854.0        366.0       1220.0
Vehicles                      46.4       891.6         928.0       30.2       573.8         604.0        4.8         91.2         96.0
Equipment                     11.6       220.4         232.0        1.5        28.5          30.0        1.5         28.5         30.0
Vehicle Operating Costs        7.2        64.8          72.0       14.4        129.6        144.0       14.4        129.6        144.0
Other Operating Costs         90.0         -            90.0      115.0          -          115.0      140.0          _          140.0
Salaries & Allowances        128.0         -           128.0      333.1         -           333.1      346.8          -          346.8
Base Cost                  822.2      1397.8       2220.0    1348.2        1097.9        2446.1      507.5       249.3         756.8
Physical Contingencies        82.2       139.8         222.0      134.8       109.8         244.6       50.7         24.9         75.6
Price Contingencies            -           -             -        134.2         97.7        231.9      106.3         47.1        153.4
Total                      904.4      1537.6        2442.0    1617.2       1305.4        2922.6      664.5       321.3         985.8
Overseas Training and
Technical Assistance
Overseas Training              -        1485.2        1485.2        -        1222.9        1222.9        -         1169.2       1169.2
Technical Assistance           -        8721.6        8721.6        -       10428.0       10428.0                     -            -
Base Cost                    -       10206.8      10206.8         -       11650.9       11650.9        -        1169.2        1169.2
Physical Contingencies         -        1020.7        1020.7        -        1165.1        1165.1        -          116.9        116.9
Price Contingencies            -           -             -          -        1165.1        1165.1        -         245.5         245.5
Total                        -       11227.5      11227.5         -       13981.1       13981.1        -        1531.6        1531.6
Year 4                               Year 5                             Grand Totil
Foreign                              Foreign                              Froeign
Local      Exchange      Total       Local      Exchange       Total      Local      Exchanga       Total
Adaptive Research
Buildings 2/                2100.0       900.0        3000.0                                          12250.0       5250.0    17500.0
Vehicles 3/                   18.0       342.0         360.0                                            158.0       3002.0      3160.0
Equipment 3/                   2.6        48.4          51.0       1.8          35.2         37.0       137.1       2604.3      2742.0
Vehicles O&M 4/               60.6       545.4         606.0      60.6        545.4         606.0       233.4       2100.5      2334.0
Equipment & Building O&M  496.0          496.0         992.0    571.0         571.0        1142.0      1706.5       1706.5      3413.0
Other O&M                    255.0         -           255.0    255.0            -          255.0      1055.0          -        1055.0
Salaries & Allowances    1449.0            -          1449.0   1449.0           -          1449.0      5240.0          -        5240.0
Base Cost                4381.2       2331.8       6713.0   2337.4         1151.6        3489.0    20779.9    14664.L    35444.0
Physical Contingencies    438.1          233.2         671.3    233.7         115.2         348.9      2078.0       1466.4      3544.4
Price Contingencies         1448.7       744.0        2192.7   1084.8         534.4        1619.2      4081.8       2041.9      6123.7
Total                     6268.0      3309.0        9577.0   3655.9        1801.2        5457.1    26939.7    18172.4    45112.1
Economics, Monitoring,
and Evaluation
Buildings                                                                                              1393.0        597.0      1990.0
Vehicles                       -           -             -         -             -            -          81.4       1546.4      1628.0
Equipment                      -           -             -         -             -            -           14.6       277.4       292.0
Vehicle Operating Costs    14.4          129.6         144.0      14.4        129.6         144.0         64.8       583.'       648.0
Other Operating Costs        140.0         -           140.0    140.0            -          148.0       625.0          -         625.0
Salaries & Allowances        361.0         -           361.0    375.7            -          375.7      1544.6          -        1544.6
Base Cost                  515.4       129.6         645.0    530.1         129.6         659.7      3723.4       3004._      6727.6
Physical Contingencies        51.5        13.0          64.5      53.0          13.0         66.0        372.3       300.4       672.7
Price Contingencies          170.6        42.9         213.5    246.0          60.1         306.1        657.1       247.3       904.9
Total                      737.5       185.5         923.0    829.1         202.7        1031.8      4752.8       3552.4      8305.2
Overseas Training and
Technical Assistance
Overseas Training              -         894.3         894.3       -          834.2         834.2          -        5605.3      5605.8
Technical Assistance           -           -             -         -             -            -            -       19149.o    19149.6
Base Cost                    -         894.3         894.3       -          834.2         834.2         -       24755.,,   24755.4
Physical Contingencies         -          89.4          89.4       -            83.4         83.4          -        2475.;      2475.5
Price C.ntingencieo            -         296.0         296.0       -          387.2         387.2          -        2093.3      2093.8
Total                        -        1297.7        1297.7       -         1304.8        1304.8          -       29324.7    29324.7
NOTE: Inconsistencies due to rounding.
77



ANNEX 4
Table 1
Page 3 of 3
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Investment Costsl/
(RB '000)
Year 1                              Year 2                               Year 3
Foreign                             Foreign                              Foreign
Local      Exchange      Total      Local      Exchange       Total      Local      Exchange      Total
Engineering & Administration
Buildings 2/                    494.2      211.8        706.0       -            -            -          -            -           -
Vehicles 37                      85.4    1621.6        1707.0       -            -            -          -            -           -
Equipment 3/                       .4        8.6          9.0       -            -            -          -            -           -
Vehicle Operating Costs 4/    -              -           -          29.4       264.6         294.0       29.4       264.6         294.0
Other Operating Costs            -           -           -          78.0          -           78.0       78.0         -            78.0
Salaries & Allowances            76.0        -           76.0       76.0          -           76.0       76.0         -            76.0
Base Cost                    656.0    1842.0         2498.0      183.4       264.6        448.0       183.4       264.6        448.0
Physical Contingencies           65.6      184.2        249.8       18.3         26.5         44.8       18.3        26.5          44.8
Price Contingencies              -           -           -          18.3         26.5         44.8       38.5        55.6          94.1
Total                         721.6    2026.2        2747.8      220.1       317.6         537.6      240.3       346.7        586.9
Base Cost                  19639.5   41042.3        60681.8   27510.4    34962.6        62473.0   33174.5    25859.5         59034.0
Physical Contingencies         1963.9    4104.2        6068.2    2751.0       3496.3        6247.3    3317.5       2585.9       5903.4
Price Contingencies              -           -           -        2734.9      3192.2        5927.1    6930.6       4745.7      11676.3
Total                      21603.4   45146.9        66750.0   32996.3    41651.0        74647.4   43422.6    33191.1         76613.6
Year 4                              Year 5                             Grand Total
Foreign                             Foreign                              Foreign
Local      Exchange      Total      Local      Exchange       Total      Local      Exchange       Total
Engineering & Administration
Buildings 2i                    -           -            -          -           -             -         494.2        211.8         706.0
Vehicles 3/                     -           -            -          -            -            -          85.4       1621.6        1707.0
Equipment 3/                    -           -            -          -            -            -            .4          8.6           9.0
Vehicle Operating Costs 4/    29.4         264.6        294.0        29.4      264.6         294.0      117.6       1058.4        1176.0
Other Operating Costs            78.0       -            78.0         78.0       -            78.0      312.0         -            312.0
Salaries & Allowances            76.0       -            76.0         76.0       -            76.0      380.0         -            380.0
sase Cost                    183.4       264.6        448.0       183.4      264.6        448.0    1389.6         2900.4       4290.0
Physical Contingencies           18.3       26.5         44.8        18.3        26.5         44.8      138.8        290.2         429.0
Price Contingencies              60.7       87.6        148.3        85.1      122.8         207.9      202.6        292.5        495.1
Total                         262.4      378.7        641.1       286.8      413.9         700.7    1731.0        3483.1       5414.1
Base Cost                  36197.6   13368.7        49566.3    33071.8    8924.1        41995.9  149593.8    124157.2    273751.0
Physical Contingencies         3619.6    1337.0        4956.6      3307.1      892.4        4199.6   14959.2       12415.8      27375.0
Price Contingencies           11969.8    4204.2       16174.0    15347.4    4119.2         19466.6   36982.7       16261.3      53244.0
Total                      51787.0   18909.9        70696.9    51726.3   13935.8        65662.1  201535.7    152834.3    354370.0
NOTE:  Inconsistencies due to rounding.          PROJECT TOTAL - MAIN REPORT  Tables 4.1 and 4.2
1/ $1 = Rs 15.8.
2/ Local - 70%, foreign exchange - 30%.
3/  Local - 5%, foreign exchange - 95%.
Local - 10%, foreign exchange - 90%.
5/ Local - 50%, foreign exchange - 50%.
78



ANNEX 4
Table 2
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Extension Component - Availability and Requirement for Houses and Other Buildings
Houses                                         Offices and Other Buildings
AO              AO          SMO          Al            KVS 1/                         Plant Protection
District   House/Office                                 Village        District         Unit at District
DAEO         Level      Sub-District  District    Range             Level        Headquarters    Headquarters
District
Level                                                                 a
00            bo           bo                bo        co                                                60 rb
41~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.4
z             z      X                   i  z   N       z         z             cudX    z      N         z
Kurunegala              1                      I                3    -      8   1        13         55         1-                 -1
Kandy                   -        -   -         --            1              2   -         9         25         -1                 -1
Matale                  -        1   -         1   -         1              5   -         5         14         1-                 -1
Vavuniya and
Mulativu              -        2   -         2   -         1              8   -         4        16          1           1      -        1
Anuradhapura            1        -   1         -   -         2       4        8   5      10         55         1           -      1
Kegalla                 -        -   -         1   -         3       -      -   3         2         13         -           1      -        1
Colombo and
Gampaha              -         -   -         -   -                 -          -         6        22          1          1      1         1
Kalutara                -        1   -         1   -         1       -      2   -         4         16         -           1      -        1
Galle                   -        2   -         1   -                        8 2   -       6         18                     1      -        1
Ratnapura               1        -   1         -             I 2            4   -         6         19         1           -      1 -
Polonnaruwa             -        1   -         1   -         1       -      5   -         4         22         1           -      -        1
Trincomalee             1        -   -         1        -        -          5   -         6         15         1           -      -        1
Jaffnaa                 -        -   -         -             1       -      4   -         5         21         -           1      -        I
Nuwara Eliva            1        -   -         1   -         -        3     3   1         4         15         1           -      -        1
Badulla                 1        -   -         1   -                 -      4   2         6         22         1           -      -        1
Batticaloa              1        -   -         1   -                 -      4   -         6         18         1           -      1        1
Moneragala              1        -   -         1             1        3     3   2         5         22         1           -      -        1
Amparai                 I        -   -         2   -         1        3     5          4  4         33         1           -      1        1
Hambantota              1        -   -         1   -         -       -      3   4         2         28         1           -      I        1
Matara                  -        1   -         -   -         1              A 2   -       4         16         1           -      1        -
PuiLaiam                -        i   -         ;   -         ;              4   -                   2 0U        I          -      -        1
Manar                   -        1   -         1   -         -       -      4   -         4         15         1           -      -        1
TOTAL            9       10   1        1i    -       17      13    85  22        120        500        16           8      6       16
1/ Houses provided as 30% in Dry Zone and 20% in Wet Zone (only for remote areas).
-j
D0



ANNEX 4
Table 3
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Extension Component - Construction of New Buildings by Year,-  Numbers and Cost
(Number of Units & Rs '000)
Year 1          Year 2         Year 3         Year 4          Year 5      Total
Unit      tao.           No.            No.             No.            No.             No.
Cost 4/  Units  Cost   Units  Cost   Units  Cost   Units  Cost   Units  Cost    Units   Total Cost
--  (Rs'000)     (Rs'000)       (Rs'000)        (Rs'000)     (Rs'000)           (Rs'000)
Livine Quarters - New
KVS Houses               35       80   2800      90   3150    100   3500    110   3850    120   4200    (500)    17500
AI                       50       20   1000      25   1250      25   1250       25   1250      25   1250    (120)       6000
SMO                      50       15    750      15    750      15    750      20   1000       20   1000      (85)      4250
AO (District)            80        3    240       3    240       4    320        4    320       4    320      (18)      1440
AO (Sub-District)        80        3    240       3    240       3    240        4    320       4    320      (17)      1360
DAEO                     80        2    160       2    160       2    160        2    160       2    160      (10)       800
Sub-Total                           5190           5790           6220            6900           7250              31350
Offices and Other Buildings
District Office -
New                  350        2    700       2    700       2    700       2    700        2    700       (8)      2800
District Office -
Existing  2/         150       3    450        3    450       3    450       4    600        3    450      (16)      2400
Plant Protection Unit  85          3    255       3    255       4    340        3    255       3    255      (16)      1360
Sub-Total                           1405           1405           1490            1555            705                6560
TOTAL                               6595           7195            7710           8455           7955               37910
Site Development 15% -               990           1079           1157            1268           1193                5687
TOTAL                               7585           8274            8867           9723           9148               43597
i;  Houses in the Dry Zone Districts and Office Buildings to be constructed in 1st 5 years (Phase I).
2/  Extra accommodation in existing buildings for additional District Staff.
3/  Includes water supply, electricity, fencing, etc.
41  @ Rs 90.00 per sq. ft. for houses and 80.00 per sq. ft. for other bldgs.  (All buildings are permanent structures made
according to the type plans of the Engineering Division, Dept. of Agriculture.)
O



ANNEX 4
Table 4
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Extension Component - Capital Costs, Equipment
(Rs 1000)
No. of  Unit        Year 1         Year 2        Year 3
Item                             Units   Cost        No.   Cost   No.   Cost   No.   Cost           Total Cost
Audio Visual Equipment/Teaching Aids 1/          22      25      10      250   12      300    -                      550
Office Equipment 2/                              22     25       10      250   12      300    -                      550
Office Equipment 3/                               1     50        1       50    -       -      -                      50
Furniture 4/                                    400       2.5   125      312  125      312   150    375              999
Workshop Equipments 5/                           22    100        8      800    2      200    12   1200             2200
Radio Communication Network                      27     30       15      450   12      360    -                      810
Sub-Total                                                           2112           1472          15'5           5159
Spare Parts for Equipment 10%                                          180           116           1.'0           416
TOTAL                                                           2292          1588           1695           5575
1/ Each unit consists of one overhead projector, one slide projector, screen for projector, 5 folding boards, one
35 mm camera and accessories.
2/ Unit consists of 2 typewriters, duplicating machine, one table model calculator, 2 pocket calculators.
3/ For Headquarters, 3 typewriters, plain paper copying machine.
4/ One unit for each additional extension staff except field KVSS (unit consist of one table, 2 chairs, one steel
cabinet and filing rack).
5/ Workshop equipment, repair kits for sprayer maintenance and 10 power sprayers and 10 knapsack sprayers per unit.
ANNEX 4
Table 5
Extension Component - Capital Costs, Vehicles
(Rs 1000)
1/               Year 1         Year 2        Year 3
Departmental                Type                    vQuantity-   Unit Cost  Nos.  Cost   Nos.  Cost  Nos.  Cost  Total Costs
Headquarters            Car/station wagon            2           100      (2)    200    -       -      -     -          200
Van/ 4-wheel drive           6           150      (3)    450   (3)    450   -        -          900
vehicle
District
DAEO/AO/SMSZ1/     4 wheel drive vehicle        81           130    (40)   5200  (20)   2600 (21)   2730          10530
Van 3/                      22           150    (10)   1500  (12)   1800   -         -         3300
Mobile audio visual
unit 4/                 17           350      (5)   1750   (6)   2100  (6)   2100          5950
Plant Protection  4 wheel drive                 16           130      (2)    260   (2)    260 (12)   1560          2080
Unit           vehicle
Sub-total                                                9360          7210         6390      22960
Staff Owned
SMO/AI                  Motorcycle                 255            12   (150)   1800  (50)    600 '55)    660           3060
KVS                     Bicycle 5/                1500              1   (750)    750 (375)    375 1375)   375          1500
Sub-total                                                2250           975         1035       4560
Total                                                   11910          8185         7425      27520
Spare parts 10%                                          1191           818          743       2752
Total                                                   13101          9003         8168      30272
Handling Charges local 5%                                 655           450          408       1513
GRAND TOTAL                                            13756           9453         8576      31785
1/  After deducting numbers available and numbers included in other aid projects.
2/  One vehicle per each DAEO, AO and 4-5 SMO.
3/  To be used in two weekly training classes (one/district).
4/ One per district.
5/  Assuming 25% already have bicycles.
81



ANNEX 4
Table 6
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Extension Component - Staff Salaries, Incremental
(Rs '000)
Unit Cost         Year 1        Year 2           Year 3        Year 4           Year 5
8nLsting Staff - New1'                    Per Man/Year   No.   Cost    No.   Cost    No.   Cost    No.   Cost    No.   Cost               Total Cost
KVS                                        5          258   1290    543   2715    813   4065   1100   5500   1100   5500                19070
AI                                         6           40    240      70    420       95    570    107    642    107    642              2514
SMO                                        6           49    294    102    612    144    864    148    888    148    888                 3546
AO                                        10           15    150      30    300       45    450       52    520      52    520           1940
AO/SMS (Headquarters)                     10           (5      50      .7     70       9      90       9     30       9      90           390
Other Staff - New
Drivers                                    5           50    250      70      350    90    450    100    5)0    100    500               2050
Clerk/Typist                               5           10      50     30      150    40    200       50    250       50      50           900
Sub-Total                                         2324             4617           6689           8390            8390         30410
Salary Increments 4%                                           -               92            276            543             858          1769
2324            4709          6965            8933           9248        32179
Numbers from Annex 3, Table 3.
ANNEX 4
Table 7
Extension Component - Travel and Per Diem for
Livestock and Coconut SMO's to Train
Al's and KVS's in Bi-Weekly Sessions
(Rs '000)
Annual
Unit    Year 1       Year 2       Year 3      Yez.r 4     Year 5       Total
Officers                                                      Cost   No.  Cost  No.  Cost   No.  Cost  No.  Cost  No.  Cost  No.  Cost
Livestock Officers                                            4.8-   24  115    24    115   24    115  24    115  24    115  24  575.0
Coconut Officers                                              4.8-/  15   72    15       72   15       72  15      72  15      72  15  360.0
Total                               187            187          187         187         187       935.0
1/ Estimated on basis of one SMO per District and Rs 400 per man-month for 12 months
including (a) about 48 man-day per year for providing training to AIs and KVss of
DA, and (b) necessary field backstopping.
82



ANNEX 4
Table 8
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Extension Component - Recurrent Cost, Incremental Allowances
(Rs '000)
Unit Cost-/                                                  TOTAL
New Staff (District)-/           Per Man/Year   Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5  COST
(Rs '000)
KVS 2/                         1440            371      782      1171      1584     1584    5492
AT 3/                          2700            108      189       256       289      289    1131
SMO 4/                        3300             161      336       475       488      488    1948
AOfDAEO 5/.                    4200             63      126       189       218      218      814
New Staffl/
AO/SMS                         4200             21       29        38         8       38      164
Other Staff - New
Drivers                        lOUo             50       70        90       iCo      100      410
Sub-Total                                  774      1532      2219     2717      2717    9959
Extra Cost
Existing Staff-/                 Man/Year 8/
(Rs '000)
KVS (Field)                     720            900      900       900       900      900    4500
AI                              900            379      379       379       379      379    1895
SMO                             600             76       76        76        75       76      380
AO                              600             12        12       12        12        12      60
Sub-Total                                 1376      1367      1367     1361      1367    6835
TOTAL                                      2141     2899      3586     4084      4084   16794
1/  Numbers from Table 6.
2/  @ Rs 120 per month, nearly 100% increase of present T.A. i.e. Rs 60 - Rs 70.
(increase includes travelling for weekly training and preseasonal training twice a year).
3/  @ Rs 120 for mileageon motorcycle - field subsistance 4 days per month.
4/  @ Rs 150 for mileage on motorcycle - 35 days full subsistance @ Rs 24/day for a month.
5/  @ 8 days full subsistance - 6 days 1/2 subsistance for 14 days in the field for a month
(Rs 350).
6/  DAEO and AO/SMS (Headquarters) T.A. remains unchanged.
7/  At increased rates.
8/  Additional cost to pay at increased rates.
83



ANNEX 4
SRI LANKA                                        Table 9
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Extension Component - Other Recurrent CostS
(Rs '000)
Unit Cost
Per Vehicle
Vehicle Operating Cost - New*           Per Year        No.     Year 1      No.    Year 2       No.   Year 3    No.    Year 4    No.    Year 5    Total Cost
1/
Headquarters  (Petrol)                   18          5          90        8       144         8     144        8       144       8       144         666
District (Diesel) 2/                     12.5       59         737       99      1237       137    1712      137     1712      137      1712       7110
Sub-Total                                                   827               1381              1856              1856               1856       7776
Repairs 3/                                              41                  69                92               185                185        572
Sub-Total                                                   868               1450              1948              2041               2041       8348
Other operational Costs 4/              Cost/District
Office 5/                                25                    200                400               600                600               600        2400
Services 6/                              50                    400                800              1200               1200              1200        4800
Sub-Total                                                   600               1200              1800               1800              1800        7200
Total                                                         1468               2650              3748               3841              3841       15548
*Numbers from Table 8 (only Departmental Vehicles).
1/ @ 12000 miles per year per vehicle and Rs 1.50 per mile.
2/ @ 10000 miles per year per vehicle and Rs 1.25 per mile.
3/ @ 5% of running cost in the first 3 years and @ 10% in the 4th and 5th years.
4/ Additional cost with additional staff.
5/ Stationary for District Headquarters, AIs and KVSs postal, etc.
6/ Consumables for Demonstrations etc., printing extension materials, posters, paints, etc.
co



ANNEX 4
Table 10
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Education and Training Component - Cost of New
Regional Training Center, Each
(Rs '000)
Quantity  Unit Cost      Total Cost
Buildings
Hostel 1/                                   1          600            600
Lecture Rooms/Office Library                1          400            400
Laboratory/Workshop/Stores                  1          280            280
Quarters Grade IV                           5           80            400
Grade III                          5           50           250
Grade II                           5           32            160
Labor Grade                        4           30            120
Sub-Total                                 2,210
Land Development (15%) 2/                                             300
TOTAL                                     2,510
Vehicles
Minibus 35 passengers diesel                 1         350            350
Jeeps 4-Wheel Drive Long Wheel
Base Diesel                               2          125            250
Motor Bicycles (125 cc)                     1           15             15
Spares (10%)                                                           61
Sub-Total                                   676
Machinery and Equipment
Farm Machinery
Tractor: 4-Wheel/Implements                 1          150            150
Tractor: 2-Wheel/Implement                  2           30             60
Water Pump/Pipes 3" With Pipes              2           40             80
Sprinkler Irrigation Units (for 5 ac,
pump and pipes)                          1           70             70
Sprayers (35 cc, shoulder mounted)          4            5             20
Equipment
Laboratory Equipment (glassware &
chemicals)                                          75             75
Workshop Equipment (hand & pcver
tools for carpentry & smithry)                      50             50
Office Equipment (typewriters, roneo,
copying, etc.)                                      50             50
Audio-visual Equipment (projectors,
cir.e/overhead, screens, tape-
recorder)                                          160            160
Kitchen Equipment (cookers, deep
freez'ers, refrigerators)                           80             80
Furniture for Hostel and Office                         85             85
Books and Periodicals                                   20             20
Sub-Total                                  900
Spares for Machinery and Equipment                                     84
Total:                                     984
TOTAL                                            4,170
1/  Inclusive of kitchen & dining room for 50 trainees with cubicles,
attached bathrooms and lounge.
2/  Inclusive of electricity, watter supply, fencing, roads, etc.             85



ANNEX 4
Table 11
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Education and Training Component - Incremental Costs, Exiating Regional Training Centerl/
(Capital cost in Rs '000)
Quantity            Unit Cost            Total Cost
Buildings
Improvement  to Hostelz-                      3                   50                     150
Laboratory]/                                   2                   85                    170
Quarters Grade IV                             7                   80                     569
Grade III                           8                    50                    403
Labor Grade                        14                    30                    420
Subtotal                                                           1,700
Land Development (10%)                                                                   169
Total                                                             1,869
Vehicles
Minibus/                                       2                  350                    700
Jeeps                                          3                 125                     375
Motor Bicycles                                 6                   15                     90
Spares (10%)                                                                          116
Total                                                              1,281
Machinery and Equipment
Water Pumps/Pipes                              3                   40                    120
Laboratory Equipment                           2                 275                     550
Kitchen Equipment                              3                   50                    150
Audio-Visual Equipment-/                                          110                    110
Furniture                                      3                   50                    150
Spares (10%)                                                                          103
Total                                                              1,188
TOTAL                                                                              4,383
1/  At Gannoruwa, Maha Illuppallama and Bandarawela.
2/ As in V/.
3/ At Bandarawela, Maha Illuppallama.
4/ 25-30 seater diesel.
5/ 4-wheel drive long-wheel base diesel vehicle.
6/ Cine/overhead projector, screen, slide projector, tape recorder.
ANNEX 4
Table 12
Education and Training Component - Incremental Costa, School of Agriculture, Kundasale
(Rs '000)
Quantity             Unit Cost              Total Cost
Buildings
Hostel (Boys)                               1                  2,600                   2,600
Laboratory/Lecture Rooms                    1                     125                    125
Gymnasium                                   1                     150                    150
Quarters Grade IV                          10                      80                    800
Grade III                        10                      50                    500
Subtotal                                                           4,175
Land Development                                                                         440
Total                                                              4.61_
Vehicles
Minibus                                     1                     350                    350
Van                                         1                     125                    12.5
Spares (10%)                                                                           4'
Total                                                                52!
Machinery and Equipment
Tractor 4-Wheel-l/                          1                     150                    15')
Tractor 2-W eel/                            1                      30                     3'
Water Pump]/                                4                      50                    200
Sprinkler Irrigation Unit                   1                      75                     7.i
Kitchen Equipment                                                 200                    20')
Laboratory Equipment-                                             250                    25')
Furniture                                                         100                    101)
Spares for Machinery & Equipment 10%                                                   9')
Total                                                              1,095
TOTAL                                                                               6,23:
1/ 45 H.P. with disc plough, tine tiller, trailer.
2/ 6.8 H.P. with power tiller, plough and trailer.
3/  4" water pump, electric.
5/ Glassware chemicals and laboratory equipment.
81,



ANNEX 4
Table 13
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Education and Training Component - Incremental Costs for
Existing District Training centersl/
(Rs '000)
Quantity          Unit Cost           Total Cost
Buildings
Improvements to Hostel                             5                 50                  250
Improvements to Lecture Rooms                      6                 75                  45(l
Home Economics Section                             3                 50                   150
Farm Workshop                                      9                 50                  45(0
Dairy and Poultry Buildings                        5                 40                   20(0
Quarters Grade III                                14                 50                   70c
Grade II                                14                 32                  44E
Land Development:  60 ac                          10                  -                   350
Total                                                                        2,99E
Vehicles
Motor Bicycles                                    12                 15                   18(
Spares (10X)                                                                           18
Total                                                                          19E
Machinery and Equipment
Tractor 2-Wheel/Implements                        14                 30                  42C
Water Pumps 3"                                    10                 40                   40C
Water Pumps 2"                                     5                  5                    25
Generator 4 KW                                     2                100                   20C
Overhead Projector                                14                 10                  15C
Sprayers                                          14                  5                   7C
Tools                                             14                 20                  280
Teaching Aids                                     14                 20                  280
Home Science Equipment                            14                 10                  140
Office Equipment                                  14                 10                  140
Total                                                                        2,095
TOTAL                                                                                  5,21
1/ Already in existence 14 District Training Centers.
ANNEX 4
Table 14
Education and Training Component - Electrical Maintenance and Repair Service
(Rs '000)
Capital Costs                               Quantity          Unit Cost           Total Ccst
Buildings
Workshop (1,500 sq ft)                             1                150                   150
Land Development (1OX)                                                                     15
Total                                                                          165
Vehicles
Jeep                                               1                125                   125
Van                                                1                150                   150
Spare Parts (10%)                                                                      27
Total                                                                          302
Equipment
Electronic Workshop Equipment                                       450                  450
Air Conditioner                                    4                 15                    60
Spare Parts                                                                           150
Total                                                                          660
Training and Experts
Fellowship-                   2/                   4                70                    70
Electronic Servicing Expert-/                      1                720                   720
Total                                                                        1,080
TOTAL                                                                                  2,207
Establishment Costs-/
Salaries                                          Numbers          Cost/Man Year    Total 4 Yecrs
Electro-Engineer                                   1                 17                    68
Technician                                         4                  8                  128
Clerk                                              1                  6                    24
Laborer                                            4                  4                    64
Total                                                                           284
Operational Costs4/                                                      70                  280
TOTAL                                                                                     564
GRAND TOTAL                                                         2,771
1/  Technicians 6 m/m fellowship.           3/  For four years.
2/  12 in/m @ US$4,000 m/m/                 4/  Vehicle operating cost and consumables.



ANNE 4
T ble 15
SRI LAM
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Education and Training Component - Capital Costs, Buildings
1/                  Total    Unit       Year 1         Year 2          Year 3         Year 4          Year 5
Regional Training Centers - New (5)            Quantit  Cost    No.   Cost    No.   Cost    No.   Cost    No.   Cost    No.   Cost               Total Cost
Hostel                                        5       600      -      -             6T00    2       1200      2      600    =       60-o0W_
Lecture Room/Office/Library                   5       400     -       -        1     400    2        800      2      800                        2000
Laboratory/Worhshnp/Stores                    5       280     -       _        1     280    2        560      2     560                         1400
Quarters -Grade IV                           25        80      -      -        5      400    5       400    10       800    5       400         2000
-Grade III                         25        50     -       -        5      250    5       250    10      500    5        250         1250
-Grade II                          25        32     -       -        5      160    -        -       5      160    5       400          S00
Labor Grade                                  20        30      -      -        4      120    5       150    11       330    -        -           600
Sub-Total              2/                                               2210            3360           3750            1730        11050
Regional Training Centers - Existing (3)
Improvements to Hostel                        3        50      2      100      1       50    -        -       -       -     -        -           150
Laboratory                                    2        85      1       85      1       85    -        -       -       -     -        -           170
Quarters -Grade IV                            7        80      2      160      2      160    3       240      -       -      -       -           560
-Grade III                          8        50     2       100      2      100    4       200      -       -     -        -           400
-Grade II                          14        30     5       150      5      150    4       120      -       -     -        -           420
Sub-Total          3/                                     595            545             560                                        1700
School of Agriculture-(Kundazale)
Hostel (Boys)                                 1      2600      -      -        -       -      -     1000      -    1800      -      600         2600
Quarters -Grade III                          10        50      -      -        -       -      -       -       6      300    4       200          500
Laboratory/Lecture Rooms                      1       125                      1    125       -       -       -       -      -       -           125
Gymnasium                                     1        -      -       -        -       -     -        -       -       -     1       150          150
Quarters-Grade (IV)                          10        -       -      -        -       r     -        -       -       -    10       800          800
Sub-Total          4/                                                125             1000           1300            1750         4175
District Training Centers - Existing (14)
Improvements & Additional Buildings                                                 900              100            1050            948         2998
Sub-Total                                                            900              100           1050             948         2998
Electronic Workshop 5/
Workshop (1500 sq ft)                         -        _       _      _        _    165       -       -       -       -     -        -           165
Sub-Total                      -       -       -       -        -    165      -        -       -      -      -        -           165
Total                                                  595     -   3780       -     5020            6100    -      4428         19923
Land Development 6/ 127 (Average)                                      71           454              602             732            531         2390
Grand Total                                            666          4234            5622            6832           4959         22313
1/  See Table 10.
2/  See Table 11.
3/  See Table 12.
4/  See Table 13.
5/ See Table 14.
6/  107. - 15% see Tables 10 - 13.
ANNEX 4
Table 16
Education and Training Component - Capital Costs. Machinery and Equipment
(Rs '000)
Year 1       Year 2        Year 3         Year 4      Year 5    Total Cost
Regional Training Centers
New Machinery and Equipment (5)                                 984           984         1,968            984          -          4 920-/
Existing Machinery and Equipment (3)                              -           594           594              -          -          1,188
School of Agriculture - Kundasale
Machinery and Equipment                                           -           400           400            295          -          1,095-
District Training Centers
Existing Machinery and Equipment (12)                             -           600           600            895          -          2,0954-
Electronic Repair Workshop
Equipment                                                         -           400           260              -          -            660-/
Headquarters
Office Equipment                                                  -            20             -              -         30             50-6/
TOTAL                               984         2,998          3,822         2,174         30         10,008
1/  Details in Table 10.
2/ Details in Table 11.
3/ Details in Table 12.
4/  Details in Table 13.
5/ Details in Table 14.
6/ Cost for 4 typewriters, 1 dupiicatiag maohina.
88



tNI:..  4
I'able 17
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Education and Training Component - Capital Costs, Vehicles
(Rs '000)
Cost
Vehicles                                              Center   Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Total Cost
1/
Regional Training Centers
New (5)
2 Jeeps            Per
1 Mini Bus                                           676      676      676       1352      676                  3380
2 Motorcycles      Center
2/
Regional Training Center
Existing (3)
2 Mini Buses                                                   700                                                700
3 Jeeps                                                                           375                             375
6 Motorcycles                                                                      90                              90
Spares 10%                                                      70                 46                             116
School of Agriculture
Kundasale 3/
1 Mini Bus                                           522       522
1 Van                                                                                                             522
4/
District Training Centers
Existing (12)
12 Motorcycles                                       198                                               198        198
5/
Electronic Workshop
1 Van, 1 Jeep                                        302               302                                        302
Headquarters - 3 Cars                                   300                100       200                              300
TOTAL                                           1968    1078       2063      676         198        5983
1/  From Table 10.
2/  From Table 11.
3/ From Table 12.
4/ From Table 13.
5/  From Table 14.                                                                                                          89



ANNEX 4
Table 18
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Education and Training Component - Operational Costs
(Rs '000)
Regional Training Centers - New (5)        Unit Cost      No.    Year 1    No.    Year 2        No.    Year 3      No.    Year 4    No.    Year 5         Total Cost
Supplies & Requisites                     175           1        175      2       350         3       525         5      875       5        875          2800
Machinery & Building Maintenance           10           1         10      2        20         3        30         5       50       5         50           160
Vehicle Operating & Com=muication          15           1         15      2        30         3        45         5       75       5         75           240
School of Agriculture
Supplies and Requisites                    93           1         93      1        93         1        93         1       93       1         93           465
Machinery & Building Maintenance            2           1          2       1        2         1         2         1        2       1          2            10
Vehicle Operating & Communication           5           1          5      1         5         1         5         1        5       1          5            25
District Training Centers - Existing (12)-
Allowance                                              12        510     12       510        12       510       12       510       12       510          2550
Supplies & Requisites                                  12         40     12        40        12        40       12        40       12        40           200
Machinery & Building Maintenance                       12          5     12         5        12         5        12         5      12         5            25
Transport & Commuication                               12         20     12        20        12        20       12        20       12        20           100
Electronic Workshop
Supplies & Requisites                      50           1         50      1        50         1        50         1       50       1         50           250
Machinery & Building Maintenance           10           1         10       1       10         1        10         1        10      1         10            50
Transport & Communication                  10           1         10      1        10         1        10         1       10       1         10            50
TOTAL                                                         945             ;;45                i345               1745               1745          6925
1/  Total for 12 centers, unit costs are not the same at all centers.
0



ANNEX 4
Table 19
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Education and Training Component - Staff Salaries-/, Incremental
(Rs '000)
Unit Cost Per    Year 1             Year 2            Year 3            Year 4            Year 5
Ngw Iraining Staff 2/                     Man/Year         No.    Cost      No.    Cost       No.    Cost       No.    Cost       No.    Cost         Thtal Cost
Agricultural Officer                      10             1      10        4       40        7       70       11       110      19       190           420
SMS/Lecturer                              10            10     100       15      150       25      250       30       300      30       300          1100
AI                                         6             2       12       4       24        9       54       14        84      20       120           294
FMI                                        5            2       10        4       20        6       30        8        40      11        55           155
Cinema Operator                            4             1       4        2        8        4       16        5        20       5        20            68
Photographer                               5             3      15        4       20        6       30        7        35       7        35           135
KVS                                        5             2       10       4       20        6       30        8        40      11        55           155
Artist                                     5             4      20        5       25        7       35        8        40       8        40           160
Typist                                     4            9       36       11       44       17       68       20        80      20        80           308
Clerk/Storekeeper                          4             8      32       16       64       25      100       34       136      44       176           508
Electronic Repair Shop Staff
Electro Engineer                          17             -        -        1      17        1       17        1        17       1        17            68
Technician                                 8             -        -       4       32        4       32        4        32       4        32           128
Clerk                                      6             -       -        1        6        1        6        1         6       1         6            24
Laborer                                    4             -        -       4       16        4       16        4        16       4        16            64
Sub-Total                                                   249               486               754                956             1142           3587
Salary Increments 4%                                                              10                29                 59                97           195
(Incremental)
TOTAL                                     249               496               783               1015              1239          3782
1/  Consolidated salary inplusive of hctsing a1o-waie, bpecial maing aiowances, and other allowances.
2/ Numbers from Annex 3, Table 5.
s0



ANNEX 4
Table 20
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Research Component - Cost of Building Construction for Incremental Staff ./
(Rs '000)
Unit     Year 1        Year 2        Year 3        Year 4        Year 5         Total
Cost    No.  Cost    No.  Cost    No.  Cost    No.  Cost    No.  Cost    No.  Cost
Living Quarters
Grade IV                      80     10    800    10    800    10    800    10    800         -     -      40   3200
Grade III                     60     20   1200    10    600    10    600    20   1200         -     -      63   3600
Grade II                     40      10    400    10    400    10    400        -     -       -     -      30   1200
Sub-Total                        40   2400    30   1800    30   1800    30   2000        -      -    130   8000
Office/Lab
Adap. Research               200      8   1600      8   1600      9   1600      -     -       -     -      24   4800
New Regional Res. Center,
Initial Building        400       -     -       1    400      1    400     1    400      -      -      3   1200
Total Building                        4000          3800          3800          2400     -      -          14000
Land Development 25%                  1000           950           950           600     -      -           3500
Total                                 5000          4750          4750          3000     -      -          17500
1/ Numbers from Annex 3, Table 6.
ANNEX 4
Table 21
Research Component - Cost of Vehicles
(Rn '000)
Unit      Year 1         Year 2         Year 3         Year 4         Year 5          Total
Cost     No.  Cost      No.  Cost      No.  Cost      No.  Cost      No.  Cost      ND.  Cost
Jeep-type vehicle    125        14   1750     -      -       -      -       -      -       -      -       14 1/1750
Van                   100        3    300     -      -       -      -       -      -                        3 / 300
Motorcycle             18       20    360      10    180     10    180       20    360     -      -        60 3/1080
Bicycles                1       10     10      10     10     10      10     -      -         ---           30!4/  30
2420           190            190             360     -     -              3160
1/ Vehicle each for 8 adaptive research mobile teams, 3 new RRCs, Central Rice Institute, Sita Elyia
Vegetable/Potato Research Station and Minor Exportable Crop Research Institute.
2/ For SHSs of Research Division,DA, HQ.
3/ 1 each for 60 adaptive research Exprimental Officers.
4/ 1 each for 30 adaptive research Experimental Assistants.                                                                       92



ANNEX 4
Table 22
SRI LANKA
Research C..ompOnet -Cs   fEuee
(Es '000)
Unit
Unit                                                                                                                         coos t        st   Allocation
NI.                               C-rt   L-s-t   -Li-10"t",                               ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~30  2-Wheel Tractors  6-8 Np, capable of working        30        900  24  Adaptive Research
11     Table calculators         12-li digit, 4 basic              5       55   8mobile teen.s for super-                          & Implemnvts             os upland and paddy field;                               sts-Iec
functinos, square root,                           vising 24 adaptive                                                       rtvtr    .l    .r                                       NwRsac
squar., memory additio.  re ... rch -it--  -h                                              ~~~~~reversible plow, trailer &                            centers, 2 each
and nubtractios, AC                                                                                                        other implements
adaptor for 230 V                                                        S.~~~~~~~~~~~~~lb-Total,
24 Typewriters                ihl  kyor                        8      192  24 Adaptive research sites                           Pie1d Equipoest16
21          Siohala keyboard                                ~~~~~~~~~1 each                                                                                                         __
11     Typewriter.               Standard English keyboard,    8           SR      lame as "table calc-                    LbSWahe    qimn
24 in. carriage                                     blocsr                                27     Weighing Balances         Open pan to weiRh up tO 5            1         27       Same as power
165   ODA Divisi-s fOr                                      ~~~~~~~~kg with set of weights                           sprayer v/duster
11     Duplicating               Electrically operated,           15      165     sBarDiison  forihn   Sa.                                                  T    eihu    o1,0    g25
Machines                 equivalent of "GestetnerRearh -
Model 320."                                     8 Regional Research27                             begigSae                 Twihupt1,0kR2                                  5
&                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Centers--l each          27      Microscopes &            Rye piece a 10                       3         81
Sapplies for                              ~~~     ~~~~~10  110  Site Pliya and Jaffna                        Supplies                Object pieces x25x5(xl(O
1 years                                                                     s.sa-1ec                           1500       Containers for seed   Glass or plastics                     0.1    150    24  Adsptive research
30      Steel Cabinets           Locally made, 4 drawers           1       30  24 Adaptive research siteu                          and soil samples         variou.sai.es                                            ie-5     c
1 each                                                                                                                       3  New research
3 new regional research                                                                                                            centers - 100 each
centers -  2 each                      1        5-Cmr                    L,f28wt    ag                      2        22      8  Adaptive research
11  35 mm Camera  SLR, f 2.8 with range                         ~mobile teams -
140  De.k/h.ir S.ts      Locally made, 3' - 4'              0.7     95  136 incremental staff--                            S Supplies for           finder, wide angle lens,                                 1 each
140  leak/Chair Sets                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~1 each                             5 years                  close op lens end auto--22                           3Nwrsac
matic shutter                            ~~~~~centers - 1 each
Sub-Total, Office                                                 736                                            300      Pots for Pot             Glaced clay                         0.1      30      3  New research
Eq.igm..t                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Experiments                                                  centers - 100 each
3.2    8724 Adative rsearchSit.S27               Eels Guage               Simple metal type                   0.5      14'        Same as power
27     Power Sprayers            Low volume, tank capacity         3.I72  Adaptiv  reerhstssprayers v/dusters
D..ter  about 2 g.1lons                            ~~~~3 new regional research                27      Thermometers cabinet  Set of thermometers, max-              1.5      41
center.  each                    ~~~~and fence             imum dry hulk, wet hulk,
wooden cabinet, barbed wire
45      tnapsack Sprayers        Double action Piston                                                                                                      fence
byd bthaigtkr, ef handl..be       1       54      Same as power sprayers,                        Sub-Total Lab &
by b.th rightor left handbut 2 each                                                 Weather E___ip_                                                      441
54     Measuring Tape            30 meters, PVC case in              0.3        17       Same, as ksapsack                GRAND TOTAL EQUIPMENT                                                       24
.etet. end centimeters                   ~sprayers                                  Phasing of Procurment -- All listed items to he procured on the first year
54     Pocket Calculators        10 digits., 4 basic functions.   0.2           11       Same as knapsack                              of the Project, except the following:
memory addition and subtrac-                                                                                                         ('    00
tion. with AC adap-o for use
on 230 V in laboratory                                                                                           Unit    Year 1        Year 2       Year 3        Year 4       Year S      Total
Cost   No.  Cost  No.  Cost~  No.  Cost   NO.  Coast  No.  Cost  No.  Cost
27      Soil Testing Kits        Portable, EON Type                  0.75       21       Same as power
sprayer v/dusters             Desk/Chair Set             0.7   40       28  30       21   30       21   30       21  10       7  140    98
Contaimers                 0.1  300       30 30i       30  300       30  300      30 300       30 1500   150
54     Magnifying Glasses    .lO, with handle                         0.2       11       Sane as knapsack               Pots                       0.1   100       10 100       10  100       10    -      -   -         -  300    30
sprayers                        Sub-Total                               68           61            61            51          37          278
All Others                            2464             -             -            -            -        2464
27      Soil Auger               Screw type, for boring up to    0.5            14       Same as power
6 ft                              prayer w/d..ter                   ~~~~~~~~~~TOTAL                     2532           61           61            51           37        2742
3     4-Wheel Tractors          45 Np, Wheel type                 150         450   3  new Regiomal
2 Implements                                                                     Research Centers
1 each



ANNEX 4
Table 23
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
1/
Research Component - Cost of Incremental Staff Salaries and Allowances
(Rs '000)
Annual
Unit         Year 1        Year 2        Year 3        Year 4          Year 5           Total
Cost      .:No.  Cost    No.  Cost    No.  Cost        No.  Cost      No.  Cost       No.  Cost
Research Officer           10.0        10    100    20    200    30    300        40    400      40    400       40   1400
Experiment Officer          6.0        20    120    30    180    40    240        60    360       60    360      60   1260
Experiment Assistant        5.0        10     50    20    100    30    130        30    150       30    150      30    600
Drivers                     5.0         -     -      17      85    17      85     17      85      17     85      17    340
Typist                      5.0         -     -       6      30     6      30      6      30       6     30       6    120
Total (1)                                270           595           805            1025           1025           3720
Salary increased
(under Gov't consideration 5%)          14            30            40             50              50            184
Total (2)                                266           588           796            1013           1013           3676
284           625           845           1075           1075            3904
1/ Numbers from Annex 3, Table 6.



ANNEX eq
Table 24
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Research Component - Incremental Operation and
Maintenance Cost During the Project Period
(Rs '000)
Annual   Year 1       Year 2         Year 3        Year 4      Year 5         Total
Cost    No.  Cost   No.  Cost   No.  Cost   No.  Cost   No.  Cost    Cost
Adaptive Res.
Sites
Material              5       10    50    18        90    24   120   24   120    24   120           500
Labor                 3       10    30    18        54    24    72   24    72    24    72           300
Consummables for
Mobile Teams        3        3      9      6     18      8    24    8    24        8    24         99
Sub-total                       89            162          216          216          216        899
New Research
Centers
Material              5        1      5      2      10      3    15    3    15        3    15         60
Labor                 5        1      5      2      10      3    15    3    15        3    15        60
Consummables          3        1      3      2       6     3      9    3       9     3      9        36
Sub-total                     13             26           39           39           39       156
Travel Allowances
Res. Officers        3.6      10    36    20        72    30   180   40   144    40   144           504
Exp. Officers        3.0      20    60    30        90    40   120   60   180    60   180           630
Exp. Assistants    1.2        10    12    20        24    30    36   30    36    30    36           144
Drivers              1.2       -    -       23      28    23    28   23    28    23    28           112
Sub-total                    108            214          292          388          388      1390
Vehicle Operation
& Maintenance
Jeep-type            24        -    -       14    336    14   336   14   336    14   336           1344
Van                  36        -    -        3    108       3   108    3   108        3   108       432
Motorcycle            3        -    -       20      60    30    90   40   120    60   180           450
Bicycle              0.2      10      2    20        4    30      6   30       6    30      6        24
4-Wheel Tractor       2        -    -        3       6      3     6    3       6      3     6        24
2-Wheel Tractor       1        -    -       30      30    30    30   30    30    30    30           120
Sub-total
2           544           576         606           606      2394
Year 1       Year 2        Year 3       Year 4         Year 5    Total
Percen-  Capital        Capital        Capital       Capital      Capital       O&M
tage      Cost    O&M  Cost    O&M  Cost   (4   Cost   O&M  Cost   O&M  Cost
Equipment 0&M        10% of
capital
cost      68        7   2674    267  2674   267  2674   267  2674  267   1075
Building O&M         5% of
capital
cost       -        -   5000    250  9750   488 14500   725 1'500  875   2338
Sub-total                      7             517          755           992        1142   3413
GRAND TOTAL                            219            1463          1878         2241         2451   8252
95



ANNEX 4
Table 25
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Cost of Economics, Monitoring and Evaluation
(Rs '000)
Y E A R S
1             2              3              4              5
No.           No.            No.            No.            No.               Total
Buildings, Housesl/                     770.0         1220.0                                                     1990.0
Vehicles
Jeeps                          4    520.0   4       520.0                                                    1040.0
Motor Bicycles                34    408.0   7        84.0    8    96.0                                         588.0
Sub-Total                        928.0           604.0          96.0                                      1628.0
Equipment
Programmable Calculator        1      10.0                                                                      10.0
Pocket Calculator             30    150.0                                                                      150.0
Plain Paper Copier             1      40.0                                                                      40.0
Furniture                     14      32.0  13       30.0   13    30.0                                          92.0
Sub-Total                        232.0            30.0          30.0                                       292.0
Establishment Cost
Salaries
Agric. Economist             3      42.0   7       98.0    7    98.0       7      98.0    7      98.0        434.0
Economic Assistant/
Agric. Instructor           9      72.0  26      208.0   26   208.0    26    208.0   26    208.0            904.0
Computer Programmer            1      14.0   1       14.0    1    14.0       1      14.0    1      14.0         70.0
Salary Increment -4% p.a.           -              13.1          26.8            41.0            55.7        136.6
Sub-Total                        128.0           333.1         346.8           361.0           375.7      1544.6
Operating Costs
Vehicles                              72.0          144.0         144.0            144.0          144.0        648.0
Office                                40.0           40.0          40.0             40.0           40.0        200.0
Computer Use                          50.0           75.0         lAO              100.0          100.0        425.0
Sub-Total                         162.0           259.0         284,0)           2q4,0          284.0       1273,0
TOTAL                       2220.0         2446.1          756.8           645.0          659.7       6727.6
Number     Unit Cost
a    1/  Grade IV                   8       Rs 80,000
Grade III                27       As 50,000.



ANNEX 4
Table 26
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Civil Engineering Unit - Cost of Equipment and Supplies
(Rs '000)
Unit   Year 1       Year 2       Year 3       Year 4       Year 5        Total
Cost  No.  Cost  No.  Cost  No.  Cost  No.  Cost  No.  Cost  No.  Cost
Measuring Tape
(30 meters)              0.3    10    3    -         -    -       -    _      _    _             10    3
P :et Calculators
(i digits, 4 basic
functions)               0.1    30      3    -       -    -       -    -      -    -       -    30    3
Drafting Equipment
and Supplies              -       -     3                         a                                     3
Total                            99
Civil Engineering Unit - Incremental Operation and Maintenance Cost
(Rs '000)
Annual      Year 1        Year 2        Year 3        Year 4        Year 5        To Cal
Unit       Capital       Capital       Capital       Capital       Capital       CapLtal
Cost    Cost  Cost  Cost  Cost  Cost  Cost  Cost  Cost  Cost  Cost  Cost  Cost
Buildings &
Equipment        102 of
Capital
Cost      784    -    784   7.8   784   7.8   784   7.8   784   7.4  78.4   312
Annual
Unit      Year 1       Year 2      Year 3       Year 4        Year 5        Total
Cost    No.  Cost  No.  Cost  No.  Cost  No.  Cost   No.  Cost  No.  Cost
Vehicles
Jeep-Type           24       3      -    3      72   3       72   3       72    3       72   3    288
Motorcycles           3    74       -   74    222  74    222  74    222   74    222  74    888
Total                      -           372          372          372           372       1,488
Costs for Civil Engineering Unit - Cost for Building Construction
(Es '0003
Unit    Year 1        Year 2      Year 3       Year 4        Year 5        Tctal
Cost  No.  Cost  No.  Cost  No.  Cost  No.  Cost   No.  Cost   No.  Cost
Living Quarters
Grade IV                  80    3    240   -         --       -      -     -      -          -      3    240
Grade III                 50    3    150   -         -    -       -    -       -      -      -      3    150
Grade II                  35    5    175   -               -       -   -    -                -      5    175
Total Building                 11    565   -        -    -       -    -      -      -      -    11    565
Land Development 25%             _      141   -       -    -       -    -       -      -      -      -    141
Total                           706   -       -    -       -    -       -     -       -            706
Civil Engineering Unit - Cost of Incremental Staff Salaries and Allowances
(Rs '000)
Annual
Unit       Year 1       Year 2       Year 3      Year 4       Year 5       Total
Cost    No.  Cost  No.  Cost  No.  Cost  No.  Cost  No.  Cost  No.  Cost
Graduate Civil
Engineers         10.0       3    30      3    30    3    30    3    30         3    30    3    150
Diploma Engin.
Assistant          6.0       2    12    2    12    2    12         2    12    2    12    2          60
Certificate
Inspector          5.0       5    25    5    25       5    25      5    25    5    25    5    125
Draftsman   v        5.0      1      5    1       5    1      5    1       5    1       5    1       25
Total               11        72        72           72           72           72          360
Salary Increase
5% Under Gov't
Consideration                       4           4            4            4            4            20
Total                       6 6                    7676                                   380l
Civil Engineering Unit - Cost of Vehicles
(Rs '000)
Unit    Year 1         Year 2       Year 3      Year 4       Year 5       Total_
Cost  No.  Cost   No.  Cost  No.  Cost  No.  Cost  No.  Cost  No.  Cost
Jeep-type Vehicle         125   3    375           -     -      -     -     -      -         -    3    375
Motorcycles                 18  74  1,332          -        -      -    -       -    -       -   74  1,332
1,707                                                            1,737
97



ANNEX 4
Table 27
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Costs of Overseas Training and Technical Assistance l/
(Rs '000)
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Total
Overseas Training,
Extension Officers   774         774        774        774        774       3870
Overseas Training
Senior Extension
Officers               66         66         66         -         -          198
Overseas Training,
Research Officers
& Senior SMO's        645        382        329        120        60        1528
Technical Assistance  8722       10428        -           -          -       191502./
10207     11607      1169         894        834       23974
1/ Number of trainees, period of training, number of consultants and man-months
of employment are given in main report, para 3.30 to 3.34.
2/ Cost of consultants, on basis of employing through firms, is estimated at
US$9,000 per man-month, for a total of 138 man-months.
98



Chart No.1
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
Ministry of Agricultural
Development and Research
Department of Agriculture
Director
Staff of Director's Office                                         Pe
Other Divison  &
Reearch Divition                  Eotension Division                 Training Division                 Economics Unit                  Engineering            lOffcers Reportinf
to Director  
Deputy Director                   Deputy Director                   Deputy Director                   Chief Economist                    Deputy DOrector                Deputy Director for
Head Office                                                    Head Office                             Superinten.ingq
Head Office           ~Technical & Operational               Head Off ice                    Economists                                EngineersDeuyircofr
Technical Staff  ~ffTechnical StaffDeuyi,t.  .
Staf                                                          (2)/13)                                                           Adminstrative Divsion
Computer Programme 
-                                                                                            ivl        L(,cl               Chief Accountant
Field Stations                    District Staff               Field Training Centers    |                  l                                      i - e
------  24 DAEO's (22)/(2)                                              ~ ~~~~~~~~~~Regional Staff           Stf 16/6)
1 Central Rice Research                                             1 School of Agriculture
Station                                                         (2 Year Dipl oma               Economists Attached
Preservice for Al's)            to Regional Research
58 AO'S (20)/1(38)                                                   Centers (0)/(4)
1 Minor Eportabl Crops               29 SMO's 127)/132             14  istrict Training CentersDistrct St.ff
Research StationU32                                           14DsrcTriigCnesI-
(I Year Certificate.                 District Staff
Preseroice for KVS's)                                             Inspectors (19)1/(5
8 Regional Research Centers           Range Level Staff
-1                             ~      ~~~~~~~~~48 Economic Assistarts
5   1   496 Al's (421)/(75)      8 Regional Training Centers               (22)/(26)                   Overseers (50)/(l)
(542(3)
496 KV's (496)/(0)                     Inservice Training
for all Levels of
Extension Officers)
12 Experiment StationsV
/    Village Level Staff
24 Adaptive Research Centers       2,137 KV's (1,187)/(9SO)
Note. (a) This is not a complete organization chart of DOA. Only units directly participating in the project works are shoan in necessary detail.
hb  Where applicable, numbers in parenthesis before hyphen are numbers of existing units or staff; numbers after hyphen are numbers of
units or staff to be added under the project. 'Only an initial building will be built for the 3 new Regional Research Centers under the
project.
(c) DAEO - District Agricultural Extension Officers. AO - Agricultural Officer. SMO - Subject Matter Officer.
Al - Agricultural Instructor. KVS - Village Extension Officer.
World Bank   19961
99



Ch-rt No. 2
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
PROJECT ORGANIZATION CHART
M,fldttM Lefal
Ministrv of A3ricultula1  |                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Miniett VOf Lice;otok  MiniStty of Coconut    M,n,en,y of Land ,,,a         Minittrv of Mphlita     Othrcr Mietnietr
e        --nd fual Induecties  _ nOust,iee                Land DeOeloptnnt                Oelopment           Dedta-nse-d bV GOSL
O,pa,tment Ltenet                                                                                                         urtrvo  giutre                                
Depanm ntct                                                    D pa~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Oetnemn of Aninnel  Coconut Cuhination  DOptn.ntnrof  Depnotannn rOfLand  Mtecael Dm1 pti
AEric lltun                                                   Pra~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fnductiOn end do altt  Connn innee  Irrigorion    ComnmiRiomer          tent E001d
Spcil fioetfnjn  osltn Ie
fl;; ;a| Late)nsiotDviona|l                                                                                                                         Rationl      I   I
I I  'I   X  t   1   1-  1  1  :   |    I     I                I
S-1.1 P,.-                                                     -.L1  AU! 
I   IL<J} 1m11 XJI , { X~~OpatnantfAeiulut                                                         I        I I
Siattic Lt; I.0    Eciatmice                                                                                                                                                                        PngneearChend I.stn he 1f an in Om| |J
Aae  I.                                                                                                                                                                                                                  E-I
l   l  l   l   I   l     l            I            |       9 Cr=up {Cho nd tbV Dir ctor |__ L  L _ -1  D01Dieit AocusuelEatnson ttUs. Al grcutUtl ffier_S_O S_ ec Met, Oelec
|   l   l                l           l             l        | D Atemnto;AWrievibin |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Al    Arcutua letuto. IVS Vlag FtneteWrks
D"Olld PI,,-,,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Oed a 
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V I                                                         i.,(phu
l            l                   l            l                     | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C..ri-Wt bV DAEO) 
Vills Lcul- lN._                                                                                                                                                   _ -M             _C-Mmfiuni.nU
l  l                  j            T                                                       b} (DAEO) DbErict ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~A,,iutolEx- ni OffiE r (AO) Agrcllt..11 MOt  iE3 (MO) Subj-: Mmb Oflu,
s ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~II AF_n.1-                                                              4KcS Vilr  E  Fm n  .-mr  1-
F-,~ ~     ~              ~ L_I F  -N  .                                  Si
S~~~~~~F;-                                                 IA$M  -
O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. Sk- 



CHART NO. 3
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
Project Compor ltts                            Year 1   Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5
of Disburgement--- 
Extension
Appointment of incremental staff              (20)       (40)       (60)      (80)        (100)
Building eonstruction                         (33)       (67)       (79)      (48)        (100)
Procurement of vehicles                       (45)       (75)       (100)
Procurement of equipment                       4      W. 40)   (70)  (100)
Operation and  maintenance                    (10)       (27)       (51)      (76)        (100)
Adaptive Research
Appointment of incremental staff              (27)       (57)       (78)      (100)
Building construction                         (29)       (56)  1 (83)         (100)
Procurement of vehicles                    |77)          (83)       (89)      (100)
Procurement of equipment                      (92)                   9 7       (99l       (100)
Operation and maintenance                      (2)       (18)       (41)       (69)       (100)
Training
Appointment of incremental staff              (42)       (42)       (80)      (90)        (100)
Building construction                         .(3)       (22)       (47)      (78)        (100)
Procurement of vehicles                       (33)       (51)       (85)      (97)        (100)
Procurement of equipment/supplies             (10)       (40)       (78)      (99)        (100)
Operation and maintenance                      (1)        (4)        (7)      (53)        (100)2
Economics, Monitoring & Evaluation
Appointment of incremental staff              (38)       (100)
Building construction (living quarters)    (39)          (100)
Procurement of vehicles                       (57)        (94)      (100)
Procurement of equipment                      (79)        (90)      (100)
Operation and maintenance                     (13)        (33)       (55)    (78)         (100)
Engineering Adm. (for construction)
Appointment of incremental staff             (100)
Building construction (living quarters) (100)
Procurement of vehicles/equipment            (100)
Operation and maintenance                     (20)  |    (40)        (60)    (80)        (100)
Overseas Training & Tech. Assistance _
Overseas training                             (26)      (48)        (69o .
Technical assistance                          ('O)
101






SRI LANKA
________________________________                                                                             A G R O            -    EC OLO GIC AL                              REGIO NS                                                                                                                                                 RED  14076~~~~~~~~AGO  - C O L G ICL  R G IOS  IRD    407
RU.                                                       81.              o'                                                                                                                                       DISTINGUISHING  CHARACTERISTICSFERRD19
ftd.g-l R.gA,ITAFO B-d.,,,-                                                                                             MONTHLY HISTOGRAMS            75%  EXPECTANCY                         5        XPCAC
AGO-ECOLOGICAL                       OlF 75 %                    VALUE OF                            OF% DRYNESSMAORSLFROPTRRI
,,,,o  B-od-ooo                                                                                    REGIO   & SYMBOL                 RAINFALL PROBABILITY                ANNUALFO FATCAR                                   ON S
FOR RESPECTIVE REGIONS            RA NFALL   , 
-~~~~~                                                                                                     20                                                     JOn   FOR  00SF   MAY  OUR  JUL  0.20  OFF~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~II    E
I N  DIA                                                                     2                                                                                                                                                           o,o,o    Ooo,o,o
Wu,                                                                      J "N15240100240   00 000202002
W              2                                                              75L:~j                                                                                                                        001
N//N  SILANKA                           Wu,                                                                  :1::.020-22000                                                                                  0,2I0000              202    002
Wm,  11                          1121                11    F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  .0                             10  0.  0.0    00      ,0000    0.2  0.2  
0   1.0  lp  31~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20042  o, 
WLI                                 '100~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~02 0,                                                                                      0-020202002
I    -? 1  J0                                  ~                                                                          E                      2       0               A2 00.-0    oo2o,o,  ololoolo                                         0     U20O,0210
KILOWTERU                                                     ___ __
U1NS                                                                                         0 , 0                      0202022                OOoo,oo,o210200,0   0002                       2020..002dOO0
WL,                                                    15              I     F~~~~~~~~~5  22 00 010 10 02VO   O            02122202200200loFooo                          20200,,OORI  2022
-7- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ -                                                 4
o.  1M            I     I                                                  55                     F      0    222'  .0   00,l  A.,  .0          02220204021,0,0022,L02                          ON.2od,o
70~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
lm                                   5.5                                            1.1  A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1 2Y002F00,001020 L000120 -00
pp" ~    ~    ~     o        IiND2                                                                                                0     20       0        0    02       O,1.oooOAOOl,OVloFdo,o,l                        22200012   0   0
7                                  0ASL0
'14 I I ~ ~         ~        ~        ~        I2O                                       L    J     7                  4                   Fo        0     00     00         .    20        00,,O2oR02020o00O.0oO                          022.[oo,o02
II~~~~~~~~~~~3
C                   0                                    NSS                .      22002    00220  0,,  00   OoO'0002~~~~~~~~0       L-       "I20200001                      020,020
11-                                                                    45JIIJ  i ~.,N I   3  00 1 22 002 0                  00220AI,2200222200  000220I,  20                              040,
C2      IL,                             4,20200,01.0022220022,
D L2            Li2,                                                        303520                               0O,o000                        210022,00200202,0020000002
0 CEA N                                                                                                                     DL3&4                                                                , 23                                               1.1 AI,, I.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   22--;No--oo.200, ,,,02200,21
zz=                         ~~~ ~~~0.  CL3420,20'RCo,F N5.22 0 0 1, 0.00 Al0 I.,                                                                                                  .0-000100..0010020002....02022,222202
oo,                                                                                                                  820






SRI LANKA
SOILS
I [ I         Rwddi5h Bsvwn fo.ths and Thei, Doinoge Asooihotes
.4-                                                                                                               2              ReWiddsh B -e  Eorhoiend lemnoarn Brvwn Loo-s                               4
3              Reddish broo< Eortie Nor Icic Brown Soils nd Their Droitge Ass-ooioe
4              Red - Yelow Pool..ic Sojil
S              Red-Yellow Pbd SIi  od with Pro  ..t Al and Their DIronngo A.-oiees
0') ti7 6                                                                                               8 Red- Yelfow Rd-olic Svil5 with Loite  -vd The,r Droino.g  A-sioyoton
7              Red - Yel bw Podnohc Soils wih Molhed Sobsots o-d Their Dronoie As-oci.te
8              Red- Ye11ow Lotosls
9              CkicR ed - Yellol  Lot.sols
10 [iii         Reddish Brow  Lor |i| So, I,-and l   s Brown Leo-e
I1 i            Nocolcic B.o.n Seth Seth-o Old Allo-ion end Alkoli Soil
I2             8 Blok TrePtyol Cloy Sot.1 ro11 h
13              Alkoli end Sol,n  Soilo ISolont-d Solonetood Sooochok,)
m4             Ayd Swop Soil,(Sce -nd Hall Bog Sods)
Is              Soodr Regocoln en Reorr-  BRooh end Do.e SndS-
16                 RLo-solic Rosols
17             Allocio1 Sods
0       10       20       30       40
MtLER
KILOMETERS 0           20   3O   do   50   do
r                                                                                                                                                                             Thi7 tn7 hen bne  P prtowrno bY the
asafectusois'ly for
the -reoaieno  of the rodmr of
VWe eofl to tolt&rlrt io, ttaoslsed
The denomMiotieoe eeed wed the
________                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~boende,ie  ohosn  e thio rap
do oot -oply. en the 90,t0of the
Word Bw* 'ndto affiaio, 001'
jodgr t on Mte legal' ta- tf
an  to-t,y 0,00y  d,8--t
or ceiritsenon f such hoowida,ioo.
PAKISTAN   C-  iN. ,.,>A
8'
PREPARED BYDEPARTMENTOFAGRICULTURE                               -S*                                        I O-
8,0                                                          hir                                                                              SRI LANKA      /              i  NJ
_________________________________                                                                                                                                                                             '0_






IBRD 14078R
1                                                      s't                                                                         ----- - - MAR    1979
SRI LANKA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH STATIONS
AND TRAINING INSTITUTES
4'                                                                                                                                                                                      40
*     Exmsting Regionai Reseoo h Cenrters
*     Propxsed Regional Reserch Centers
-3    Existing Epergrnrent Stations
O          0i <loT7Thi...e.y .                                                                           U    Nort-Deportmonfol Researth Institutes
A     Existing Regionvt Training Contears
A     Existing Natroofl Schoot of Agricurlutot Centers
A,   Exstig District Training Centees
A     Proposed R>giotnd Trainting Contert
----District Boundaries
v '-J    '
'N     ( _ _-~Xt t\                                                                       MILE'      10    20        30      40
)                                                    I \  "  \'   P1@                            KIEd o   lo   ;    i    E    J
|  9                  ~~~~~Anurr dhspxra             ( }<ontiolrit
.0 ~~~~~~~~  
(>Vonnorivillu  w              Mchc Illuppol lcmoon                        _    J       \7
<:5 to >sx * (> ~~~~~Mmn-riy.    
\\                 f9o              It
I          Wr -.  iI
t                OA    BW.1.9.d.  ( I
ftv+oo   \    Ponnolo '_                                       P Alnnoruwom              \
AbW- ovVopi'o/ K.g.11.   P\r.d.nij.   a                   \            r           r ,
t             (,S7              _)           / '   OA                     B&bI.-       9         C Hiqnguo
N      V~~~~~~~~( 
.7-     ~- 
WOritotolO  N~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~bwn*r fo"mW
ro  B\                                          . . . /                                                       d Am
0           i               AM \       *              WNM
5        t&s          sf~~~~~~~ i  1s* r                         vI                                                             e     ~     e     o
t Ponr,ols                           <o_/Y                                                     Viro o                                    me do _mw
A                                                                                                                                                     Jor7no)   ~ ~ ~ ~ ' w)   *\  )  XYrAnKundos.i
,   \                 \      oA b-lpiug.                                             /                                                                  \gIo P   .i= 
A 'a                     R7                                      ,        0 li nPAKISTANo                                      C HIN
+ ~~~~               ~ ~~ l5                                   Biil           /  Ablpty  x-vS_>  
/  6I A     Y. 
t\ ~N                         t               An/io o            /gnk.1                                                         I N D I A1
OA                00N              D t
OCfAN                               <                                                                                           rh*a       Xgay tit7r ,7
5ea i'np4I On teejerat LANtA
Hono                                        1         j                                           -S                                         1LAt 



