CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 931 CE
Development Credit .Ageement
(Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research Project)
between
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 24, 1979
11


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 931 CE
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 24, 1979, between DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST
REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION    (hereinafter called  the
Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The perties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully ,set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02.   Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional term has the following meaning,
viz., "Department of Agriculture" means the Department of Agricul-
ture in the Borrower's Ministry of Agricultural Development and
Research.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to fifteen million five hundred thousand dollars
($15,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associ-
ation, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services requited for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
Ni-


﻿-2-
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1985 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each
March 15 and September 15 commencing September 15, 1989, and
ending March 15, 2029, each installment to and including the
installment payable on March 15, 1999, to be one-half of one per
cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate agricultural, engineering, administrative and financial
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out the Project, the Borrower shall employ, by January 31, 1980
or such other date as the Association may agree, consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Ki


﻿-3-
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the
Association of their respective obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
.  mmmmalemaIme


﻿-4-
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfac-
tory to the Association that such land and rights in respect of
land are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall:
(a) vest responsibility for carrying out all extension
services under the Project in the Department of Agriculture;
and
(b) appoint by July 1, 1979, and maintain thereafter, the
Director of the Department of Agriculture as the Project Director
with such terms of reference as shall be satisfactory to the
Association.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall establish and maintain
a Project Coordination Committee with membership and terms of
reference satisfactory to)the Association.
Section 3.08. The Borrower, in order to carry out Part
A of the Project, shall cause:
(a) district level officers in the Borrower's Ministry
of Rural Industrial Development and the Borrower's Ministry of
Coconut Industry to serve as subject matter officers on animal
husbandry and coconut cultivation, and to train village level and
range level extension officers in the Department of Agriculture on
subject matters of animal husbandry and coconut cultivation;
and
(b) the said village level and range level extension offic-
ers, in turn, to instruct farmers on subject matters of animal
husbandry and coconut cultivation.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall employ additional staff
required for extension services, adaptive research, training,
economic analysis, monitoring and evaluation and civil works
under the Project in accordance with a progr, m mutually agreed
between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall ensure that staff who are
assigned to extension services on the Project (a) are retained
1..4


﻿4                       51
in their assignments for the duration of the Project except for
reasons of unsatisfactory performance of prescribed duties under
their training and visit schedules or with the express approval of
the Department of Agriculture; and (b) attend to all prescribed
training and visit duties on a full time basis, and carry out
their training and visit schedules without undue interruption.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall cause the financial manage-
ment system of the Department of Agriculture to be revised by
December 31, 1979 in a manner satisfactory to the Association,
so as to permit expeditious authorization of expenditures under
the Project.
Section 3.12. The Borrower shall cause the Department of
Agriculture to prepare and adopt a plan, satisfactory to the
Association, to carry out Part C (iii) of the Project, by Decem-
ber 31, 1979, and thereafter, carry out the plan.
Section 3.13. The Borrower shall ensure that the supply of
building materials is adequate *to carry out the works under the
Project in accordance with a timetable mutually agreed with the
Association.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect
of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof,
including, without limitation to the foregoing, all expenditures
described in Category 4 of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
to this Agreement on account of which withdrawals are requested
from the Credit Account on the basis of certificates of expendi-
ture.
(b) The Borrower shall retain, or cause to be retained,
until one year after the Closing Date, all records (orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing the
expenditures on account of which withdrawals are requested from
the Credit Account on the basis of certificates of expenditure and
shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to
examine such records.


﻿-6-
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) have or cause to have the
separate accounts referred to in Section 4.01 (a) above for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
able to the Association; (ii) have or cause to have the said
sep-arate accounts consolidated by the Project Director; (iii)
furnish or cause to be furnished to the Association, as soon as
available, but in any case not later than six months after the end
of each such year, (A) certified copies of the said separate
accounts for such year as so audited; (B) the report of -such
audit by such auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested, including, without
limitation to the foregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors
in respect of the expenditures and records referred to in Section
4.01 (b) above as to whether the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn
from the Credit Account on the basis of certificates of expendi-
ture have been used for the purpose for which they were provided,
and (C) the consolidated accounts prepared by the.Project Director
under Section 4.01 (c) (ii) above; and (iv) furnish or cause to be
furnished to the Association such other information concerning
said separate accounts, consolidated accounts, records and
expenditures and the audit thereof as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause to be taken out and
maintained with responsible insurers, or to make other provision
satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate
practice.
Section 4.03. The Borrower agrees, after the completion
of the Project, to make available adequate funds so as to enable
the Department of Agriculture to continue:
(a) the operation, with due diligence and efficiency,
of extension services, adaptive research training, economic
studies and other activities introduced or established under the
Project;
(b) the proper operation and maintenance of all ProJect
equipment, vehicles, buildings and facilities; and
(c) -the employment of the staff engaged under the Project
to carry out the above mentioned activities and operation and
maintenance.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that the Borrower shall have established the
Project Coordination Committee in accordance with Section 3.07
of this Agreement.
Section 5.02. The date October 24, 1979 is hereby specified
for,the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Section
4.03 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date twenty years after, the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Secretary, Ministry of Finance and Planning
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Planning
Colombo
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Cable address:                      Telex:
SECMINFIN                          1232
Colombo                            FORAID
ik


﻿-8-
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereuntod -ly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed.jin their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
By /s/ W. S. Karunaratne
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ W. David Hopper
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿-9-
SCHEE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, fhe allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)  to be Financed
(1) Construction and            4,400,000        65%
materials
(2) Equipment, supplies,        4,300,000         100% of foreign
vehicles and spares                          expenditures;
100% of local
expenditures
ex-factory; and
65% of other
local expendi-
tures
(3) Technical Assistance        1,700,000         100%
and overseas
training
(4) Salaries and allowances     3,400,000         65%
under Section 3.09
(5) Unallocated                 1,700,000
TOTAL            15,500,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and


﻿- 10 -
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent 'with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that with-
drawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $200,000 may be made on account of payments made for expendi-
tures before that date but after March 15, 1979.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if
such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimat,ed shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expen-
ditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent ,with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to


﻿r1 T2 2- C-
- 11 -
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associa-
tion's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
vå
'rD


﻿71,11
- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is intended to assist the Borrower to strengthen
its (i)'extension services by establishing the training and visit
system on a unified basis in the Borrower's entire territory, and
(ii) adaptive research. The Project consists of the following
Parts:
Part A:   Extension Services
Strengthening of extension services by establishing, for
the Borrower's entire territory, a unified training and visit
extension system for (i) all crops (excluding tea and rubber), and
(ii) animal husbandry (excluding veterinarian services and supply
of improved animal breeds).
Part B:   Adaptive Research
Strengthening of adaptive research by establishing an adap-
tive research network consisting of inter alia about 24 adaptive
research centers supervised by about 8 mobile teams, and by
conducting field trials in farmers' fields.
Part C:   Department of Agriculture
Strengthening, improvement and expansion of the Department
of Agriculture's (i) agricultural training institutions, (ii)
Economic Unit, and (iii) Civil Engineering Unit.
Part D:   Civil Works
Construction of training facilities, offices, laboratories,
workshops and quarters for additional staff required under the
Project.
Part E:   Vehicles and Equipment
Provision of vehicles, including spares, for additional staff
required under the Project, and equipment, including spares, for
farms (for adaptive research and training), training facilities,
offices, laboratories and workshops used under the Project.


﻿-13-
Part F:   Operation and Maintenance
Program of operation and maintenance for works, buildings,
vehicles and equipment under the Project.
Part G:   Overseas Training
Provision of a scheme for overseas training of staff from
the Department of Agriculture, Department of Animal Production and
Health and Coconut Cultivation Board.
The Project shall be carried out with the assistance of
about 140 man-months of consultant services.
The Project is expected. to be completed by December 31,
1984.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Association shall
reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification to
prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods
in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information
to update such notice annually so long as any goods remain to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and
sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall be
excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the
place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka may be granted a margin


﻿- 15 -
of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
-be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(a) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction
of the Borrower and the Association that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri
Lanka equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid
price of such goods.
(b) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(c) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the evaluated bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest,


﻿- 16 -
it shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   (a) Bicycles and motorcycles which are to be sold to Project
staff; (b) small off-the-shelf items which cannot be bulked into
packages suitable for procurement under Part A of this Schedule
and each contract costing less than $10,000 equivalent; (c) items
which are urgently needed and (d) items requiring standardization,
may be procured through local procedures satisfactory to the
Association, provided all such procurement under sub-paragraphs
(a), (b), (c) and (d) shall not in the aggregate exceed $1,200,000
equivalent.
2.   Contracts for construction shall be awarded on the basis of
local competitive bidding in accordance with procedures satisfac-
tory to the Association.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods and civil works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Association of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Associ-
ation, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The


﻿- 17 -
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submi ,.on to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall,
if it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform the
Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


