                                 Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                      Report No.88543




             PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT

                    SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM




   TRANSMISSION, DISTRIBUTION AND DISASTER RECONSTRUCTION
            PROJECT (IDA-30340, SIDA-22228, SIDA-50554)

             RURAL ENERGY PROJECT (IDA-33580, JPN-26489)

       SYSTEM EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT, EQUITIZATION AND
        RENEWABLES PROJECT (IDA-36800, IDA-47810, TF-51229)



                                 June 23, 2014




IEG Public Sector Evaluation
Independent Evaluation Group
                                                  ii


Currency Equivalents (as of December 31)
Currency Unit = Vietnam Dong (VND)

2000    US$1.00          VND14,168               2007     US$1.00           VND16,114
2001    US$1.00          VND15,070               2008     US$1.00           VND16,977
2002    US$1.00          VND15,368               2009     US$1.00           VND17,941
2003    US$1.00          VND15,608               2010     US$1.00           VND18,930
2004    US$1.00          VND15,737               2011     US$1.00           VND21,036
2005    US$1.00          VND15,875               2012     US$1.00           VND20,828
2006    US$1.00          VND16,054               2013     US$1.00           VND21,036

Abbreviations and Acronyms
CPC           Central Power Corporation
DPO           Development Policy Operation
DSM           Demand side management
ERAV          Electricity Regulatory Authority of Vietnam
EVN           Vietnam Electricity (utility)
FY            Fiscal Year
GOV           Government of Vietnam
HV            High voltage
IEG           Independent Evaluation Group
LV            Low voltage
MVA           Megavolt ampere
M&E           Monitoring and evaluation
MV            Medium voltage
NPC           Northern Power Corporation
NPT           National Power Transmission Company
PC            Power company
PDO           Project development objective
PPAR          Project Performance Assessment Report
REP           Rural Energy Project
SCADA         Supervision Control and Data Acquisition
SDR           Special Drawing Rights
SPC           Southern Power Corporation
TA            Technical assistance
TDDR          Transmission, Distribution and Disaster Reconstruction (project)
T&D           Transmission and distribution
TTL           Task Team Leader
VDN           Vietnam Dong




Fiscal Year
Government:              January 1 to December 31


Director-General, Independent Evaluation                    :   Ms. Caroline Heider
Director, IEG Public Sector Evaluation                      :   Mr. Emmanuel Jimenez
Manager, IEG Public Sector Evaluation                       :   Ms. Marie Gaarder
Task Manager                                                :   Mr. Ramachandra Jammi
                                                                   iii



Contents
Principal Ratings ................................................................................................................. v
Key Staff Responsible........................................................................................................ vi
Preface.............................................................................................................................. viii
Summary ............................................................................................................................ ix
1. Background and Context................................................................................................. 1
2. Transmission, Distribution and Disaster Reconstruction Project ................................. 15
   Objectives, Design, and their Relevance ...................................................................... 15
   Implementation ............................................................................................................. 17
   Achievement of the Objectives ..................................................................................... 19
   Efficiency ...................................................................................................................... 22
   Ratings .......................................................................................................................... 23
3. Rural Energy Project ..................................................................................................... 27
   Objectives, Design, and their Relevance ...................................................................... 27
   Implementation ............................................................................................................. 28
   Achievement of the Objectives ..................................................................................... 30
   Efficiency ...................................................................................................................... 33
   Ratings .......................................................................................................................... 33
4. System Efficiency Improvement, Equitization and Renewables Project...................... 37
   Objectives, Design, and their Relevance ...................................................................... 37
   Implementation ............................................................................................................. 39
   Achievement of the Objectives ..................................................................................... 41
   Efficiency ...................................................................................................................... 44
   Ratings .......................................................................................................................... 44
5. Lessons .......................................................................................................................... 49
Annex A. Basic Data Sheet ............................................................................................... 55
Annex B. World Bank Power Sector Projects in Vietnam: IDA and IBRD ..................... 65
Annex C. List of Persons Met ........................................................................................... 67




This report was prepared by Istvan Dobozi who assessed the projects in March/April 2014. The report was
peer reviewed by Varadarajan Atur and panel reviewed by Fernando Manibog. Romayne D. Pereira
provided administrative support.
                                        iv


Tables

Table 1: Reliability of Electricity Supply: Interruptions at Distribution Level in
2012……………………………………………………………………………………….3
Table 2: Interruptions on High-Voltage Transmission Lines……………………………..4
Table 3: Dedicated World Bank Projects Supporting the T&D Sector………………….13
Table 4: Dedicated World Bank Projects Supporting Rural Electrification……………..14
Table 5: Average Electricity Retail Tariffs (as approved)……………………………….21
Table 6: Communes and Households Connected under Rural Energy Project………….29
Table 7: Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions: Status of Outcome Indicator……....42

Figures

Figure 1: Electricity Intensity of GDP, 1995-2012………………………………….……5
Figure 2: Per Capita Electricity Consumption, 1995-2012………………………….……6
Figure 3: Rural Electrification Rates………………………………………………..…….8
Figure 4: Transmission and Distribution Losses (in percentage)………………………..12

Boxes

Box 1: Retail Service Agents ………………………………………………..…….……30
                                                               v


Principal Ratings
Transmission, Distribution and Disaster Reconstruction Project
                                        ICR*                         ICR Review*                            PPAR
Outcome                            Satisfactory                       Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to                              Moderate                          Moderate                          Significant
Development
Outcome
Bank Performance                   Moderately                        Moderately                        Moderately
                                  Unsatisfactory                    Unsatisfactory                    Unsatisfactory
Borrower                    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory
Performance
* The Implementation Completion and Results (ICR) report is a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department. The ICR
Review is an intermediate IEG product that seeks to independently verify the findings of the ICR.



Rural Energy Project
                                         ICR                          ICR Review                            PPAR
Outcome                            Satisfactory                       Satisfactory                      Satisfactory
Risk to                        Low or Negligible                   Negligible to Low                     Significant
Development
Outcome
Bank Performance                   Satisfactory                       Satisfactory                      Satisfactory
Borrower                           Satisfactory                       Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory
Performance


System Efficiency Improvement, Equitization and Renewables Project
                                         ICR                          ICR Review                             PPAR
Outcome                     Moderately Satisfactory                                             Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to                              Moderate                                                             Significant
Development
Outcome
Bank Performance            Moderately Satisfactory                                             Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower                    Moderately Satisfactory                                             Moderately Unsatisfactory
Performance
                                        vi



Key Staff Responsible

Transmission, Distribution and Disaster Reconstruction Project
                                         Division Chief/
Project        Task Manager/Leader       Sector Director         Country Director
Appraisal         Darayes Mehta       Mohammad Farhandi           Andrew Steer
                                          (Acting)
Completion       Richard Spencer             Hoonae Kim           Ajay Chibber

Rural Energy Project
                                         Division Chief/
Project        Task Manager/Leader       Sector Director         Country Director
Appraisal        Anil K. Malhotra        Yoshihiko Sumi           Andrew Steer
Completion        Hung Tien Van              Junhui Wu      Laurent Msellati (Acting)


System Efficiency Improvement, Equitization and Renewables Project
                                         Division Chief/
Project        Task Manager/Leader       Sector Director         Country Director
Appraisal        Anil K. Malhotra        Peter Thompson           Andrew Steer
Completion        Ky Hong Tran           Jennifer J. Sara        Victoria Kwakwa
                                                          vii


            IEG Mission: Improving World Bank Group development results through excellence in
                                         independent evaluation.


About this Report
       The Independent Evaluation Group assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two purposes:
first, to ensure the integrity of the Bank’s self-evaluation process and to verify that the Bank’s work is producing the
expected results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through the
dissemination of lessons drawn from experience. As part of this work, IEG annually assesses 20-25 percent of the
Bank’s lending operations through field work. In selecting operations for assessment, preference is given to those that
are innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevant to upcoming studies or country evaluations; those for which
Executive Directors or Bank management have requested assessments; and those that are likely to generate
important lessons.
       To prepare a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR), IEG staff examine project files and other
documents, visit the borrowing country to discuss the operation with the government, and other in-country
stakeholders, and interview Bank staff and other donor agency staff both at headquarters and in local offices as
appropriate.
      Each PPAR is subject to internal IEG peer review, Panel review, and management approval. Once cleared
internally, the PPAR is commented on by the responsible Bank department. The PPAR is also sent to the borrower
for review. IEG incorporates both Bank and borrower comments as appropriate, and the borrowers' comments are
attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has
been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.


About the IEG Rating System for Public Sector Evaluations
     IEG’s use of multiple evaluation methods offers both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to
lending instrument, project design, or sectoral approach. IEG evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive
at their project ratings. Following is the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (additional
information is available on the IEG website: http://ieg.worldbankgroup.org).
     Outcome: The extent to which the operation’s major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. The rating has three dimensions: relevance, efficacy, and efficiency. Relevance includes
relevance of objectives and relevance of design. Relevance of objectives is the extent to which the project’s
objectives are consistent with the country’s current development priorities and with current Bank country and
sectoral assistance strategies and corporate goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country
Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers, Operational Policies). Relevance of design is the extent to which
the project’s design is consistent with the stated objectives. Efficacy is the extent to which the project’s objectives
were achieved, or are expected to be achieved, taking into account their relative importance. Efficiency is the
extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the opportunity cost of capital
and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. The efficiency dimension generally is not applied to adjustment
operations. Possible ratings for Outcome: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Risk to Development Outcome: The risk, at the time of evaluation, that development outcomes (or expected
outcomes) will not be maintained (or realized). Possible ratings for Risk to Development Outcome: High,
Significant, Moderate, Negligible to Low, Not Evaluable.
     Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry of the
operation and supported effective implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate
transition arrangements for regular operation of supported activities after loan/credit closing, toward the
achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: quality at entry and quality of supervision.
Possible ratings for Bank Performance: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower (including the government and implementing
agency or agencies) ensured quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and
agreements, toward the achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: government
performance and implementing agency(ies) performance. Possible ratings for Borrower Performance: Highly
Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
                                           viii


Preface
This Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR), prepared by the Independent
Evaluation Group (IEG), evaluates three power sector projects in Vietnam:

   •   The Transmission, Distribution and Disaster Reconstruction Project (IDA-30340;
       total costs: US$248.45 million). The project was approved on January 20, 1998
       and closed on June 30, 2007.

   •   The Rural Energy Project (IDA-33580; total costs: US$203.47 million). The
       project was approved on May 30, 2000 and closed on December 31, 2006.

   •   The System Efficiency Improvement, Equitization and Renewables Project (IDA-
       36800, IDA-47819, TF-51229; total costs: US$419.50 million). The project was
       approved on June 25, 2002 and closed on December 31, 2012.

The three projects should be seen in the broader context of the Bank’s long-term deep
engagement in Vietnam’s power sector. These operations and continuous policy dialogue
with the Government of Vietnam (GOV) helped set the stage for the subsequent higher
level and increasingly programmatic Bank engagement under the ongoing Power Sector
Reform Development Policy Operations.

The operations assessed in this report share common and complementary issues related to
poverty reduction, infrastructure development as well as policy and institutional
developments. The implementation periods of the three projects also overlapped for the
most part. These factors were taken into account when selecting the projects for
assessment. The findings and lessons from this assessment are also likely to be a useful
input to the ongoing IEG evaluation of the World Bank Group’s contribution to
electricity access in client countries.

IEG prepared this report based on an examination of the relevant Project Appraisal
Documents, Implementation Completion and Results Reports, legal agreements, project
files and archives, as well as other relevant reports, documents, memoranda and working
papers. An IEG field mission visited Vietnam for two weeks in March 2014.
Discussions were held with Bank staff in Washington and Hanoi, GOV officials in
Hanoi, Ho Chi Minh City and various other locations in the country and some non-
governmental organizations. The mission discussed the projects’ experience and
sustainability as well as the effectiveness of Bank assistance with sector stakeholders
including transmission and distribution entities, rural communities and other project
beneficiaries. Project site visits were undertaken in a number of locations covering rural
households and power facilities.

IEG expresses its appreciation for the time and attention given by the Borrower, various
implementing agencies and all concerned parties. A list of persons met by the field
mission is in Annex C. Following IEG practice, copies of the draft report were sent to
the government officials and implementing agencies, and no comments were received.
                                             ix


Summary
This Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) covers three World Bank-
supported projects that address the triple challenge in the power sector faced by
Vietnam’s rapidly growing economy over the past two decades: (i) ensuring universal
electricity access; (ii) strengthening the reliability and efficiency of the Transmission and
Distribution (T&D) network; and (iii) reforming the sector’s institutional and regulatory
frameworks. These challenges were interrelated: the success of rural electrification, an
overriding national priority, depended crucially on the (i) timely expansion and
reconstruction of the woefully inadequate T&D grid; and (ii) adoption of institutional and
regulatory reforms to ensure efficient implementation of the Government of Vietnam’s
(GOV) ambitious electrification program as well as operational and financial
sustainability of the power sector.

Rapid Increase in Electricity Demand. The rapid growth and diversification of
Vietnam’s economy, coupled with the vigorous rural electrification effort, dramatically
increased the demand for electricity. The annual demand growth was as high as 14.5% in
the decade between 2000 and 2010. There was a pattern of serious electricity shortages,
power failures and associated massive load shedding. In addition to being undersized,
the T&D network operated inefficiently. Network losses were extremely high and
unsustainable.

Inadequate Electricity Supply. Faced with these challenges, the power industry
struggled to expand and improve the country’s power infrastructure, as evidenced by
difficulties with developing new generation sources, expanding and reinforcing the T&D
system, improving connectivity between Vietnam’s regions, reducing excessive network
losses, and improving the quality and reliability of power supply. In particular, the
success of the rural electrification effort critically depended on the transmission system’s
ability to make available considerable additional power generation capacity to rural areas.

Strategic Response. Until the mid-1990s, Vietnam’s state-owned, heavily centralized
and vertically integrated power sector suffered from a number of institutional and
regulatory shortcomings, which undermined the sector’s financial and operational
sustainability. In the wake of the Doi Moi reforms, in the mid-1990s, the GOV initiated a
new power sector strategy aimed at gradual unbundling of the vertical monopoly,
commercialization of sector enterprises, establishment of a legal and regulatory
framework, including cost-reflective electricity prices to ensure the sector’s financial
viability and mobilization of resources to address the severe capacity crunch in power
generation. As part of the structural reforms, the national electricity company, Electricity
of Vietnam (EVN), was established and became the primary implementing agency for the
GOV’s rural electrification and power sector modernization plans, and a key partner for
World Bank operations in the sector.

World Bank Role. The T&D grid, a sustained focus of Bank support, was a key
leverage point at the heart of a functioning power market in Vietnam. Historically, the
T&D system operated in a degraded and chaotic fashion; instead of being the engine for
economic recovery and growth, it became a major impediment. Based on its experience
with similar country situations in developing countries, the Bank was well positioned to
                                               x


assist Vietnam with electricity sector projects in the three areas – T&D, rural
electrification and sector reforms – that have mutually reinforcing objectives. In the
Country Partnership Strategies, support for electrification, improvement of the efficiency
and quality of the electricity infrastructure, and the advancement of sector reforms, were
pivotal development objectives. All three projects assessed in this report carried a heavy
reform and institutional development agenda.

Against this background, this PPAR assesses the development effectiveness of three
power sector projects in Vietnam, as summarized below in terms of their outcomes, risks
to the sustainability of these outcomes and the performance of the Bank, the Borrower
and the implementing agencies.

The Transmission, Distribution and Disaster Reconstruction (TDDR) Project’s objectives
were: to (i) strengthen the high-voltage transmission network to facilitate evacuation of
power from generating stations to the load centers; (ii) rehabilitate distribution systems to
meet demand, reduce losses and improve reliability; (iii) support sector reform and
restructuring; (iv) support institutional strengthening and commercialization; and (v) help
normalize economic activity in the Typhoon Linda-affected areas.

The Rural Energy Project’s (REP) objectives were: to (i) expand rural access to
electricity through grid expansion to improve welfare, enhance income earning capacity
and help alleviate poverty; (ii) develop appropriate institutional mechanisms for rural
electrification to facilitate sustainable rural electrification and long-term viability of the
power sector; (iii) advance the implementation of sector reforms; and (iv) promote local
renewable energy sources in areas inaccessible to the national grid.

The System Efficiency Improvement, Equitization and Renewables (SEIER) Project’s
objectives were: to (i) enhance electric system efficiency; (ii) provide electricity in
selected rural areas; (iii) sustain reform and institutional development in the power sector;
and (iv) reduce greenhouse gas emissions by promoting renewable energy sources for
electricity generation.

Transmission, Distribution and Disaster Reconstruction Project, 1998-2007

The TDDR Project was a highly relevant operation in the context of Vietnam’s grossly
inadequate and inefficient T&D infrastructure, systemic impediments to commercial
operation of EVN, large needs for investments and inadequate sector regulation.
Reinforcement of a series of transmission lines and substations was crucially required to
serve as feeders for the rural distribution system to be greatly expanded under rural
electrification.

While the project’s development rationale and design were sound overall and responsive
to GOV priorities in the power sector, several shortcomings impeded effective project
implementation. Project preparation was not well advanced upon credit approval, which
largely explains the need for five extensions of the closing date and the decade-long
implementation period. The Bank's performance on the electricity tariff issue was
another delaying factor from the outset. The political economy risks of adopting a tariff-
level covenant were poorly assessed. While the financial performance indicators for
                                             xi


EVN that replaced the tariff covenants were a step forward, the Bank should have instead
pushed for a sustainable systemic solution through a sound tariff methodology.

Despite these shortcomings, practically all of the numerous physical output targets were
achieved or overachieved. In terms of outcomes, significant improvements in overall
T&D system efficiency and some aspects of reliability were achieved. The actions
supporting sector reforms were partially carried out. The landmark 2005 Electricity Law
helped set the framework for significant subsequent restructuring measures and its
provisions are still being implemented.

Development benefits of the project were mixed. Since project closure, the GOV has
demonstrated strong commitment to carry on with the expansion and modernization of
T&D in response to continued rapid growth in electricity demand. However, EVN
Holding’s current weak financial capacity may seriously constrain its ability to finance
T&D investments on the required massive scale going forward. These financial concerns
and prevailing issues with T&D reliability create a significant risk to the sustainability of
the development outcomes.

During project preparation, the Bank team seriously underestimated the project’s
complexity and implementation time. During implementation, in several instances, the
Bank was slow in addressing emerging issues thus contributing to implementation delays.
The implementing agencies showed strong commitment but considerable delays were
caused by GOV approval requirements. In later stages in project implementation, the
GOV delegated more investment decisions to the implementing agencies.

Ratings

Overall project outcome is rated Moderately Satisfactory based on the high relevance of
its objectives, substantial relevance of its design, its substantial efficacy and modest
efficiency. On the performance under the five PDOs, achievement has been rated
substantial for three (strengthening the transmission network; rehabilitating and
expanding distribution systems; normalizing post-disaster economic activity) and modest
for two (sector reforms; strengthening and commercializing institutions). Risk to
development outcome is rated Significant due mainly to EVN’s weak financial capacity
to undertake T&D investments on the required scale going forward and prevailing serious
issues with T&D reliability. Both Bank performance and Borrower performance are
rated Moderately Satisfactory.

Rural Energy Project, 2000-2006

The project substantially contributed to the GOV’s ambitious rural electrification
program. The actual electrification of 976 communes under the project exceeded by 45%
the level targeted at appraisal, including 278 of the poorest communes and more than
550,000 households (2.8 million people) in the most disadvantaged areas. Subprojects
were designed to specifically target poor communes in rural and distant areas.
Communes were selected after verifying that grid extension was the least cost option and
economically viable.
                                            xii


The project contributed to capacity building for implementing agencies, including the
development of technical specifications and standardization of the design and
characteristics for rural electricity networks. These standards promoted better network
quality, reduced technical losses and avoided the application of more expensive urban
standards to rural areas. Subsequently, they were adopted as national standards. An
innovative and effective service outsourcing (“service agents”) model was introduced,
which reduced operating costs and achieved high level of payments. The project was
successful as a demonstration of the rural electrification program decentralized to local
implementing agencies in terms of cost sharing, direct local participation and building
local capacity for operation and management of the rural network. Based on survey
results and feedback received during site visits under the IEG PPAR mission, the project
had a significant impact on rural welfare. The mission found a disproportionately high
value placed by the communes on educational gains.

The road map for power sector reform set milestones and schedule for the transition to a
power sector based on market principles. The project substantially supported the
development of the milestones to be carried out largely after project closure under
follow-on Bank operations.

The GOV’s decision to decentralize the project to the local implementation agencies
facilitated the process of subproject preparation and implementation. The local
governments at the levels of province, districts and communes took the responsibility for
paying compensation to owners of sites affected by the project. The provinces also
assisted poor families in the payment for the low voltage drop lines to their houses.

EVN and its subsidiary regional power companies (PCs) were the implementing
agencies. The strong commitment of the PCs enabled the execution of hundreds of
contracts for a large number of subprojects scattered in wide mountainous rural areas
with difficult access. Overall, EVN displayed a good control of procurement through
competitive bidding that contributed to significant cost reductions and allowed the
electrification of a large number of additional communes.

The Bank responded to the GOV’s urgent need to finance rapid rural electrification. The
Bank task team effectively assisted the implementing agencies in the preparation of
standard templates and the definition of clear responsibilities for all concerned agencies
under a decentralized implementation approach. Most of the key task team were based in
the field and carried out close supervision of the project. The Bank showed reasonable
flexibility in resolving important issues during project implementation.

Ratings

The REP is rated High for relevance of project objectives and Substantial for project
design. Overall project outcome is rated Satisfactory because of the project’s substantial
overachievement of the original rural electrification target and associated evidence-based
welfare benefits. Despite the GOV’s sustained focus on affordable electricity services to
rural communities and EVN’s strong technical capacity, the risk to development outcome
is rated Significant due to EVN’s recently deteriorating financial performance, which
may constrain it ability to maintain and modernize the rural networks. Both Bank
                                             xiii


performance is rated Satisfactory. and Borrower performance is rated Moderately
Satisfactory.

System Efficiency Improvement, Equitization and Renewables Project (SEIER),
2002-2012

This was a very complex operation with multiple development objectives covering power
system efficiency improvement, extension of rural electrification, utilization of renewable
energy sources, institutional and capacity development as well as regulatory and policy
reforms. The project was restructured three times and became even more complex during
implementation, which took five years longer than originally planned.

The objective to sustain reform and institutional development of the electricity sector was
only partially achieved by developing a number of policy and regulatory documents to
implement the Electricity Law, such as tariff and market regulations, followed by a series
of tariff increases but only slightly above the inflation rate, thus tariffs are still highly
distorted and stand well below full cost recovery levels. Tariff setting is still done by the
Prime Minister. Underpriced electricity continues to lie at the heart of the power sector’s
severe financial difficulties and is a key impediment to the sector’s future growth.

The project was largely successful in enhancing electricity system efficiency by reducing
transmission system loss and outage frequency. However, sustainability of these
improvements is not fully assured, especially in view of the sector’s deteriorating
financial standing lately. For example, the duration of network interruptions has shown a
deteriorating tendency recently and continues to be very high in international comparison.

The relevance of rural electrification based on renewable energy source-based, off-grid
solutions was substantially overrated by the project. The performance indicators fell
short of the target quite considerably because the investments were no longer needed
since the rapidly expanding grid drastically reduced the need for off-grid generation.
Moreover, there is a high risk to the operational and financial sustainability of the micro
hydropower plants installed and rehabilitated under the project.

In designing this operation, relevant lessons learnt under a number of other power
projects in Vietnam were not adequately internalized in the project design and
implementation framework. Since the project included a range of sub-sectoral issues and
implementing agencies, its design became overly complex. Implementation capacity was
overestimated across the board. The applicability of the community-based off-grid
approach should have been more thoroughly assessed, including risks to the sustainability
of the off-grid hydropower stations. The Bank team did not anticipate the rapid growth in
grid electrification and its serious adverse implications for the project’s off-grid
electrification targets. The financial and operational viability of the seven off-grid
facilities installed/rehabilitated has been seriously compromised and two of them have
already become non-operational and abandoned, falling into disrepair following grid
arrival. Based on the IEG PPAR mission’s site visits, there is a very high risk that most,
if not all, of these facilities could be abandoned in a few years.
                                           xiv


The GOV’s ownership and commitment to the project was high. During implementation,
the GOV streamlined the excessive centralization and control, and adopted more flexible
implementation approaches. However, the GOV has not made any noticeable progress in
the implementation of the equitization program and has showed reluctance to adjust
power tariffs to cost recovery levels and, as a result, the power sector has continued to
experience growing financial difficulties. The implementing agencies’ commitment to
the project was strong, except for the lack of local community interest in off-grid micro
hydropower plant schemes in remote areas.

Ratings

The SEIER Project is rated High for relevance of project objectives but Modest for
project design primarily because of its overly high complexity. Development Outcome is
rated Moderately Unsatisfactory, mainly due to the largely unsuccessful renewable
energy source-based electrification of remote rural communities and slow progress under
a number of Technical Assistance activities including for equitization. carbon dioxide
emission reductions significantly exceeded targets. Risk to development outcome is rated
Significant given the slow progress in equitization and adoption of sound tariff and
quality-of-service regulation, the increasingly unsustainable financial position of the
power sector and the extremely high risk to the operational sustainability of the off-grid
micro hydropower plants. The Bank’s performance is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory
due mainly to shortcomings in project design. Borrower performance is also rated
Moderately Unsatisfactory due to insufficient progress in sector reforms including
equalization, and unduly complex GOV approval processes, particularly at the early
stages of the project, while the implementing agencies performed adequately.

Lessons

In supporting the sector to move towards long-term financial viability and fiscal
sustainability, the Bank should lay primary emphasis on broader institutional and
policy measures for cost recovery. In contrast, specific target-oriented and time-
bound measures in the form of tariff or financial performance covenants carry
excessive political implementation risks and are prone to noncompliance by the
Borrower. Despite a number of financial performance measures that were included in
their design, the three Bank operations were not effective in helping improve Vietnam’s
power sector finances, let alone place the sector on the road to sustained financial
recovery. Considering this experience, the Bank should have pursued a more systemic
solution to the sector’s long-simmering financial crisis through the introduction of a
sound tariff methodology to ensure sustainable cost recovery and the power sector’s
future operational/financial sustainability, while making the sector more attractive to
much-needed external private finance.

A national push for universal electricity access provision will primarily depend
upon the pursuit of a least cost path for grid expansion backed by appropriate
sector policies, complemented by off-grid electricity in the interim or for the long-
term as needed. In Vietnam, as the electricity grid expanded faster than expected, the
decreasing necessity and relevance of off-grid electrification was not adequately
foreseen, resulting in some off-grid facilities falling into disuse or neglect. This
                                             xv


experience points to the need for planning ahead, and making technical provision for
integrating off-grid and mini-grid facilities with the grid when it arrives, so that the
expected benefits are realized from the investments.

Rapid growth in electrification can be accompanied by sub-optimal use of electricity
especially in a situation of relatively low or subsidized tariffs. This calls for early
and serious policy attention to improving Energy Efficiency and implementation of
dedicated Energy Efficiency operations on a sizable scale. The evidence shows that
the Bank’s program has essentially provided a supply-side support program for
Vietnam’s power sector, largely “following demand,” as the GOV has done, with less
attention to demand side management. The marginal Bank-supported Energy Efficiency
efforts (typically a small demand side management-style component under various power
sector operations) has not been effective in to making a material difference to the Energy
Efficiency landscape, let alone nationwide scale-up. The Transmission & Distribution
sector – continues to play catch-up with increasing demand which needs to be moderated
through appropriate measures including tariffs that better reflect cost-recovery levels.
The extremely large reservoir of untapped Energy Efficiency opportunities calls for the
creation of a solid framework for energy-saving efforts, including sizable programmatic
support for Energy Efficiency, extending well beyond the piecemeal approach applied to
date.

The Bank should work to develop an understanding with client countries over the
role of key institutions before embarking on full-fledged support for them.
Otherwise, weak understanding might result in less than desirable institutional
performance and sub-optimal use of technical assistance resources. In Vietnam, the
Bank should have pushed for agreement on a more autonomous professional regulatory
agency, before committing to a large amount of capacity building support to ERAV. In
the absence of serious support from the Government in this respect, ERAV’s regulatory
role has weakened somewhat over the years, and some of its resources have been diverted
to non-regulatory type activities (e.g., administration of the competitive generation
market) instead of focusing on core regulatory activities such as tariff methodology and
quality-of-service regulation, monitoring and enforcement. While ERAV’s overall
technical competency may have improved over the years with sustained support from the
Bank, the outcomes from its efforts are weak – sector finances continue to deteriorate,
and the quality and reliability of electricity service for consumers has seen a downward
trend in recent years.

In a rapidly evolving sector environment, a de facto flexible approach should be
adopted to adjust to changing priorities as well as new institutional and on-the-
ground developments. Even if the changing situation could not be foreseen at the
project design stage, such an approach would enable more smooth and successful
implementation of the project. This aspect is illustrated in all three projects and
particularly in the SEIER project where both the Bank and Borrower responded to
changed circumstances through project restructuring to allow flexibility for investing in
subprojects that took on greater priority.
                                            xvi


The project M&E framework should focus on identifying the direct causal links
between project interventions and outcomes to the maximum extent possible. This
is particularly important, albeit challenging, in large and rapidly evolving sector
context in which Bank-supported interventions only partially influence but do not
determine overall outcomes. In addition to being unnecessarily complicated with too
many performance indicators, several key outcome indicators related to improved T&D
reliability and efficiency were defined at the national system level, which made an
accurate outcome assessment for the T&D component largely impossible or tentative at
best under the TDDR and SEIER projects. While they are usually more challenging to
design, in similar situations project-level indicators or appropriate proxies should be used
for the relevant project areas.

The community’s involvement in the design, construction and operation of new
rural electricity supply networks, and cost-sharing can lead to successful
implementation and a sense of ownership. Ensuring local participation in all aspects of
the project helped mobilize and maintain local support and commitment to rural
electrification, while ensuring a rapid pace of the process, creating employment, building
local capacity and thereby laying the foundation for the sustainable management and
operation of the networks. Significant cost sharing by local governments and the
communities was an important element of the Vietnamese financing model for rural
electrification. Mobilization of local funds was essential to close the funding gap. This
requires appropriate mechanisms and enabling institutional and legal frameworks, not
only at national, but also at local levels.



                                                             Caroline Heider
                                                             Director-General
                                                             Evaluation
                                                     1


1. Background and Context
1.1      The three World Bank-supported projects covered by this report address the triple
challenge faced by Vietnam’s rapidly growing economy in the power sector over the past
two decades: (i) ensuring universal electricity access; (ii) strengthening the reliability and
efficiency of the T&D network; and (iii) reforming the institutional and regulatory
frameworks. These challenges were interrelated: the success of rural electrification, an
overriding national priority, depended crucially on the (i) timely expansion and
reconstruction of the T&D grid; and (ii) adoption of institutional and regulatory
(including tariff) reforms to ensure efficient implementation of the GOV’s ambitious
electrification program and sustainability of its economic and welfare benefits. Also,
T&D, the focus of World Bank support, has been a key leverage point at the heart of the
establishment of a functioning wholesale market in Vietnam. Historically, this system
operated in a degraded and chaotic fashion, to the extent that, instead of being the engine
for economic recovery and growth of the country, it became a major impediment.

1.2      Together the three World Bank-supported operations encompass a 14-year period
(1998-2012) during which Vietnam’s economy, after recovering from the ravages of war,
witnessed a rapid transition from a formerly centrally planned rural economy to a market-
based rapidly industrializing one and the implementation of a most rapid rural
electrification program.

Expanding and Improving the Electricity Infrastructure: Transmission and
Distribution

1.3     The sustained rapid growth and diversification of Vietnam’s economy, coupled
with the “big push” rural electrification effort, have dramatically increased the demand
for electricity. The average annual demand growth was as high as 14.5% in the decade
between 2000 and 2010, but even in the most recent years of relatively uncertain
macroeconomic environment demand growth has been strong. There was a pattern of
serious electricity shortages, power failures and associated load shedding. 1 In addition to
being undersized, the T&D network operated inefficiently both for technical and
managerial reasons. In 1992, T&D losses were very high at 25.6%.

1.4    Faced with this challenge, the power industry has struggled to expand and
improve the country’s power infrastructure, as evidenced by difficulties with developing
new generation sources, expanding and reinforcing the T&D system and improve
connectivity between Vietnam’s three main regions, reducing excessive network losses,
and improving the quality and reliability of power supply across the country. Expansion


1
  For example, in 2008 cumulative load shedding corresponded to 0.9% of Vietnam’s annual power
consumption (data provided to the IEG mission by the National Load Dispatch Centre). Power deficits
occasionally force local manufacturers to halt production when EVN diverts power to residential areas. As
a result, businesses have been investing in expensive backup generation capacity such as diesel generators.
There were significant power shortages in 2010 due to extreme summer temperatures, drought conditions
and delays in completion of construction and commissioning of new power plants. Load shedding was
0.7% in 2010.
                                                   2


and modernization of the T&D system has been also a critical infrastructural precondition
for establishment of the national electricity market.

1.5     In particular, the success of the rural electrification drive critically depended on
the transmission system’s ability to make available considerable additional generation
capacity to rural areas, predominantly through grid extension. In this regard, building the
500 kV North-South transmission line to transport electricity from the north to central
and southern parts of Vietnam was of paramount importance. The interconnector,
launched in 1994, linked all the isolated regional systems into an integrated grid and
enabled the rapid expansion of rural electrification, particularly in the central and
southern areas. However, the interconnector soon became strained and vulnerable and,
despite its reinforcements with additional circuits, it has remained stressed because of
sustained rapid demand growth in the south.

1.6     Many of the small LV distribution lines rapidly developed in rural communities,
especially during the 1990s when the priority was to deliver simple connections to as
many people as possible, remained relatively weak and needed to be rehabilitated later on
in order to reduce losses and improve the reliability and quality of supply. A large
number of the grids were poorly designed and constructed, leading to heavy technical
losses varying from 20% to 50% in some cases.

1.7     Capacity and reliability of the MV network was also of concern in some rural
areas, as the existing systems became unable to meet the rapidly growing load
requirements. In some instances, the MV system became a bottleneck in the power flow
from the HV transmission system to the LV grids in the communes.

1.7     Looking ahead, in the face of surging electricity consumption, tight generation
capacity reserve margins and overloaded T&D networks, Vietnam continues to face the
challenge of preventing further damaging power failures by vigorously expanding the
power infrastructure and improving the reliability and efficiency of the grids. The
investment requirements are staggering. According to the GOV’s Seventh Power
Development Master Plan (2010-2020), additional generation capacity of 4,100 MW a
year will be required over the 2011-2015 period. The Plan requires about US$5 billion
per year to be invested, of which two-thirds would be spent on new generation plants and
the remainder on T&D development. 2 Given the parlous state of sector finances
(including EVN’s heavy indebtedness), issues with the existing build-own-transfer
framework and considerable regulatory (including tariff) uncertainty, this is a hard
challenge to meet and the GOV and EVN may need to adjust the investment program
downwards.

1.8      Going forward, a major challenge to tackle is the need to markedly improve the
reliability, quality and safety of power supply, particularly at the LV distribution levels.
In part because of a strong past emphasis on quantitative network expansion, the number
of service interruptions and in particular the duration of interruptions is extremely high


2
  The Master Plan aims to raise installed generation capacity to 75,000 MW from the current 24,000 MW -
a very large, threefold increase within a decade.
                                                      3


and off-scale when compared with international benchmarks. 3 For example, as shown in
Table 1, in 2012 under the Northern Power Corporation (NPC or PC1), there were 53
interruptions per customer, totaling 150 hours (6.3 days). The typical international value
range is 0.5-10 interruptions per customer and 0.5-1.2 hours, respectively. The big
variation in reliability performance among the power companies (PCs) points to a large
improvement potential for the poorer performers (PC1 and PC2). However, even the best
performer distributor (PC3) has much catch-up to do vis-à-vis international peers.

                            Table 1: Reliability of Electricity Supply:
                           Interruptions at Distribution Level in 2012

    Distribution Company                   SAIFI                                 SAIDI
                                           (number of service                    (total hours of service
                                           interruptions per customer per        interruptions per
                                           year)                                 customer)
    PC Hanoi                               16.5                                  163.3
    PC Ho Chi Minh                         22.3                                  49.8
    Northern PC (NPC or PC1)               53.0                                  150.1
    Southern PC (SPC or PC2)               24.1                                  117.5
    Central PC (CPC or PC3)                21.4                                  76.0
    Typical international value range      0.5-10                                0.5-1.2
    ElektroPaulo (Brazil)                  10.0                                  7.2

    Note: SAIFI (System Average Interruption Frequency Index) and SAIDI (System Average Interruption
    Duration Index) are internationally commonly used reliability indicators.
    Source: AF-Mercados EMI, “Strategic Options for Enhanced Financial Performance of EVN,” Prepared for
    the World Bank and EVN, October 2013. Based on EVN-provided data.

1.9     In recent years, some of the PCs have experienced steadily deteriorating reliability
performance on their 110 kV lines. For example, in the service territory of CPC, the
transient (<5 minutes) and the lasting (>5 minutes) rates of faults (per 100 km/year) have
risen by 19% and 121%, respectively, between 2008 and 2013. Under NPC, between
2008 and 2012 the average duration of interruption rose by 14%. 4

1.10 The HV transmission system also faces considerable challenges to improve
reliability, which has shown a mixed record in recent years. While the number of
interruptions has fallen, the duration of interruptions has increased considerably (Table
2). Seen from this perspective, transmission reliability was weaker in 2013 than a half-
decade earlier despite the massive investments undertaken. Apparently, the rapid growth
in electricity consumption overwhelms much of the T&D networks, which, as revealed to
the IEG mission by a number of stakeholders, continue to experience technical
weaknesses such as partially installed SCADA/ Energy Management System and
protective relaying, insufficient substation automation, single circuit lines and outdated
equipment.
3
 However, it is difficult to assess whether these large interruptions are actually caused by
underperformance of the distribution PCs or due, at least to some extent, to generation and transmission
shortfalls. The IEG mission’s discussions with the PCs suggest that both factors may be at play.
4
 During this period, among the three regional distributors only SPC (southern region) was able to
consistently improve its reliability performance (both frequency and duration of interruptions). Data
provided to the IEG mission by the PCs in a written questionnaire.
                                                     4


                 Table 2: Interruptions on High-Voltage Transmission Lines

                          2008          2009       2010           2011           2012          2013
Frequency of
interruptions (number        0.70          0.86          0.51         0.45          0.51           0.42
of faults/100 km/year
Average duration of
faults (minutes per          51.1          62.4          62.9         51.5          53.4           76.2
year)
Source: EVN data provided to the IEG mission.



1.11 Investment climate surveys for Vietnam frequently cite poor power quality as one
of the top constraints. A recent World Bank survey 5 found that 19% of manufacturing
firms surveyed still described electricity supply as a major or severe constraint for their
business, although they had been connected to the electricity grid. In terms of quality of
power supply, in the World Economic Forum’s latest global competitiveness survey
Vietnam ranks a mediocre 109th among 142 countries covered for 2010-2011. 6 All these
point to continued need for sustained efforts to ensure satisfactory quality and reliability
of electricity supply across the country.

1.12 Finally, more efficient use of electricity remains a major task to tackle going
forward. Past efforts of the GOV aimed at improved energy efficiency, including those
supported under World Bank-funded power projects, 7 have failed to make a dent in the
steeply rising trend of electricity consumption and the electricity intensity of GDP (see
Figure 1). While high income (GDP) elasticity of electricity demand is typical of
developing economies in the “take off” stage of economic growth, Vietnam’s largely
underdeveloped energy efficiency framework, 8 including the implicitly subsidized retail
tariffs, has played an important role in the uninterrupted rise of electricity intensity and
exponentially growing per capita consumption. A comparison of the per capita electricity
use with the Philippines also points to a possibly large reservoir of untapped electricity
efficiency in Vietnam (see Figure 2). To considerable extent, the more than threefold
power tariff differential between the two countries drives the markedly divergent
consumption patterns.



5
 World Bank, “Vietnam: State and People, Central and Local Working Together. The Rural Electrification
Experience,” Washington, DC, March 2011, p. 25.
6
    World Economic Forum, “The Global Competitiveness Report 2011-2012,” Geneva, 2012, p. 418.
7
 Most of the World Bank-supported power projects since 1995 had a small energy efficiency component
(usually a DSM pilot).
8
  The underdeveloped energy efficiency framework includes, inter alia, low electricity tariffs, weak
financial incentives for both businesses and households to reduce electricity consumption due to
underpriced electricity, unsophisticated and partially applied time-of-use tariff system, lack of tax
incentives, inefficient energy performance legislation, unenforced energy efficiency standards,
underdeveloped market for energy efficiency services and the lack of access to energy efficiency finance.
Also, until the mid-2000s, energy efficiency was not high on the GOV’s policy agenda and there is still no
effective institutional focal point for energy efficiency policy and implementation support within the GOV.
                                                                                        5


1.13 As a result of the overriding past emphasis on quantitative dimensions of growth,
Vietnam has now a potentially disproportionate large pent-up demand for energy
efficiency. Vietnam lags behind its regional competitors, most prominently China, which
embraced energy efficiency as a policy priority much earlier. International experience
shows that energy efficiency is often the lowest cost means of increasing the reliability,
affordability and sustainability of energy supply, but remains grossly unexploited.

1.14 Looking ahead, these point to opportunities for creating a solid framework for
cost-efficient and market-oriented energy-saving efforts. These efforts could include
sizable programmatic implementation and financial support for energy efficiency from
the World Bank. Such an approach would go well beyond pilot programs and less
effective piecemeal approaches so far (including under the projects assessed here), which
have failed to create a market for energy efficiency. 9

                                                                   Figure 1. Electricity Intensity of GDP, 1995-2012
                kWh/000 US$ of GDP (in constant 2005 US$)




                                                            1400

                                                            1200                                       Vietnam

                                                            1000
                                                                                                             China
                                                             800

                                                             600

                                                             400
                                                                                                         Philippines
                                                             200

                                                               0
                                                                   1995
                                                                   1996
                                                                   1997
                                                                   1998
                                                                   1999
                                                                   2000
                                                                   2001
                                                                   2002
                                                                   2003
                                                                   2004
                                                                   2005
                                                                   2006
                                                                   2007
                                                                   2008
                                                                   2009
                                                                   2010
                                                                   2011
                                                                   2012




        Source: World Development Indicators, World Bank, Washington, DC, and EVN for Vietnam’s
        electricity consumption.




9
  In 2003, the IFC launched the “Vietnam Cleaner Production Energy Efficiency Project,” a credit line
facility channeled through several local banks. The operation has faced considerable challenges in building
up an active project pipeline with only nine energy efficiency loans being committed to date. An IBRD
energy efficiency Project (FY15) is planned for industrial enterprises. However, a number of sizable
dedicated operations would be needed to help reach a critical mass of sustainability of commercial energy
efficiency financing in Vietnam.
                                                  6



          Figure 2. Per Capita Electricity Consumption, 1995-2012

                         1400

                         1200

                         1000
                                                  Vietnam
                          800
            kWh/capita




                          600

                                                      Philippines
                          400

                          200

                            0
                                1995
                                1996
                                1997
                                1998
                                1999
                                2000
                                2001
                                2002
                                2003
                                2004
                                2005
                                2006
                                2007
                                2008
                                2009
                                2010
                                2011
                                2012
       Source: World Development Indicators, World Bank, Washington, DC, and EVN for Vietnam’s
       electricity consumption.


Rural Electrification: Top National Development Priority and Main Component of
Poverty Reduction Strategy

1.15 During the postwar economic recovery period (1976-1985), when rural household
electrification rate grew from 2.5% to 9.3%, the Vietnamese economy was in the process
of recovering from 30 years of almost continuous war. The power system consisted of
underdeveloped and isolated systems, and electricity supply was only available for cities
and large industries. Providing electricity to rural households was secondary to
electricity supply for productive uses, especially irrigation of agricultural areas.

1.16 With the launch of the Doi Moi economic reforms in 1986, Vietnam has
witnessed a rapid transition from the rigidities of a centrally planned economy to a
market-based social economy. Rapid economic growth experienced at all levels of
society has been the result of the government’s strong commitment to liberalizing
markets and investing in social sectors, infrastructure and rural development. The power
sector was considered by the GOV as a foundation for dynamic economic growth.

1.17 In the 1990s, Vietnam’s power sector was facing the challenge of meeting the
needs of a fast growing and rapidly industrializing economy. Electricity demand was
growing at an annual rate of 13% to 15%. The GOV’s targets for economic and social
growth required increasing electricity supply at a rate of 1.7 times faster than that of
GDP. In the early 1990s, only slightly more than half of the rural communes and less
than 15% of the rural households had access to electricity. In response, the GOV made
                                                     7


rural electrification a key component of its development strategy and poverty reduction
program which would address imbalances in economic development and enhance overall
welfare levels by providing reliable lighting sources and improving health care, education
and economic opportunities for households.

1.18 Initially, the rural electrification program was hampered by weak institutional
arrangements and lack of sufficient capital. Almost 90% of rural electricity distribution
was carried out by commune-level electricity groups that had no legal status, minimal
technical competence, and little financing. Regulation of the power sector was grossly
inadequate, suffering from several drawbacks, including a lack of effective
legal/regulatory framework and technical standards for rural electrification.

1.19 In this context, the GOV formulated a staged long-term electrification plan that
focused during the initial years on the main objective of physically connecting rural
communes rapidly and attracting broad local participation. This goal was successfully
accomplished. Starting in the mid-2000s, a second and still ongoing phase of the plan
has focused on improving efficiency and reliability of electricity supply through more
efficient technical operation and establishing an enabling environment to guarantee the
sustainability of the program. With a proper design and management setup, and the use
of adequate technical standards, technical losses in rural LV distribution systems dropped
from 30% in the late 1990s to 10% in 2009.

1.20 As Figure 3 shows, electrification of rural households has increased rapidly since
the early 1990s. With 97.3% of Vietnam’s rural households having access to electricity
in 2013, the country is now in the “last mile” of its electrification program. Even among
the poorest households (bottom 10%), more than 85% are connected to electricity. 10
About two million people, mainly in mountainous areas and islands, are still without
access to electricity. The GOV’s development strategy envisages that all rural
households will have access to electricity by 2020.




10
  World Bank, “Project Document for Third Power Sector Reform Development Policy Operation,” Report No.
77606-VN, Washington, DC, January 27, 2014.
                                                                                                        8


                                                               Figure 3. Rural Electrification Rates

                            100
                             90
                             80
      Percent electrified

                             70
                             60
                             50
                             40
                             30
                                                                                                        Rural Households                              Rural Communes
                             20
                             10
                              0
                                  1993
                                         1994
                                                1995
                                                       1996
                                                              1997
                                                                     1998
                                                                            1999
                                                                                   2000
                                                                                          2001
                                                                                                 2002
                                                                                                            2003
                                                                                                                   2004
                                                                                                                          2005
                                                                                                                                 2006
                                                                                                                                        2007
                                                                                                                                               2008
                                                                                                                                                      2009
                                                                                                                                                             2010
                                                                                                                                                                    2011
                                                                                                                                                                           2012
                                                                                                                                                                                  2013
   Source: EVN


1.21 The GOV aimed to address the daunting financing challenges of its long-term
electrification program through multiple means, including by (i) raising and restructuring
electricity tariffs to increase internally generated funds; (ii) promoting energy efficiency;
(iii) increasing private investment in power generation and developing natural gas; (iv)
equitization (partial privatization of state-owned enterprises) of distribution companies;
and (v) meeting the funding gap using donor-financed programs, particularly for rural
electrification and reconstruction of the T&D infrastructure.

Reforming the Institutional and Regulatory Framework of the Power Sector

1.22 Until the mid-1990s, Vietnam’s state-owned, heavily centralized and vertically
integrated power sector suffered from a number of institutional and regulatory
shortcomings: (i) there was no effective legal and regulatory framework; (ii) the
government’s oversight and regulatory functions were not separated from the non-
commercially oriented operation of the entire sector as a vertically integrated monopoly;
and (iii) power tariffs were set administratively by the GOV well below costs.

1.23 In the wake of the Doi Moi reforms, in the mid-1990s, the GOV initiated a new
power sector strategy. Key elements of the strategy included (i) establishment of EVN as
a national holding, comprising a general corporation and five distribution PCs, and
putting the latter directly in charge of managing rural networks; (ii) commercialization of
the sector enterprises; (iii) setting up of a legal and regulatory framework; (iv) gradually
moving toward cost reflectivity of electricity prices and introducing cost-based bulk
transfer price for power sales to the PCs; and (v) introduction of private sector
participation.

1.24 In 2005, the Electricity Law went into effect, the first law to comprehensively
govern Vietnam’s power sector. The law’s primary objective is to develop a national
power market following a long-term and gradual approach based on the principles of
transparency and competition that achieves economic efficiency and attracts public and
                                                      9


private investments. State monopoly in the sector is to be limited to power transmission,
national load dispatch and strategically important large power plants, leaving power
distribution and non-strategic power generation to potential private investors. Pursuant to
the law, the Electricity Regulatory Authority of Vietnam (ERAV) was established, the
first electricity regulator in the country. Since then, the GOV has been implementing
reform which aims at (i) ultimately unbundling EVN; (ii) establishing competition in
generation; (iii) reforming the transmission and retail tariff setting mechanisms on
market-based principles; (iv) gradually adjusting electricity tariffs towards cost recovery
levels to ensure the financial viability of efficiently operated companies and to attract
private investors; and (v) protecting the poor families through social tariffs and cash
relief.

1.25 In 2006, the GOV approved a road map for establishing a competitive power
market under a phased approach. The first phase comprises the establishment of a
competitive generation market. In this phase, a Single Buyer (currently an EVN affiliate)
purchases electricity from the participating generators and sell it to the distribution
companies and large consumers at regulated prices. The next phase will entail a
competitive wholesale market where sellers and buyers will competitively transact in a
power pool. The final stage is a competitive retail market, where retail consumers will be
allowed to choose their suppliers.

1.26 Most recent achievements under the GOV’s reform program include the
following: (i) since 2010, average electricity tariffs have increased significantly, but even
so they do not reflect all cost items, such as foreign exchange losses and financing
costs; 11 (ii) establishment of the National Power Transmission Company (NPT) as an
autonomous EVN subsidiary; (iii) establishment of five regional PCs as independent
subsidiaries of EVN; (iv) creation of generation companies with accounting, management
and functional separation from EVN; and (v) the commercial launch of the Vietnam
Competitive Generation Market as a bid-based pool including bilateral contracts and a
spot market.

1.27 Despite these positive developments, financial sustainability of the power sector
continues to remain a major concern. Underpriced electricity lies at the heart of the
power sector’s financial difficulties. In 2012, retail electricity tariffs stood more than
40% below estimated productions costs 12 - an implicit electricity subsidy equivalent to
2.4% of GDP. In particular, EVN Holding has faced serious financial challenges given

11
   In August 2013, the average approved retail tariff was 7.6 US cent/kWh equivalent compared to 4.7 US
cent/kWh in March 2009. The tariff structure is still highly distorted, with both urban and residential rates
being cross-subsidized by higher rates for industry, commerce and foreign consumers. Electricity prices
are implicitly subsidized through the provision of underpriced coal for the power generators (using
revenues of coal exports and other coal sales by Vinacomin, the national coal company). Therefore,
transition to market-based pricing would greatly reduce the scope for cross-subsidies to the power sector.
This transition is all the more urgent because the GOV expects the country to move from a net coal
exporter to net importer as early as 2015. This implies that the coal and power sectors face a massive cost
shock if coal imports increase owing to the exposure of international coal prices.
12
 Energy Economist, November 2012, p. 18. An in-depth diagnostic report (AF-Mercados EMI, “Strategic
Options for Enhanced Financial Performance of EVN,” October 2013) prepared for the World Bank and
EVN includes an estimate of US cent 9.5/kWh for the Long Run Marginal Cost of retail electricity.
                                                            10


that the underlying disparity between the company’s costs and prices remains rather
substantial. During 2008-2011, the company posted growing financial losses. For
example, in 2011, the after-tax losses amounted to 13% of the company’s net sales
revenue. 13 EVN Holding has accumulated large debts with the coal and natural gas
suppliers. Furthermore, EVN’s subsidiary PCs have also displayed generally weak
financial performance in recent years. For example, SPC (southern region) posted
financial losses in three of the past six years (2008-2013). 14 Due to overall poor financial
performance, in recent years EVN Holding, NPC and the PCs have been frequently in
breach of the financial covenants applied under ongoing World Bank and Asian
Development Bank loans.

1.28 The financially weak and unviable Local Distribution Utilities servicing rural
areas are being transferred to the PCs to ensure rehabilitation and upgrade of the local
distribution systems. 15 As a result, a significant consolidation of the rural electricity
distribution and retail business has taken place in recent years.

1.29 Increased private sector participation in power generation has been a GOV
objective since the mid-1990s. As part of this process, in 2007 an “equitization plan”
was approved for partial privatization of most of EVN’s operating units in generation and
distribution, with EVN keeping more than 50% of the share capital. However, the
equitization program has not been carried out, with only an insignificant amount of EVN
assets privatized to date.

1.30 EVN is the dominant generator. In 2011, non-EVN state-owned enterprises
accounted for about a fifth of power generation. The share of foreign investor build-own-
transfer power plants was about 5% under US$-pegged power purchase agreements.
Under these power purchase agreements, EVN is forced to buy any amount generated at
the exchange-rate adjusted price.

1.31 With is limited market share, Vietnam’s build-own-transfer sector has not kept up
with the country’s soaring electricity consumption. To date, a number of foreign
investors have shown interest in developing build-own-transfer projects in Vietnam, yet
few projects have been realized due to obstacles including legal and regulatory issues,
low electricity purchase prices by EVN, the lack of a truly competitive market and
inadequate coordination among related GOV agencies. If the GOV wishes to attract
international lenders to finance a new wave of build-own-transfer projects, it has little
choice but to offer a robust guarantee package, which explicitly supports the obligations
of EVN and addresses lender and sponsor concerns surrounding the macroeconomic
framework.



13
  However, in 2012, EVN recorded a net profit due mostly to favorable hydrological conditions and the resulting
increase in low-cost hydropower in the generation mix.

14
     Data provided to the IEG mission by the company in a written questionnaire.
15
  At present, PCs sell generated electricity to the Local Distribution Utilities at the SS level at a wholesale price set by
the GOV. From the SS level, Local Distribution Utilities distribute electricity at the retail level also at a GOV-set
price.
                                             11


World Bank Contribution to Vietnam’s Transmission and Distribution
Modernization, Rural Electrification and Power Sector Reform

1.32 With the lifting of the trade embargo in 1994, the World Bank began providing
support to the GOV’s various economic development programs. Since the mid-1990s,
the Bank has financed a long series of power projects focusing on T&D system expansion
and modernization, rural electrification as well as sector reforms (see the full list of
projects in Annex B). Total value of World Bank credit and loan commitments between
1995 and 2014 is rather high at nearly US$3.9 billion (including the proposed DPO3 and
the Transmission Efficiency Project – both under advanced preparation). The Bank has
been in a unique position to assist Vietnam with projects in these areas that have mutually
reinforcing objectives. The vigorous growth of rural electrification and the resulting
dramatic increase in electricity consumption have made reinforcement of the national and
regional T&D networks a top priority. T&D is crucial to ensure that key sector reforms,
such as the competitive national power market, have a good chance of success.

1.33 The World Bank shared the GOV’s view that the electricity sector was a key
driver of economic growth and poverty reduction. In Country Partnership Strategies
during the assessment period, support for electrification, improvement of the
efficiency/quality of the electricity infrastructure and the advancement of sector reforms
were pivotal development objectives. Most recently, with the 2000 launch of the a
programmatic DPO series, the Bank supports the GOV in the design and implementation
of a competitive market for electricity generation, restructuring of the power sector, and
reform of the tariff system to facilitate competition, timely investments in generation,
improved power system efficiency and more efficient use of electricity.

1.34 From the outset, the fundamental principle underlying the partnership of the GOV
and the World Bank in the power sector was support to the GOV’s key objectives as part
of a programmatic approach. For example, at the outset of cooperation in the rural
energy sector, four major projects were planned to assist the implementation of
Vietnam’s ambitious rural electrification program. The GOV, EVN and the Bank worked
together in formulating a series of projects for the realization of the GOV’s electrification
priorities and identifying solutions to the problems including financing. The cooperation
began with addressing the most urgent issues (rapid delivery of simple first connections
to households) while preparing for the subsequent and more difficult interventions
(improving reliability and quality of electricity supply). A similar program-driven
approach was adopted for the T&D sector and sector reforms, particularly under the
DPOs.

1.35 The rapidly changing sector environment—due to strong economic growth,
surging electricity demand and sector reforms—required the adoption of a de facto
flexible programmatic approach in the implementation of specific projects to adjust to
changing priorities and new physical and institutional developments through project
restructurings and explicitly shifting to a programmatic approach to ensure that the
projects meet the development objectives. For example, under the SEIER Project, a
programmatic approach was successfully adopted at the 2005 restructuring to allow
flexibility to invest in priority subprojects which constantly changed during the
implementation period of a rapidly expanding sector.
                                                   12


1.36 All three projects assessed here share common issues and complementarity
relating to sector policy, regulation, institutional development and reinforcement of
critical power sector infrastructure. The implementation periods of the three operations
overlapped for the most part during the assessment period of 1998-2012.

1.37 With the lifting of the trade embargo in 1994, the GOV first sought the Bank’s
support to rehabilitate and expand the T&D sector, which was in technically highly
unsatisfactory condition to support a rapidly growing population and economy. Given
the T&D sector’s central importance in advancing rural electrification, power market
development and easing widespread power shortages, most of the Bank-supported power
projects in the 1990s and 2010s included a T&D component to assist the (i) timely
evacuation of power from new generation plants to load centers; (ii) improvement of
power system security (especially the critical HV transmission system) and service
quality; and (iii) transition to an organized national electricity market. Altogether, these
operations accounted for about 51,900 km of constructed or rehabilitated T&D lines – the
largest Bank-supported T&D program in the client countries in the FY2000-FY2013
period. As a key achievement, the excessively high T&D network losses were drastically
reduced to 8.9% in 2013, which now stands reasonably close to a sustainable level (see
Figure 4).

               Figure 4. Transmission and Distribution Losses (%)
   30

   25

   20

   15

   10

     5

     0
         1990
         1991
         1992
         1993
         1994
         1995
         1996
         1997
         1998
         1999
         2000
         2001
         2002
         2003
         2004
         2005
         2006
         2007
         2008
         2009
         2010
         2011
         2012
         2013




Note: In percentage of total domestic generation plus net imports. About one-fourth of the combined losses
are incurred in the HV transmission network and the balance in the LV distribution system.
Source: Based on EVN data.



1.38 There were several dedicated T&D projects (see Table 3) totaling nearly US$1.5
billion in World Bank credit/loan commitments, including the TDDR Project (approved
in 1998) assessed in this report. During its implementation, this operation was followed
up by a Second T&D Project (2005) and the Additional Financing (AF) for the Second
T&D Project (2011). In 2012, the Distribution Efficiency Project was approved and the
Transmission Efficiency Project is under advanced preparation and planned for FY2015
approval.
                                                    13


          Table 3: Dedicated World Bank Projects Supporting the T&D Sector

Project              Fiscal Year    Development Objectives                          Credit/    Project
                                                                                    Loan       Cost
                                                                                    (US$       (US$
                                                                                    million)   million)
Transmission,        1998           Strengthen the high voltage transmission        149.57     248.46
Distribution and                    network to facilitate evacuation of power
Disaster                            from generating stations to load centers and
Reconstruction                      rehabilitate distribution systems.
(P045628)
System Efficiency                   Enhance electricity system efficiency,          299.70     419.50
Improvement,                        provide electricity to selected rural areas
Equitization and                    and support sector reform.
Renewables
(P066396)
Second T&D           2006           Improve the efficiency and reliability of the   200.00     200.00
Project (P084871)                   T&D system.
Second T&D           2011           Improve the efficiency and reliability of the   180.00     180.00
Project:                            T&D system.
Additional
Financing
(P114875)
Distribution         2013           Improve the quality and reliability             448.9      800.00
Efficiency Project                  electricity services and reduce greenhouse
(P125996)                           gas emissions through demand-side
                                    response and efficiency gains.
Transmission         2014           Increase the capacity of the electricity        500.00     700.00
Efficiency Project   (under         transmission grid, improve the efficiency
(P131558)            preparation)   and reliability of electricity services and
                                    strengthen the institutional capacity of the
                                    NPT.
Total                                                                               1,778.17   2,547.96

1.39 In the following stage, the GOV requested Word Bank support for one of the
highest national priorities – rapid nationwide rural electrification. By the time the Bank
got involved in this sector in 2000 with a dedicated operation (REP, assessed in this
report), rural electrification in Vietnam was already well into the “cruising” stage,
benefiting from the GOV’s policy decisions in the preceding periods, which resulted in
(i) an increase in rural income under the Doi Moi reforms; (ii) rehabilitation and
construction of several large power plants across the country; (iii) the building up MV
networks; and (iv) the construction of the North/South 500 kV transmission line. The
foundations laid by these important developments enabled rapid progress in rural
electrification in the subsequent periods.

1.40 Under the Banks’s first dedicated lending operation for rural electrification, the
REP, the GOV sought support to cover the financing gap for rural electrification and pilot
institutional arrangements, including decentralization of the rural electrification program
and building local capacity. This operation was followed by three IDA credits totaling
US$720 million. The IDA credits covered 72% of the total cost of the projects. Table 4
presents a summary of the World Bank projects dedicated to rural electrification. Over
time, there has been a gradual shift in alignment with the changing focus of the country’s
                                                   14


electrification program, from increasing access through grid extension to improving T&D
system efficiency and reliability through rehabilitating and upgrading the existing
systems. The Bank has been the main donor supporting Vietnam’s rural electrification
effort. Other donors included Japan, Sweden, OPEC and, more recently, the Asian
Development Bank. In recent years, donor coordination has become substantive and
more organized, with the World Bank in the lead particularly on the reform side. The
IEG mission has received positive feedback on coordination from the Hanoi country
office of Asian Development Bank, the second largest power sector donor to Vietnam.

      Table 4: Dedicated World Bank Projects Supporting Rural Electrification

Project         Fiscal     Development Objectives                           IDA Credit      Project Cost
                Year                                                        (US$ million)   (US$ million)
Rural Energy    2000       Expand rural access to electricity, define and   150.00          201.30
Project                    establish institutional mechanisms for rural
(P056452)                  electrification and promote renewable energy
                           sources.
Second REP      2004       Improve access to good-quality, affordable       220.00          341.00
(P074688)                  electricity services to rural communities in
                           an efficient and sustainable manner.
Second REP:     2009       Improve access to good-quality, affordable       200.00          250.60
Additional                 electricity services to rural communities in
Financing                  an efficient and sustainable manner.
(P113495)
Rural           2009       Improve the reliability and quality of MV        150.00          207.20
Distribution               service to targeted retail electricity
Project                    distribution systems.
(P099211)
Total                                                                       720.00          1,000.10
Source: WB Business Warehouse



1.41 From 2000 onwards, the GOV has increasingly sought Bank support for a multi-
phased transition to an organized national electricity market. During this period,
practically all Bank-supported power sector operations, including the TDDR and SEIER
projects, have carried a substantial reform agenda. These operations and continuous
policy dialogue with the GOV have set the stage for the subsequent higher level
programmatic Bank engagement under the ongoing DPOs to support the GOV in the
design and implementation of a competitive electricity market, further sector
restructuring and tariff reform.
                                            15


2. Transmission, Distribution and Disaster
Reconstruction Project
Objectives, Design, and their Relevance
OBJECTIVES

2.1     The project development objectives (PDOs) of the TDDR Project were to: (i)
strengthen Vietnam’s HV transmission network to facilitate evacuation of power from
generating stations to the load centers; (ii) rehabilitate distribution systems to meet
demand, reduce losses and improve reliability; (iii) support power sector reform and
restructuring through separation of transmission and generation functions,
implementation of regulatory and tariff reforms; (iv) support institutional strengthening
and commercialization through securing greater autonomy for the distribution companies
and introducing planning capabilities for DSM; and (v) help normalize economic activity
in the Typhoon Linda-affected areas through the reconstruction of the electricity
distribution network. The Development Credit Agreement is the source of the PDOs and
the basis for the assessment.

RELEVANCE OF OBJECTIVES

2.2     Relevance of the PDOs is rated High. The project context at appraisal was
characterized by grossly inadequate and inefficient T&D infrastructure, systemic
impediments to commercial operation of EVN, large needs for investments and
inadequate sector regulation. Reinforcement of a series of transmission lines and
substations was crucially required to serve as feeders for the rural distribution system to
be greatly expanded under the GOV’s Rural Electrification Master Plan (2000-2010)
completed in 1999 with technical support from the World Bank under the Power
Development Project (1996-1999). The Bank's 1995 Country Assistance Strategy and
1996 Progress Report emphasized support for infrastructure development, including
financing of power T&D infrastructure expansion and development. Against this
background, the relevance of the project's investment and reform PDOs was high at the
time of project closing (2007) and has continued to remain so to the present. AF was
approved for the project in FY2005 to scale up the transmission expansion and
reinforcement subcomponent. With Vietnam’s continued rapid economic growth and the
virtually universal household access to electricity, the need for a reliable and resilient
power infrastructure has remained very strong. Even after project closure, electricity
consumption has continued to grow at a double-digit rate. As a result, the T&D system,
while expanded and partially modernized, has remained vulnerable and overloaded,
especially during periods of peak demand. In addition to the tight generation capacity
margin, persistent bottlenecks in the T&D network have been the main cause of the
power blackouts and brownouts experienced up to the present.

2.3    Since project closure, significant expansion and upgrade in the T&D segment of
the power infrastructure has remained a GOV priority. Under the Power Sector Master
Plan for 2011-2020, about one-third (US$1.6 billion per year) of total power sector
investments is planned for T&D expansion and reinforcement. Considering that the
                                              16


expansion and modernization of the power infrastructure in a rapidly growing economy is
a long-term process, the Bank’s current (FY2012-2016) Country Partnership Strategy
priorities in the power sector emphasize support for improved quality of basic
infrastructure services, including electricity. Most of the Bank’s follow-on power
projects in Vietnam (see Annex B) included a T&D development component. Relevant
operations currently under implementation include the Second T&D Project and the
Distribution Efficiency Project. In addition, a large Transmission Efficiency Project is
under advanced preparation (approval planned for FY2015).

2.4     Relevance of the reform-related PDOs pursued under the project has also
remained high. Sector reform is still being actively pursued by the GOV in a phased
manner and driven by a long-term vision for the establishment of an efficient and
competitive national power sector. Also, partly because of the delayed implementation of
the reform and institutional PDOs included in this operation, most of the subsequent
Bank-supported power projects have carried a substantial reform and institutional
development agenda, most prominently the ongoing DPOs, including DPO3 under
preparation (approval planned for FY2014).

DESIGN

2.5      The project comprised the following components:

•     Component 1: Transmission and Distribution (estimated cost at appraisal:
      US$415.49 million; actual cost at completion: US$259.04 million). It had six
      subcomponents: (i) construction of the second circuit of the Pleiku-Phu Lam 500 kV
      transmission line and associated substations to strengthen and expand the transfer
      capacity of the North-South interconnector; (ii) construction of the Ha Tinh
      110/220/500 kV substation; (iii) construction of the 220 kV Nha Be to Tao Dan
      circuit and 110/220 kV gas-insulated switchgear Tao Dan substation in Ho Chi Minh
      City; (iv) rehabilitation of distribution networks in the cities of Halong, Vinh and
      Vung Tau; (v) consultant services for the Pleiku–Phu Lam 500 kV line and the 220
      kV Nha Be to Tao Dan circuit and substation; and (vi) TA for improving the
      regulatory framework and the DSM program. An associated TA component,
      financed by Japan, initiated the work on sector reform and restructuring, and carried
      out studies to improve the T&D functions. This component supported the PDOs by
      strengthening the HV transmission network, rehabilitating distribution systems,
      advancing sector reform, restructuring, commercialization and institutional
      development.

•     Component 2: Disaster Reconstruction Component (estimated cost at appraisal:
      US$10.94 million; actual cost at completion: US$8.73 million). This component
      consisted of the reconstruction of 180 km of LV and 160 km of MV distribution lines
      as well as 320 distribution substations with an aggregate capacity of 25 MVA. The
      component supported the PDO of normalizing activity in the Typhoon Linda-affected
      area.

2.6    The project beneficiaries were the Ministry of Industry, EVN and its subsidiary
regional Power Companies (PCs), specifically PC1 and PC2, which were responsible for
                                            17


electricity distribution in the northern and southern parts of the country (including Ho Chi
Minh City), respectively.

2.7    The project was restructured in May 2005. The PDOs were not changed but
outcome targets were modified to allow the financing of urgent investments in priority
EVN subprojects, using the substantial project cost savings that had accumulated between
2000 and 2005.

RELEVANCE OF DESIGN

2.8     Relevance of the project design is rated Substantial. The inputs provided
through the project components can be grouped into physical interventions for
constructing and rehabilitating the T&D network, and technical assistance for improving
the regulatory framework and the DSM program. These inputs and corresponding
outputs were expected to serve multiple objectives that were geared to improved
technical performance, institutional restructuring, regulatory and tariff reforms, and for
normalizing economic activity in the typhoon-affected areas. The strongest link is to be
seen between the physical interventions and the corresponding intermediate outcomes in
the form of restored connectivity and reduced system losses. The combination of
technical assistance activities was logically connected to improved institutional and
financial outcomes. However, these linkages were not as well represented in the system
level indicators as discussed in the section of monitoring & evaluation. Normalization of
economic activity can be seen as the overall outcome resulting from all these outputs and
intermediate outcomes.

Implementation
PLANNED VS. ACTUAL COSTS

2.9     The total project cost at appraisal was estimated at US$427.13 million equivalent,
of which the IDA credit amounted to US$199 million equivalent. The actual project cost
was US$268.46 million equivalent (63% of the appraisal estimate), of which the IDA
credit was US$149.57 million equivalent (76% of original amount). These figures include
US$700,000 of project preparation TA provided by the Government of Japan for work on
sector reforms and a study on T&D functions. The Borrower's contribution was estimated
at US$45.60 million at appraisal, while the actual figure was higher at US$107.56
million.

2.10 Cost savings. There was a significant depreciation of the US$ against the SDR
(in which the credit was denominated) in the latter stages of the project. After the May
2005 restructuring, EVN and the PCs were unable to identify sufficient subprojects to use
the balance of the credit amount. Further savings were incurred on the subprojects that
were actually implemented, thus resulting in successive cancellations of SDR 27 million
(US$40 million equivalent) and SDR 11.4 million (US$17 million equivalent).
                                            18


IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE

2.11 The project was approved on January 20, 1998 and became effective more than a
year later on February 12, 1999. The project closed after five extensions on June 30,
2007, five years later than the original closing date.

2.12 Two main shortcomings hampered effective implementation. First, project
preparation was not well advanced upon credit approval, thus requiring first the hiring of
consultants to complete the preparation of the major investment components before they
could be implemented. This partly explains the eventual need for five extensions of the
closing date. Second, the Bank's performance on the tariff issue, in addition to being
questionable, was a delaying factor from the outset. The risks of adopting a tariff
covenant were poorly assessed, as noted above.

2.13 A mid-term review was carried out in December 2000. By that time, the project
experienced serious delays. The credit’s Closing Date was extended multiple times: the
first two ones were to allow the completion of portions of Component 1, which had
experienced slow implementation; the third extension was to allow completion of project
restructuring; the fourth one was given at the May 2005 restructuring to allow
implementation of the new subprojects; and the fifth one was to permit completion of
contracts that were delayed or had to be rebid.

2.14 Safeguards. The project was classified as Environmental Category B for
Environmental Assessments. An Environmental Management Plan and Resettlement
Plan (RP) were required to be prepared. Implementing agencies were required to engage
independent consultants for implementation monitoring. With the exception of the major
North/South 500 kV transmission line (Pleiku-Phu Lam) for which an Environmental
Assessment/ Environmental Management Plan was carried out, it was not clear what
level of Environmental Assessment was carried out for the remaining subprojects,
according to the project ICR. The ICR cites evidence that the subprojects that were
appraised after the restructuring in May 2005 followed agreed guidelines for the
Environmental Assessment. Ethnic Minority Development Plans were prepared for the
three subprojects and were implemented satisfactorily. The ICR and IEG/PPAR mission
discussions suggest that resettlement was on the whole well implemented by the
responsible implementing agencies. No grievances or complaints were brought to the
attention of the Bank staff during implementation supervision, which included site visits,
or during the IEG mission. Independent monitoring of the RPs revealed no major issues.
Procurement. At project start-up, a dedicated management group comprised of Ministry
of Industry and EVN officials supported the executing agencies of EVN and the PCs,
which were not fully familiar with complex procurement processes. Procurement was
slow overall, since large packages in particular required multiple levels of approval all
the way up to the Prime Minister. While there were four complaints (two dropped, one
invalidated and one resulting in rebidding), no instances of procurement irregularities
were reported.

2.15 Financial Management. While generally satisfactory, there were two recurrent
issues: (i) late submission of financial management reports and audit reports; and (ii)
slow processing of disbursement requests within the GOV and delayed payments, which
                                                       19


in some cases had a noticeable effect on the financial performance of the PCs which for
the most part had to pay their suppliers before the GOV review of the disbursement
request was complete. Financial reporting improved toward the end of the project. The
project team reports that audits were satisfactory throughout and were generally
unqualified.

Achievement of the Objectives
2.16 PDO 1: Strengthening of high voltage transmission network. Rated
Substantial. Practically all of the numerous physical output targets (T&D construction,
substation upgrades and meter installation) were achieved or overachieved as a result of
the 20 subprojects added to the project scope at the May 2005 restructuring.

2.17 In terms of key outcomes, the 500 kV transmission component strengthened the
HV transmission network by enabling the evacuation of considerable incremental power
from the generation stations, thus alleviating the power deficit in the south. 16 The
central-south power flows upon project completion were in the targeted range (1,300–
1,400 MW), which subsequently have been increased to reach 2,200 MW at present, and
2,700 MW by end-2014 with the completion of Pleiku-Mi Fuoc-Can Bong transmission
line under construction. 17 In terms of reliability and efficiency of transmission, there were
considerable gains: both fault frequency and grid losses in the 500 kV transmission
system was lower than the revised targets and were much lower than the appraisal targets.
While exact attribution of these system-level benefits to a specific project is not possible
in such a dynamically changing large system, it is plausible that the subject operation
made a contribution given its size and the nature of the interventions directly targeting
key bottlenecks in the transmission system.

2.18 Overall, given the size and rapid growth of Vietnam’s transmission system, the
development impact of this component was necessarily limited. Therefore, during
project implementation another Bank-supported operation (Second T&D Project) was
approved to sustain and strengthen the gains obtained under the TDDR project and to
further expand the transmission infrastructure in response to continued vigorous growth
in demand for electricity. However, the overall reliability landscape has remained mixed.
While the frequency of interruptions has followed a declining trajectory to the present,
the duration of interruptions, as shown in Table 2, has displayed a deteriorating tendency
in recent years due to the reasons noted (see paragraph 1.11) and continues to be rather
high in international comparison.




16
  The IEG mission visited the 500 kV Phu Lam SS in Ho Chi Minh City to which the Bank-financed 550
km 500 kV transmission line (Pleiku-Phu Lam) was connected in 2004 under the TDDR Project. This
second circuit of the North-South interconnector doubled the transfer capacity and improved stability. The
mission found the SS in good operating condition, with advanced primary and secondary equipment
installed, including SCADA/ Energy Management System. More recently, a third circuit was added to
further expand the transfer capacity in the face of rapidly growing power consumption in the southern
regions.
17
     Information provided to the IEG mission by NPT.
                                                    20


2.19 PDO 2: Rehabilitation and expansion of distribution systems to meet demand
reduce losses and improve reliability. Rated Substantial. The key output targets
(distribution lines, substations, meter installation) were substantially achieved or
overachieved because of the additional subprojects under the 2005 restructuring. In
terms of outcomes, significant improvements in overall distribution reliability and
efficiency, well over targeted values, were observed upon project closure. System-wide
losses were reduced from 21.4% in 1995 to 11.8% in 2005. While the frequency of
supply interruption also decreased substantially, the average duration (in minutes) of the
interruptions increased markedly over the targeted levels, showing continued weaknesses
in a distribution system experiencing frequent network overload amid rapidly growing
demand for electricity. 18,19 However, the above-mentioned project-specific attribution
problem applies here too. Only anecdotal evidence is available that there has been some
improvement in the quality of supply as a result of the project.

2.20 The post-project sustainability of the reliability gains – in terms of interruption
frequency and in particular interruption duration – has remained tenuous. In fact, as
discussed above (paragraph 1.9), recently distribution reliability has worsened in major
regions (e.g., NPC and CPC) under the impact of relentlessly rapid load growth and other
factors.

2.21 PDO 3: Support for power sector reforms. Rated Modest. In 2005, the
Electricity Law went into effect, setting the stage for significant restructuring measures.
The law’s primary objective was to develop a competitive power market following a
gradual approach. The law also states that the state monopoly in the sector should be
limited to power transmission, national load dispatch and strategically important large
power plants.

2.22 Pursuant to the Law, the restructuring process was initiated with the establishment
of EVN as a holding company in 2006. EVN was reorganized into financially
independent subsidiaries that include seven power companies, including five regional
distribution companies. In 2008, EVN set up the NPT as a separate autonomous legal
entity responsible for the operation of the transmission network. The financially
autonomous generation companies started commercial operation in January 2013. The
GOV’s gradual approach to full competition envisages the removal of cross-ownership
after 2015 among market players participating in the different segments of the electricity
supply chain.

2.23 A sector regulator (ERAV) was created in 2005, which, however, even today
lacks meaningful autonomy in performing the required regulatory functions, including
tariff setting. Therefore, subsequent Bank operations have provided continuous

18
  The IEG mission visited the 110/220 kV Tao Dan SS in Ho Chi Minh City where a gas-insulated
switchgear was installed in 2004 under the TDDR Project. The mission found the SS in well-maintained,
good operating condition. Since project closure, SS capacity was substantially increased to accommodate
rapid demand growth and prevent overloading.
19
  In view of the persistent serious power supply quality problems, the Bank has supported with
considerable financing (US$448.9 million) a dedicated Distribution Efficiency Project aimed at further
substantial improvements in reliability and efficiency of the PCs. The project is under implementation.
                                                   21


regulatory support, including under the DPOs. After meeting with senior ERAV staff in
Hanoi, the IEG mission is not convinced that, at this juncture, ERAV has the full capacity
for high quality tariff and quality-of-service regulation. Currently, the agency is engaged
in non-regulatory type activities, such as administration of the Vietnam Competitive
Generation Market, which distracts it from the core regulatory tasks such as quality-of-
service regulation, monitoring and enforcement.

2.24 During project implementation, retail tariffs were increased by 25% in national
currency terms, about the same amount as originally envisaged in US dollar terms. In the
post-project period, electricity tariffs have remained tightly controlled by the GOV and
while in local currency terms they have been raised repeatedly in recent years, slightly
above the rate of inflation, the average retail tariff continues to be substantially lower
than the real cost of supply, hence end-users (other than those in the commercial sector)
are effectively subsidized even today. As a result, EVN is, in some respects, in a more
difficult financial situation today than any time during the course of the project, which
impedes its ability to invest sufficiently to meet the rapid growth in demand for
electricity. In US dollar terms, the average retail tariff reached the targeted level (7 US
cent/kWh) only in 2012 (see Table 5). Furthermore, the tariff structure has remained
highly distorted by cross-subsidies. For example, commercial users pay almost 80%
more for electricity than residential and industrial users, which is not justified on a cost-
of-supply basis. Clearly, the tariff issue has remained a de facto permanent policy issue
to address under subsequent Bank operations, including the DPOs. For example, the
DPO3 under preparation includes substantial electricity tariff reform aimed to establish a
framework for periodic and transparent setting and adjustment of retail tariffs, and the
phase-out of cross-subsidy between different consumer tariff categories. However, based
on the Prime Minister’s recent tariff decision, 20 even in 2015 the average retail tariff
should not exceed US cent 8.7 per kWh equivalent, implying that in the next two years
tariff adjustments would essentially follow the inflation, with no step increase in real
terms.

                    Table 5: Average Electricity Retail Tariffs (as approved)
     Date           March     March      March      Dec.      June       Dec.     August        2015
     Approved       2009      2010       2011       2011      2012       2012      2013        (plan)
     VND/kWh         948.5    1,058       1,242     1,304     1,369     1,467      1,509      1,437-
                                                                                               1,835
     US               4.7      5.3         6.2       6.5       6.8        7.3        7.6      6.8-8.7
     cent/kWh
     Increase (%)      -      11.5%      17.4%      5.0%      5.0%       5.0%      5.0%        14.5%
Note: The 2015 tariff bracket was approved by the Prime Minister on November 11, 2013. In 2015, the
average retail tariff should not exceed VND 1,835/kWh (or 8.4 US cent/kWh at the current exchange rate).
The 14.5% increase is the 2015 approved ceiling tariff over the actual tariff of August 2013.

2.25 PDO 4: Support for institutional strengthening and commercialization.
Rated Modest. This PDO was specifically aimed at the PCs, which have become
commercially and managerially more independent over the life of the project. Their

20
     No. 2165/QD-TTg dated November 11, 2013.
                                                    22


accounting systems have also continuously improved. With respect to the DSM
activities, a DSM cell was established within EVN with five full-time staff and DSM
working groups were created within each PC. A DSM policy framework and an initial
DSM program was carried out by EVN, including 30 energy audits, five pilot lighting
programs and a pilot load research program and a pilot time-of-use metering program.
After project closure, these energy efficiency pilot efforts have been pursued under other
power projects and the DPOs. Altogether, based also on the IEG mission’s discussions
with the PCs and GOV officials, DSM activities to date have largely remained stuck
either in a permanent pilot mode (e.g., dissemination of Compact Fluorescent Lamps,
energy-efficient public lighting) or in a partially rolled-out mode (time-of-use metering),
with relatively limited impact on the overall efficiency of electricity use. 21 For example,
the mission found that time-of-use meters are applied only to large consumers (>2,000
kWh per month) despite demand responsiveness, reported savings in electricity use, and
some shift of electricity use from on-peak to off-peak hours.

2.26 PDO 5: Normalization of economic activity following Typhoon Linda. Rated
Substantial. This component was completed under difficult circumstances and in
reasonable time. No indicators are provided in the project documents to assess the scale
of economic activity at the time of Typhoon Linda in 1997 and after project completion.
However, the outputs indicate one-for-one replacement of LV and MV systems and
equipment. From this it can be reasonably surmised that households as well as businesses
and other activities had access to at least a similar standard of service as was available
before the typhoon, allowing economic activity to return to prior levels. For some
perspective, overall growth GDP Growth Rate in Vietnam averaged 6.19 Percent from
2000 until 2013, reaching an all-time high of 8.46 Percent in the fourth quarter of 2007
and a record low of 3.14 Percent in the first quarter of 2009. 22

Efficiency
2.27 The efficiency of the project in meeting its objectives is rated Modest. The
economic analysis at appraisal and completion was carried out using standard
methodology used in similar power projects. The analysis covered all sub-projects,
accounting for 88 percent of the final project costs, the main items excluded being
consultant services and technical assistance. Yhe same methodology was followed at
appraisal and completion. The project's economic benefits at closing were higher than the
appraisal estimate. At completion, the Economic Internal Rate of Return was estimated
for the original scope of components at 38.9% vs. 27.2% at appraisal. The difference is
due largely to substantial cost savings (about 30%). Clearly, at appraisal, the costs of the
original subprojects were overestimated. The Economic Internal Rate of Return for the
additional subprojects is also satisfactory at 20.5%. Finally, with the economic benefits
of the disaster reconstruction component included, the overall Economic Internal Rate of
Return for the project was 27%. At 20.1%, the overall Financial Internal Rate of Return
is higher than the appraisal estimate of 13.3%. However, the project experienced five
21
  For example, CPC (central region) claims in its report provided to the IEG mission that in 2012 it saved
112.4 million kWh or 1.09% of total electricity sales. Considering this modest, the company plans to
increase the savings by 50% in coming years. (EVN CPC, “Corporate Profile 2011-2024,” p. 39.)
22
     General Statistics; Government of Vietnam
                                              23


extensions resulting in a time overrun of five years, doubling the implementation period
estimated at appraisal. A significant portion of this delay can be attributed to procedural
requirements for procurement and disbursement required by GOV as discussed under
“Implementation Experience” above.

Ratings
OUTCOME

2.28 Overall project outcome is rated Moderately Satisfactory based on the high
relevance of its objectives, substantial relevance of its design, its substantial efficacy and
modest efficiency. On the performance under the five PDOs, achievement has been rated
substantial for three (strengthening the transmission network; rehabilitating and
expanding distribution systems; normalizing post-disaster economic activity) and modest
for two (sector reforms; strengthening and commercializing institutions). The reform
agenda supported was broad. In particular, the country’s first Electricity Law (2005) set
a framework for pursuing gradual reforms over the long term, well beyond project
closure. However, while many of the essential steps toward electricity sector reforms
were initiated and partially carried out under this operation, the project's overall reform
objectives were too ambitious, thus several tasks (most notably, the regulatory and tariff
reform) have not been completed until the mid-2000s or even today.

2.29 Expansion and modernization of a large national T&D system like that of
Vietnam is a long-term process. This project was only the first important milestone in
this process that set the stage for a sustained Bank engagement in the subsector to the
present.

RISK TO DEVELOPMENT OUTCOME

2.30 The risk that the achieved development outcomes will not be sustained is rated
Significant. Since project closure, the GOV has demonstrated strong commitment to
carry on with the expansion and modernization of the T&D system in response to
continued rapid demand growth and strong consumer pressure for higher quality power
supply. The performance efficiency indicators of the T&D sector have continued to
improve after project closure (as shown in Figure 4). However, T&D reliability leaves
much to be desired because of the recently deteriorating record of network interruptions
(interruption duration in particular) as discussed above. Under the GOV’s Power Sector
Master Plan for 2011-2020, T&D expansion and reinforcement are of high priority.
However, EVN Holding is increasingly challenged to raise funds for the planned T&D
investments (about US$1.6 billion per year between 2011 and 2020) given the company’s
deteriorating financial performance. While the GOV has recently substantially increased
the electricity tariffs, further real-term increases are required to achieve full cost recovery
that would improve EVN Holding’s financial capacity and ability to attract private
investors to the sector. In large part, these financial concerns and prevailing issues with
T&D reliability account for rating the risk “Significant” that the achieved development
outcomes will not be maintained.
                                                   24


BANK PERFORMANCE

2.31 The quality at entry for the project is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory. The
project was technically reasonably well prepared and far-reaching in its policy and
institutional development dialogue, which continues up to the present. However, there
were three main shortcomings. First, project preparation was not well advanced upon
credit approval, thus requiring first the hiring of consultants to complete the preparation
of the major investment components before they could be implemented. 23 This may
partly explain the eventual need for five extensions of the credit closing date for a total of
five years. Second, given the scale and high complexity of the project (with numerous
project sites scattered across the country) and EVN’s insufficient experience with Bank
operations at the time (late 1990s), the implementation schedule (four years) was
significantly underestimated by the Bank’s team. (Actual implementation time was more
than nine years.) Third, the Bank's performance on the tariff issue showed weaknesses.
In the political economy context of the time, a target tariff level as high as 7 US
cent/kWh equivalent (based on a long-run marginal cost estimate) was not fully justified.
The risks of adopting a tariff-level covenant were not adequately assessed. The Bank had
to weigh the options of waiving the tariff covenant or suspending credit disbursement.
Eventually, the Bank had to agree to replace the tariff covenant with covenants for EVN
to maintain specific financial performance targets. Further, there were some
shortcomings in M&E design in terms of tracking project-specific outcomes in contrast to
system-wide outcomes and clearer definitions of some indicators as discussed in the
section on M&E.

2.32 The Bank’s quality of supervision during the project is rated Moderately
Unsatisfactory for the following reasons:

(i) There was a lack of candor in the Bank's reports on the progress of the much drawn-
out implementation process.

(ii) Although financial supervision was satisfactory overall, the tariff issue was not
resolved: progressive increases were covenanted with EVN, which was unable to act
directly without GOV approval. Shortly after the January 1998 Board approval of the
project, the GOV changed its mind on the agreed level of 7 US cent/kWh by December
31, 1999, thus causing a delay in the signing of the legal agreements. Further
negotiations resulted in delaying the deadline to March 1, 2000, which was reflected in
the Credit Agreement, finally signed one year after Board approval. Slippages occurred
during project implementation and tariff concerns led to the downgrading of the PDO
progress indicator to "Unsatisfactory" on three occasions.

(iii) The Bank was slow in addressing the issue of large cost savings, e.g., the first closing
date extension being processed only six months before the original closing date of June
23
  Concerning this issue, feedback from former Bank staff in Vietnam suggests that this was earlier a
systemic problem affecting all Bank projects in Vietnam. This feedback suggested that under the then-
applicable GOV regulation, IDA credit beneficiaries were not allowed to perform project preparation prior
to credit approval. However, based on feedback received from current country staff during the mission,
this view was only partially confirmed and several counterparts claimed that EVN was less impacted by
this restriction now, given its considerable in-house technical capacity.
                                           25


2002 with only 13% of the credit disbursed. The latter meant that the Bank missed a
much-needed opportunity to conduct a systematic and substantial review of performance
years earlier. At credit closing, the tariff issue remained unresolved.

(iv) Bank resources also dropped significantly in the FY immediately following major
restructuring of the project to allow financing of EVN subprojects, each of which had to
comply with Bank safeguard and fiduciary requirements. There were three TTLs and
many changes of team members performing the same specialty.

2.33 Based on the above ratings, the overall Bank performance is rated Moderately
Unsatisfactory.

BORROWER PERFORMANCE

2.34 The Government’s performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory. The GOV did
delegate more investment decisions to EVN and the PCs pursuant to the Electricity Law,
initiated the separation of T&D from EVN and engaged in reform dialogue. However, it
remained unresponsive to adjusting electricity tariffs to levels agreed with the Bank.
While the Bank's target level may have been too steep, the GOV did not follow a
transparent process to allow a meaningful dialogue with the Bank regarding the basis on
which the tariffs should be set.

2.35 The performance of the project's implementing agencies is rated Satisfactory.
EVN and the PCs showed strong commitment to the project and implemented the
components, albeit with considerable delays due to procedural requirements not entirely
within their control. Their performance on technical, safeguards and fiduciary aspects
was satisfactory overall. Professionalism and the quality of work among their ranks
improved during the life of the project. However, their ability to undertake long-term
investments to meet high levels of projected power demand and long-term sustainability
of their finances depend almost entirely on GOV approval of tariff increases.

2.36 Based on the above considerations, the Borrower’s overall performance is rated
Moderately Satisfactory.

MONITORING AND EVALUATION

2.37 M&E Design. The M&E framework contained a wide range of indicators to
address the scope of project objectives and baseline values were provided. The indicators
for investment components were specific and measurable (e.g. additional transmission
lines constructed and new generation capacity connected through them to the existing 500
kV North-South interconnector, number and duration of interruptions in the transmission
system, etc.) and could make use of the existing performance monitoring system of EVN
and the PCs. However some of the indicators were set for the T&D system as a whole
rather than for the project. The indicators for the sector reform were loosely defined
(“some” and “substantial” evidence for “development of a functioning internal power
market”). There were no indicators for the emergency recovery component. Another
design-related shortcoming of the Results Framework was the quantified (and unmet)
target for tariff increases as a means of ensuring EVN’s adequate financial performance.
                                                        26


Retrospectively, the tariff target should not have been included in the Results Framework
but, more importantly, it should not have been specified as a legal covenant.

2.38 M&E Implementation. Implementation progress data was gathered quarterly
and financial indicators annually. Independent monitoring consultants were hired for
monitoring compliance and implementation of environmental and social safeguards.
Whereas data quality on investment components was acceptable, data on environmental
and social performance was of mixed quality mainly due to lack of field-based
monitoring using rigorous techniques.

2.39 M&E Utilization. Data from monitoring were used to assess project
implementation progress based on agreed timetables, which were adjusted when
necessary. However, several key outcome indicators related mostly to improved
reliability and efficiency of the T&D system operation (including frequency and duration
of network interruptions and grid losses) were generally set and measured at the overall
system level, hence it proved difficult to disaggregate specific project impacts from other
non-project related factors, including large-scale other investments taking place
simultaneously in the sector. This became more problematic as the national power sector
grew rapidly in response of soaring electricity demand, which made the system impact of
one single project less pronounced, let alone precisely identifiable. Data from monitoring
the tariff covenant became a sensitive subject of discussion between the GOV and the
Bank, without reaching a satisfactory agreement. 24 In consequence, the tariff covenant
was replaced by financial ratio covenants 25 for EVN. Subsequent Bank operations in the
sector in Vietnam have learnt from this project design experience and have avoided
specific tariff-level covenants.

2.40       Overall, M&E is rated Modest.




24
  Reflecting tariff-adjustment concerns, during implementation, the PDO progress indicator was
downgraded to “unsatisfactory” on several occasions.
25
     Self-financing, debt-service, and debt-equity ratios.
                                             27




3. Rural Energy Project
Objectives, Design, and their Relevance
OBJECTIVES

3.1      The PDOs as stated in the Development Credit Agreement were to: (i) expand
rural access to electricity to 671 communes in 32 provinces of Vietnam through grid
extension, where economically justified, to improve welfare, enhance income-earning
capacity and alleviate poverty; (ii) develop appropriate institutional mechanisms for rural
electrification to facilitate a sustainable program of rural electrification and long-term
viability of the power sector; (iii) continued implementation of power sector reforms; and
(iv) promote local renewable energy sources in areas inaccessible to the national grid.

RELEVANCE OF OBJECTIVES

3.2     Relevance of the project development objectives is rated High. The project
context was characterized by relatively low rural access to electricity, limited capacity for
utilizing renewable energy sources for electricity supply, weak sector institutions, lack of
comprehensive legal and regulatory framework, including for rural electrification, and a
need for large investments. Rural electrification was a critical component of the GOV’s
long-term program to eliminate poverty. In 1998, about 30 million people still had no
access to electricity and less than half of the rural households were electrified.

3.3      Against this background, the project’s objectives were, and some of them still are,
highly relevant to the development of Vietnam’s electricity sector. The project’s rural
electrification objective is now much less relevant given that with 98% of the households
connected nationwide, the electrification agenda is substantially complete. However,
even in the current context, reinforcement of the existing distribution systems to improve
the reliability and quality of power supply and, in particular, completion of the
considerable unfinished sector reform agenda continues to remain highly relevant. The
Bank’s current (FY2012-2016) Country Partnership Strategy priorities in the power
sector under Pillar 1 (“promoting a more efficient and reliable provision of infrastructure
services”) emphasize support for improved quality of basic infrastructure services,
including electricity, and the design and implementation of a competitive power market,
sector restructuring consistent with competition, tariff reform and improved sector
financial viability. Overall, progress has been made on the power market restructuring
and reform agenda since the DPO series were launched in 2010, although at a slower
pace than expected.

DESIGN

3.4     Relevance of the project design is rated Substantial. The project was designed
with four components: one for each of the three regional PCs and a fourth to ensure
sustainability by providing TA for capacity building, project management and technical
design.
                                                    28


•    Component 1 (estimated cost at appraisal: US$77.8 million; actual cost at
     completion: US$87.2 million): Electrification of communes in PC1 area (northern) to
     expand access to electricity to 147,150 households in 347 communes in 13 provinces.

•    Component 2 (estimated cost at appraisal: US$37.0 million; actual cost at
     completion: US$52.1 million): Electrification of communes in PC2 area (southern) to
     expand access to electricity to 201,851 households in 120 communes in 10 provinces.

•    Component 3 (estimated cost at appraisal: US$41.0 million; actual cost at
     completion: US$52.9 million): Electrification of communes in PC3 area (central) to
     expand access to electricity to 81,184 households in 204 communes in 9 provinces.

•    Component 4 (estimated cost at appraisal: US$3.3 million; actual cost at completion:
     US$1.9 million): TA and capacity building for EVN and the PCs for institutional
     development.

3.5     The rural electrification subprojects financed had to meet certain basic design
principles, which required that they:

        (i)      involve local participation and cost-sharing between consumers, local
                 government and the utility;
        (ii)     be economically viable;
        (iii)    comprise project components that were cost-effective and required no
                 subsidies;
        (iv)     be built according to technically sound specifications;
        (v)      were accompanied by consumer willingness to connect and pay; and
        (vi)     involve local participation in operations and maintenance after
                 construction.

3.6     Project components for the PCs were designed to specifically target poor
communes in rural and distant areas, taking into account the recommendations of the
1995 OED review of rural electrification. 26 Communes were selected after verifying that
grid extension was the least cost option and economically viable. TA was designed to
support standard technical specifications for rural electrification, templates for economic
and financial evaluation of project subcomponents and formats for feasibility studies.

Implementation
PLANNED VS. ACTUAL COSTS

3.7    The project cost at completion (US$203.22 million) was 1% higher than the
appraisal estimate (US$201.60 million). 27 The funds were invested in materials,

26
  OED, “Rural Electrification: A Hard Look at Costs and Benefits,” World Bank, Washington, DC, May
1995.
27
  The slightly higher completion cost is due largely to the fact that the US$ weakened during the
implementation period. The IDA credit was denominated in SDR.
                                                    29


equipment and services for rural electrification as well as TA for capacity building. The
IDA credit financed US$150.92 million (SDR99.9 million equivalent). At project
closure, the undisbursed portion of the IDA credit SDR5.7 million (US$9 million) was
cancelled. 28

3.8     The Credit Agreement was declared effective in November 2000 or six months
after Board approval. The credit closing date was extended twice for a total of 2.5 years
to allow the financing of two additional phases of rural electrification. The project was
closed in December 2006. Overall, the project was successful in implementation, much
exceeding the number of communes electrified and rural households connected. EVN
was the implementing agency for the project. EVN through its PCs was in charge of
implementing the MV and LV network up to the customer’s meter. Provincial authorities
were in charge of resettlement and land acquisition costs. Rural consumers financed the
household connections.

3.9    In order to achieve the desired local participation and ownership required for
successful implementation and to maximize the number of communes connected, project
implementation was based on two key principles: decentralization to local authorities and
cost-sharing by all parties. Given the large number of subprojects and the concept of
decentralized implementation as well as the need to assure quality, EVN standardized,
with assistance from the Bank (i) the technical specifications for rural electrification to
ensure network efficiency; (ii) a template for the economic and financial evaluation of the
subcomponents; and (iii) a format for the feasibility studies.

3.10 Safeguards. The project was classified as Environmental Category B because the
rural electrification component included land acquisition and rights-of-way for
transmission line s. An Environmental Management Plan was prepared, duly assessed
and successfully implemented in accordance with environmental procedures of the Bank.
There was a large number of affected households but for most of them the impacts were
small and aggregate impacts in each of the PC areas low. There was no relocation and
land owners were adequately compensated. The project was reported to be in substantial
compliance with the Bank’s safeguard policies.

3.11 Financial Management. Disbursement was the main weakness of project
implementation. A significant lag was observed between the work performed and the
payment to contractors for completed works. Causes for delays included the low capacity
of contractors to complete documents and drawings required for payment and to return
unused equipment, which was compounded by a slow review of disbursement processes
by GOV comptrollers. This was a systemic shortcoming at the time common to many
Bank projects in Vietnam. The project team reports that there were no qualified financial
audits.

3.12 Procurement. The project involved the procurement of goods and services for a
large number of contracts. The project team reports that competitive procurement

28
  After the second extension of the credit closing date to December 31, 2005, the time left for the
implementing agencies to prepare new subprojects was limited and this led to the GOV’s request of
cancellation.
                                                    30


procedures using Bank procurement policies and guidelines were effectively managed
and led to prices lower than estimated at appraisal.

Achievement of the Objectives
3.13 PDO 1: To expand rural electrification through grid extension to alleviate
rural poverty. Rated High. As Table 6 shows, the actual electrification of 976
communes exceeded by 45% the level targeted at appraisal, including 278 of the poorest
communes and more than 550,000 households (2.8 million people) in the most
disadvantaged areas (41% higher than the appraisal target). At US$363, the actual cost
per household was 28% lower than estimated at appraisal. The project substantially
contributed to the GOV’s National Rural Electrification Program through which access to
rural households increased from 51% in 1996 to 99%in 2013. As a result, nearly all rural
households are now experiencing a substantial positive impact on their living standards
by having access to electricity. Under the Global Tracking Framework of “Sustainable
Energy for All,” Vietnam was placed among the 20 “fast-moving” developing countries
with the greatest annual increases towards universal access to electricity over the period
of 1990-2000. 29


       Table 6: Communes and Households Connected under Rural Energy Project

Components Number of Communes                    Number of Households         Cost per Household
              Connected                          Connected
              At                  At             At         At                At           At
              appraisal           completion     appraisal completion         appraisal    completion
PC1: Northern 347                 529            147,150    232,955           674          392
PC2: Southern 120                 187            166,667    184,472           281          297
PC3: Central  204                 260            81,184     137,900           645          400
Total         671                 976            395,001    555,327           502          363
Source: Implementation Completion Report, Report No: ICR0000485, World Bank, Washington DC, June
25, 2007, pp. 11-12. These numbers were validated during the IEG/PPAR mission.

3.14 For estimating outcomes, a longitudinal survey of the project beneficiaries was
undertaken under this operation in 2007 to assess the poverty impact and welfare benefits
of the project based on panel data collected in 2002 and 2005 for some 1,100 households
from six regions of Vietnam. 30 This survey was followed up by an empirical study aimed
at tracking the changes in peoples’ lives resulting from electricity service. 31 According to
the surveys, there were multiple welfare benefits of the project and rural electrification,
including:



29
     Sustainable Energy for All, “Global Tracking Framework,” Washington, DC, May 2013, p. 40.
30
  The survey methodology and results are presented in detail in World Bank, “Vietnam: State and People,”
op. cit., pp. 48-56.
31
 Shahidur R. Khandker, Douglas F. Barnes, Hussain Samad and Nguyen Huu Minh, “Welfare Impacts of
Rural Electrification: Evidence from Vietnam,” World Bank Policy Research Paper, No. 5057, 2009.
                                                        31


               i.    increased school enrollment by about 10% and increased number of
                     completed school years (by 52% for boys and 15% for girls);
             ii.     improved primary health care and increased awareness of personal
                     hygiene;
             iii.    reduced housework for women and children, improved home comfort and
                     increased time for leisure such as watching TV and reading;
             iv.     increased security due to night-time lighting;
              v.     better communication;
             vi.     improved quality of learning due to better conditions for studies and
                     teacher lesson preparation;
            vii.     increased farm and non-farm income;
           viii.     increased job opportunities for local people;
             ix.     higher rural productivity; and
              x.     reduced poverty rates.


3.15    In addition to positively affecting farm and non-farm income, rural electrification
appears to have the strongest impact on school attendance by children. This impact
obviously has a long-term influence on the welfare of the country as a whole as these
children move into the workforce both at higher skill and more productive levels. While
rural households use grid electricity mostly for lighting, about 9% of them use electricity
for business or productive purposes. 32

3.16 PDO 2: Develop appropriate mechanisms for rural electrification to ensure
continued sustainable electrification and long-term viability of the power sector.
Rated Substantial. The project contributed to capacity building for the implementing
agencies: EVN and PCs. Moreover, a substantial contribution was the development of
technical specifications and standardization of the design and technical characteristics for
rural electricity networks. The standards developed as part of the project promoted better
network quality, reduced technical losses and avoided the application of urban standards
to rural areas, which were too expensive for low-density areas. The standards later on
were adopted as national ones. Overall, EVN's financial performance was satisfactory
based on the three financial indicators agreed with the Bank in 2004, replacing the
electricity tariff covenant. 33


32
   In the Muong Te district (Lai Chau province), the IEG mission visited a grid-connected commune (Nam
Khao) electrified under the REP and an off-grid commune (Pa U, which consists of extremely poor ethnic
households in a remote mountainous area) electrified under the SEIER Project. Leaders and members of
these communes especially strongly emphasized educational benefits, including: (i) gradual improvement
in student performance as a result of better quality and partially computer-based instruction as well as more
homework; and (iii) higher percentage of students proceeding to high school (up to 76% from 50% in the
Nam Khao commune). (On the downside, the headmaster of the Pau U primary school complained about
the extensive damage to school computers and other electric equipment caused by poor quality off-grid
electricity supply provided by a mini hydropower plant [Pau U] which is in poor operating condition.)
Health benefits from better equipped primary healthcare facilities were also prominently mentioned. There
was no evidence in these particular communes that electricity is used for business or productive purposes to
a significant extent.
33
     The three financial ratios were debt service coverage, self-financing and debt-to-equity.
                                                           32


3.17 Institutional strengthening of rural electrification. The Rural Electrification
Departments established in EVN and the PCs as well as the Rural Electrification Units set
up in each Provincial Power Service 34 of EVN contributed to the overall success of the
rural electrification program, improving coordination between the central government
and communes in remote rural areas. The technical specifications developed by the
project standardized the design and technical characteristics of rural networks, promoted
better network quality, reduced technical losses and avoided the application of expensive
urban standards. The retail Service Agent model whereby the Provincial Power Service
signs service contracts with local staff for procedures such as meter reading, bill
collection and minor repair of in-house wiring was applied in most project communes.
This effective service outsourcing model reduced operating costs considerably and
resulted in high levels of payment. The primary features of the Service Agent model are
described in Box 1.

        Box 1. Retail Service Agents
        Retail-level Service Agents are commune residents hired and trained by PCs to
        handle collections and inspect the status of the local distribution infrastructure,
        such as meters and lines, monitor rights-of-way and perform minor repair of in-
        house wiring.
        Service Agents are used by the PCs in communes where the LV system is
        owned, managed and operated by the PCs.
        One Service Agent can be in charge of 300-1,000 customers and paid about
        US$160 fees per month (by the NPC in 2012).
        The use of Service Agents reduces PCs’ operating costs for meter recording, bill
        collection and safety inspection by 30-50%.
        Source: Vietnam: State and People, Central and Local Working Together, p. 35; and information
        provided to the IEG mission by the PCs.



3.18 PDO 3: Advance the implementation of power sector reforms. Rated
Substantial. The major milestones of power sector reform included the issuance of: (i) a
1999 decree to allocate responsibility for rural electrification; (ii) a 2001 decree to set out
the GOV’s sector strategy; (iii) the Electricity Law of 2005 to set the framework for the
power sector for the next 20 years; and (iv) the road map for power sector reform,
approved in 2006, to set milestones and schedule for the transition to a power sector
based largely on market principles. Thus, at the upstream stage, the project contributed
to subsequent progress in sector reforms (see paragraphs 1.25-1.27) including the
commercialization of sector entities and establishment of a competitive generation
market.

3.19 PDO 4: Promote local renewable energy in areas inaccessible to the national
grid and also to supplement grid supply. Rated Substantial. The project supported
the Ministry of Industry in the preparation and adoption of the Renewable Energy Action
Plan (REAP) which outlined a program for the connection of renewable energy sources

34
  Provincial Power Services were province-level subsidiaries of EVN. In 2010, they were renamed to
Provincial Power Companies and became provincial subsidiaries of the regional PCs established in 2010.
                                                  33


to the electric grid and for non-grid electricity supply in remote areas. A pilot scheme in
Son La province, in an area outside the reach of the grid at that time, and the preparation
of standardized power purchase agreements for renewable energy source-based
generators were the first implementation steps of the REAP. This activity was
subsequently continued and scaled up under the SEIER Project.

Efficiency
3.20 Efficiency of the project is rated Substantial. The project's high economic
benefits at closing (Economic Internal Rate of Return: 21%) were somewhat lower than
the appraisal estimate (Economic Internal Rate of Return: 29%). Although actual
investment costs were lower than appraised, 35 the lower Economic Internal Rate of
Return at closing is explained by rural consumption of electricity that was lower than
appraised (non-household consumption was significantly overestimated at appraisal). The
costs of connections were also spread over several years while the appraisal assumed
payment at the beginning of the project. Finally, actual willingness to pay of non-
household consumers was lower than the appraisal estimate. These factors also affected
the financial benefits (FIRR: –3.0% vs. -3.3% at appraisal) because the tariff set by the
GOV for rural areas was lower than the actual cost of service.

Ratings
OUTCOME

3.21 Overall project outcome is rated Satisfactory based on the project’s high
relevance of objectives, substantial relevance of design, substantial efficacy, and
substantial efficiency. Actual electrification rates exceeded appraisal estimates, e.g.,
41% higher for the poorest and most disadvantaged areas. The project strengthened the
capacity of EVN and PCs. The sustainability of the expanded networks was enhanced
through significant improvements in institutional capacity for local management of
networks that reduced distribution losses and costs. The project contributed to the
commercialization of sector entities and the establishment of a competitive generation
market. A renewable energy action plan was also adopted.

RISK TO DEVELOPMENT OUTCOME

3.22 The risk that the achieved development outcomes will not be sustained is rated
Significant. On the positive side, the completed electrification schemes were transferred
to the Provincial Power Services for decentralized operation and maintenance. The local
capacity of the Provincial Power Services for the operation of the rural networks in the
communes is well assured through technical training and technical and management
manuals. At a higher level, EVN has strong technical capacity to maintain and operate
the rural networks in a safe and efficient way for their design lifetime. The Bank-
supported follow-on projects have focused on the rehabilitation of rural networks and

35
  The national average connection cost per households at closing was US$363 vs. US$502 at appraisal.
Thus the actual cost of grid connection was significantly lower than the estimated cost of off-grid
electrification.
                                                     34


further improvement of their institutional and management arrangements. 36 On the
downside, EVN’s (including its PCs) recently deteriorating financial performance (see
paragraphs 1.28-1.29) may constrain the company’s ability to mobilize adequate
resources in a timely manner to maintain and modernize the rural networks. This is the
main reason why the risk to the development outcomes is rated as Significant.

3.23 By the mid-1990s, the electrification rates of the rural households was over 90%,
therefore the GOV and the Bank started to direct efforts to improve access to good-
quality, affordable electricity services to rural communities in an efficient and sustainable
manner. In addition, under REP2, there was a major overhaul of the previously ad hoc
management and operational arrangements (most of them unregistered) for rural
networks by converting them into LDUs as registered legal entities. From an institutional
perspective, this has been a major step forward toward a more sustainable management
and operation of the rural electricity networks. 37

BANK PERFORMANCE

3.24 The quality at entry for the project is rated Satisfactory. A PHRD grant was
obtained for the Borrower to ensure adequate project preparation. Bank teams were
fielded together with EVN staff to explain to stakeholders in the provinces the project
design and their role in it, and to mobilize their interest and cooperation. A similar
exercise was done by the project team at the provincial and district levels and in selected
communes. This approach ensured commitment and adequate understanding of all
stakeholders for effective project implementation. In particular, the Bank assisted the
implementing agencies in the preparation of standard templates and the definition of clear
responsibilities for all concerned agencies after an intensive consultation process. M&E
was adequately designed.

3.25 The Bank’s quality of project supervision is rated Satisfactory. The TTL and
most of the key task team members were based in the field and carried out close
supervision of the project. This was complemented once a year with headquarters
specialists during comprehensive supervision missions. Potential problems were

36
  This shift of focus was also driven by the generally weak technical condition of the rural networks built
during the earlier periods when the overriding priority was to deliver simple first connections to as many
households as possible. Over time, these networks became obsolete, as they were unable to meet
increasing demand, had rather high technical losses and were in poor shape in terms of safety performance.
37
   Three types of Local Distribution Utilities were formed and exist today: (i) EVN’s PCs; (ii) rural
cooperatives, which cover mostly a single commune; and (iii) joint stock companies, which provide power
to one or more communes in the given area. However, as discussed above (paragraphs1.28-1.29) many of
the Local Distribution Utilities are “too small to succeed” financially given their small service area and low
retail tariffs. Under these circumstances, strong consolidation of the LV networks has taken place since
2008 by transferring a large number of unviable Local Distribution Utilities to the PCs. The IEG mission
visited a Local Distribution Utility cooperative serving the Cao Minh commune of 3,150 households
(11,200 people) in Xuan Hoa township, Vinh Phuc province, located near Hanoi. The Local Distribution
Utility received technical upgrade and training support under REP2, which resulted in more efficient
operation and higher quality electricity supply. However, amid rapidly growing demand, service reliability
is still inadequate (three service interruptions per month per customer, each lasting for 30 minutes on
average). While the cooperative is moderately profitable, its long-term sustainability is doubtful given its
inability to undertake sizable network modernization programs.
                                             35


promptly addressed and timely advice given to the implementing agencies. The Bank
showed flexibility in resolving important issues raised during project implementation.
For example, the Bank agreed with the GOV request that significant savings on
procurement through ICBs (international competitive bidding) be used for the
electrification of more households. This also involved a change to the project schedule
and an extension of the credit closing date. Also, the Bank realized that it was more
appropriate to waive the covenant on the politically controversial retail tariff level, and
replaced it with standard indicators for EVN’s financial performance. The continued
direct face-to-face contacts and discussions built the confidence of the implementing
agencies and allowed the task team to share successful implementation practices across
provinces. M&E was adequately supervised.

3.26   Based on the above ratings, overall Bank performance is rated Satisfactory.

BORROWER PERFORMANCE

3.27 Government’s performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory. Project
preparation was done by the GOV in close cooperation with the Bank. The GOV’s
decision to decentralize the project to the local implementation agencies facilitated the
process of preparation and implementation. A GOV Steering Committee in each
province guided and supervised project implementation. Local governments at the levels
of province, districts and communes paid compensation to owners of sites affected by the
project and for clearance of sites. The provinces also assisted poor households in the
payment for the LV drop lines to their houses. However, the approval and clearance of
procurement documentation was slow, particularly the review and clearance of payments
by the financial controllers, because of a lack of clear procedures.

3.28 All the key conditions of the Bank loan were fulfilled except the electricity tariff.
However, the Bank agreed to gauge EVN’s finances based on standard financial
indicators. Financial performance of EVN was generally satisfactory during the
implementation period

3.29 Implementing Agency Performance is rated Satisfactory. The strong
commitment of the regional PCs enabled the Project Management Units to manage the
execution of about 600 contracts for a large number of subprojects scattered in wide
mountainous rural areas with difficult access. EVN displayed a good control of
procurement, even in the period of strong fluctuation of prices, through competitive
bidding that contributed to significant cost reductions, which allowed the electrification
of a large number of additional communes. There were delays and cost increases out of
control of EVN, most of them caused by low capacity of local contractors and a surge in
prices during the implementation of some contracts.

3.30 Based on the above considerations, overall Borrower Performance is rated
Moderately Satisfactory.

MONITORING AND EVALUATION

3.31 M&E Design. The straightforward Results Framework was well designed.
Overall, the results chain was simple, clear and appropriate, linking the PDOs to inputs
                                                     36


(budget for each component), the key project outputs and outcomes in a largely
measurable and monitorable manner. The indicators (e.g., number of households
electrified, financial performance indicators for EVN and the PCs) for the primary
investment component—rural electrification in three main regions of Vietnam—were
appropriate, specific and measurable. However, some of the indicators under the small
(US$3 million) TA component were loosely defined (e.g. “institutional arrangements
defined,” ”guidelines adopted,” “consultants support new rural electrification institutions
in place.”). No intermediate indicators were defined at appraisal. 38

3.32 M&E Implementation. EVN set up an adequate system, collecting and
compiling the required monitoring data every six months. Key indicators were regularly
monitored and progress evaluated compared with targets. Bank supervision mission did
not flag any concerns with the M&E implementation. Implementation of the
Environmental Management Plan was regularly monitored and Bank supervision
missions included social and environmental experts.

3.33 M&E utilization. EVN set up adequate systems for collecting and compiling
data on key performance indicators every six months. The key performance indicators
were regularly monitored and progress was evaluated by comparing them with targets.
However, despite the fact that the project was extended by two years and more than
achieved the original electrification targets, the relevant outcome targets were not
revised, thus the M&E framework lost much of its practical relevance in the last two
years of project implementation.

3.34     Overall, M&E is rated Substantial.




38
  However, the project ICR regards the original target values (2004) as intermediate indicators as distinct
from the actually achieved values at completion (2006) following the two-year extension of the credit
closing date.
                                            37


4. System Efficiency Improvement, Equitization and
Renewables Project
Objectives, Design, and their Relevance
OBJECTIVES

4.1     The objectives of the project, as defined in the Development Credit Agreement,
were to assist the Borrower to: (i) enhance electricity system efficiency; (ii) provide
electric power in selected rural areas; and (iii) sustain reform and institutional
development of the energy sector. In addition, the PAD included also a longer term
objective of poverty alleviation.

RELEVANCE OF OBJECTIVES

4.2 Relevance of the project development objectives is rated High. The objectives
were relevant to the needs of the country’s power sector at project appraisal and continue
to be relevant at present except for rural electrification, which has largely been completed
by now. The major sector issues at time of appraisal (2002) included: (i) needs for large
sector investments and improvement in overall power system efficiency; (ii) a relatively
low rate of rural access to electricity; (iii) limited capacity to utilize renewable energy
sources; (iv) weak management of sector institutions; (v) financial sustainability of the
power sector, (vi) and lack of a comprehensive legal and regulatory framework to
underpin sector reform. The project was part of a broader program of investments agreed
to between the GOV and the Bank to address the above sector issues.

4.3 The project was in line with the Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy for 1999-
2002, which identified the Bank’s role for the power sector as filling a niche not covered
by others and assisting the GOV in its poverty alleviation efforts. The project was
consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy focus on reducing poverty, promoting
equitable growth and raising productivity through provision of infrastructure. The project
was also consistent with the Bank’s current (FY2012-2016) Country Partnership Strategy
priorities in the power sector which emphasizes support for improved quality of basic
infrastructure services, including electricity. The renewable energy source
subcomponents addressed the Global Environmental Facility Operational Program 6 on
Climate Change: promotion of renewable energy sources by removing barriers and
reducing implementation costs. The project aimed to support a long-term programmatic
approach to strategically develop renewable energy sources based on the 1999
Renewable Energy Action Plan (REAP), jointly developed by the Bank and EVN as a
framework for renewable energy source development, with hydropower and solar power
identified as the sources with the highest growth potential.
                                            38


DESIGN

4.4    The project had three components:

   •   Component 1: System Efficiency Improvement (estimated cost at appraisal:
       US$177.80 million; actual cost: US$183.60 million), focusing on upgrades of 220
       kV and 500 kV transmission systems and DSM.

   •   Component 2: Improving Rural Access (estimated cost at appraisal: US$122.20
       million; actual cost: US$151.2 million), including upgrading of 110 kV sub-
       transmission systems, rehabilitation of small hydro and development of off-grid
       power supply using renewable energy sources.

   •   Component 3: Sustaining Reforms and Institution Building (estimated cost at
       appraisal: US$14.0 million; actual cost: US$31.4 million), including capacity
       building, support to equitization and improvement of EVN's Management
       Information System.

4.5     The core components were not revised but some subcomponents and activities
were either revised or cancelled as a result of implementation progress or agreements
reached during project supervision. Most of the changes were affected through project
restructurings and AF. The key changes included:


       (i) Components 1 and 2 were made more programmatic in the selection of
       subprojects to be financed. For Component 1, additional subprojects included 423
       km of 220 kV single and double circuits and 13 substations, and an additional
       subcomponent of commercial metering at the transmission system interface with
       generation and distribution was introduced. Component 2 included further
       investments of 122 km of 110 kV single and double circuit lines and 18
       substations.

       (ii) The focus of the subprojects financed under the Remote Areas Renewable
       Electricity component was changed from off-grid renewable energy sources to
       grid-connected renewable energy sources.

       (iii) Component 3 added more activities, including capacity building of ERAV,
       institutional development of the natural gas sector, establishment of corporate
       financing units in EVN and NPT and associated training.

RELEVANCE OF DESIGN

4.6      Relevance of project design is rated Modest. For the first project objective –
enhancement of system efficiency – the Results Framework clearly links the project’s
activities to its expected outputs and outcomes. For the second objective – extension of
rural electrification – the off-grid subcomponent was made largely irrelevant by the
rapidly moving grid extension. This subcomponent was not properly assessed during
project preparation and appeared to be largely Bank-driven. For the third objective –
                                            39


sustaining reform and institutional development – the causal linkage between the overly
general objective and the large number of diverse and relatively limited impact
interventions was tenuous.

4.7     Since the project components included a wide range of sectoral issues (T&D,
renewable energy sources, rural electricity access, community-based approach to off-grid
electricity supply, equitization, number of sector reforms, etc.), it ended up being overly
complex, involving a large number of implementing agencies, including those at the
provincial level, dispersed across the country. This design approach was significantly
more complex than what was adopted for other power projects in Vietnam.

4.8     Despite similar experience obtained under previous and then-ongoing Bank-
supported sector operations, the project design overestimated implementation capacity
across the board, resulting in serious implementation delays. In particular, the time
required to prepare and implement a large number of additional subprojects was
underestimated, including that needed to prepare and approve feasibility studies,
technical designs and procurement documents. Lack of technical and management
capacity of some of the implementing agencies caused delays or cancellation of several
subprojects, especially during the early years of project implementation. For the T&D
improvement subprojects, there was inexperience in substation control systems, poor
coordination between equipment suppliers and civil contractors, delays in compensation
of affected persons and prolonged contracting processes. The applicability of the
community-based approach under the Remote Area Renewable Electricity component
should have much more thoroughly assessed during project preparation. Although the
Remote Area Renewable Electricity attempted to decentralize project implementation
responsibilities to the community level, the results were generally poor. The communes,
that were the direct beneficiaries, seemed to lack enthusiasm to assume any
responsibilities for these facilities. After this deficiency was realized, the project
switched from the community approach to a district approach. However, the latter,
particularly the district operation & maintenance company in charge of the off-grid hydro
plants, was still not performing as expected. Supervision mission site visits pointed to
grossly deficient financial aspects of operation & maintenance and very poor conditions
of the mini-hydro power plants newly installed or rehabilitated under RARE.

4.9     The above-discussed serious design issues were largely responsible for the fact
that the project was repeatedly restructured and the closing date was extended three times
for a cumulative period of five years.

Implementation
PLANNED VS. ACTUAL COSTS

4.10 The project's actual cost was US$423.6 million, about 20% higher than the
estimated cost of US$352.4 million at appraisal. IDA financed US$299.7 million (71%)
of the final cost, significantly higher than planned (US$220.0 million) due to the 2010
AF. The Borrower contributed US$119.8 million, somewhat less than the US$122.9
planned at appraisal.
                                                  40


IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE

4.11 The project was approved on June 25, 2002 and became effective on February 19,
2003 as scheduled. It was restructured three times as Level Two restructurings according
to the current definition and obtained AF. The first restructuring occurred in June 2005
through introducing a programmatic approach for the selection of subprojects. During
the second restructuring in November 2007, ERAV was added to further support the
ongoing sector reform. Also, the evolving sector environment and implementation delays
required changing the focus of activities from off-grid renewable energy sources to grid-
connected renewable energy sources. During the third restructuring in May 2009, the
Credit Agreement was amended to include preparation of the Renewable Energy
Development Project and simplify the disbursement categories. The AF was approved in
June 2010 to meet a financing gap resulting from cost overruns and to scale up reform
support, including assistance to ERAV and capacity building of EVN and NPT. The
project closed on December 31, 2012, five years later than originally planned.

4.12 The Socialist Republic of Vietnam was the Borrower and the Ministry of Industry
and Trade, ERAV, EVN and its subsidiaries, NPC, CPC, SPC, PC Dong Nai and PCHai
Duong were the implementing agencies. 39

4.13 Environmental Safeguards. The project’s environmental safeguard category was
B. Safeguards triggered included Environmental Assessment, Natural Habitats and
Forestry. Independent external monitors oversaw the Environmental Management Plan.
At a later stage of the project, it was found that insufficient environmental protection
measures in micro hydropower sites under the Remote Area Renewable Electricity and
the T&D system improvement components resulted in marginally satisfactory safeguard
performance, however these issues were resolved toward the end of the project.

4.14 Social Safeguards. Indigenous Peoples and Involuntary Resettlement were
triggered. A resettlement policy and ethnic minority framework was developed. Adequate
institutional and financial arrangements for Resettlement Action Plan and Indigenous
People Development Plan (IPDP) implementation were made. Independent external
monitors oversaw the Resettlement Action Plan and Indigenous Peoples Development
Plan implementation and provided a quarterly report to the Bank. At a later stage of the
project, there were delays in compensation and completion of a resettlement plan under
the the Remote Area Renewable Electricity program, but these were resolved by the end
of the project. As with the environmental safeguards, all implementing agencies
underwent a learning process. Overall, the project was reported to be in substantial
compliance with the Bank’s environmental and social safeguard policies.

4.15 Financial Management. The project had an adequate financial management
system in place to meet the Bank’s fiduciary requirements. The financial management
arrangements of the project were fully integrated with that of EVN, which made project
financial management more effective. The budgeting, fund flows, staffing, accounting
and financial reporting, internal control systems and external audit, and maintenance of
supporting documents at the implementing agencies were generally adequate. With the

39
     In 2010, PC Dong Nai and PC Hai Duong were merged into SPC and NPC, respectively.
                                                    41


exception of non-compliance with some financial covenants, 40 which was a
sector/corporate issue rather than specific to the project, the implementing agencies were
proactive in dealing with the recommendations by Bank missions.

4.16 Audits were qualified since 2007 due mostly to non-compliance with a number of
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). However, the qualifications
were not regarded to have a substantial impact on the capacity of the implementation
agencies since the qualification points were on technical accounting treatments and
disclosures pertaining to IFRS.

4.17 Procurement. Overall, procurement activities appear to have been carried out in
accordance with Bank guidelines. At early stages in the project, some implementing
agencies delayed the procurement process in large part due to their unfamiliarity with the
Bank’s procurement process, such as training packages, but also due to uncertainty
related to the sector reform. Another delaying factor was the complex approval
processes, but this was a systemic issue not specific to the project or the power sector.
However, this situation improved over time as the implementing agencies learned from
experience and received support from the Bank. The Bank’s oversight and close
involvement in all phases helped to ensure the transparency and effectiveness of
procurement and contributed to the implementing agencies’ ability to procure quality
goods and services at competitive prices.

Achievement of the Objectives
4.18 PDO 1: To enhance electricity system efficiency in Vietnam. Rated
Substantial. The key outputs under this PDO were upgrades of the 220 kV and 500 kV
transmission line s and associated substations, including installation of capacitors to
selected substations. Total length of the transmission lines upgraded and constructed was
490 km (a 7% contribution to the national system increase during the project
implementation period of 2002-2012). Total capacity of the 200 kV transformers
installed was 3,313 MVA (21%). Total capacity of the 500 kV transformers installed was
900 MVA (8%).

4.19 In terms of the system efficiency data reported in the Project ICR 41 are not
entirely consistent with those received by the IEG mission from EVN and tend to
somewhat overstate the reliability gains, especially concerning interruption duration. In
2012, at 2.33%, transmission losses were significantly lower than the project performance
target of 3.75%. The target for the number of interruptions on transmission lines (see
Table 2, paragraph 1.11) was overachieved. However, these key performance indicators
were defined at the overall system level, thus cannot be directly, let alone wholly,
attributed to the project. In comparison to the data provided in the ICR, the duration of
transmission interruptions has worsened to some extent as shown in Table 2 based on
system level data provided to the IEG mission by EVN. This data is consistent with that
received by the mission from the regional PCs.) It is noted however, that in an

40
   Examples are tariff increases, financial performance ratio, carrying out time-bound action, and EVN to
complete and incorporate a current valuation of all fixed assets.
41
   Implementation Completion Report No. ICR2603, June 27, 2013 (p. v).
                                                 42


interconnected grid, a sophisticated SCADA system would be needed to measure
efficiency parameters for parts of the network, and such systems are only now being
developed in Vietnam. Meanwhile, the network-wide parameters can be accepted as a
reasonable proxy for estimating the impact of the project activities.

4.20 PDO 2: To provide electric power in selected rural areas. Rated Modest.
The key outputs under this PDO aimed at improving rural access included upgrades of
the 110 kV sub-transmission systems, rehabilitation of small hydro plants and
development of off-grid power supply using renewable energy sources and connecting
six additional communes to mini-grids.

4.21 There were five PDO-level outcome indicators. However, three of them (number
and average duration of interruptions at 110 kV level and distribution losses) were
measured at the national system level, thus cannot be directly attributed to specific
project interventions. A major key performance indicator (number of new households
electrified from commune-based off-grids) fell deeply (95%) short of the target because
the unanticipated rapid grid connections reduced the need for off-grid projects. For the
same reason, the target for rehabilitation of small hydro power plants was underachieved
by nearly one-third. Furthermore, there is a substantial risk to the operational and
financial sustainability of the seven micro hydropower plants newly installed or
rehabilitated under the project. These plants serving extremely poor households whose
ability to pay for electricity appears to be very limited, unless the purchasing tariffs are
increased and the operating company (Muong Te HPco) receives further financial and
capacity-building support to improve its operational record. However, an even more
powerful force undermining the viability of these power plants is the ongoing rapid
extension of the grid to their service areas.

4.22 During project supervisions, issues about the sustainability of these plants were
raised in terms of insufficient revenue collection and working capital as well as
unrealistic previous assumptions about the cost and stocks of spare parts. Therefore,
upon project closure, it was agreed with the Bank that the Ministry of Industry and
Tradeand Lai Chau province will continue to provide adequate support to the operating
company and the PPA between Muong Te HPco and NPC will be amended to increase
the purchasing tariff thereby improving the financial position of the company. The
support was to include also providing office, equipment, variable capital and capacity
building to the company. However, this agreement has not been carried out and the
power purchase agreement has not been revised, as confirmed to the IEG mission by
management of Muong Te HPco. 42 As a result, the company has remained stuck in
extremely weak financial standing, unable to provide for proper facility maintenance, let
alone any technical modernization.

4.23 The mission visited in the Muong Te district (Lai Chau province) and three micro
hydropower plants and associated mini-grids funded under the project: Nam Si Luong
(500 kW) and Ban Giang (26 kW), both rehabilitated, and Pau U (25 kW) newly
constructed. The mission found the Nam Si Luong and Pau U facilities were in poor

42
  The average tariff is very low at about US cent 2.2/kWh equivalent. Widespread nonpayment (about
50%) is further compounding the financial hardship.
                                                    43


operating condition after years of neglect. 43 The Ban Giang plant has been non-
operational since grid arrival in April 2013 and has fallen into total disrepair. The mission
was informed by company management that the Na Hu plant (27 kW, rehabilitated) has
been in similar non-operational condition since 2013. The mission is of the view that
about 10 years after their installation/rehabilitation, all of the micro hydro plants may
face abandonment upon grid arrival, with the possible exception of the largest one (Nam
Si Luong, 500 kW), which has survived the recent grid extension by providing of-grid
power to two business customers by offering a very competitive tariff. However, this
facility is also in poor operating condition, performing well below design capacity, and
its future depends crucially on significant upgrades (including for grid compatibility to
allow the plant to sell power into grid) and/or availability of off-grid customers. In
discussions with GOV officials, both at the national and provincial levels, the mission has
not seen a credible commitment to “save” these plants by upgrading them to grid
compatibility, thereby preventing them from halting operation and an eventual fall into
disrepair. 44

4.24 PDO 3: To sustain reform and institutional development of Vietnam’s energy
sector. Rated Modest. Most of the objectives to sustain reform and institutional
development of the electricity sector were only partially achieved. Most important,
despite a series of recent tariff increases (but only slightly above the inflation rate) there
is still no sound procedure of formula-based tariff setting in place and electricity tariffs
are still highly distorted and stand well below true cost recovery levels, resulting in an
increasingly poor financial performance of the power sector. Establishment of Vietnam
Competitive Generation Market, which was launched in July 2012, is a significant step
forward, but it was inappropriate to assign the administration of this market to the
regulatory agency ERAV. This assignment has only distracted ERAV from its core
responsibility of tariff and quality-of-service regulation. Key performance indicators for
evaluation of accounts of newly formed joint stock and equitized companies did not
achieve the target as the activity was hardly implemented. Key performance indicators
for reduction of time and complexity for PPAs to get approved was substantially
achieved. The IEG mission was informed that the approval procedure has been
streamlined on the basis of the non-negotiable standardized power purchase agreement
and the annually updated “avoided cost tariffs” – both approved by the Ministry of
Industry and Trade. Evidence has been provided under the ongoing Bank-supported
Renewable Energy Development Project where the streamlined procedure has been
successfully applied for nine small (<30 MW) hydropower plants under construction.




43
  In this particular case (the Pau U Company, newly constructed), the equipment appeared to be
inadequately maintained and in poor condition.
44
  On the positive side, the mission has received evidence from the regional PCs that the five small on-grid
hydro power plants (An Diem, Kon Dao, Ankroet, Chieng Dan and Thac Bay) rehabilitated under the
project are in good and sustainable operating condition.
                                            44


GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT OBJECTIVE: TO REDUCE GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS BY
PROMOTING ELECTRICITY PRODUCTION USING RENEWABLE ENERGY.

4.25 Outcomes. The project achieved reductions in carbon dioxide emission primarily
through rehabilitation of on-grid hydro power plants and to a limited extent from the
newly installed and rehabilitated off-grid micro-hydro plants. As shown in Table 7, the
targeted reduction of carbon dioxide emissions was over-achieved by about 30%.

  Table 7. Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions: Status of Outcome Indicator

PDO Indicator                   Baseline Value      Target Value         Actual Value
CO2 emission reduced (tons)     0                   208,350-219,140      278,164
Date achieved                   04/01/2005          12/31/2007           12/31/2012
Source: EVN


Efficiency
4.26 Efficiency is rated Modest. Economic analysis employed standard methodology
applied in similar project situations and covered the full scope of the project. The
project’s estimated Economic Internal Rate of Return was 36%, which is higher than the
appraisal estimate of 31%. The net present value at completion was US$408 million,
which is lower than the appraisal estimate of US$460 million due mostly to the
substantial delays in completion. The Financial Internal Rate of Return at completion
was 25.5%, which is higher than the Financial Internal Rate of Return of 15% at
appraisal. The financial net present value at completion was US$628 million versus
US$274 million at appraisal. Project financial indicators improved since electricity
prices were substantially raised during the project period compared to the assumption set
out at appraisal.

4.27 While economic and financial rates of return were acceptable upon project
completion, efficiency is rated modest due to the project experiencing three extensions
resulting in a time overrun of five years, more than doubling the implementation period
estimated at appraisal. A significant portion of this delay can be attributed to
procedural/approval requirements required by GOV, especially at the early stages of the
project as discussed under “Implementation Experience” above.

Ratings
OUTCOME

4.28 Overall project outcome is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory. The relevance of
the project objectives is rated high given the continuing need for system efficiency
improvements and further sector reforms. Relevance of project design is rated modest
due to excessive complexity from multiple components and involvement of several
implementing agencies that, in retrospect, were not fully justified in terms of the project
objectives and outcomes. The first PDO of improving system efficiency was achieved to
a substantial extent by meeting targeted transmission system losses and frequency of
                                             45


interruptions (although duration of interruptions has increased lately). The second PDO
of providing electric power in selected rural areas - an effort that was on a much smaller
scale compared to that of improving system efficiency under the first PDO - is rated
modest as key targets related renewable energy source-based off-grid electrification were
missed by a large margin. The third PDO of sustaining reforms and institution building is
rated modest due to a lack of demonstrated evidence of progress concerning a number of
TA activities (e.g., Small Power Producer regulation, ERAV capacity, equitization
program, road map for gas market reform, corporate financial management
strengthening). Efficiency is rated modest due to the project experiencing three
extensions resulting in a time overrun of five years, for reasons that were largely under
the control of the GOV.

RISK TO DEVELOPMENT OUTCOME

4.29 The risk that the achieved development outcomes will not be sustained is rated
Significant. The GOV’s commitment continues to be strong to follow a long-term and
gradual approach to sector reforms which were incrementally further advanced under this
operation, including development of the Vietnam Competitive Generation Market.
However, no significant progress has been made in equitization, sound tariff and quality-
of-service regulation. The power sector’s service reliability performance is still subpar by
a large margin. The Bank has since remained engaged in promoting sector reforms under
several ongoing operations, particularly the DPOs, aimed to ensure (i) sustainability of
the partial reform gains achieved to date; and (ii) substantial completion of GOV’s
gradualist reform program within a reasonable period of time.

4.30 Some of the system efficiency gains (in particular, network losses) to which the
project contributed in the past decade are considered sustainable and in fact some
additional moderate improvements can be expected given the GOV’s commitment to
further strengthen the national networks and the Bank’s continued strong engagement in
the T&D sector under ongoing (Distribution Efficiency Project) and proposed operations
(Transmission Efficiency Project). Clearly, there is a very substantial scope for
improvement in network reliability. Network loss reductions are expected to follow a
long-term decline trajectory albeit at a much slower rate as diminishing returns have set
in given the already relatively low level of the combined nationwide T&D losses (8.9%
in 2012), which are reasonably close to acceptable levels.

4.31 There is a high risk to the operational and financial sustainability of the micro
hydropower plants installed and rehabilitated under the the Remote Area Renewable
Electricity component. With the purchasing tariffs not increased and the national grid
being rapidly extended to its service area, sustainability of the operating company (and its
seven off-grid plants) is at a real and serious risk, as noted above (paragraphs 4.28-4.29).
In large part, this substantially failed component, slow progress with some of the sector
reforms and serious concerns about the general financial standing of the power sector
account for rating the risk as Significant that the achieved development outcomes will not
be maintained.
                                                46




BANK PERFORMANCE

4.32 The quality at entry for the project is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory. The
project’s conceptualization and initial design was based on recommendations of a major
sector study, 45 which served as a sound rationale of the Bank intervention: extend access
to electricity in rural areas, increase efficiency in the entire energy chain, create
creditworthy institutions, improve corporate governance, rationalize sector management,
facilitate private participation and advance sector reforms through advisory services.
However, by trying to address so many objectives, the project became too ambitious and
very complex. Also, despite the considerable experience obtained under other Bank
operations in Vietnam, the project overestimated implementation capacity across the
board, which led to serious implementation delays. In particular, there was a lack of
realism regarding the actual capacity of the local organizations. In retrospect, the growth
potential for grid-connected rural electrification could have been more carefully assessed
and projected than done during project preparation thus preventing a major restructuring
and associated extension of the credit closing date. In general, relevant important lessons
learnt under a number of Bank-funded power projects in Vietnam were not adequately
internalized in the overall project design and implementation framework. The above-
mentioned Quality at Entry issues were largely responsible for the fact that the project
was repeatedly restructured and the losing date was extended for a total of five years.

4.33 The Bank’s quality of supervision during the project is rated Moderately
Satisfactory. Sufficient budgetary and staff resources were allocated to project
supervision. Close supervision and monitoring was made possible by a highly
decentralized Bank team in Vietnam. The latter made strong efforts to adjusting project
activities in a rapidly changing sector environment. Safeguards and fiduciary aspects
received adequate attention and appropriate actions were taken in a timely manner. The
mid-term review of the project identified weak management by Ministry of Industry and
Trade’s Project Management Board for power projects in rural areas. It was also found
that the Bank’s supervision of the rural and renewable energy source-based projects in
isolated remote areas needed to be strengthened. The Bank’s supervision team addressed
the need for improvement of the economic and financial analyses of feasibility studies of
subprojects by hiring a consultant to assess the problems and develop guidelines and
training for the implementing agencies. However, some problems remained and the Bank
ended up approving some subprojects with incorrect economic and financial analyses.
Candor and quality of performance reporting was also an issue, especially during the
early stage of the project regarding implementation delays and achievements.

4.34 In the course of implementation, an already complex project became even more
complex, involving an unusually large number of implementing agencies dispersed
across the country. Under these circumstances, the Bank properly reacted by adopting a
more programmatic approach to allow a pragmatic response to a rapidly evolving
45
 “Fueling Vietnam’s Development: New Challenges for the Energy Sector,” Report No. 19037-VN,
December 1998.
                                            47


situation (priority subprojects constantly changing) in the T&D sector and by reallocating
the funding to those activities that yielded stronger development impacts. However,
since the project was restructured three times, indicators for cancelled activities (e.g.,
FMIS/MMIS) and activities with reduced relevance (e.g., off-grid mini hydropower)
should have been cancelled or revised accordingly. PDO-level indicators that measured
the whole national T&D system rather than the project areas should also have been
revised during project restructuring.

4.35 Overall Bank performance is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory.

BORROWER PERFORMANCE

4.36 The Government’s performance is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory. The GOV’s
ownership and commitment to achieving the PDOs was high. It was strongly committed
to improving the efficiency of operations of EVN and the PCs and expanding rural
electrification. During implementation, the GOV streamlined the excessive centralization
and control, and adopted more flexible approaches to project implementation, including
delegation of investment decisions and day-to-day investment management to EVN and
the PCs.

4.37 Provision of counterpart funding was adequate. The GOV demonstrated continuing
commitment by approving the additional financing to the project. However, the GOV
showed strong reluctance to adjust power tariffs as required under the Credit Agreement
and, therefore, the tariff covenant was later dropped. Despite recent GOV-approved tariff
increases (slightly over the inflation rate), the power sector continues to experience
serious and growing financial difficulties with power tariffs standing well be below true
cost-recovery levels. The Local Distribution Utilities face particularly severe financial
challenges. The GOV has not made any noticeable progress to date in the
implementation of the equitization program supported under the project’s institutional
development component. In the initial stages of implementation, the project suffered
from excessive GOV centralization and control, including complex and time-consuming
approval processes involving hundreds of subprojects and procurement actions. This was
a major implementation shortcoming for a project with an unusually high number of
subprojects. Subsequently, this issue was addressed by the GOV through relaxing the
centralized control by delegating more approval decisions to EVN and the PCs.

4.38 Implementing agency performance during the project is rated Satisfactory. The
commitment of implementing agencies to achieving the PDOs was consistently strong,
except for the lack of local community interest in off-grid micro hydropower plant
schemes in remote areas due to the anticipated rapid grid extension. EVN and the PCs
demonstrated technical and professional competence in carrying out project activities.
Beneficiary and stakeholder consultations and involvement during project preparation
were adequate, including implementing agencies’ outreach to local communities and civil
society organizations. The record in terms of implementation readiness, arrangements and
capacity was mixed, especially for the subcomponents MIS/MMIS, the Remote Area
Renewable Electricity programand equitization of community or district-based power
utilities. However, these subcomponents constituted a relatively small part of the overall
investment operations under the project.
                                                  48


4.39 There was a close working relationship between the implementing agencies and
the Bank team and most of the implementation issues were openly discussed. For a
number of implementing agencies and local governments the project was a learning
experience in project implementation and management to comply with Bank policies.

4.40 Overall Borrower performance is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory. 46

MONITORING AND EVALUATION

4.41 M&E Design. The M&E system was overdesigned and too complicated. It
included sector-related Country Assistance Strategy-level indicators (e.g., power sector
investment ratio of GDP) that were not directly attributable to the project. In addition,
there were too many (30) performance indicators. Indicators for the T&D systems were
set for the entire national EVN national system, rather than for the parts benefiting from
the project. Given the relatively small contribution 47 of the project to the rapidly
expanding national system, this made it difficult to assess actual project outcomes. In
retrospect, the project should have selected indicators more directly attributable to project
interventions. M&E design did not examine data sources, reliability and collection
carefully, relying instead on reports by national and local GOV agencies. Data on T&D
systems relied on EVN’s and the PCs’ own performance management data. However,
since these data pertain to EVN’s entire national system, it was difficult to measure the
specific contribution of the project. Use of the power system-level key performance
indicators were not specific to the subject project but also were used in other T&D
projects such as the TDDR Project and the Second T&D Project. Data reported by the
implementing agencies for subprojects were also believed to be unreliable.

4.42 M&E Implementation. During the restructurings and the AF, the M&E
indicators were significantly revised: Country Assistance Strategy-level indicators were
dropped; indicators for sector reform were almost entirely modified; and those for the
system efficiency improvement and rural electricity access components were also
revised. Outcome-level indicators were to be reported at the end of the project, except
for system efficiency improvement, which required annual reporting. Annual or biannual
reporting would have been more appropriate. All intermediate and component level
indicators were reported quarterly, which placed a burden on GOV agencies. Clearly, the
M&E arrangements were difficult to implement due to hundreds of subprojects
implemented by multiple implementing agencies which had not yet had M&E
competency. However, some implementing agencies demonstrated commitment to
improving M&E and providing requested data and compensated their capacity gap by
allocating their own resources to hire consultants to help with data collection and
analysis.


46
  Based on the Bank’s Operational Policy and Country Services (OPCS) and IEG’s harmonized evaluation
guidelines, the overall borrower performance is the lower of the government and implementing agency’s
performance ratings, when the outcome rating is moderately unsatisfactory or lower.
47
  The project’s contribution to the incremental growth of the entire EVN system during 2002-2012 was as
follows: 220 kV transmission line: 7%, 200 kV transformers: 21%, 500 kV transformers: 8%.
                                            49


4.43 M&E Utilization. Despite the original design shortcomings, M&E data on
project progress were utilized to inform the 2007 restructuring and the 2010 additional
financing. The data were used to inform decisions and reallocate resources. M&E data
on T&D system are still being routinely collected after the closing of the project since
these data have been integrated into the EVN and PCs’ own performance management.
However, the Bank should have made more efforts during project restructurings and the
AF to replace the PDO-level indicators for the whole national power system by more
relevant project-level indicators. Also, there was a lack of adequate attention to the need
to follow up on activities for which key performance indicators and intermediate
indicators were set (e.g., capacitor, corporate financing unit and gas market reform) partly
due to too many indicators and activities, which were changed frequently.

4.44   Overall, M&E is rated Modest.



5. Lessons
In supporting the sector to move towards long-term financial viability and fiscal
sustainability, the Bank should lay primary emphasis on broader institutional and
policy measures for cost recovery. In contrast, specific target-oriented and time-
bound measures in the form of tariff or financial performance covenants carry
excessive political implementation risks and are prone to noncompliance by the
Borrower. Despite a number of financial performance measures that were included in
their design, the three Bank operations were not effective in helping improve Vietnam’s
power sector finances, let alone place the sector on the road to sustained financial
recovery. Considering this experience, the Bank should have pushed for a more systemic
solution to the sector’s long-simmering financial crisis through the introduction of a
sound tariff methodology to ensure sustainable cost recovery and the power sector’s
future operational/financial sustainability, while making the sector more attractive to
much-needed external private finance.

A national push for universal electricity access provision will primarily depend
upon the pursuit of a least cost path for grid expansion backed by appropriate
sector policies, complemented by off-grid electricity in the interim or for the long-
term as needed. In Vietnam, as the electricity grid expanded faster than expected, the
decreasing necessity and relevance of off-grid electrification was not adequately
foreseen, resulting in some off-grid facilities falling into disuse or neglect. This
experience points to the need for planning ahead, and making technical provision for
integrating off-grid and mini-grid facilities with the grid when it arrives, so that the
expected benefits are realized from the investments.

Rapid growth in electrification can be accompanied by sub-optimal use of electricity
especially in a situation of relatively low or subsidized tariffs. This calls for early
and serious policy attention to improving Energy Efficiency and implementation of
dedicated Energy Efficiency operations on a sizable scale. The evidence shows that
the Bank’s program has essentially provided a supply-side support program for
Vietnam’s power sector, largely “following demand,” as the GOV has done, with less
                                             50


attention to demand side management. The marginal Bank-supported Energy Efficiency
efforts (typically a small demand side management-style component under various power
sector operations) has not been effective in to making a material difference to the Energy
Efficiency landscape, let alone nationwide scale-up. The Transmission & Distribution
sector – continues to play catch-up with increasing demand which needs to be moderated
through appropriate measures including tariffs that better reflect cost-recovery levels.
The extremely large reservoir of untapped Energy Efficiency opportunities calls for the
creation of a solid framework for energy-saving efforts, including sizable programmatic
support for Energy Efficiency, extending well beyond the piecemeal approach applied to
date.

The Bank should work to develop an understanding with client countries over the
role of key institutions before embarking on full-fledged support for them.
Otherwise, weak understanding might result in less than desirable institutional
performance and sub-optimal use of technical assistance resources. In Vietnam, the
Bank should have pushed for agreement on a more autonomous professional regulatory
agency, before committing to a large amount of capacity building support to ERAV. In
the absence of serious support from the Government in this respect, ERAV’s regulatory
role has weakened somewhat over the years, and some of its resources have been diverted
to non-regulatory type activities (e.g., administration of the competitive generation
market) instead of focusing on core regulatory activities such as tariff methodology and
quality-of-service regulation, monitoring and enforcement. While ERAV’s overall
technical competency may have improved over the years with sustained support from the
Bank, the outcomes from its efforts are weak – sector finances continue to deteriorate,
and the quality and reliability of electricity service for consumers has seen a downward
trend in recent years.

In a rapidly evolving sector environment, a de facto flexible approach should be
adopted to adjust to changing priorities as well as new institutional and on-the-
ground developments. Even if the changing situation could not be foreseen at the
project design stage, such an approach would enable more smooth and successful
implementation of the project. This aspect is illustrated in all three projects and
particularly in the SEIER project where both the Bank and Borrower responded to
changed circumstances through project restructuring to allow flexibility for investing in
subprojects that took on greater priority.

The project M&E framework should focus on identifying the direct causal links
between project interventions and outcomes to the maximum extent possible. This
is particularly important, albeit challenging, in large and rapidly evolving sector
context in which Bank-supported interventions only partially influence but do not
determine overall outcomes. In addition to being unnecessarily complicated with too
many performance indicators, several key outcome indicators related to improved T&D
reliability and efficiency were defined at the national system level, which made an
accurate outcome assessment for the T&D component largely impossible or tentative at
best under the TDDR and SEIER projects. While they are usually more challenging to
design, in similar situations project-level indicators or appropriate proxies should be used
for the relevant project areas.
                                           51




The community’s involvement in the design, construction and operation of new
rural electricity supply networks, and cost-sharing can lead to successful
implementation and a sense of ownership. Ensuring local participation in all aspects of
the project helped mobilize and maintain local support and commitment to rural
electrification, while ensuring a rapid pace of the process, creating employment, building
local capacity and thereby laying the foundation for the sustainable management and
operation of the networks. Significant cost sharing by local governments and the
communities was an important element of the Vietnamese financing model for rural
electrification. Mobilization of local funds was essential to close the funding gap. This
requires appropriate mechanisms and enabling institutional and legal frameworks, not
only at national, but also at local levels.
                                              52


References
AF Mercados EMI, “Strategic Options for Enhanced Financial Performance of EVN. Draft
report on overall diagnosis of EVN,” Prepared for the World Bank and EVN, October 2013.
AF Mercados, “Strategic Options for Enhanced Financial Performance of EVN,” Draft report
prepared for the World Bank and EVN, February 2014.
Barnes, Douglas F., editor, “The Challenge of Rural Electrification. Strategies for
Developing Countries,” Resources for the Future, Washington, DC, 2007.
EVN Central Power Corporation, “Corporate Profile 2011-2014,” Da Nang, 2014.
“Global Energy Assessment. Toward a Sustainable Future,” Cambridge University Press,
2012.
Khander, Shahidur R., Douglas Barnes, Hussain Samad and Nguyen Huu Minh, “Welfare
Impacts of Rural Electrification: Evidence from Vietnam,” World Bank Policy Research
Working Paper No. 5057, 2009.
Nguyen, Anh Tuan, “A Case Study on Power Sector Restructuring in Vietnam,” Institute of
Energy, Hanoi, 2012.
OED, “Rural Electrification: A Hard Look at Costs and Benefits,” World Bank, Washington,
DC, May 1995.
Siyambalapitiya, Tilak and Vu Quang Dang, “System Efficiency, Equitization and
Renewables (SEIER) Project Remote Area Rural Electrification (RARE) Program and
Renewable Energy Small Producers’ (RESPP) Program. Report on Lessons Learnt,”
December 2010.
Sustainable Energy for All, “Global Tracking Framework. Overview,” Washington, DC,
2013.
Thomas, Stephen, David Hall, Tue Anh Nguen, “Vietnam’s Electricity Sector: Is
Competition the Answer?,” Public Services International Research Unit, University of
Greenwich, London, March 2013.
Vagliasindi, Maria and John Besant-Jones, “Power Market Structure.Revisiting Policy
Options,” World Bank, Washington, DC, 2013.
World Bank, “Addressing the Electricity Access Gap,” Background Paper for World Bank
Group Energy Sector Strategy,” Washington, DC, June 2010.
World Bank, “Doing Business 2013,” Washington, DC, 2013.

World Bank, ‘Fueling Vietnam’s Development: New Challenges for the Energy Sector,”
Report No. 19037-VN, December 1998.
                                            53


World Bank, “One Goal, Two Paths. Achieving Universal Access to Modern Energy in East
Asia and the Pacific,” Washington, DC, 2011.
World Bank, “Project Document for Third Power Sector Reform Development Policy
Operation,” Report No. 77606-VN, Washington, DC, January 27, 2014.
World Bank, “State and People, Central and Local, Working Together: The Vietnam Rural
Electrification Experience,” Washington, DC, 2011.
World Bank, “The World Bank Energy Sector Engagement in Vietnam: An Overview,” SN
Power, October 23, 2013.
World Bank, “Toward a Sustainable Energy Future for All: Directions for World Bank
Group’s Energy Sector,” Washington, DC, 2013.
World Bank, ASTAE, “Vietnam: Expanding Opportunities for Energy Efficiency, March
2010.
World Bank, “World Development Indicators,” Washington, DC.

World Economic Forum, “The Global Competitiveness Report 2011-2012,” Geneva, 2013.
                                                   55


Annex A. Basic Data Sheet
Transmission, Distribution and Disaster Reconstruction (P045628)
Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
                                                  Appraisal             Actual or        Actual as % of
                                                  estimate           current estimate   appraisal estimate
Total project costs                                 426.4                 268.5                  63

Loan amount (IDA)                                   199.0                 149.4                  76
Grant (Global Environmental Facility                    -                   -                    -
Cofinancing                                            16.6               11.5                   69
Cancellation                                            -                   -                    -

Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
                 FY98 FY99 FY00 FY01 FY02 FY03 FY04 FY05 FY06 FY07 FY08 FY08
Appraisal        4.9   104.2 172.7 187.6 197.7 197.7 197.7 197.7 197.7 197.7 197.7 197.7
estimate
(US$M)
Actual            0     2.9      10.8     17.4   25.2       72.9    96.2 109.1 117.9 137.9 149.4 149.4
(US$M)
Actual as %       0      3        6        9      13          37     49    55      60   70       76    76
of appraisal
Date of last disbursement: 10/30/2008

Project Dates

                                                              Original                    Actual
Appraisal                                                   10/06/1997                  10/06/1997
Board approval                                              01/20/1998                  01/20/1998
Effectiveness                                               02/12/1999                  02/12/1999
Closing date                                                06/30/2002                  06/30/2007

Staff Time and Cost
                                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
        Stage of Project Cycle                                           USD ‘000 (including travel and
                                                 No. of staff weeks
                                                                               consultant costs)
Lending
 FY96                                                                                    8.74
 FY97                                                                                   164.94
 FY98                                                                                   108.63
                                 Total:                                                 283.35
Supervision/ICR
 FY98                                                                                    52.02
ANNEX A                                         56


                                                  Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
        Stage of Project Cycle                                        USD ‘000 (including travel and
                                              No. of staff weeks
                                                                            consultant costs)
 FY99                                                                             94.92
 FY00                                                31                           81.40
 FY01                                                19                           54.53
 FY02                                                25                           86.26
 FY03                                                21                           60.78
 FY04                                                23                           57.14
 FY05                                                29                           61.23
 FY06                                                12                           48.53
 FY07                                                 9                           52.78
 FY08                                                 1                            3.28
                                 Total:            170                           652.87

Task Team Members
                                                                                  Responsibility/
            Names                                Title                  Unit
                                                                                    Specialty
Lending
Darayes Mehta                    Principal Power Engineer            EASEG TTL
Rebecca Sekse                    Financial Analyst                   EASEG
Enrique Crousillat               Senior Energy Economist             EASEG
Jack Fritz                       Environmental Specialist            EASES
Maninder Gill                    Resettlement Specialist             EASES
Clifford Garstang                Counsel                             LEGEA
Ranjit Lamech                    Restructuring Specialist            IENPD
Carolyn Tager                    DSM Specialist                      ASTAE
Jas Singh                        DSM Specialist                      ASTAE
Anil Malhotra                    Regional Energy Advisor             EACVF
Hung Tien Van                    Operations Officer                  EACVF
Theresa Gamulo                   Task Assistant                      EASEG

Supervision/ICR
Anil Malhotra                    Regional Energy Advisor             EASEG   Team Leader (to end
                                                                             2002)
Hung Tien Van                    Senior Operations Officer           EASEG Team Leader (to end
                                                                             2004)
Richard Spencer                  Senior Energy Specialist            EASEG/E Team Leader (to
                                                                     ASVS    closing)
Rebecca Sekse                    Financial Analyst                   EASEG
Ranjit Lamech                    Restructuring Specialist            IENPD
Carolyn Tager                    DSM Specialist                      ASTAE
Jas Singh                        DSM Specialist                      ASTAE
Kurt Schenk                      Senior Power Engineer               EASEG
Hong Vu                          Resettlement Specialist             EACVF
                                         57                            ANNEX A


                                                                  Responsibility/
          Names                        Title               Unit
                                                                    Specialty
Mariko Ogawa            Financial Analyst                 EASEG
Quang Ngoc Bui          Operations Officer                EASVS
Hung Viet Le            Financial Management Specialist   EAPCO
Lien Thi Bich Nguyen    Program Assistant                 EACVF
Anh Nguyet Pham         Senior Operations Officer         EASVS
Cung Van Pham           Financial Management Specialist   EAPCO
Phuong Thi Thanh Tran   Senior Environmental Specialist   EASVS
Kien Trung Tran         Senior Procurement Specialist     EAPCO
Ky Hong Tran            Energy Specialist                 EASVS
Teresita G. Velilla     Program Assistant                 EASTE
Grayson Heffner         Energy Efficiency Specialist      Cons.
Dilip Lamaye            Energy Efficiency Specialist      Cons.
ANNEX A                                           58

Rural Energy Project (P056452)
Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
                                                 Appraisal            Actual or        Actual as % of
                                                 estimate          current estimate   appraisal estimate
Total project costs                                201.6                203.2                 101
Loan amount (IDA)                                  150.1                139.0                 93
Grant (PHRD)                                           -                  -                    -
Cofinancing                                            -                  -                    -
Cancellation                                           -                  -                    -

Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
                          FY00 FY01 FY02 FY03 FY04 FY05 FY06 FY07 FY08 FY09
Appraisal estimate               2.2      43.6 112.7 138.9 150.1 150.1 150.1 150.1 150.1 150.1
(US$M)
Actual (US$M)                    0        1.4   28.8       67.4 103.3 116.7 123.3 138.9 139.0 139.0
Actual as % of                   0         3     26         49     69    78      82   93      93     93
appraisal
Date of last disbursement: 06/28/2007

Project Dates
                                                            Original                    Actual
Appraisal                                                  01/06/2000                 01/06/2000
Board approval                                             05/30/2000                 05/30/2000
Effectiveness                                              11/29/2000                 11/29/2000
Closing date                                               06/30/2004                 12/31/2006

Staff Time and Cost
                                                    Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
        Stage of Project Cycle                                            US$ ‘000s (including travel
                                                No. of staff weeks
                                                                            and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY98                                                                                 17.6
  FY99                                                                                184.7
  FY00                                                     71                         204.5
  FY01                                                                                 0.4
  FY02                                                                                 0.0
  FY03                                                                                 0.0
  FY04                                                                                 0.0
  FY05                                                                                 0.0
  FY06                                                                                 0.0
  FY07                                                                                 0.0
                                 Total:                    71                         407.3
                                                 59                             ANNEX A


Supervision/ICR
  FY98                                                                   0.0
  FY99                                                                   0.0
  FY00                                              7                    7.1
  FY01                                             61                   173.5
  FY02                                             28                    75.8
  FY03                                             30                    67.1
  FY04                                             23                    41.6
  FY05                                             20                    47.9
  FY06                                             25                    65.8
  FY07                                             27                    50.9
                               Total:              221                  529.8

Task Team Members
                                                                        Responsibility/
           Names                               Title             Unit
                                                                          Specialty
Lending
Anil Malhotra                  Task Team Leader                 EASTE
Rebecca Sekse                  Financial Analyst                EASTE
Enrique Crousillat             Senior Energy Economist          EASTE
Ranjit Lamech                  Restructuring Specialist         EASTE
Anil Cabraal                   Renewable Energy Specialist      EASTE
Kurt Schenk                    Principal Power Engineer         EASTE
Hung Tien Van                  Operations Officer               EACVF
Thang Chien Nguyen             Procurement Officer              EACVF
Clifford Garstang              Senior Counsel                   LEGEA
Pham Nguyet Anh                Energy specialist                EACVF
Thuy Anh Nguyen                Team Assistant                   EACVF
Douglas French Barnes          Peer Reviewer                    ETWES
Lanfranco Blanchetti-Revelli   Social/Resettlement Specialist   Cons.
Jack Fritz                     Environmental Specialist         Cons.
Arun Sanghvi                   Peer Reviewer                    Cons.
Supervision/ICR
Hung Tien Van                  Task Team Leader                 EACVF
Kurt Schenk                    Procurement Consultant           EACVF
Anil Malhotra                  Consultant                       EACVF
Rebecca Sekse                  Financial Analyst                EASTE
Kien Trung Tran                Procurement Officer              EACVF
Quang Ngoc Bui                 Operations Officer               EASSO
Richard Jeremy Spencer         Senior Energy Specialist         EASTE
Robert P. Taylor               Lead Energy Specialist           EASTE
Phuong Thi Thanh Tran          Environmental Specialist         EACVF
Lien Thi Bich Nguyen           Program Assistant                EACVF
Beatriz Arizu de Jablonski     Senior Energy Specialist         EASTE
Perter Meier                   Consultant
ANNEX A                      60


Teri Velilla   Program Assistant   EASTE
Ky Hong Tran   Energy Specialist   EACVF
                                                      61                                   ANNEX A


System Efficiency Improvement, Equitization and Renewables Project (P066396; P073778
[Additional Financing])

Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
                                               Appraisal             Actual or        Actual as % of
                                               estimate           current estimate   appraisal estimate
Total project costs                              347.9                 419.5                120
Loan amount (IDA)                                225.1                 292.8                130
Grant (GEF)                                          4.5                4.1                 91
Cofinancing                                           -                  -                   -
Cancellation                                          -                  -                   -


Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements (P066396)
             FY02 FY03 FY04 FY05 FY06 FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13
Appraisal         0    11.3   90.0 193.5 213.8 225.0 225.0 225.0 225.0 225.0 225.0 225.0
estimate
(US$M)
Actual            0    4.1    33.5      46.2   69.3        83.1 157.0 217.4 240.7 268.6 274.1 292.8
(US$M)
Actual as %       0    36      37       24     32          37    70     97     107   119    122    130
of appraisal
Date of last disbursement: 02/26/2013


Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements (P073778, Additional Financing)
             FY02 FY03 FY04 FY05 FY06 FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13
Appraisal         0     0     2.0       4.0    4.5         4.5   4.5    4.5    4.5   4.5    4.5    4.5
estimate
(US$M)
Actual            0    0.3    0.3       0.4    0.7         1.0   1.6    2.5    2.8   4.1    4.1    4.1
(US$M)
Actual as %       0     -      15        9     16          22    36     55      62   91     91      91
of appraisal
Date of last disbursement: 04/19/2011
ANNEX A                                       62


Project Dates (P073778)
                                                     Original                     Actual
Appraisal                                           01/18/2002                  01/18/2002
Board approval                                      06/25/2002                  06/25/2002
Effectiveness                                       02/19/2003                  02/19/2003
Closing date                                        12/31/2007                  12/31/2010

Staff Time and Cost

                                                Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
       Stage of Project Cycle                                         US$ ‘000s (including travel
                                            No. of staff weeks
                                                                        and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY00                                              13.99                        29.31
  FY01                                              58.25                       148.81
  FY02                                             106.34                       228.38
  FY03                                               0.00                         0.00
                                Total:             178.58                       406.50
Supervision/ICR
 FY00                                                0.45                         0.52
 FY02                                                0.00                         0.04
 FY03                                               26.15                        98.23
 FY04                                               22.34                        56.32
 FY05                                               25.99                        50.85
 FY06                                               36.00                        69.40
 FY07                                               21.36                        71.14
 FY08                                               32.00                        62.07
 FY09                                               29.03                        85.37
 FY10                                               17.06                        68.50
 FY11                                               17.59                        56.72
 FY12                                               23.84                        74.23
 FY13                                               33.40                        94.88
                                Total:             285.21                       788.27

Task Team Members
           Names                                Title                  Unit
Anil Malhotra                   Task Team Leader                     EASTE
Rebecca Sekse                   Senior Financial Analyst             EASTE
Kurt Schenk                     Senior Power Engineer                EACVF
Ranjit Lamech                   Senior Restructuring Specialist      EASTE
Susan Bogach                    Senior Energy Economist
Jon Exel                        Renewable Energy Specialist
Anil Cabraal                    Senior Renewable Energy Specialist   EASTE
Jas Singh                       Energy Efficiency Specialist         ASTAE
                                               63                         ANNEX A


            Names                            Title                 Unit
Jack Fritz                   Environmental Specialist            Cons.
Mary Judd                    Senior Anthropologist
Behdad Nowroozi              Senior Financial Maanagement
                                                                 EASTE
                             Specialist
Mei Wang                     Legal Counsel                       LEGAM
Hung Tien Van                Senior Operations Officer           EASVS
Anh Nguyet Pham              Operations Officer                  EASIS
Thang Chien Nguyen           Procurement Specialist              EACVF
Kien Trung Tran              Procurement Analyst                 EASR2
Hong Vu                      Operations Officer (Resettlement)   EACVF
Phuong Thi Thanh Tran        Environmental Specialist            EACVF
Jitu Shah                    Senior Environmental Specialist     ECSEN
Quyen Duong Do               Disbursement Analyst
AnhThuy Nguyen               Program Assistant                   EASHH
Hung Viet Le                 Financial Management Officer        EAPCO
Arun Sanghvi                 Peer Reviewer                       Cons.
Douglas Barnes               Peer Reviewer                       Cons.
H. Ezaki                     Peer Reviewer (JBIC)
Anh Nguyet Pham              Senior Energy Specialist            EASIS
Hung Tien Van                Senior Energy Specialist            EASVS
Franz Gerner                 Lead Energy Specialist              EASVS
Beatriz Arizu de Jablonski   Senior Energy Specialist            EASWE
Cung Van Pham                Senior Financial Management         EASFM
                             Specialist
Dilip R. Limaye              Consultant                          ECSEG
Dung Kim Le                  Team Assistant                      EACVF
Hoi-Chan Nguyen              Consultant                          OPCIL
Hung Tan Tran                Power Engineer                      EASVS
Kien Trung Tran              Senior Procurement Specialist       EASR2
Ky Hong Tran                 Energy Specialist                   EASVS
Lien Thi Bich Nguyen         Program Assistant                   EACVF
Mai Thi Phuong Tran          Financial Management Specialist     EASFM
Quang Ngoc Bui               Operations Officer                  EASVS
Ramesh Sivapathasundram      Lead Information Officer            TWICT
Richard Jeremy Spencer       Country Sector Coordinator          SASDE
Phuong Thi Thanh Tran        Senior Environmental Specialist     EASVS
Yen Thu Thi Cao              Consultant                          EASVS
Natsuko Toba                 Senior Economist                    EASWE
Daisuke Miura                Energy Specialist                   EASVS
Hanh Thi Huu Nguyen          Financial Management Specialist     EASFM
Nghi Quy Nguyen              Social Development Specialist       EASVS
Son Van Nguyen               Environmental Specialist            EASVS
Thi Ba Chu                   ET Consultant                       EASVS
Peter Meier                  Economic Consultant                 EASIS
ANNEX A                           64


            Names                  Title                Unit
Dung Manh Tran      Consultant                        EASFM
Ly Thi Dieu Vu      Consultant                        LCSEN
Joel Maweni         Operations Advisor                EASSD
Thuy Bich Nguyen    Program Assistant                 SECPO
Hiep Quan Phan      Financial Officer
Jennifer Thomson    Senior Financial Management       OPSOR
                    Specialist
LanThi Thu Nguyen   Natural Resources Economist       EASVS
Van Nguyen Thanh
Hung Viet Le        Financial Management Specialist   EAPCO
Teri Vellila        Program Assistant
Philip Gray         Senior Energy Economist
Grayson Heffner     Consultant
Hien Minh Vu        Program Assistant                 EASWE
Teresita Ortega     Program Assistant                 EASWE
                                               65


Annex B. World Bank Power Sector Projects in Vietnam: IDA and IBRD

                                                                                          IDA/      Local/
                                                                              Project
      Project                                   Approval         Closing                 IBRD       Others
No.                    Project Name                                          Cost (US$
        ID                                        Date            Date                    (US$       (US$
                                                                              Million)
                                                                                         Million)   Million)
 1          Power Sector Rehabilitation and
    P004836 Expansion                               5/16/1995    6/30/2000       186.7     137.96      48.74
  2 P042236 Power Development                       2/20/1996   12/31/1999      216.19     179.61      36.58
  3 P045628 Transmission, Distribution and          1/20/1998    6/30/2007      248.46     149.57      98.89
            Disaster
  4 P056452 Rural Energy                            5/30/2000   12/31/2006      203.47     150.92      52.55
  5 P066396 System Efficiency Improvement,          6/25/2002   12/31/2012      419.50     299.70     119.80
            Equitization and Renewables
  6 P074688 Rural Energy 2                      11/18/2004       6/30/2014      329.50     220.00     109.50
  7 P084871 Transmission and Distribution 2      7/28/2005       6/30/2014      200.00     200.00
  8 P099211 Rural Distribution                   5/22/2008       6/30/2013      153.08     150.00
  9 P103238 Renewable Energy Development          5/5/2009       6/30/2014      204.27     202.00
 10 P113495 Rural Energy 2, Additional           5/21/2009       6/30/2014      200.00     200.00
            Financing
 11 P115874 Power Sector Reform DPO                  4/6/2010    8/31/2011      311.80     311.80
 12 P120540 System Efficiency Improvement,          6/23/2010                    25.36      25.36
            Equitization and Renewables,
            Additional Financing
 13 P114875 Transmission and Distribution 2,        3/29/2011                   180.00     180.00
            Additional Financing
 14 P084773 Trung Son Hydropower                 4/26/2011      12/31/2017      411.72     330.00      81.72
 15 P124174 Power Sector Reform DPO2             3/22/2012       7/31/2013      200.00     200.00
 16 P125996 Distribution Efficiency              9/11/2012      12/31/2018      448.90     448.90
 17 P144675 Power Sector Reform DPO3           FY15 (under                      200.00     200.00
                                                     prep.)
 18 P131558 Transmission Efficiency            FY15 (under                      700.00     500.00
                                                     prep.)
ANNEX B                                        66



              Table 2. World Bank Power Sector Projects in Vietnam:
                               Trust Fund Projects
                                                                                      Project     Trust
         Project                                             Approval      Closing     Cost       Fund
  No.                          Project Name
           ID                                                  Date         Date       (US$       (US$
                                                                                      Million)   Million)
  1     P071019 GEF* Demand Side Management and Energy 6/24/2003         6/30/2010     4.81       4.81
  2     P080074 GEF Rural Energy 2                          11/18/2004   6/30/2014     5.00       5.00
  3     P099211 Rural Distribution Project (AusAID)          5/22/2008   6/30/2013     3.08       3.08
                Renewable Energy Development Project
  4     P103238 Donor: Swiss State Secretariat for Economic   5/5/2009   6/30/2014     2.27       2.27
                Affairs
  5     P116846 GEF Clean Production and Energy Efficiency 7/5/2011      6/30/2016     2.00       2.00
                Distribution Efficiency Project
  6     P125996 Donor: AusAID (US$6.89 m) and Multiple       9/11/2012   12/31/2018   36.89      36.89
                Donors (US$30.00 m)
*Global Environment Facility
                                             67


Annex C. List of Persons Met
Government of Vietnam

Ministry of the Industry and Trade (MoIT), General Directorate of Energy
Mr. Le Tuan Phong, Deputy Director General
Mr. Hoang Trong Hieu, Deputy Director of Rural Electrification and Power Network Department
Mr. Nguyen Ninh Hai, Deputy Director of Renewable Energy Department

Electricity Regulatory Authority of Vietnam (ERAV), MoIT
Mr. Nguyen Vu Quang, Deputy Director General
Mr. Nguyen The Huu, Acting Director of of Power Market Development Research and Training
Centre
Ms. Dao Minh Hien, Director of Planning, Supply-Demand Balance Department
Mr. Tran Tue Quang, Director of Tariff Department
Mr. Pham Quang Huy, Director of Power Market Department

Ministry of Finance
Ms. Nguyen Lan Anh, Deputy Manager of Multilateral Division
Ms. Khuc Thu Phuong, Expert of Multilateral Division

Dien Bien Provincial People’s Committee
Mr. Hoang Van Nhan, Vice Chairman
Mr. Vu Lenh Nghi, Deputy Director of Provincial Department of Planning and Investment
Mr. Nguyen Van Hoan, Deputy Director of Provincial Department of Finance
Mr. Nguyen Van Gioi, Manager of Electricity Division of Provincial Department of Industry and
Trade

Muong Te District, Lai Chau Province
Mr. Nguyen Xuan Truong, Vice Chairman of Muong Te District People's Committee
Mr. Ly Ha Ca, Vice Manager of District Department of Industry and Trade
Mr. Le Thanh Tam, Vice Director of Project Management Unit

Electricity of Vietnam (EVN)
Ms. Luong Thi An, Deputy Director of International Cooperation Department
Ms. Nguyen Thi Lam Giang, Expert of International Cooperation Department
Mr. Ta Tuan Anh, Expert of Technical Department
Mr. Phan Sy Binh Minh, Expert of Business Department
Ms. Nguyen Hoang Dieu Huong, Expert of Finance

National Load Dispatch Centre
Mr. Quach Tien Dzung, Deputy Manager of Dispatching Department
Mr. Nguyen Thanh Long, Deputy Manager of Planning & Material Department

National Power Transmission Corporation (NPT)
Mr. Vu Tran Nguyen, Vice President
Ms.Luong Lan Dzung, Director of International Relations Department
Ms. Nguyen Hoai Anh, Deputy Director of Accounting Department
Mr. Luu Van Hung, Expert of International Relations Department
Mr. Cao Duc Dzung, Expert of Technical Department
ANNEX C                                      68


Northern Power Corporation (NPC)
Ms. Ha Thi Minh Hue, Director of International Economic Relations Department
Ms. Tong Bao Ngoc, Expert of Accounting Department
Ms. Truong Thuy Lieu, Expert of Business Department
Mr. Pham Ky Nam, Expert of Power Network Projects Management Unit
Mr. Nguyen Huu Hau, Expert of Planning Department
Mr. Doan Van Sam, Expert
Mr. Vo Trong Hung, Expert

Central Power Corporation (CPC)
Mr. Nguyen Thanh, Deputy Director General
Ms. Phan Thi Dieu Lien, Director of International Cooperation Department
Mr. Nguyen Anh Tuan, Manager of International Cooperation Department
Mr. Nguyen Van Duc, Director of Technical Department
Mr. Nguyen Thanh Dat, Deputy Director of Rural Electrification Projects Management Unit
Mr. Tran Quan, Deputy Director of Power Network Projects Management Unit
Mr. Nguyen Quang Hung, Deputy Director of Business Department

 Southern Power Corporation (SPC)
 Mr. Hoang Huu Thoi, Vice Director of International Cooperation Department
 Mr. Duong Huu Tuong, Vice Director of Human Resource Development Department
 Mr. Nguyen Khoa Dinh Quy, Expert of Technical Department
 Mr. Tran Huu Vinh, Expert of Business Department
 Ms. Cong Thi Thuy Van, Expert of Finance

 Dien Bien Provincial Power Company
 Mr. Pham Van Lanh, Deputy Director

Muong Te Hydropower Company, Lai Chau Province
Mr. Mai Van Manh, Director

Non-governmental Institutions

Thu Duc Steel Joint Stock Company
Mr. Hoang Ngoc Oanh, Director General
Mr. Hoang Cong Thanh, Manager of Technical Department
Mr. Nguyen Tien Thinh, Deputy Manager of Technical Department

Vietnam Energy Association
Mr. Tran Viet Ngai, Chairman
Mr. Pham Quang Luc, Vice Chairman
Mr. To Quoc Tru, Energy Specialist

Institute of Energy
Mr. Nguyen Anh Tuan, Manager of International Cooperation Department
                                                69                                   ANNEX C

PROJECT SITE VISITS

National Load Dispatch Centre, Hanoi
Mr. Nguyen Thai Minh, Operation Engineer of Power Market

Load Dispatch Central of Central Region, Da Nang
Mr. Truong Van Thien, Operation Engineer

Substations

110 kV Dai Loc, Quang Nam Province
Mr. Vo Khac Hoang, Manager of Technical Department of Central Grid Company
Mr. Nguyen Trung Hieu, Operator
Mr. Ngo Xuan Trung, Operator

110 kV/220 kV Tao Dan, Ho Chi Minh City
Mr. Bui Van Hoang, Vice Director of Eastern 2 Power Transmission Branch
Mr. Truong Vu Thanh, Deputy Manager of Technical Department of PTC 4
Mr. Nguyen Thien Tam, Deputy Manager of Technical Division of Eastern 2 Power Transmission
Branch
Mr. Nguyen Van Tam, Manager

500 kV Phu Lam, Ho Chi Minh City
Mr. Vo The Chau, Manager

Local Distribution Utility, Cao Minh Commune, Xuan Hoa Township, Vinh Phuc Province
Mr. Nguyen Hoai Nam, Vice Director of Project Management Unit of Vinh Phuc Province
Mr. Nguyen Van Quyen, Vice Manager of Electricity Division of Provincial Department of Industry
and Trade
Mr. Duong Duc Bo, Director
Mr. Tran Van Luong, Chief Accountant

Hyropower Plants

Nam Si Luong, Pa U and Ban Giang Hydropower Plants, Muong Te District, Lai Chau Province
Mr. Nguyen Dang Luong, Director of District Operation and Management Enterprise
Mr. Tran Ngoc Tu, Expert of Project Management Unit
Mr. Tong Van Hieu, Operator

Off-grid Commune
Pa U Commune, Muong Te District, Lai Chau Province
Mr. Lo Van Hieng, Commanding Officer of Pa U Military Station
Mr. Le Cong Thanh, Political Instructor of Pa U Military Station
Ms. Nguyen Thi Kim Hai, Headmaster of Pa U Kindergarten and Primary School

Grid-connected Commune
Nam Khao Commune, Muong Te District, Lai Chau Province
Mr. Lo Van Hung, Secretary of the Commune Communist Party Committee
ANNEX C                                      70

World Bank Group

Washington, DC:
Mr. Pedro Antmann, Lead Energy Specialist, AFTG1, Co-TTL of DPO3
Mr. Alain Barbu, Consultant, former Operations and Portfolio Manager for Vietnam
Ms. Beatriz Arizu de Jablonski, Consultant
Mr. Charles Feinstein, Sector Manager, Water and Energy, Sustainable Development Department,
EASWE
Mr. Ajay Chhibber, former Country Director for Vietnam
Mr. Peter Johansen, Senior Energy Specialist, EASWE, TTL of Proposed Vietnam Transmission
Efficiency Project
Mr. Ranjit Lamech, Energy Sector Manager, ECSEG
Mr. Dejan Ostojic, Sector Leader, EASWE
Mr. Jas Singh, Senior Energy Specialist, ECSEG
Mr. Richard Jeremy Spencer, Lead Energy Specialist, SASDE, former Country Sector Coordinator
for Vietnam
Ms. Natsuko Toba, Senior Economist, EASWE, ICR Team Leader for SEIER Project

Vietnam Country Office, Hanoi:
Ms. Nguyen Cam, Consultant
Ms. Victoria Kwakwa, Country Director for Vietnam, EACVF
Ms. Keiko Sato, Porfolio and Operations Manager, EACVF
Ms. Jennifer J. Sara, Sector Manager, HANWB
Mr. Franz Gerner, Lead Energy Specialist, HANWB, Energy Sector Coordinator for Vietnam, Co-
TTL of DPO3
Mr. Van Tien Hung, Senior Energy Specialist, HANWB, TTL for REP (supervision/ICR)
Mr. Tran Hong Ky, Energy Specialist, HANWB, TTL for SEIER (supervision/ICR)
Mr. Chu Ba Thi, HANWB, Energy Specialist

IFC, Regional Office, Hanoi:
Mr. Simon Andrews, Regional Manager
Ms. Vu Tuong Anh, Technical Specialist, Energy Efficiency and Cleaner Production
Ms. Tran Thu Hang, Investment Officer, Infrastructure
Ms. Cung Mai Loan, Associate Investment Officer


Asian Development Bank
Mr. Au Minh Tuan, Senior Project Officer, Energy, Vietnam Resident Mission, Hanoi
