PID
THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                                    A W<ri rxt c,f rjirlrc 
InfoShop
Report No: AB98
Initial Project Information Document (PID)
Project Name                TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO-T&T: HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Project
Region                      Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                      Health (100%)
Project ID                  P075528
Supplemental Project
Borrower(s)                 TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
Implementing Agency         MINITRY OF HEALTH
Address                     National AIDS Council/Ministry of Finance
Address:
Contact Person: Michael Mendez, Director, Ministry of Finance
Tel: (868) 627-9700, ext. 3126  Fax: (869) 627-5631   Email:
mofcmu@tstt.net.tt
Environment Category        B
Date PID Prepared           May 22, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date         May 22, 2003
Bank Approval Date          June 27, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
Trinidad and Tobago enjoys a relatively good health status based on evidence such as a low infant
mortality rate of 14/1000 (1999), a crude birth rate of 14/1000 (1999) and a life expectancy at birth of 74
(1998). However, a maternal mortality rate of 90/100,000 is too high for a country of this income level.
Overall, considering such factors as prevailing income and education levels, and investments that have
been made in the sector, the health system in Trinidad and Tobago has performed relatively poorly
compared to its potential according to the WHO World Health Report, 2000. Corrected for incomes,
education and past investments made in the system, Trinidad and Tobago has realized a significantly
lower level of its potential than Jamaica, Dominican Republic, Cuba and a number of smaller island
states. In order to improve equity and social solidarity, the Government has started a Health Sector
Reform Program, whose first phase is (1996-2002) aimed at strengthening policy-making, planning and
management capacity, separating financing from provision of health care, and improving health sector
regulatory role and the stewardship of the Ministry of Health (MOH). At the same time, it promoted the
strengthening of the 4 regional authorities by devolving them the service delivery and management
responsibilities, and setting them as independent statutory authorities, accountable to the MOH.
The MOH has reliable data trends of the epidemic, showing a relentless growth of HIV/AIDS cases in the
last 15 years reaching a cumulative total of 18,000 cases (2000). These estimates exceed official
epidemiological estimates by about 300%, showing a low level of performance on testing and diagnosis.
Only 15% of diagnosed cases are receiving appropriate care, and 1.5 persons die daily because of AIDS.



2
PID
This poor performance compounded with a most worrisome reversal in the decrease of mother-to-child
transmission, which started to be recorded at 2.8% in 1990, went down dramatically, and rose again to
3% in 2000. Likewise, the ratio of HIV positive infections between men/women has been reversed in the
age group 25-40, now being higher in women, possibly due to increased commercial sex and the
increasing practice of older men having sex with younger girls. Teenage pregnancy is also high with an
age-specific fertility rate of 46%, and STIs among adolescents is on the increase along with HIV
incidence. Prevalence in the general population is 2.0 - 2.5%, which indicates a generalized epidemic.
The risk of economic and social loss attributable to the epidemic is enormous. It is estimated that in
2007, about 5% of Trinidad and Tobago's achievable GDP could be foregone owing to lost savings
(10.3%), investment (15.6%) labor supply (5.2) and employment (3.5-6.7% depending on the sector);
accompanied by a rise of expenditures on Opportunistic Infections (01) related to HIV/AIDS of about
25%.
The MOH and a number of national and international agencies have been active in addressing HIV/AIDS
issues. The MOH, for example, has followed a National Aids Program since the late 1980s. Main
activities of the many stakeholders include Information, Education and Communication (IEC), Voluntary
Testing and Counseling (VTC), Mother-to-Child Transmission (MTCT) prevention, control of STIs, and
blood bank safety and quality assurance. However, quality of care is a major problem as evidenced by the
fact than none of the laboratories in the country observe strict QA/QC requirements, and all District
Health Facilities lack basic clinical laboratory facilities. This undermines the capacity of doctors to make
differential diagnosis, reduces effectiveness in emergency care, increases unnecessary referrals and
hinders a much needed expansion of HIV screening and diagnosis. In addition, care and treatment is now
in the process of being improved in hospitals of Port of Spain. However, the program has serious
limitations, especially related to laboratory services, organized routines and protocols for care and
treatment, skills for managing HIV/AIDS patients, and broad surveillance systems. A pervasive fact has
been the stigma attached to HIV/AIDS patients in all segments of society, including health workers.
Advocacy to protect human and civil rights has been very weak, and multi-sectoral participation in a
coordinated fashion to deal with this issue is limited. National leadership to achieve inter-sectoral
participation and action is also required.
2. Objectives
The present project is designed to contribute to the achievement of the following strategic goals that the
Government of Trinidad and Tobago (GOTT), has set through the National HIV/AIDS Task Force: (a)
to reduce the incidence of HIV infections; and (b) to mitigate the negative impact of HIV/AIDS on
persons infected and affected in Trinidad and Tobago.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Through its participation, the Bank would re-enforce the GOTT adoption of institutional arrangements
for sustaining the HIV/AIDS prevention and control program, and would provide necessary incremental
resources to invest in this development. It would also re-enforce GOTT's policy to introduce universal
ART by assisting it to establish conditions for a successful project. The Bank would also strengthen the
partnerships that GOTT has and is building with PAHO/CAREC, UNAIDS, and in the dialogue with
suppliers of ARV drugs.



3
PID
4. Description
The activities for project support have been selected from discussions with the GOTT, NGOs and other
stakeholders and grouped into the 5 components, based on the priority areas contemplated in the
Five-Year National HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan (2003-2007). The priority areas are: (a) Prevention: curb
the spread of new HIV infections; (b) Treatment, Care and Support: reduce the morbidity and mortality
attributed to HIV/AIDS; (c) Advocacy and Human Rights: increase the quality of life of People Living
with AIDS (PLWAs); and (d) Surveillance, Research and Management: build sustainable institutional
capacity for managing HIV/AIDS prevention and control activities for the longer term.
COMPONENT 1: PREVENTION OF THE SPREAD of HI V/AIDS (US$8.06 MILLION)
Component I will prevent the spread of the epidemic through the following activities: a) promotion of
behavior change through the design and implementation of a Communications Program to intensify
HIV/AIDS education and awareness programs, using multiple communication channels to target
messages to different audiences; b) improve availability and accessibility of condgrXsupport the
continuation and expansion nationwide of the MTCT Prevention Program under implementation by the
MOH; d) support a national voluntary testing and counseling (VTC) Program using the network
of public health facilities strategically located throughout the country; e)liagnosis, treatment and
counseling of STIs would be provided throughout the primary health care network; f) support training
and improve practices for the management of bio-medical wastes. and g) improvement in blood bank and
transfusion services.
COMPONENT 2: TREA TMENT, CARE AND SUPPORT (US$11.13 MILLION)
A key element for establishing treatment, care and support for HIV/AIDS patients, is an appropriate
health network, both public and private The project would finance the installation capacity for HIV
testing in selected health centers, as well as in all Enhanced Health Centers and District Health Centers
(DHC). General hospitals in Port of Spain (Northwest Region), San Fernando (South West Region),
Sangre Grande (Eastern Region), and Scarborough (Tobago Region) would also be supported by the
project financing to install lab equipment and staffing for diagnostic and confirmatory HIV testing, as
well as CD4 testing. The project would finance the construction of a new building for the National
Public Health Laboratory in a neighbouring site, and would complement the required equipment to
ensure appropriate performance of the public health laboratory functions. It would also finance the
training of a medical epidemiologist overseas. Rapid confirmation testing and PCR would also be
financed as well as the best alternative between leasing Viral Load equipment by the National Health
Laboratory or contracting with CAREC or other overseas facilities for the supply of required Viral Load
testing services.
COMPONENT 3: AD VOCACYAND HUMAN RIGHTS (US $0.45 million)
The project would support enactment of anti-discriminatory legislation in the workplace and human
rights education in the wider community of the Caribbean, and inclusion of HIV/AIDS in the Equal
Opportunity Act that protects all citizens. A dedicated HIV/AIDS desk at the Ombudsman's office and
the publication of human rights (HR) abuses in the media will be encouraged in order to monitor such
abuses and provide an avenue for redress.
COMPONENT 4: SURVEILLANCEAND RESEARCH (US$2.52 million)
The project would support the implementation of standardized protocols for behavioral ("second
generation") and biological surveillance with the assistance of CAREC and MRF. These institutions



4
PID
would also assist the MOH in providing technical support towards the strengthening of the
STI/HIV/AIDS surveillance system and execution of surveys. Integrity and confidentiality of the
electronic medical records would be ensured with encrypting technology.
COMPONENT 5: PROGRAM MANAGEMENT, COORDINATION AND EVALUA TION (US$2.59
million including US$ 450,000 unallocated)
The project would support the establishment and initial operations of a sustainable institutional
structure and management team that would allow the country to effectively control and prevent
the spread of HIV/AIDS, and care for PLWAs over the long term. This would be accomplished
by providing the necessary leadership, technical advisory services, staffing, goods, and general
operating costs of the participating institutions and community organizations, including NGOs.
5. Financing
Total (US$m)
BORROWER                   $5.00
IBRD                       $20.00
IDA
Total Project Cost         $25.00
6. Implementation
The project would be implemented through an institutional and management structure that would permit
the widest participation of stakeholder, NGO and community groups and that would elevate public
accountability for results. To accomplish the project's objectives, the GOTT has approved the formation
of a National AIDS Multi-sectoral Coordination Committee (NACC), under the Office of the Prime
Minister, which would include the participation of major HIV/AIDS stakeholder groups, such as
representatives of relevant public and private institutions, NGOs, PLWAs, health care providers, civil
society advocates, and international agencies working on the field (such as CAREC/PAHO/WHO,
UNAIDS, UNDP).
This structure would also recognize the differences in the unique social and cultural differences between
Trinidad and Tobago, and the opportunities this presents confronting the epidemic in these two islands.
7. Sustainability
Initiatives begun under the project are expected to become sustainable through the development of
institutional arrangements that are light, flexible, and financially supportable (the NACC and
PCU/Secretariat); and project activities would become progressively mainstreamed into the public sector
with budgetary space created for them. Incremental recurrent costs of the program, including the
provision of ARV drugs, are estimated at about US$2.5 million per year, representing a small fraction of
the overall GOTT annual budget of US$1.6 billion.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The project adapts design features that underpin the Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control
Program, and have been successful in other countries. These include the following:
*      Demonstrating a high level of Government commitment and providing clear national leadership
for a program;
*      Building collaboration networks with NGOs and community groups as a complement to public
sector agencies;



5
PID
*      Deconcentrating the initiatives for efforts to address the epidemic;
*      Including the focus on treatment and care as a continuum in the program;
*      Providing focus on behavior change of specific groups practicing risky life-styles as a key
element of prevention and control; and
*      Adopting implementation measures that provide flexibility and responsiveness to the epidemic as
it evolves.
The proposed project also adapts lessons from the previous experience with the National Task Force and
AIDS Program, in that it would create an advisory body - the NACC - with direct involvement in project
implementation and would be reporting to the Cabinet to ensure a stronger institutional structure.
Second, the project is being driven by pre-identified monitorable goals with financial resources allocated
through Ministries to achieve them. Third, management of the HIV/AIDS activities is being assigned to
dedicated persons both within agencies (focal points) and within the new Secretariat to the NACC, which
brings managerial accountability. Finally, the implementation of the project would be on the basis of
annual work plans, and on a contracted services basis, to allow for maximum flexibility and adaptability
of successful experience in the project during its implementation period.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues : Category B. See Annex on Environmental aspects.
10. List of factual technical documents:
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Patricio V. Marquez
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-0163
Fax: (202) 522-1201
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:   (202) 522-1500
Web: http:/l www.worldbank.orglinfoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily
included in the final project.
Tables, Charts, Graphs:
Processed by the InfoShop week ending:  05/27/2003



6
PID
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
SEARCH            FEEDBACK         SITE MAP         SHOWCASE         m



