E765
May 2003
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO: HIV/AIDS PREVENTION AND CONTROL PROJECT
(P075528)
Environmental Assessment
Management of Bio-Medical Wastes
General
The Environmental Health Division of the Ministry of Health (MOH) conducted a Biomedical
Waste Survey during the months of March and April 2003. The survey was carried out in Public
Hospitals, Private Hospitals (Nursing Homes), Accident and Emergency Health facilities, Health
Centers, Dental Clinics, Funeral Homes and Medical Laboratories.
A summary of the numbers of sites visited and the amounts of general and biomedical waste
generated is given in Table 1.
Summary of Biomedical Waste Generation
Sample of Public and Private Facilities*
March, April 2003
Type of Facility  Number   Number       Total    Biomedical     Total    Biomedical
Visited    Waste       Waste       Waste       Waste
Generated     (t/mo)    Generated     (t/mo)
(t/month)      (%)        (t/mo)    prorated
prorated     to total
Public Hospitals     14        11        38.6       2.7 (7)      49.1         3.4
Emergency            5         5         13.2       0.6 (5)       0.6         0.6
Facilities
Private Hospitals    15        8         21.7       1.1 (5)      40.7         2.1
Health Care         104        38        19.7      3.4 (17)      53.9         9.3
Clinics                                                       _ _ _ _ _ _
Funeral Homes        35        10        14.8       1.6 (11)     51.8         5.6
TOTAL               173        72        108         9.4        196.1         21
* Dental facilities accounted for negligible amounts of waste and are excluded
Overall, about 108 tons of general hospital/clinic waste is produced each month in the facilities
surveyed which would indicate that about 196 tons per month were generated overall (equivalent
to 2,400 tons per year). Of this amount, about 10% on average is biomedical waste, of which
almost all is considered to be infectious waste. While the generation of general waste is relatively
homogenous across types of facility (with the exception of emergency facilities), a preponderance
of the biomedical waste is generated in numerous, small, and decentralized health care clinics.
This implies that reliable and secure transportation is as significant factor in the safety of the
overall system as may be in-house collection, sorting, handling and treatment.
Legal Framework
While there are laws which govern the management of waste in general, Trinidad and Tobago do
not have a body of regulation dedicated to the specific issues of Biomedical Waste Management.
I                  FILE COPYn



Among the sources of current regulation are:
*      Public Health Ordinance (1950). This Ordinance is used to control general conditions
which may adversely impact on public health. To a large extent it addresses:
- Vector Control
- Food and Water Quality
- Approval of Building Plans
- Domestic Waste Disposal
*      The Environmental Management Act (2000) This Act deals specifically with Pollution
Control and at present the emphasis is on the Industrial Sector.
*      Private Hospitals Act This is an instrument which can be used to exert control in Private
Health Facilities, but will require the enactment of appropriate regulation.
A number of topics are not specifically treated including the definition of various categories of
waste making the identification of "biomedical" and "infectious" waste transparent and
actionable; the transportation of such wastes and residues; the differentiated treatment and
disposal of such wastes and the definition of mandatory management structures for consistent
collection, treatment and disposal.
In light of the above observations, a framework for assuring the effective monitoring and control
of the Biomedical Waste environment may require the improvement in relevant legislation.
Biomedical Waste Management Practices
Despite the absence of a complete legal and regulatory framework and documented protocols for
Biomedical Waste Management, the practices employed at the health institutions have emerged
from the background of infection control and in fact the hospital infection control committees
have done quite well. However, there is no organized record keeping in the system. Each
institution benefit from specific Biomedical Programs with clearly identified budgetary financing.
There is also the risk that without adequate framework and protocols, there is a risk to the present
systems from a change in the volume and character of the potentially infectious wastes that an
expanded HIV/AIDS treatment and control program might create.
While segregation, collection, treatment and disposal of waste are in general satisfactory, there
still remains the need to address the issue of open burning at the Port of Spain General Hospital.
Assessments of Types of Facilities'
1. Public Hospitals
The survey covered 11 of 14 such facilities. These produce about 17% of all biomedical waste.
There was little record keeping in these institutions on medical waste generated. Approximate
figures were made available by quality control officers, nursing administrator.
' This section is summarized from an audit report prepared by the Environmental Health Division,
Ministry of Health, April 25, 2003. Specific facility-by-facility data are included in that report.
2



There were no written guidelines with respect to collection, storage and disposal of health care
waste. However, there was a working system of waste segregation at all hospitals and health care
facilities.
Incinerators were operating at Port of Spain, San Fernando Caura, Mt. Hope and Sangre Grande.
The Port of Spain incinerator is in disrepair and non functional leading to open burning. The San
Fernando, Caura, Mt. Hope and Sangre Grande incinerators are in good working condition. The
Point Fortin, Mayaro, and St. Ann's incinerators are non-functional. Amoco and Atlantic LNG
have committed to provide incinerators for Mayaro and Point Fortin Hospitals respectively.
Sharps items are collected at all health care institutions in red/white plastic bins. These bins are
collected for incineration at Mt. Hope, Sangre Grande and San Fernando Hospitals. All ash
wastes from incinerators are bagged and disposed of at the landfill sites.
All infections waste/pathological wastes were collected in biohazard bags, which are red in color
or black bags red banded. The waste was then incinerated. General wastes at the hospitals were
removed by contractors and at the health facilities by the Regional corporations.
All body fluids and washings from the mortuary and laboratory wastes were disposed of in the
sewer. All used chemicals were neutralized before disposal into the sewer. Laboratory facilities
existed at Mt. Hope, San Fernando, Port of Spain, Sangre Grande and Caura'
All expired drugs at the government institutions were kept for inspection by Food and Drugs
Division before disposal.  All packaging materials were disposed of as general garbage.
Pressurized containers were disposed of as general garbage at all the institutions.
All infectious wastes/pathological waste generated at St. Ann's, St James Medical Complex, and
RadioTherapy Centre were sent to Mt. Hope for incineration. Staff was provided with adequate
protective gear.
2. Accident and Emergency Facilities:
Five (5) Accident and Emergency health facilities or 100% were surveyed in this exercise.
Health care waste accounted for-4.9% of the total waste produced (general and health care waste).
All sharps were collected in the prescribed bins and sent to Mt. Hope, Sangre Grande or San
Fernando Hospitals for incineration
Although segregation of waste is practiced, infectious waste produced is removed with general
wastes by the Regional Corporation. The incinerator at Chaguanas is non-functional. All liquid
bio-medical waste go into roadside drain or into the septic tank and general waste produced is
removed by the Regional Corporations
Hospital staff are provided with adequate protective gears. Ground staff, who remove wastes
from hospital, are only provided with gloves. However, there are no written guidelines for the
collection, storage and disposal of health care waste.
3. Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes
Out of a total of fifteen (15) Private Hospitals, eight (8) or 53% were surveyed. Of the total waste
produced by these facilities, health care waste accounted for 5.25%. Incinerators were provided at
3



Medical Associates, Surgi Med and Augustus Long Hospital for disposal of infectious,
pathological waste and sharps.
Southern Specialist center practices open burning in a concrete bin. St/ Augustine Private
Hospital sends their wastes for incineration to Mt. Hope (EWMSC). Sharps, infectious waste and
pathological waste produced at Gulf View Medical Complex are sent to Kaizen Environmental at
Pointe-a-Pierre for incineration.
Segregation of waste is practiced at all the private hospitals. However, there was no proper record
keeping on waste generated. Approximate figures were provided by the matron, store manager
and maintenance staff..
The nursing assistants and wardsmen handle the waste in the building and the ground staff
removes waste to the outside. The hospital staff was provided with adequate protective gears, the
ground staff were provided with gloves
All liquid wastes, laboratory wastes produced at private hospitals were disposed of into the sewer
in sewered areas. Where no such facility existed, liquid wastes (biomedical) were disposed of
into roadside drains. Removal of general wastes and ash from incinerators were taken by the
regional corporations and private contractors.
There were no written guidelines for the collection, storage and disposal of health care waste.
3. Health Centers
Out of a total of 104 Health Centers in Trinidad 38 or 37% were surveyed. This class of facility
accounts for the largest volume of biomedical waste (almost 50%). However, as elsewhere, there
were no records of medical waste generated at these facilities with respect to type and quantity.
There were no written guideline concerning collection, storage and disposal of health care waste.
None of the staff handling health care waste had any formal training in handling such waste
except some nurses in cascs as they relate to Aids patients.
Eighty percent 80% of the waste generated at these facilities can be categorized as general waste
(kitchen etc.). Twenty percent 20% can be categorized as medical waste. This includes sharps,
dressings, protective gear (gloves, linens, blood, aprons etc.)
At all these institutions sharps were collected in plastic bins (red and white) designated for this
purpose. These are taken to different sites for incineration, e.g. Sangre Grande District Hospital,
Eric Williams Medical Complex and San Fernando General Hospital. The containers as well as
the sharps are incinerated.
At some health centers e.g. Arima and Sangre Grande some dressings are collected and sent for
incineration. However at other Health Centres this waste is put out with general waste to be
collected by the various Regional Corporations. At some health centers where collection of waste
by the regional corporations was not regular some burning was carried out.
All liquid waste is washed into public drains, septic tanks or sewer systems. All staff was
generally provided with adequate protective gear, (gloves, aprons, face masks etc.).
4



All expired drugs are kept at the dispensaries until checked and disposed of by the food and drugs
division.
There were no designated areas at these facilities for the temporary storage of waste before
collection by the Regional Corporations. However the waste was stored in closed areas. It should
be noted that some of the health centers surveyed were housed at temporary locations due to
renovation works at the permanent locations, this has resulted in inadequate space at these
facilities, creating problems re-storage of waste.
5. Funeral Homes
Of the thirty-five (35) Funeral Homes in Trinidad ten (10) or 29% were surveyed. Again, records
of waste generated at Funeral Homes are not kept.
Protective clothing is up to required standards and the intemational code of handling of the dead
is practiced. Infectious wastes are placed in garbage bags and are disposed of as general waste
except at Belgrove Funeral Home where they are incinerated and ash placed in garbage bags for
removal by the respective Regional Corporations. With respect to Dass Funeral home, general
waste and infectious waste are taken to the landfill site at Claxton Bay. All sharps are placed in
300ml. Plastic bottles and is disposed of as general garbage.
Ash (cremains) are removed by relatives of the deceased or placed in cremation gardens at
Belgroves and the St.James crematorium. All body washings from Dass and Belgrove Funeral
Homes enter the central Sewer system The others surveyed disposed of their liquid waste into
septic tank and S/A pits. The embalming process involves placing the chemicals into the jugular
vein replacing the blood. The blood (body fluids) is disposed of into the sewer/septic tank
system.
Victoria Laboratory at Chaguanas is a branch of the Victoria Laboratory of Vistabella. All body
fluids are disposed of at the Laboratory in Vistabella. Chemicals are neutralized before disposal.
All body parts are placed within the corpse. No body parts are disposed of outside the body. The
corpses are brought prepared for cremation from the funeral homes at the St.James crematorium.
The cremains are either taken away by the relatives of the deceased or those unclaimed is buried
on the compound. One acre of land is provided for this purpose.
Conclusions and Action Plan for Improving Biomedical Waste Management Practices
The Survey shows that there is an adequate level of segregation, in-house handling, treatment and
ultimate disposal of most biomedical wastes, although there are gaps in management, equipment,
incineration and treatment that present risks to the integrity of the overall system. This results in
part from the system being derived from the application of general infection control practices, and
not seen as a specifically targeted or regulated area of attention.
Improving the situation, and mitigating the risks would be addressed through a set of system-wide
interventions as follows:
(a)       Improving the legal and regulatory framework: Consultants would review the
legal and regulatory framework that exists and propose improvements in
5



definitions, management arrangements, scope of coverage of regulation to
include the transportation of wastes and residues and site disposal.
(b)       Codification of practices: In consultation with facility management and with the
support of outside experts, practices and procedures would be codified, to assure
that all steps in the system were specifically covered, and that "international
standards" were being applied.
(c)       Clarification of management responsibilities: From practice and regulations,
facilities would reinforce and/or establish biomedical waste management
responsibilities in clear personnel assignments.
(d)       Staff training and development: The MOH would organize and conduct a
program to train and familiarize employees in all of the 173 facilities with the
new guidelines and protocols that have been developed. It would then continue to
monitor the application of these under the authority of the revised regulatory
framework.
(e)       Upgrading facilities and equipment: The application of new practices would be
supported with a complement of small equipment and specific site improvements
and/or equipment repairs as necessary for their application (protective gear,
trolleys, bins and containers, monitoring and recording equipment, fluid waste
containers and piping, etc ). In addition, consultants would review the system
demands for inter-site transportation of wastes, incineration and disposal, leading
to a recommendation for investments in new incineration and disposal
technology. These investments would also be financed.
The Ministry of Health, with the support of the Project Coordination Unit (PCU), would manage
the implenmentation of the above actioni plan to be slupported under the project. A budget envelop
of about US$ 2.8 mlillion would be allocatedfor these activities.
Civil Works to be Financed Under Proposed Project
The objective of the interventions to improve the infrastructure as part of the proposed project
would be to enhance the response capacity of health facilities to provide quality services and
scale up the HIV/AIDS program. During project preparation, the project team conducted site
visits and met with the directors and staff of health facilities, and with the Project Administrative
Unit of IDB (currently financing a Health Sector Reform Program through the Ministry of
Health), in order to identify and confirm a list of sites requiring space conditioning and
construction with World Bank project financing. These sites would include: the National Public
Health Laboratory, QPCC&C, National Blood Bank, ambulatory health centers and those that
require some smaller reforms for the installation of the information system. Needs include:
i) The National Public Health Laboratory would be replaced owing to its deterioration
and limited size. Based on the actual equipment, services and staff, the operation area without
expansion of services was established in 9500 square feet;
ii) A new Queens Park Counseling Center and Clinic (QPCC&C) of about 10,500 sq. ft.
would be built to meet present demands for space, however, the size could be adjusted when the
location of the new building is decided and demand for services reestimated;
iii) National Blood Bank would add about 1,100 sq ft to the current laboratory which is
too small for efficient operations;
iv) Seven district health facilities will have small space conditioning reforms to meet the
program's needs; and
6



v) Four enhanced health centers will be reorganized.
The investment would cost about US$5.4 million and would include construction, studies,
designs and supervision of construction. Appropriate complements of equipment valued at
US$1.2 million and training valued at US$ 0.1 million would also be financed.
As assessed during project preparation by the Project team, it is expected that the environmental
and social impacts resulting from the execution of the above-mentioned civil works during the
implementation of the project will be minimal, in view of the following considerations the vast
majority of the interventions are rehabilitation works within the interior of the facilities, thus they
will not affect the activities nor the traffic in the neighborhoods. The construction of the new
National Public Health Laboratory and the Queen Park Counseling Center and Clinic would take
into the account the environmental guidelines listed below for civil works. The project's
Operations Manual, a loan effectiveness condition, will include World Bank's guidelines and
framework in the event of any resettlement caused by the project, alongside guidelines for
construction works and for improving biomedical waste management and disposal in the
participating institutions.
In addition, the programming of works for the new project would include the adoption of the
above guidelines, and in detail in the bidding and contracting documents, for the protection of the
environment and occupational safety.
Stakeholder Consultation
The prepartion of the biomedical waste management audit involved ample consultation with
authorities and staff of health facilities, including private sector providers. Different stakeholders
(line ministries, non-governmental entities such as the Medical Research Foundation of Trinidad
and Tobago, and other organizations such as the Caribbean Network of People Living with
AIDS), more recently during the May5-9, 2003 period, have provided feedback on project
objectives, components, assessments (including technical, environmental, and economic and
financial assessments), and implementation strategies. These groups also endorsed the proposed
investments, including those contemplated for the strengthening of the biomedical waste
management systems in the participating health facilities. The country's Cabinet, comprised of
the Prime Minister and all sectoral ministries, also approved the proposed investments under this
project, including the investments needed for improving the biomedical waste management
system in participating health facilities.
Management of Environmental Risks of Small Construction Works
The proposed HfV/AIDS Prevention and Control Project in Trinidad and Tobago, building upon
the environmental norms and guidelines used during the implementation of the IDB-financed
health project, envisages building and/or conditioning available space of several health facilities.
In the preparation of the request for proposals, the project's PCU, along with the line ministries
involved, would take into account the following guidelines that will be incorporated in the
project's Operations Manual and Standard Bidding Documents for Civil Works. Particularly,
appropriate specifications would be described in the bidding documents for civil works to
mitigate environmental risks that may be identified.
7



Environmental Screening
The PCU would assess the potential environmental risks of the project's civil works investments
which would depend on the type of construction (new National Public Health Laboratory and QP
Counseling Center and Clinic, space conditioning in existing facilities), area available (congested
vs. open area), the location (urban vs. rural) of the proposed construction and whether it is new
work or space conditioning in existing facilities. It may call on the Ministry of Public Works and
the Ministry of Health for expert advice on the matter.
Proposals for the new new construction of the National Public Health Laboratory and the Queen
Park Counseling Center and Clinic would be screened to identify the following risk of:
(a)    Resettlement of families and businesses, the presence of squatters or any other
land titling conflicts, this risk is not envisioned in the construction of the new
Public Health Laboratory as the proposed site is located within the premises of
the existing building that will be demolished;
(b)    Interruption or limitation of accesses to dwellings or businesses either
permanently or temporarily (during construction);
(c)    Encroachment/reduction of green areas, parks, and other recreational areas;
(d)    Demolition of buildings of high architectural or historical value;
(e)    Deterioration of urban quality and property value in the immediate vicinity of the
works  or deterioration  of unique  architectural characteristics  in the
neighborhood;
(f)    Increased accidents in areas with high density of schools, hospitals, and
commercial use;
(g)    Harming urban infrastructure (sidewalks, power and telephone lines, water and
sewerage mains, etc.);
(h)    Creating nuisances during construction (dust, wastes, and heavy construction
traffic);
(i)    Raising natural hazards (floods, soil instability);
(j)    Protecting historically and culturally significant sites.
Bidding documents and contracts would specify terms and conditions governing the works
activity to minimize and mitigate these risks.
Environmental Management Tools
Environmental considerations for the engineering design
The engineering design of project works would take into consideration: (i) connections of the
buildings to the potable water system and the capacity of the existing water distribution network
or the need to establish a water supply system for the building (well, storage tank, pumping
station, etc.); (ii) connection to the sewerage network and the need for capacity expansion for
receiving collectors or the need for a wastewater treatment system for the building (septic tank,
infiltration ditch); (iii) the treatment of wastewater before being discharged to the sewerage
networks or the wastewater treatment system (iv) the management of runoff and the facilities for
8



its recollection and evacuation, having in mind the existing downstream systems; (iv) the systems
of recollection, storage and transportation of solid wastes generated in the building, incorporating
the structures for separation and recycling, (v) appropriate access systems for pedestrians,
municipal and inter-municipal buses, bicycles , children and handicapped people; (vii) the need to
integrate building design with architectonic characteristics of the surrounding neighborhood; and
(vii) avoiding the use of materials such as wood from tropical forests, lead-based paints, asbestos,
for example.
Environmental Enhancement
The architectural design for the National Public Health Laboratory building and the QP Counseling
Center and Clinic could bring opportunities to incorporate and reinforce the criteria of
environmentally friendly buildings. The feasibility of incorporating these aspects into the design
would be analyzed during the conceptualization phase of the architectural designs and during the
engineering designs. This analysis could include: (i) solar panels to satisfy totally or partially the
electricity needs; (ih) rain water storage for the irrigation of gardens and green zones; (iii)
maximizing natural light in order to minimize artificial light needs; (iv) planting of native species in
gardens and green areas; (v) natural ventilation systems, minimizing the necessities of air
conditioning; and (vi) the stabilization of slopes using vegetative measures;.
Environmental Management of Construction Activities
Bidding documents would request contractors to address the following issues when deemed
significant by the PCU and participating line ministries: (i) pedestrian safety and traffic congestion
during construction due to the increase of heavy traffic (of the construction itself and from traffic
detours) in high traffic avenues and exit ramps; (ii) dust and particulate materials, causing nuisances
to surrounding families and businesses, specially to vulnerable people (children, elders); (iii)
undesirable noise levels due to the machinery and equipment specially in areas with hospitals,
homes for the elderly, schools; (iv) degradation of lateral streets due to heavy equipment machinery
and traffic detours; (v) the interruption of services (water, electricity, telephone, bus routes) during
construction; (vi) the adequate disposal of garbage, metals, used oils, and excess material, generated
during construction; (vii) the need of informing the population about construction and work
schedules, interruption of services, traffic detour routes, provisional bus routes, and (viii) pedestrian
security measures, specially for school children, during construction.
Bidding documents would also ask for the identification of suitable sites for waste disposal, the
environmental management necessary (compacting, re-soiling and re-vegetation, drainage control),
and the associated transportation costs should be included in project design and cost estimates.
9



Environmental Supervision during Construction
Supervision of construction would include the compliance with the environmental specifications of
contracts.
Environmental Measures during the Operational Phase
During the operation phase of the construction of the National Public Health Laboratory and the
Queen Park Counseling Center and Clinic adequate provisions would guarantee:  (iO the
maintenance of the systems of collection and treatment of wastewater; (ii) the adequate collection
and disposal of solid waste, incorporating recycling systems and the separation of materials; (iii) the
maintenance of complimentary systems (solar panels, etc.). The engineering design should include
the preparation of operation al manuals and maintenance of all systems.
Public Consultation Prior to the Construction Phase
The PCU may identify the need for community consultation in the area of influence of the
proposed new constructions To this end, a process would be undertaken with the assistance of
recognized professionals for disseminating information and generating feedback from
stakeholders who many be specifically targeted and the public at large. The consultation program
may involve both formal and informal presentations and meetings with the target groups, and
information dissemination campaigns.
Institutional Arrangements and Responsibilities for Implementation and Supervision of
Mitigation Activities
The Office of the Prime Minister through the PCU will be in charge of managing the
implementation and supervision of the mitigation activities identified in this environmental
assessment, with the participation of the Ministry of Health.
Implementation Arrangements for Civil Works
Construction and rehabilitation complement will have separate implementation arrangements to
ensure the effective implementation of the project's construction and rehabilitation activities. The
PCU will function as the implementation entity of the projet, including decision-making on bid
awards/contracting , request for disbursement, and payment for contracts. The PCU will (a)
review the final designs for new constructions o rehabilitations, the way will be directly or across
the consultants, (b) prepare a construction procurement plan; (c) prepare technical specifications;
(c) prepare and conduct the bidding process for the constructions and rehabilitations of the
hospitals and health centers (a member of the line ministries involved will be included in the
evaluation committee to make the award recommendation); (e) verify the equipment inventory;
(f) prepare an equipment procurement plan; (g) prepare technical specification for the equipment;
(h) prepare and conduct the bidding process for the equipment, centers ( a member of the line
ministries involved will be included  in the evaluation committee to make the award
recommendation); (i) prepare contracts for contractors and supervision of their works; (j) prepare
payment orders and their documentations for contractors; (k) prepare contracts amendments and
the necessary documentation: (1) manage breach of contracts and contractor complains; (m)
maintain contract accounts and contract management reports in a manner acceptable to the World
Bank, (n) prepare periodic reports for physical/financial and procurement plan monitoring; and
10



(o) prepare all technical and financial reports requested by GOTT and the Bank. The PCU will be
responsible for the quality of the construction and the opportune implementation of contract
schedules. Also, the PCU will be responsible for contracting the consultants, inspectors and all
the personnel to so a good supervision of the works.
Others activities of the PCU will be to draft and process construction contracts, review documents
and forward the necessary documentation to the World Bank to ensure that it has no objection.
Phases to the Rehabilitation /or New Constructions
Feasibility Phase: This phase includes de analysis of the rehabilitation of internal functionality of
the each Health Center that conduct to make suitable the HIV/AIDS programs, likewise inside
this phase to be revised the studies and plans that have been executed for the new installations of
the National Public Health Laboratory and the Queen Park Counseling Center and Clinic. The
final product will be a master plan for the rehabilitation and new works included into for the
national network of HIV/AIDS programs.
Design Phase: The design phase includes the preparation of design briefs of each Health Centers
and the new National Public Health Laboratory, containing details of the requirements for each
rehabilitation and new work (as identified in the master plan). The schematics designs will be
approve by the Secretariat, and finally, the detailed design will be executed with the technical
construction specifications, quantity of materials, unit prices y total costs. As part of d the design
phase, technical environmental specifications for construction management will be prepared that
will be applied to the all works.
Once detailed designs are finalized and agreed upon by the GOTT, any modifications that are
deemed necessary will be introduced prior to the preparation of bidding documents. The
Secretariat will be prepared the bidding documents for review by the Bank. The Secretariat and
the GOTT conduct the bidding process jointly. All this process will be agree with the master plan.
The PCU would hire according to the Guidelines of the Bank, consultant companies with
experience verified in these tasks
Construction Phase: Construction phase will be managed by the PCU, with the support of a
supervision company. Main responsibility would be to ensure the quality of the construction and
its timeliness. The PCU will develop an information system to keep track of subcomponent cost
and physical advance. The PCU will hire supervision companies, which will assign teams to
supervise each one of the works during the full construction period. These companies will
supervise construction progress and prepare the necessary documentation and payment orders to
pay contractors as specified in the individual contracts It will also contract inspectors to assess
the quality of building materials employed and ensure they are complying with agreed standards.
The PCU will be make the payments from the contracts.
11



