Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7184-TR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated June 27, 2003
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7184-TR 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated June 27 , 2003, between the REPUBLIC OF TRINIDAD 
AND TOBAGO (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“AIDS” means Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome; 
 
(b) 
"Annual Action Plan" means any of the plans referred to in Section 3.06 
(a) of this Agreement; 
 
(c) 
“FMR” means each financial and monitoring report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(d) 
“HIV” means Human Immune-deficiency Virus;  
 
(e) 
“HIV/AIDS High-risk Groups” means groups of population within the 
Borrower’s territory that are highly vulnerable to HIV/AIDS infection, in particular 
commercial sex workers, patients living with STI (as hereinafter defined), adolescents, 
Page  3
-
2
-
street children, drug users, pregnant women, men having sex with men, bisexuals, and 
hotel and tourism workers; 
 
(f) 
“Implementation Letter" means the letter of even date herewith from the 
Borrower to the Bank setting forth: (i) the Project performance indicators; and (ii) the 
scope of the mid-term review referred to in Section 3.08 (b) of this Agreement, as such 
letter may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank; 
 
(g) 
“MOH” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Heath; 
 
(h) 
“NACC” means the Borrower’s National AIDS Coordinating 
Committee, which reports directly to the Office of the Prime Minister; 
 
(i) 
“NIPDEC” means the Borrower’s National Insurance Property 
Development Company Limited; 
 
(j) 
"Operational Manual" means the manual referred to in Section 3.04 (b) 
of this Agreement; 
 
(k) 
“PCU” means the project coordination unit referred to in Section 3.05 (a) 
of this Agreement; 
 
(l) 
“Performance Indicators” means the indicators, for monitoring and 
evaluating progress towards the attainment of Project objectives, set forth in the 
Implementation Letter; 
 
(m) 
“Resettlement Framework” means the Borrower’s resettlement 
framework for the Project, that contains the rules and procedures for mitigating potential 
negative Project impacts on the livelihood of communities affected by the Project; and 
 
(n) 
“STI” means sexually transmitted infections. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to twenty million 
Dollars ($20,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
Page  4
-
3
-
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the cost of goods, works and 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan as 
well as the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement and any premium 
in respect of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar payable by the Borrower in 
accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2008 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective 
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on May 1 and November 1 in each year. 
 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01 
(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.10.  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of  Section 
2.09 of this Agreement and unless the Bank is otherwise notified by the Borrower in 
accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate basis 
applicable to the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during each Interest 
Period shall be changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate for the full 
maturity of such amount  in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through the Office of the Prime 
Minister with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate health, 
technical, administrative, financial, educational and environmental practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required 
for the Project. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
Page  6
-
5
-
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
 
Section 3.04.  (a) Except as the Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Operational Manual. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall issue an operational manual, satisfactory to the Bank, 
containing, 
inter alia
,
specific provisions on detailed arrangements for the carrying out of 
the Project, including:  
 
(i) 
the annual action plan for the first year of Project 
implementation; 
 
(ii) 
mandatory safeguards and mitigation actions for the collection, 
disposal and treatment of medical waste, which safeguards and 
actions shall be applied to prevent or mitigate any possible 
negative environmental impact said disposal might otherwise 
cause as a result of Project implementation; 
 
(iii) 
mandatory safeguards and mitigation actions for the 
construction, rehabilitation and expansion of health facilities, 
which safeguards and actions shall be applied to prevent or 
mitigate any possible negative environmental impact said 
construction may otherwise cause, such as, in particular, increase 
in deforestation, pollution of groundwater, negative impacts on 
endangered species, increased soil erosion, and encroachment on 
natural habitats; 
 
(iv) 
personal health and safety provisions for the handling and 
disposal of hazardous wastes; 
 
(v) 
the Resettlement Framework; and 
 
(vi) 
guidelines for the preparation of Annual Action Plans. 
 
(c) 
If any provision of the Operational Manual is inconsistent with a 
provision of this Agreement, the provision of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
Section 3.05.  (a) The Borrower shall operate and maintain within NACC, at all 
times during Project implementation, a Project coordination unit (the PCU) satisfactory to 
the Bank, with a structure, functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, 
including, inter alia, the responsibility of the PCU to coordinate, monitor and supervise 
the carrying out of the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall ensure that the PCU is, at all times during Project 
implementation, headed by a technical director and assisted by adequate professional and 
administrative staff in numbers and with experience and qualifications acceptable to the 
Bank (including an accounts manager and a procurement officer), all selected in 
accordance with competitive and transparent procedures satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
not later than August 31 of each year of Project implementation, starting 
in year 2004, furnish to the Bank, for its approval, an annual action plan, each said plan 
to include, inter alia: (i) the Project activities to be carried out by the Borrower during the 
calendar year following the presentation of each said plan; and (ii) the procurement plan 
and disbursement plan for said Project activities;  
 
(b) 
thereafter implement each said Bank-approved Annual Action Plan in 
accordance with its terms; and  
 
(c) 
carry out the Annual Action Plan for the year 2004 as approved by the 
Bank prior to the date of this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.07. Without limitation to the provisions of Sections 9.01 and 9.07 of 
the General Conditions, the Borrower shall, not later than thirty days after the conclusion 
of each semester during the implementation of the Project, starting with the semester 
which begins on June 1 and ends on December 31, 2003, prepare and furnish to the Bank 
a
report of such scope and in such detail based on the Performance Indicators, as the 
Bank shall reasonably request with respect to the progress made in carrying out the 
Project during the semester immediately preceding the date of presentation of such 
report. 
 
Section 3.08. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of Sections 9.01 and 9.07 of 
the General Conditions, the Borrower shall, not later than September 1 of each year of 
Project implementation, starting in September 2004, review jointly with the Bank the 
progress made in:  (i) carrying out the Project; and (ii) achieving the objectives of the 
Project, based on the relevant report referred to in Section 3.07 of this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
As part of the annual review to be held not later than September 1, 2006, 
the Borrower shall carry out with the Bank a Project implementation mid-term review of 
such scope as set forth in the Implementation Letter. 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
Section 3.09. 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
enter into an agreement with NIPDEC, under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank (the NIPDEC Agreement), for the purposes of purchasing anti-
retroviral drugs on behalf of the Borrower, in accordance with the procedures set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement; and 
 
(b) 
exercise its rights, and comply with its obligations, under the NIPDEC 
Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or fail to enforce such agreement or any 
provision thereof. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
a
format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project. 
 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than four (4) months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited; and (B) 
an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report 
of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
Page  9
-
8
-
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
 
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals. 
 
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Section 3.07 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Bank, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan and explains variances 
between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
ARTICLE V 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions: 
 
(a) 
that the Operational Manual has been issued and put into effect; 
 
(b) 
that the PCU has been established and properly staffed as set forth in 
Section 3.05 (b) of this Agreement;  
 
(c) 
that the financial management system referred to in Section 4.01 (a) of 
this Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, shall have been established and become 
operational; and 
 
(d) 
that the auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement have 
been appointed. 
 
Section 5.02 The date September 25, 2003 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01. The Permanent Secretary, the Ministry of Finance, is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Eric Williams Finance Building 
 
Independence Square 
 
Port of Spain, Trinidad 
Page  11
-
10
-
Facsimile: 
 
(868) 627-5631 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  12
-
11
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO 
 
By /s/ Marina Valere 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Caroline Anstey 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean 
Page  13
-
12
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
 
1.  
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars
)
to be financed
(1) Works 
4,700,000 
76% 
 
(2) Goods 
6,175,000 
85% 
 
(3) 
Anti-retroviral drugs  
2,700,000 
90% until 
 
expenditures under 
 
this category have 
 
reached an amount 
 
equivalent to  
 
US$1,350,000; and 
 
70%
thereafter 
 
(4) Consultants' 
services 
 
5,345,000 
90% 
 (including 
audits) 
 and 
training 
 
 
 
(5) 
Operating Costs 
430,000 
20% until 
 
expenditures under 
 
this category have 
 
reached an amount 
 
equivalent to  
 
US$320,000; and 
 
7%
thereafter 
 
Page  14
-
13
-
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars
)
to be financed
(6) 
Premia for Interest Rate Caps 
- 0 - 
Amount due under 
 
and Interest Rate Collars 
 
Section 2.09 (c) of 
 
this Agreement 
 
(7) 
Front-end fee 
200,000 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
(8) Unallocated 
450,000 
 
_________ 
 TOTAL 
20,000,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “training” means the non-consultant expenditures incurred by 
the Borrower in connection with the carrying out of training activities under the Project, 
including reasonable travel costs and per diem of trainees, rental of training facilities and 
equipment, and training materials; and  
 
(b) 
the term “operating costs” means the non-consultant expenditures 
incurred by the Borrower in connection with the daily operation of the PCU, maintenance 
of equipment and vehicles, rental of office facilities, office utilities, supplies and 
materials and domestic travel and per diem of PCU staff, which expenditures would not 
have been incurred in the absence of the Project. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
 
(a) 
payments made for expenditures under Category (3) unless the NIPDEC 
Agreement has been signed by the parties thereto; and 
 
(b) 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$2,000,000 may be made in respect of Categories (1) through (5) on account of payments 
made of expenditures within twelve months before that date but after May 5, 2003. 
 
Page  15
-
14
-
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure (under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower) for: 
 
(a) 
works under contracts which are not subject to prior review pursuant to 
Part D of Section I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
goods under contracts which are not subject to prior review pursuant to 
Part D of Section I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
 
(c) 
consulting firms under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent; 
 
(d) 
individual consultants under contracts costing less than $50,000 
equivalent; 
 
(e) 
training; and  
 
(f) operating 
costs. 
Page  16
-
15
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in controlling the spread of 
the HIV/AIDS epidemic through: (a) the scaling up of programs for the prevention, care 
and control of the epidemic, targeted in particular to HIV/AIDS High-risk Groups; (b) the 
heightening of the awareness with respect to HIV/AIDS infection and prevention 
amongst the Borrower’s population; and (c) the strengthening of the institutional capacity 
of the Borrower’s related agencies and civil society organizations to ensure the 
effectiveness and the sustainability of the Project. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A
:
Prevention/Promotion of Activities to Reduce Spread of HIV/AIDS
1. 
Design and implementation of information, educational and 
communication programs, through: (a) the carrying out of educational programs for 
HIV/AIDS High-risk Groups; and (b) the carrying out of outreach campaigns, all for the 
purposes of raising awareness and understanding among the targeted population with 
respect to HIV/AIDS transmission, and promoting behavioral changes with respect to 
safe sex practices among said population to avoid the spread of HIV/AIDS. 
 
2. 
Design and implementation of a voluntary testing and counseling 
program, including, inter alia: (a) the promotion of voluntary testing for HIV and the 
provision of counseling prior to and after said testing with respect to HIV/AIDS (as well 
as other sexually transmitted infections), using the network of basic public health 
facilities in the Borrower’s territory; (b) the provision of training to health care workers 
and doctors;  (c) the provision of dedicated facilities within the public health network; 
and (d) the promotion of partnerships among stakeholders for the establishment of private 
voluntary counseling and testing sites. 
 
3. 
Carrying out of a national social marketing program to: (a) increase the 
accessibility and availability of condoms among the Borrower’s population; and (b) 
promote responsible sexual behavior. 
 
4. 
Carrying out of a mother-to-child transmission preventive program 
which consists of, inter alia: (a) the provision of technical assistance for the preparation 
and implementation of a mother-to-child transmission protocol; (b) the provision of 
training to health care workers and doctors; (c) the provision of laboratory services and 
materials for HIV/AIDS screening; (d) the provision of the anti-retroviral therapy to 
Page  17
-
16
-
pregnant women and new born children; and (e) the provision of counseling and 
treatment. 
 
5. 
Provision of: (a) technical assistance, including specialized training for 
health workers; (b) necessary drugs; and (c) laboratory equipment for the design and 
implementation of a STI prevention and control program to be applied throughout the 
Borrower’s network of health centers. 
 
6. 
Design and implementation of a medical waste management system, 
including: (a) the assessment of the Borrower’s related regulations and procedures; (b) 
the provision of training to health staff on handling and disposal of medical waste; and 
(c) the provision of necessary equipment and infrastructure to improve said system. 
 
7. 
Strengthening of the capacity of laboratories and blood banks, including 
(a) the provision of lab equipment and supplies; and (b) the provision of training to 
laboratory staff in the areas of blood transfusion, laboratory quality control and blood 
bank screening. 
 
Part B:
Access to Treatment and Care
Strengthening of the Borrower’s laboratory network to improve the diagnosis of 
HIV/AIDS and other opportunistic infections, including: (a) the construction of a national 
public health laboratory and the Queen’s Park counseling center and clinic; (b) the 
refurbishing of selected health and pharmacy service facilities; (c) the provision of 
laboratory equipment for diagnostic and confirmatory HIV testing; (d) the provision of 
training to medical staff (including epidemiologists), health workers and pharmacy staff 
in the areas of HIV/AIDS treatment and care; (e) the provision of anti-retroviral drugs (to 
patients outside the mother-to-child transmission preventive program referred to in Part 
A.4 above); and (f) the provision of community and home care, including nutritional 
services. 
 
Part C
:
Advocacy
Reduction of stigma and discrimination against people living with AIDS, 
through: (a) the carrying out of advocacy patients’ rights campaigns throughout the 
Borrower’s territory; and (b) the reviewing of the existing legal framework with respect 
to discrimination associated with HIV/AIDS. 
 
Part D
:
Surveillance, Epidemiology and Research
Strengthening of the Borrower’s HIV/AIDS surveillance system, including: (a) 
the design and implementation of an integrated clinical information system (and 
respective information technology platform) with encryption technology to ensure the 
confidentiality of medical records; (b) the implementation of second generation 
standardized protocols for behavioral and biological surveillance; (c) the provision of 
Page  18
-
17
-
HIV/AIDS surveillance and information technology training; and (d) the carrying out of 
related specialized studies and operational research. 
 
Part E
:
Project Management and Coordination
1. 
Establishment and operation of NACC 
 
2. 
Strengthening the institutional capacity and operation of the PCU. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2008. 
Page  19
-
18
-
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 Payment 
Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each May 1 and November 1 
 
Beginning November 1, 2008 
5% 
 
through May 1, 2018 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Page  20
-
19
-
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate. 
 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
 
Page  21
-
20
-
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 
I
of
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by 
the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
 
(a) 
Grouping of Contracts
(i) 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods (except anti-retroviral 
drugs) shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or more; 
and (ii) to the extent practicable, contracts for works shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $1,000,000 equivalent or more.  
 
(b) 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
(a) 
Works estimated to cost less than $1,000,000 equivalent per contract 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
 
Page  22
-
21
-
(b) 
Goods (except anti-retroviral drugs) estimated to cost less than $250,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
 
(c) 
Procurement of goods and works under this Part shall be carried out 
using standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank. 
 
2. Shopping
Goods (except anti-retroviral drugs) estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of international or national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
3. 
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount no to exceed $1,000,000, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-
price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a 
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion 
date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where 
applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price 
quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete 
the contract successfully. 
 
4. Direct 
Contracting
Anti-retroviral drugs, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $3,000,000 
equivalent, may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
Page  23
-
22
-
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to: (i) each contract for goods and works to be awarded under Part 
B.1 of this Section; (ii) the first contract each for goods and works of each year during 
Project implementation to be awarded under Part C.1. of this Section; and (iii) the first 
two contract for goods to be awarded under Part C.2 of this Section, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of Section II of 
this Schedule. 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the short 
list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per 
contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.7 and footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Least-cost 
Selection
Services rendered by consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Page  24
-
23
-
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services rendered by consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
3. Individual 
Consultants
Services rendered by individual consultants, as approved by the Bank, for tasks 
that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,500,000, shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its review and approval prior to the issuance to consultants of 
any requests for proposals.  Such plan shall be updated every 12 months during the 
execution of the Project, and each such updating shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
review and approval.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan (as updated from time to time) as shall have been 
approved by the Bank. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the report on the 
comparison of the qualifications and experience of candidates, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded 
only after the said approval shall have been given.  The provisions of paragraph 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts. 
Page  25
-
24
-
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
 
