                                                 Document of
                                             The World Bank

                                   FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                                 Report No: 25939-TR




                                   PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                     ONA

                                             PROPOSEDLOAN

                                 INTHEAMOUNT OFUS$20.0MILLION

                                                      TO

                                        TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO

                                                    FORA

                          HIVIAIDS PREVENTIONAND CONTROLPROJECT
 (SECOND PHASEOFTHEMULTI-COUNTRY HIV/AIDS PREVENTIONAND CONTROL
                     ADAPTABLE PROGRAMLOANFORTHE CARIBBEAN)



                                                 June 9,2003




CaribbeanCountry ManagementUnit
HumanDevelopment Sector Management Unit
Latin Americaandthe CaribbeanRegionalOffice


 This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
 their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.

           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

         (Exchange Rate EffectiveJune 2003)

     Currency Unit =Trinidad-Tobago Dollar (TT$)
                 TT$6.13 = US$1.O



                   FISCAL YEAR
              October 1-September 30

           Abbreviations and Acronyms

AIDS      Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
APL       Adaptable ProgramLending
ART       Anti RetroViral Treatment
ARV       AntiRetroVirals Drugs
AZT       Azido-Deoxy Thymidine
CAREC     Caribbean Epidemiology Center
CARICOM   Caribbean Community and Common Market
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CBO
ccc       Community-BasedOrganizations
          Caribbean Council of Churches
CCH       Caribbean Cooperation inHealth
CDB       Caribbean Development Bank
CDC       Centers for Disease Control
CGCED     Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic Development
CIDA      Canadian International Development Agency
CFW+      Caribbean Network of People living with HN/AIDS
CRC
csw       Caribbean RedCross
          Commercial Sex Worker
DALE      Disability Adjusted-Life Expectancy
EU        European Union
ERDMP     Emergency Recovery and Disaster MitigationProgram
ELISA     Enzyme Linked Immune Sorbent Assay
EMF'      Environment Management Plan
GDP       Gross Development Product
GOTT      Government of Trinidad and Tobago
HAART     Highly Active Anti Retroviral Therapy
HEUKJWI   Health Economics Unit of the University of the West Indies
HIV       Human Immune-deficiency Virus
HFLE      Health and Family Life Education
IBRD      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
IDU       Injecting DrugUsers
IEC       Information Education Communication
IPPF      International Planned ParenthoodFederation
IT        Information Technology
I V       Intravenous

                                                           FOROFFICTAL USEONLY

                     KAP             Knowledge, Attitudes, Practices(surveys)
                     LACASO          Latin American and Caribbean Council for AIDS Service
                                     Organization
                     LAN             Local Area Network
                     MIS             Management Information System
                     M&E             Monitoring and Evaluation
                     NIOH            Ministry of Health
                     NISM            Men who have Sex with Men
                     MTCT            Mother to Child Transmission
                     MRF             MedicalResearchFoundation
                     NACC            National AIDS Coordinating Committee
                     NCB             National Competitive Bidding
                     NAP             National Aids Program
                     NGO             Non-Governmental Organizations
                     NIPDEC          National Insurance Property Development Company Limited
                     NISC            National Information Systems Centre
                     OECS            Organization of Eastern Caribbean States
                     OECSRPS         OECS for Pharmaceuticals Procurement Services
                     0 1             Opportunistic Infections
                     OPM             Office of the Prime Minister
                     P4D             Project Appraisal Document
                     PAHO            Pan American health Organization
                     PCU             Project Coordination Unit
                     PLWA            PersonsLiving with HIVlAIDS
                     PMR             Project Management Reports
                     R H A           RegionalHealth Authorities
                     QPCC & C        Queen's Park Counseling Center and Clinic
                     SBD             Standard BiddingDocuments
                     SOE             Statementof Expenditures
                     STI             Sexually Transmitted Infections
                     TB              Tuberculosis
                     UNAIDS          UnitedNations Program for AIDS
                     UNDCP           UnitedNations Drug Control Program
                     UNDP            UnitedNations Development Program
                     UNFPA           UnitedNations PopulationFund
                     UNICEF          UnitedNations Children's Fund
                     UWI             University of West Indies
                     VCT             Voluntary Testingand Counseling
                     WB              World Bank
                     WHO             World Health Organization



                       Vice President:                David De Ferranti
                       Country ManagedDirector:       Caroline D. Anstey
                       Sector Director:               Ana-Maria Aniagada
                       Sector Manager:                Evangeline Javier
                       Sector Leader:                 William Experton
                      Team Leader:                    Patricio MBrquez

This document hasa restricted distributionandmay beused by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.


   TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO: HIV/AIDS PREVENTIONAND CONTROL PROJECT
 (Second Phaseof the Multi-CountryHIV/AIDS Preventionand ControlAPL for the Caribbean)

                                                            CONTENTS

A ProjectDevelopmentObjective
  .                                             .....................................................................................................  2

                                                                                                                                                       2
       2. Key performance indicators ...............................................................................................
       1. Project development objective ...........................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                       2

B StrategicContext
  .                   .............................................................................................................................    4


       2.Main sector issuesand Government strategy........................................................................ 6
       1.Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project ............... 4

       3.Sector issues to be addressedby the project and strategic choices .......................................                                     9

C ProjectDescriptionSummary
  .                                         ......................................................................................................     10


       2.Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ...........................................
       1.Project components .............................................................................................................              10
                                                                                                                                                       15
       3.Benefits and target population.............................................................................................                   15
       4.Institutional and implementationarrangements..................................................................                                15

D ProjectRationale...........................................................................................................................
 .                                                                                                                                                     20
       2.Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies............20
       1 Project alternatives considered and reasonsfor rejection....................................................
        .
                                                                                                                                                       20
                                                                                                                                                       20
       4.Indications of borrower commitment and ownership..........................................................
       3.Lessons learned and reflectedin the project design ............................................................
                                                                                                                                                       21
       5.Value added of Bank support in this project .......................................................................                           21

E SummaryProjectAnalysis
 .                                    ...........................................................................................................      21

                                                                                                                                                       21
      2 Financial..............................................................................................................................
       1 Economic.............................................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                       22
       3.Technical .............................................................................................................................
        ..
                                                                                                                                                       22
      4.Institutional .........................................................................................................................
        .                                                                                                                                              22
                                                                                                                                                       23
      6.Social ..................................................................................................................................
      5 Environmental ....................................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                       24
      7.Participatory approach..........................................................................................................               26

F SustainabilityandRisks
 .         ..                    ................................................................................................................      27

                                                                                                                                                       27
      2.Critical risks........................................................................................................................
      1.Sustainability .......................................................................................................................

      3.Possible controversialaspects.............................................................................................                     27
                                                                                                                                                       27

G MainLoanConditions
 .                  ..        ..................................................................................................................       28

H Readinessfor Implementation
 .                                           ....................................................................................................      28

I CompliancewithBankPolicies
.                                           .....................................................................................................      28

Annexes

 Annex 1.   Project Design Summary
 Annex 2.   DetailedProject Description
 Annex 3.   Estimated Project Costs
 Annex 4.   Economic Analysis
 Annex 5.   Financial Summary
 Annex 6.   Procurement andDisbursement Arrangements
 Annex 7.   Project ProcessingBudget and Schedule
 Annex 8.   Documents inthe Project File
 Annex 9.   Statementof Loans and Credits
 Annex 10.  Country at a Glance


Map:       IBRD27581

                                                TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
                                    HIV/AIDS PREVENTIONAND CONTROL PROJECT
           (SECONDPHASEOF THE MULTI-COUNTRY HIV/AIDS PREVENTIONAND CONTROL APL FOR
                                                   THE CARIBBEAN)
                                              Project Appraisal Document

                                      Latin Americaand the CaribbeanRegionalOffice
                                            CaribbeanCountry ManagementUnit

Date: June 9,2002                                                 Team Leader: PatricioMBrquez
 Country ManagerDirector: Caroline D. Anstey                      Sector ManagerIDirector: Ana Maria Arriagada
 Pro.iect ID: PO76715                                             Sector: HT-TargetedHealth
 Lending Instrument: Adaptable ProgramLending                     Theme(s): HealtthlutritiodPopulation
 Program Financing Data
       APL                 Indicative FmancingPlan                Estimated Implementation            Borrower
                                                                      Period (Bank FY)
                    IBRD                  Others      Total      Commitment
                   US$ m         %        US$m       U S $ m        Date         Closing Date

 A P L l
 L o a dCredit
 APL 2 L o a d                                                                                      Governmentof
 Credit                20.0        100                                              12/31'2008   Trinidad and Tobago
 Total                 20.0
[XI             Loan                 [I Credit            [I Grant [I Guarantee             [I Other[Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Total Project Cost (US$m): 25.0                                      Cofinancing:
Loan Currency: UnitedStates Dollar
rota1Bank Financing (US$m): 20.0
Has there been a discussionof the IBRD financial product with the Borrower?      [x] Yes [INo
Borrower Rationale for Choice of Loan Terms available on File:      [XIYes
Proposed terms (IBRD): Fixed-SpreadLoan (FSL)
Commitment fee: 0.85% first 4 years, 0.75% thereafter                       Front-end fee (FEF) on Bank loan: 1%
Initial choiceof Interest-rate basis: Automatic RateFixing (ARF) every 6 months
Type of repayment schedule:
[XI atCommitment, withthe followingrepaymentmethod(chooseone):final maturityof 15years, includingagrace
     Fixed
periodof 5 years with levelrepaymentof principal
r l LinkedtoDisbursement
L 2
Financing plan(US$m):                       SOUrCe                         Local          Foreign      Total
    Government                                                               I    5.0       I      0    1       5.0
    IBRD                                                                          2.2            17.8           20.0
    Total:                                                                        7.2            17.8   II     25.0
Borrower: Government of Trinidad and Tobago
Responsibleagency: Ministry of Finance
Implementingagency: Office of the Prime Minister (NationalAIDS CoordinatingCommittee)
        Contact person:          Mr.MichaelMendez, Ministry ofFinance

Address:                         Eric Williams FinanceBuilding, IndependenceSq., Portof Spain
Tel: 868-627-9700                           Fax: 868-627-5631                  Email: MMendez@Finance.Gov.Tt
Estimateddisbursements (Bank FY/US$M):

Annual                  2.6             5.7             5.3               3.3        2.1            1.o
Cumulative              2.6              8.3            13.6              16.9       19.0           20.0
Project implementation period:
Expected effectivenessdate: September 2003                                Expected closingdate: December 31, 2008




                                                          - 1 -

 A. Project Development Objective

 1. Projectdevelopmentobjective: (see Annex 1)

 Trinidad and Tobago has completed a major assessment of the level of HIV/AIDS infection in the
 country, and an analysis of the social, cultural, political and economic risks associated with the
 spread of the epidemic. The Government of Trinidad and Tobago (GOTT), through the National
 HIV/AIDSTask Force, has set two overarching and strategic goals:

 (a)     To reducethe incidence of HIV infections; and
(b)     To mitigate the negative impact of HIV/AIDS on persons infected and affected in
        Trinidad and Tobago.

The present project i s designed to contribute to the achievement of these strategic goals by
focusing on attaining the following specific priority area outcomes (development objectives) in 5
years:

(a)     Prevention: curb the spread of new HIV infections.
(b)     Treatment, Care and Support: reduce the morbidity and mortality attributed to
        HIV/AIDS.
(c)     Advocacy and Human Rights: increase the quality of life of People Living with
        HIV/AIDS (PLWA); and
(d)     Surveillance, Research and Management: build sustainable institutional capacity for
        managing HIV/AIDS prevention and control activities for the longer term.

2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The GOTT would monitor project implementation (implementation monitoring) and progress in
key strategic areas against targets stated in the National Strategic Plan (results-based monitoring).
Annex lb proposes a comprehensive monitoring framework for the National Strategic Plan. With
respect to project evaluation, emphasis would be placed on selected outcome and output
indicators presented in the following sections and in Annex la. Impact indicators differ from
outcome indicators in so far that they relate directly to the two overarching goals of the National
Strategic Plan.


Impact indicators

1. HIVprevalenceamong pregnant women
2. Percentageof mortality attributable to AIDS




                                                 - 2 -

Key outcome indicators

Priority area 1

3.   Percentageof general population who both correctly identify ways of preventing the sexual
     transmission of HIV and reject major misconceptions about HIV transmission
4.   Percentage of single people aged 15 to 24 reporting the use of a condom at last intercourse
     duringthe last 12months
5.   Percentageof CSW reporting the use of a condom duringthe last intercourse within the last
     12 months
6.   Percentageof HIV-negative infants born to HIV-infected mothers
7.   Percentage of people aged 15-49 who have voluntarily requested an HIV test, received the
     test and the test results in the last 12 months
8.   Number of STIcases reported from facilities that provide STI services according to national
     guidelines

Priority area 2

9.   Number of HIV infected people receiving antiretroviral treatment over the period 2003 to
     2007
10. Percentage of householdswith an adult aged 15-49 who is HIV-positive and has been illfor
     at least three consecutive months during the last 12 months that received external unpaid
     help incaring for the patient or replacinglost income

Priority area 3

I1. Percentage of enterpriseskompanies (sampled) with non-discriminatory policies and
     practices inrecruitment, advancements and benefits for employees infectedwith HIV

Key output indicators

Priority area 1

12. Percentage of (sampled) enterprises/companies with HIV/AIDS that performed education
     programs inthe last 12months
13. Number of Youth-Drop-In Centers fully operational including peer education programs
14. Total number of condoms available for distribution nationwide during the preceding 12 months
     divided by the population aged 15 to 49
15. Percentageof antenatal clinics offering or referring for VCT
16. Number of public facilities that are staffed by trained counselors providing specialized HIV
     counseling and testing
17. Number of public facilities providing diagnosis, counseling and treatment of STI according to
     national guidelines

Priority area 2

18. Number of health care facilities that have the capacity to deliver appropriate palliative care,
    treatment of opportunistic infections and referral for HIV-infected patients according to national
    guidelines
19. Number of NGOs and CBOs engaged in the response to the HIV/AIDS epidemic that received
    financial or technical support within the national strategic plan inthe last 12 months.



                                                 - 3 -

 Priority area 3


 21. Legislation on HIV/AIDS discrimination in the workplace reviewed and amendments submitted
      to Parliament as appropriate

 Priority area 4& 5

 22. Quarterly national surveillance reports including information on key epidemiological indicators
      disseminated to all key stakeholders
 23. Percentage of key performance indicators tracked and reported to decision makers and
      stakeholders in the last 12months
 24. Percentage of PCU duties in which supervision and financial requirements are met in the last 12
      months


 B.Strategic Context

 1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see
 Annex 1)

 Document number: 19052TR                       Date of latest CAS discussion: March 24, 1999
The proposed project i s consistent with the CAS for Trinidad and Tobago of March 1999. This
CAS identifies the need to increase human capital through investment in education, health and
social programs. The agreed development agenda included the completion of the health reform
agenda during the period 2002-2006 and beyond. In the context of increased integration of
Caribbean countries and great population mobility and immigration among the islands,
HIV/AIDShas becomeacross-border issue. This project is consistent with the CAS and its health
goals by improving the availability of HIV/AIDS prevention and treatment and care for the
population, especially for marginalized groups at high risk. The project i s expected to mitigate
the negative impact of HIV/AIDS on the socioeconomic development of Trinidad and Tobago.


Inaddition, the proposedproject is consistent with the assistancestrategy adopted by the Steering
Committee of the Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic Development (CGCED) during
its meeting held in Washington, D.C. in June 2000. This strategy i s stated in the document
"Toward a Caribbean Vision 2020:         A regional Perspective on Development Challenges,
Opportunities and Strategies for the Next Two Decades," of June 2000, that serves as the
framework for development and assistanceprograms for the Caribbean.


The Multi-Country Prevention and Control APL for the Caribbean, of which this project is part of
its second phase, was designed on the basis of the findings and recommendations of the World
Bank report "HIV/ALDS in the Caribbean: Issues and Options," of June 2000, prepared in
conjunction with CARICOM and UNALDS.


Participation inthe Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Preventionand Control APL

Trinidad and Tobago is the sixth country to participate in the Multi-Country HIV/AIDS
Prevention andControl Adaptable ProgramLending (APL)(after Dominican Republic, Barbados,



                                              - 4 -

 Jamaica, Grenada, and St. Kitts and Nevis). Following an Identification Mission in May 2002,
 GOTT initiated a preparation plan financed in part by a PHRD Grant of US$60,000, and with the
 technical support of CAREC, UNAIDS, UNDP,PAHONHO, and UWI. The plan focused on:

 (a)     Preparation of a National HZWAZDS Strategy and Plan: A National HIV/AIDS Task
         Force prepared a national action plan, based on inputs from a number of national,
         international, and non-governmental organizations, including PLWA. This has included
         among others, an Audit of National Programs and Laboratories: National HIV/AIDS/STI
         Program; Audit of Public Health Laboratories; and Audit of Public Health and Hospital
         Laboratories and Information Systems, financed as part of a broader Health Sector
         Reform Program (supported with IDB financing). Trinidad and Tobago was also a
        participant in the formulation of the Caribbean Strategic Plan of Action under the
        auspices of the Caribbean Community and Common Market (CARICOM) (summarized
        in Annex 4) and has adapted the elements of that response to their own needs and
        situation. The Task Force has presented its early findings on the rationale for a concerted
        HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control project to the Cabinet and has completed an overall
        Strategy and Action Plan. The project would finance selectedkey elements of that Plan.

(b)     Readiness of National Leadership: The GOTT has approved the National Strategic Plan
        and i s seeking a loan from the World Bank to support its implementation. It has moved
        the primary responsibility for implementing the Plan to the Office of the Prime Minister
        and has established the National AIDS Coordinating Committee, which i s multi-sectoral
        in its composition. The GOTT is preparing financing for the initial year of
        implementation as part of its next capital investment budget. The Government has agreed
        on the terms of reference and mandate of a National AIDS Coordinating Committee
        (NACC) and a Chairperson to lead its work.

(c)     Programming for Multi-sectoral Implementation:The formulation of the GOTT Plan
        has beenbasedon wide consultations inanticipation of broad participation of government
        ministries, NGOs, civil society organizations, and international partners in its
        implementation.

(d)     Use of Sustainable Business Arrangements: GOTT has agreed to support the work of
        the NACC with a Secretariat, with a minimum staff, drawn in large part from existing
        agencies and ministries. Further, the implementation strategy calls for the extensive use
        of contracting with deconcentrated sources of service; for example, through the Medical
        Research Foundation (MRF), NGOs, CBOs, FJ3Os and agencies such as CAREC and
        UNDP, to reduce unit costs, build sustainability and allow for flexibility in the types and
        intensity of the activities to be financed. The principles governing these arrangements are
        included in a Project Operations Manual to be approved by the World Bank as part of
        loan effectiveness conditions.

(e)    Monitoring and Evaluation: GOTT has outlined a monitoring framework for tracking
       progress in reaching its strategic goals. It has, in the past, benefited from the support of
       CAREC, University of the West Indies and the local Medical Research Foundation to
       access information on the course of the epidemic and its cost. It would continue to use
       these partners as sources of information. The project would assist in modernizingthe case
       management and surveillance system, which would provide additional monitoring of
       HIV/AIDS. The project would also formalize monitoring of behavior changes which are
       currently being tracked by several NGOs, through "second generation" Knowledge,
       Attitudes, Practices (KAP) surveys.


                                                 - 5 -

 Trinidad and Tobago i s considered to be well positionedto undertake an effective program, and
 therefore would qualify for World Bank assistance under the APL.

 2. Mainsector issuesandGovernmentstrategy:

 Healthstatus andHIV/AIDS situation:

 Trinidad and Tobago enjoys a relatively good health status. Based on PAHO's recent estimates
 for 2001, the country has a reported infant mortality rate of 18.5/1000, a crude birth rate of
 13.7/1000 and a life expectancy at birth of 74.4. Maternal mortality rate, at 44.3/100,000, i s still
 too highfor a country of this income level. Overall, consideringsuch factors as prevailing income
 and education levels, and investments that have been made in the sector, the health system in
 Trinidad and Tobago could have performedbetter compared to its potential. Inorder to improve
equity and social solidarity, the Government has started a Health Sector Reform Program, whose
first phase (1996-2002) i s aimed at strengthening policy-making, planning and management
capacity, separating financing from provision of health care, and improving health sector
regulatory role and the stewardship of the Ministry of Health (MOH). At the same time, it
promotedthe strengthening of the 4 regional authorities by devolving to them the service delivery
and management responsibilities, and setting them as independent statutory entities, accountable
to the MOH.

The MOH has reliable data trends of the epidemic, showing a growth of HIV/AIDS cases in the
last 15 years reaching a cumulative total of 18,000 cases (2000). These figures may be
underestimated due to limited testing and diagnosis'. Only 15% of diagnosed cases are receiving
appropriate care, and 1.5 persons die daily because of AIDS. This performance compounded with
a most worrisome reversal in the decrease of mother-to-child transmission, which started to be
recorded at 2.8% in 1990, went down dramatically, and rose again to 3% in 2000. Likewise, the
ratio of HIV positive infections between medwomen has been reversed in the age group 25-40,
now being higher in women, possibly due to increased commercial sex and the increasing
practice of older men having sex with younger girls. Teenage pregnancy i s also high, and STIs

population is 2.0 - 2.5%, which indicates a generalized epidemic.
among adolescents are on the increase along with HIV incidence. HIV prevalence in the general


The risk of economic and social loss attributable to the epidemic is enormous. It i s estimated that
in 2007, about 5% of Trinidad and Tobago's achievable GDP could be foregone owing to lost
savings (10.3%), investment (15.6%) labor supply (5.2%), and employment (356.7% depending
on the sector); accompanied by a rise of expenditures on Opportunistic Infections (01)related to
HIV/AIDS of about 25%*.

The M O H and a number of national and international agencies have been active in addressing
HIV/AIDS issues. The MOH, for example, has followed a National AIDS Program since the late
1980s. Main activities of the many stakeholders include Information, Education and

' Evidence also shows that most persons who are diagnosed with HIV are identified within about 13 months of
deathattributable to AIDS/OIs, as further indication of the inadequacyof testing and control efforts. Inaddition,
patients presented late in their disease because of lack of availability of antiretroviral drugs and proper facilities
at public hospitals. In addition, patients feared stigmatization and anticipated perceived lack of proper care in
hospital wards (Audit of NationalProgrammes and Laboratories, Trinidad and Tobago: National HN/AIDS/STI
Programme;KPMG June 2001; pp12; and Comments provided by Prof. C. Bartholomew).
 University of he West Indies/CAREC: Macro Economic Impact of HIV Epidemic in Trinidad and Tobago and
Jamaica; 1998


                                                       - 6 -

 Communication (IEC), Voluntary Testing and Counseling (VCT), Mother-to-Child Transmission
 (MTCT) prevention, control of STIs, and blood bank safety and quality assurance. However,
 quality of care is a major problem as evidenced by the fact than none of the laboratories in the
 country observe strict QA/QC requirements and all District Health Facilities lack basic clinical
 laboratory facilities. This undermines the capacity of doctors to make differential diagnosis,
 reduces effectiveness in emergency care, increases unnecessary referrals and hinders a much
 needed expansion of HIV testing and diagnosis. In addition, care and treatment i s now in the
 process of being improved in hospitals of Port of Spain. However, the program has serious
 limitations, especially related to laboratory services, organized routines andprotocols for care and
 treatment, skills for managing HIV/AIDS patients, and broad surveillance systems. One of the
 main factors that affect the management of HIV/AIDS patients is the stigma attached to PLWA
 by members of the population including health workers. Advocacy in relation to the rights of
PLWA has been very weak, and multi-sectoral participation in a coordinated fashion to deal with
this issue is limited. National leadership to achieve inter-sectoral participation and action is also
required.

Issues requiring resolution:

(a)       Fragmentation and Disorganization of Efforts: While there have been numerous well-
          intentioned attempts to prevent and control the spread of HIV/AIDS and to care for the
          infected populations, there has been a pervasive lack of coordination and knowledge-
          sharing among the principal stakeholders and activists. A recent stakeholder mapping
          exercise3showed almost no functional linkages between the public sector health system,
         the private health system, independent NGOs, CBOs and FBOs, and international
         organizations. The result has been a duplication of efforts in some areas with gaps in
         others, lack of sustainability, and failure to create a critical mass of societal involvement.
         The solution would be found in developing and maintaining a system that preserves
          volunteerism, diversity and a multi-sectoral approach to the epidemic, while setting clear
         strategic objectives and establishing accountabilities.

(b)      Ineffective HZV Education and Communications: Since the early 1990s, many and
         varied approaches to raising HIV/AIDS awareness have been undertaken, including
         outreach to selected segments of the population (e.g. fishermen, youth, tourism and hotel
         workers, women's groups, primary school teachers), media communications (video and
         audiocassette production; TV spot commercials, soap opera, popular theater, celebrity
         sponsorship), and associated school teaching (inclusion of HIV/AIDS messages in family
         life and human sexuality lessons). Unfortunately, most of these efforts have only been
         sustained for a few months or episodes and few have been coordinated to re-enforce
         common themes with similar target audiences. The result of these efforts appears to have
         been general familiarity with the epidemic, how it i s transmitted, and negligible
         behavioral changes. In parallel, few incentives have been offered to adapt behavior, for
         example a shortage of condoms at Carnival time and the complexity of early testing and
         counseling. To address these problems, a professional and strategic approach to
         HIV/AIDS Communication and Education would be required.

(c)      Incomplete Clinical Diagnosis and Prevention Capacity: Linked to the weaknesses of
         Trinidad and Tobago's HIV/AIDS education and communication activities, diagnosis and
         prevention has been handicapped by limited voluntary testing and counseling (VCT), and
         inadequate condom distribution. GOTT i s pursuing a growing MTCT program whose


 Audit of Programmes; HIV/AIDS op cit



                                                  - 7 -

      effects are not yet confirmed. Addressing these weaknesses will be a complex task,
      involving improvements in regulation (confidentiality, mandatory notification of
      HIV/AIDS infections), infrastructure (refurbishing of sites and rationalization of
      services), lab guidelines and protocols and staff knowledge and performance.

 (d)  Poor Clinical Management and Treatment: With a poor record of VCT, most cases of
      HIV/AJDS are discovered late in the infection's progression. This severely limits
      treatment options. Very little contact appears to be established between private physicians
      and the public services in this diagnostic effort. Once detected, public sector treatment
      options are themselves relatively few. The Queen's Park Counseling Center and Clinic
      (QPCCC) is mandated to provide care, but its resources, organization, and management
      are considered inadequate from the point of view of patient satisfaction (no
     confidentiality, few staff, lack of empathy, inaccessibility), continuity of care, and in-
     house service availability (QPCCC does not have testing capabilities). Hospitalization,
     when needed i s offered, but clinical management i s considered deficient, owing to the
     lack of a recognized leader in HIV/AIDS case management in-service. Resolution of this
     situation would require a redesign of the patient identification and tracking/surveillance
     system, improvements in staffing and facilities, and the application of improved clinical
     guidelines. Fortunately, CAREC has begun to assist with the provision of a Guideline for
     Clinical Management of HIV Disease, which is being augmented with reference to other
     guidelines in practice. However, CAREC's Guideline Manual i s not yet widely used by
     clinical staff at public hospitals. At present, prescription and the use of ART is very
     limited as i s the monitoring and follow up laboratory capacity (CD4 and Viral Load
     testing). This complicates the promotion of HIV screening, VCT and lifestyle changes.
     Scaling up ART would be a critical step in improving the entire prevention and control
     program.

(e)  Under-Performing Laboratory Services: The Trinidad and Tobago Public Health
     Laboratory currently performs limited HIV testing for the public sector. These services
     are chronically slow and often of questionable quality owing to the lack of test kits,
     equipment malfunction, and inadequate managerial capacity. Private laboratories may
     conduct some HIV testing, but do not interact with the Public Laboratory. HIV/AIDS
     confirmatory testing and CD4 count are done by CAREC, but capacity for performing
     Viral Load i s lacking. For the specific needs of HIV/AIDS prevention and control the
     solution may reside in streamlining the testing function through a combination of
     buildingin-house capacity and out-sourcing through different partnerships.

If3  Sporadic NGO/CBO/FBO Involvement:              While it depends on their volunteerism,
     outreach capacity and diversity, GOTT has not made a significant contribution to
     sustaining NGO activity in HIV/AIDS prevention, treatment and care. Representatives
     have been involved in the design and provisions of a new national HIV/AIDS program,
     however, for these to be effective, a mechanism for selecting credible NGO, CBO, FBO
     partners and proposals, and for funding credible activities would be required.
     International partners have provided support for the formation of a new Trinidad and
     Tobago HIV/AIDS Alliance (TTHAA), but the full value of this organization to deliver
     prevention and control services has not been fully exploited by GOTT.




                                             - 8 -

 Government strategy:

 GOTT has recently completed a National HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan through a Task Force
 comprising about 25 representatives of private sector, public sector, and some international
 agency stakeholders. Its strategy is guided by the work of the Caribbean Task Force on
HIV/AIDS which produced the Strategic Plan of Action (2000) (Annex 2) that has influenced
 several other Caribbean states in framing their national plans. It is also being assisted by
UNAIDS, PAHOICAREC, and by recently completed program designs in countries which have
received World Bank financing in the Caribbean.

The strategy would be to give balanced attention to prevention and treatment. It would entail
change in the general social environment regarding safe sexual practices, as well as the
acceptance of PLWA. It would target the information and clinical needs of vulnerable groups and
individuals. While led by the public sector, the strategy would be to involve wide participation of
civil society through the NGO, FBO, and the CBO communities. The public provision of ART
has been realized since April 2002 when the Government made antiretroviral drugs available to
the public at no cost following a significant price reduction of HAART. The Government has
contracted the Medical Research Foundation (MRF) to conduct the treatment program, and at
present, about 500 PLWA are under treatment and follow upby MRF.

The strategic plan of action will implement five sets of interventions:

(a)      Preventing and controlling new infections through improved HIVIAIDS testing capacity,
         clinical interventions, and condom distribution and modification of behavior of
         individuals in vulnerable groups.
(b)      Opening access to additional care and support through improved treatment options
         including ART and home care.
(c)      Promoting rights through legislative reform, and advocacy of rights of PLWA, clinical
         and epidemiological surveillance and research; and
(d)     Establishingsustainedresponse management including introducing sustainable and multi-
         sectoral managementarrangements.

These interventions would: (i) the public perception and acceptance that HIV/AIDS i s a
                                 raise
social and economic threat, and mobilize multi-sectoral interventions for behavioral change,
prevention, care and control; (ii)consolidate the view that HIV/AIDS is a treatable and
manageablepersonal and public health issue, by facilitating access to treatment includingART as
well as treatment for 01s; and (iii)protect the civil and human rights of PLWA.

3. Sector issuesto be addressedby the projectandstrategic choices:

Through the proposed project, GOTT would resolve issues that have hampered a full response to
HIV/AIDS including:

(a) Supporting the development of a strong multi-sectoral participation in a well-coordinated
HIV/ALDS program, of the MOH and other line ministries, NGOs and other civil society
organizations, coordinated by Government at the highest level. Advocacy activities for policy
formulation related to HIV/AIDS would be promoted through NGOs and other civil society
groups involved in human and civil rights of HIV/AIDS patients.




                                                - 9 -

 (b) Restructuringand scaling up of activities of the current National AIDS Program, in order to
 reach not only target groups but also the population in general in the most cost-effective manner.
 Particular emphasis would be assignedto prevention and control activities.

 (c) Strengthening the health sector infrastructure to ensure efficient and effective laboratory
 services for the diagnosis and treatment of STIs, HIV/AIDS and opportunistic infections, other
 diseases of public health importance, as well as strengthening care and treatment activities for
 HIV/AIDS patients both at the community level and at hospitals.

 (d) Establishing sustainable institutional arrangements to ensure an efficient implementationof a
 possible HIV/AIDSprevention and control project; and

 (e) Strengthening case management and surveillance capacity through improving clinical and
 managementinformation systems and the required information technology platform.


 C. Project DescriptionSummary
 1.Projectcomponents: (see Annex 2)
The activities for project support havebeen selectedfrom discussions with the GOTT ,NGOs and
other stakeholders and grouped into the 5 components, similar to the 5 priority areas
contemplated in the Five-Year National HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan (2003-2007)4. According to
their specific needs, these components would apply to Trinidad, Tobago or both:


COMPONENT 1:PREVENTION OF THE SPREADof HIV/AIDS (US$8.06 million)

Promotion of Behavior Change

Heighten education and awareness.                   The project would design and implement a
Communications Program to intensify HIV/AIDS education and awareness programs, using
multiple communication channels to target messages to different audiences.                   In particular,
interventions will focus on encouraging delayed sexual activity for those who have not yet started
and on encouraging the adoption of safe sexual practices for the sexually active population. The
project would finance consultations with stakeholders and line ministries on mass media
campaign contents and Information, Education, Communication (IEC) materials, consultant
services (firms) for planning, production and execution of highly targeted media campaigns, and
the planning, production and dissemination of IEC materials for each component intervention, as
well as assessments of IEC intervention's impact and systematic incorporation of improvements
(2 studies).

High Risk Groups. Young women, men who have sex with men (MSM), commercial sex
workers (CSWs), prisoners, youth's in-and out-of-school and substance abusers would be
identified for special attention.       In each case, the project would promote behavior change
interventions through risk reduction programs, VCT testing, treatment and care.                   Although
intravenous drug use (IDU) as a mode of HIV transmission i s very uncommon in Trinidad and
Tobago, the Project would target this group through the National Alcohol and Drug Abuse
Program (NADAP) and NGOs devoted to care for this group. Regular surveys will be taken on
youth sexuality to monitor and evaluate the extent to which programs achieve the desired


 University of West Indies: Five-Year National HN/AIDS Strategic Plan Janualy 2003- December 2007. (September
2002)



                                                    - 10-

behavior modification. The project would finance consulting services to: a) plan annual
campaigns and produce materials for target groups; b) conduct rapid mapping exercises with
participation of NGOs, CBOs and stakeholders; and c) identify most effective interventions to
reach highriskgroups with participationof stakeholders. It would also finance annual audiovisual
campaigns executed by NGOs, interactive sessions, role-playing, and materialdistribution as well
as audiovisual equipment and software; a pilot testing of innovative methods to reach high risk
groups with support of NGOs, CBOs, private practitioners; peer training, skill building
workshops; and implementation of other innovative outreach campaigns and assessment of
interventions.

Improveavailabilityandaccessibilityof condoms

A social marketing program would address the recommendation in the Audit of National
Programs and Laboratories, Trinidad and Tobago -ANPL-5:"In Trinidad and Tobago, there i s a
need to de-stigmatize and normalize condom usage by promoting condoms as part of a positive
and healthy lifestyle".   This Social Marketing program would provide promotion and education
on condom use among peer groups, stressing sexual responsibility, especially among young
groups.

Mother-to-ChildTransmission MTCT- Prevention
                                    -

The project would support the continuation and nationwide expansion of the MTCT Prevention
Program under implementationby the MOH. A cost effectiveness evaluation would be made after
one year of experience with this Program, to decide whether to continue with the current program
or to make changes, possibly to different regimes6.

The project would finance technical assistance to review planned MTCT program interventions
and support their implementation; production and distribution of MTCT guidelines, clinical
protocols and other publications; training for health care workers and doctors on MTCT; post-
counseling and support for positive mothers and counseling on avoiding infection to sero-
negative women; laboratory services for screening newborns for HIV/AIDS; pap smears on
regular basis for women for HIV status; lab materials and testing kits for screening, pre/post
counseling pregnant women after 12th week of pregnancy and for anonymous sero-prevalence of
HIV, Hepatitis B, HTLV-1 infections in pregnant women; Nevirapine drug purchasing and
distribution to women who test positive and their newborns; public relations campaign planning,
production and execution to decrease stigma on HIV infectedpregnant women.

VCT NationalProgram

Although HIV testing i s available at private laboratories, counseling services are, for the most
part, notably absent. The project would support a national VCT Program using the network of
public health facilities strategically located throughout the country - in the five main hospitals
(Port of Spain General Hospital, Eric Williams Medical Complex, San Fernando General
Hospital, Sangre Grande District Hospital, and the Scarborough Hospital in Tobago), all District
Health facilities and at least fifteen health centers. Youths will be provided with friendly services
at seven Youth Drop-in-Centers in Trinidad (Port of Spain; San Fernando; Arima; Point Fortin;


  KPMGConsulting(2001). Audit of National Programmesand Laboratories, Trinidad and Tobago: National
HIV/AIDS/ STIProgramme.

 Altemative regimesto consider: ACTG 076/ANRS 024; Thailand-CDC; HIVNET/SAINT 012



                                                 - 11 -

 and Chaguanas) and two in Tobago: Charlottesville and Scarborough (see Annex 2, first section
 of Component I1for a description of the health network).

 Private VCT Sites: The project would promote the establishment of private VCT sites by the
 insurance sector, NGOs and private sector business organizations to provide VCT services to
 their clients. The project would finance consultant services for VCT organization and training;
 upgrading physical capacity at health facilities to perform VCT; training services for nurses,
 counselors, blood bank workers and physicians in the health network; audiovisual equipment and
 software purchasing for counseling and confidentialtesting.

 STIs SyndromicManagement

Diagnosis, treatment and counseling of STIs would be provided throughout the primary health
care network in Trinidad and Tobago (see Annex 2, first section of Component I1 for a
description of the health network). National protocols for diagnosis and treatment will be
developed. A full Youth Clinical Service Center would be constructed in Tobago as Tobago's
stakeholders identified the need for such a facility. The project would finance training, education
and reorientation courses for health workers in syndromic management approaches; equipment
for clinical examination, lab equipment, audiovisuals purchasing for STI; pre-packed therapy
drugs purchasing for STIs; and distribution of IEC materials for STIs inhealthfacilities and other
selected outlets.

BiomedicalWaste Management

With an increase in the volume of testing associated with an expanded HIV/AIDS treatment
program, additional capacity and improved practices are indicated for the management of bio-
medical wastes. These improvements would be made in the context of a broader review and
refurbishing program in this area; touching, possibly, the revision of legislation and regulations,
reform of administrative practices and treatment and collection norms; treatment and disposal
facilities; and training of health personnel. The project would finance consultant services,
equipment, training and works necessaryto modernize the system.

BloodBankandTransfusionServices

The national guidelines on screening and transfusion will be monitored regularly and revised as
necessary. Counseling will be extended to donors who test positive. Post-exposure services
would be established to ensure appropriate protection to employees dealing with HIV/AIDS. The
project would finance technical assistance to ensure 100% HIV testing of donated blood;
complementing lab equipment and reagent supplies for hospitals; training lab staff at hospitals in
blood transfusion and lab quality control and blood bank screening.

COMPONENT2: TREATMENT, CAREAND SUPPORT (US$II.I3 million)

A key element for establishing treatment, care and support for HIV/AIDS patients, is an
appropriate health network, both public and private (see Annex 2, first section of Component I1
for a description of the health network). The project would finance the installation capacity for
HIV testing in selected health centers, as well as in all Enhanced Health Centers and District
Health Centers (DHC). General hospitals in Port of Spain (Northwest Region), San Fernando
(South West Region), Sangre Grande (Eastern Region), and Scarborough (Tobago Region) would
also be supported by the project financing to install lab equipment and staffing for diagnostic and
confirmatory HIV testing as well as CD4 testing. The project would finance the construction of a


                                               - 12-

new building for the National Public Health Laboratory within the same site and would
complement the required equipment to ensure appropriate performance of the public health
laboratory functions. Rapid confirmation testing and PCR would also be financed as well as the
best alternative between leasing Viral Load equipment by the National Health Laboratory or
contracting with CAREC or other overseas facilities for the supply of required Viral Load testing
services.

Treatment,FacilitiesandLaboratoryCapacity

ARV therapy would be administered in the MRF, the general hospitals of Port of Spain, San
Fernando, and Scarborough, the Eric Williams Medical Complex, the Cyril Ross Home, and in
five District Health Centers. The project would support matching MRF staff and training
additional needs and MRF would provide services equivalent to these investments under a
contract of services.

The project would finance the construction of new buildings for the National Public Health
Laboratory and the Queen's Park Counseling Center and Clinic (QPCCC), and the provision of
dedicated facilities within the public health network; purchase of equipment for the National
Public Health Laboratory, selectedhospitals and health centers for HIV lab screening and testing;
training for medical staff in ART, monitoring and drug resistance; training for lab staff in the
diagnosis of HIVIAIDS and opportunistic infections; upgrading pharmacy service infrastructures
to ensure timely and permanent HIV/AIDS treatment; training for pharmacy staff on patient
education, better tracking and accountability, timely dispensing practices of ARV; training
manuals for home care. The project would also finance training for health staff on clinical
management of HIV/AIDS and ART for PLWA and opportunistic infections treatment and care;
drugs for triple ART, opportunistic infections, and TB.

Homeand CommunityCare

Support beyond medicalcare to those infected and directly affected by HIV is an essential part of
HIV/AIDS care and treatment. This support would include the provision of economic and social
support to those who require it and nutritional services for PLWA. Researchprograms that assess
the socio-economic needs of disadvantagedPLWA and their affected families will be undertaken.

COMPONENT3: ADVOCACYAND HUMANRIGHTS (US $0.45 million)

The GOTT will draft legislation in relation to discrimination against PLWA in the workplace.
The project would provide the financing for the retention of services of consultants to review the
legislation with respect to discrimination against PLWA in the workplace and other fundamental
rights of PLWA and to make recommendations as to the amendments of such legislation and/or
propose legislation which may be needed. The project will also finance NGO services for
planning and implementingpositive advocacy campaigns.




                                               - 13-

 COMPONENT4: SURVEILLANCEAND RESEARCH (US$2.52million)

 The project would support the implementation of standardizedprotocols for behavioral ("second
 generation") and biological surveillance with the assistance of CAREC, MRFand other partners.
 These institutions would also assist the M O H in providing technical support towards the
 strengthening of the STIIHIVIAIDS case management and surveillance system and execution of
 surveys. The project would finance the training of medical epidemiologists.         Integrity and
 confidentiality of the electronic medical records would be ensured with encrypting technology.

 The scope of research activities would address issues on HIV/AIDS epidemiology, behavioral
 changes, clinical and community management of HIV/AIDS and cost-effectiveness of
 interventions. Researchproposals would be examined and selectedfor possible financing.

 The project would finance the technical assistance required for the selection, acquisition,
 adaptation and implementation of clinical information systems focusing on epidemiological
 indicators and on HIV/AIDS case managementand surveillance from applications available in the
 market; sexual risk; behavior surveys; HIV/AIDS surveillance training; information technology
training; LAN installation, hubs, UPS, communications; servers, work stations and operational
 software; scanners and printers; broad band installation & annual service; research proposed by
national and regional agencies.

COMPONENT 5: PROGRAM MANAGEMENT, COORDINATION AND EVALUATION
(US$2.02 million)

The project would support the establishment and initial operations of a sustainable institutional
structure and management team that would allow the country to effectively control and prevent
the spread of HIVIAIDS, and care for PLWA over the long term. This would be accomplished by
providing the necessary leadership, technical advisory services, staffing, goods, and general
operating costs of the participating institutions and community organizations, including NGOs.
At the core of this structure would be the formation of the NACC with a mandate to provide
policy and program advice and oversight, and a Secretariat (which would be the PCU for the
project in its initial stages) mandated to design, program, implement, monitor and report on the
multi-sectoral response.

The project would finance coordination meetings; reporting and public outreach costs; office
equipment; incremental national staffing; incremental operating costs; consulting services related
to baseline studies; midterm review and final review; and annual financial audits.

Monitoring and Evaluation

A monitoring framework has been agreed upon that would permit NACC to track the course of
the epidemic and evaluate its success in meeting the GOTT's strategic goals. Cost of
implementingthis process would be financed from the project. In addition, the HIV/AIDS case
management system, the installation of IT platform in hospitals, laboratories and health centers
and the online access to private physicians, would provide secured real time information on
treatment costs and outcomes at all levels of patient care. The project would provide for third-
party technical evaluators of the project's progress at mid-term and prior to closing.       With
regional support from CAREC, the MOH would strengthen its epidemiological and analytical
capacity to monitor the HIV/AIDS situation and to evaluate the impact of the project.




                                                - 14-

 Table 1:EstimatedProject Costsby Component




 2. Treatment, CareandSupport
 3. Advocacy and HumanRights
 4. SurveillanceandResearch




2. Key policyandinstitutionalreformssupportedby the project:
The project would directly address the issue of the rights and legal protections for PLWA and
foster a culture shift towards regarding HIV/AIDS as a chronic and treatable condition. The
project would also support the reform of regulations governing confidentiality, notification, and
access that are important aspects of detection, diagnosis and treatment.

GOTT would, through the project, institutionalize multi-sectoral interventions to prevent and
control the spread of infection and would mainstream the HIV/AIDS program through a
regularized and budgeted NACC and Secretariat.

3. Benefitsandtarget population:

Benefits to individuals and the community will be felt in the reduced risk of infections, reduced
discrimination and improved life quality for PLWA. With treatment, life should also be
prolonged. With project interventions, the incidence of HIV infection should be reduced by about
50% to about 450 per million, the number of active HIV/AIDS cases should decrease by about
10%(about 2020 cases in 2007), and those infectedwould live longer than if the disease were to
follow its natural course. From a macroeconomic perspective, this would be translated into
reduced risks of annual GDP loss from work loss through lower productivity and absenteeism,
diverted and lost savings, rising social service costs for impacted families among others. In
addition, Trinidad and Tobago would reduce reputation risks to its tourism industry and improve
its image vis-&vis foreign investors.

4. Institutionaland implementationarrangements

PhasedImplementationStrategy

While maintaining focus on the four main themes of the National Strategy, project activities
would be executed following annual work programs that built, successively, on achievements and
lessons in proceeding years. This would account for the fact that the effectiveness of many
proposedproject activities, especially those that are directedat changing behavior and attitudes, is
difficult to predict ex ante. Annual progress reviews would contribute to the use of rolling annual
work plans and a mid term review will be an important management tool for project adjustments



                                               - 15-

 ifnecessary.

 Of particular concern would be GOTT's ability to scale up the ART program currently
 administered by the MRF.Progress would be assessedthrough the following benchmarks:

           Establishing and operating the management structure for the program, including the
           National AIDS Committee, the Secretariat and PCU and a specialist AIDS clinical
           management team in the QPCCC and RHAs/hospital facilities;

           Preparation and initial implementation of four key prevention activities cited in
           Component 1; and

           Completion of infrastructure and human resource preparation for managing ART, which
           would involve:

          o Refurbishing, remodeling, expansion of clinical spacefor voluntary testing and
             counseling, laboratory and pharmaceutical services, and home and hospitalcare for
             HIV/AIDS patients;
          o Equippingand staffinglaboratory facilities for in-country HIVtesting (ELISAtest),
             opportunistic diseases, CD4 count and ensuring access to viral loadtesting;
          o Establishing an acceptableprocurement record for purchasing andmanagingARV
             drugs in adequateamounts;
          o Completing staffingand training for MOHand hospital AIDS clinical management
             teams; and
          o Satisfactory adoption of updatedprotocolsfor ART as well as updatingthe manual
             for the proper handling and disposal of medical waste.

InstitutionalArrangements

The project would be implemented through an institutional and management structure that would
permit the widest participation of stakeholders, NGOs and community groups and that would
elevate public accountability for results. Implementation arrangements should make use of scarce
human resources and complement them as required in areas of technical capacity as well as
financial and administrative management through the sharing of functions among agencies. It
would also add selected specialized staff not yet available in Trinidad and Tobago in areas of
overall HIV/AIDS multi-sectoral program management, strategic communications and behavior
change. This structure would also recognize the differences in the unique social and cultural
differences between Trinidad and Tobago, and the opportunities this presents confronting the
epidemic in these two islands.

To accomplish these objectives, the GOTT has adopted the following governance structure for the
National response, and the project:

(a) Office of the Prime Minister: The GOTT has attached the responsibility for the management
and results of the response directly to Office of the Prime Minister. This will provide strong
visibility and accountability of the response and the project vis-&vis the broad public interest.
This arrangement will also provide the Office of the Prime Minister directly with advice and
commentary on HIV/AIDS policy and strategic directions for the response and accounting for
results.




                                               - 16-

 (b) National AIDS Multi-Sectoral Coordination Committee (NACC): Under the authority of the
 Office of the Prime Minister, the GOTT has approved the formation of a NACC which would
 include the participation of major HIV/AIDS stakeholder groups, such as representatives of
 relevant public and private institutions, NGOs, PLWA, health care providers, civil society
 advocates, and international agencies working in the field (such as CAREC/PAHO/WHO,
 UNAIDS, UNDP). Such a structure proved successful as the HIV/AIDS national response
 preparatory task force, whose work was completed in December 2002. The NACC would advise
 the GOTT on HIV/AIDS policy, set the priorities for the project, advise on budget parameters,
 and ensure completion of the National Strategic Plan. This committee would be fully accountable
 to the Office of the Prime Minister for project results.

 (c) chairperson of the NACC: The NACC would be chaired by a person selected on the basis of
 hidher reputation and public credibility in the area of public health and social development. The
 Chairperson would be a national spokesperson for the National HIV/AIDS Response, an interface
 between the public and the Government on matters of HIV/AIDS advocacy, and a major point of
 contact between Trinidad and Tobago and the internationalHIV/AIDS community.

 (d) The Secretariat: A Secretariat has been established to be the operating arm of the NACC and
to implement its decisions. Its role would be to plan and program HIV/AIDS prevention and
control work plans, manage the financing of services performed by others rather than provide
 these services directly, and monitor results. The Secretariat would be staffed with inter alia: (i)
                                                                                                   a
Technical Director who would be responsible for overall management of the work; (ii)       a Deputy
Technical Director who may be the coordinator for the Strategic Plan in Tobago; (iii)    a Program
Officer for Strategy Planning and Management; (iv) a Program Officer for Monitoring and
Evaluation; (v) an Information and Communication Specialist; (vi) a Finance Officer; (vii) an
ExecutiveAdministrative Officer responsible for procurement; (viii) an Executive Administrative
Secretary; (ix) a Senior Administrative Secretary; (x) a Driver/Messenger/Office Assistant and
(xi) a Maid/Office Assistant. To ensure long-term sustainability of the NACC and the Secretariat,
such staff may be engaged through personal services contracts or secondments from other
branches of government service. The Secretariat would also serve as the Project Coordinating
Unit(PCU) for the project.

To assist it in establishing the Secretariat, GOTT is procuring the services of UNDP to provide
logistical and administrative support, including: organizing and equippingoffices, recruiting key
staff, establishing a financial management system and training staff, and building capacity to
manage procurement that would follow World Bank procurement guidelines. This phase of
UNDP support would last about four months. Under this agreement, the Secretariat would
continue to receive advice, and training for an additional 12 months with special emphasis on the
functioning of the PCU. GOTT would finance this agreement with its own resources. GOTT
would retainthe responsibility for the project implementation and fiduciary accountability.

(e) Tobago HIVIAIDS Coordination Office: The Tobago House of Assembly (THA) will be
responsible for the coordination of National Response and project activities in Tobago and will
appoint a coordinator. With a population of about 50,000 (exceeding, for example, the population
of St. Kitts and Nevis) this would be considered a full-time assignment. This Office would be
located in Tobago and the coordinator/liaison officer would "tele-commute" to Trinidad and visit
on a regular basis to ensureconsistency of efforts in Tobago with overall project implementation.

(f)HIV/AIDSFocal Points inGovernment MinistriedAgencies: Progressively, within the public
sector, an increasing number of ministries and agencies would assume different roles in
HIV/AIDS prevention and control. The Ministrv of Health would be the dominant ministry in


                                                - 17-

 this regard, being responsible for all clinical aspects of the project. MOH would also be
 responsible for implementing an improved biomedical waste management program. In the first
 project year, additional key ministries such as Education and Social Services and others with on-
 going HIV/AIDS activities that could be readily absorbed, would participate fully in areas such as
 prevention (IEC) and community care. Others would come into the project as they developed
 viable and credible work plans. An agency focal point, which would be an individual identified
 in each participating Ministry or agency, would be responsible for coordinating HIV/AIDS
 related activities of their institutions with regard to the specific needs and characteristics of their
respective constituencies. In the case of MOH, this would be the Chief Medical Officer. He/she
 and other focal points would be responsible, with the technical and financial support of the
Secretariat and PCU, for the design and implementation of project activities in their respective
areas. Details of these arrangements would be given inthe Project Operations Manual.

(g) Non-governmental, faith-based and community-based organizations: NGOs, CBOs and FBOs
would be invited to initiate new HIV/AIDS prevention and control activities or to extend and
continue those that they are currently managing, through contracts with the Secretariat. Selected
NGOs may be solicited to perform specific functions as well. They would, depending on their
comparative advantages, focus on serving the needs of specific target groups at risk or in need of
care. Many such organizations are relatively small and lack the legal status and managerial
structure required to enter into contracts, although they could play an important role in their
respective communities in supporting PLWA and their families. In these cases, an arrangement
would be made with the Trinidad and Tobago HIV/AIDS Alliance (TTHAA), to act as their
representative. Details of the relationship between the Secretariat and the NGO community are
given inthe Operations Manual.

ImplementationArrangements

Implementation arrangements would be summarized in the project's Operations Manual, which
would be agreed upon as a condition of loan effectiveness. These arrangements would be
discussed with stakeholders during a project launch workshop to follow project approval. Major
provisions would cover:

Annual Work Planning and Programming. The SecretariatPCU would be responsible for
developing annual work programs to achieve the short-term goals culminating in the strategic
outcomes. Annual plans would reflect experience gained through the implementation process.
The planning cycle would follow the preparation of the GOTT annual budget. The Bank would
agree with each annual work programprior to its initiation.

Procurement. Standard World Bank Guidelines for procurement would be applied throughout
the project. Tendering would be executed by the SecretariatPCU on behalf of all other agencies
and ministries with the support of UNDP. Typically, focal points would be responsible for
agreeing on their activities consistent with the National Response, identifying the resource needs
for implementing the activities, and outlining the terms of reference for hiring consultants and
technical specifications for goods, services and works. They would then collaborate with the
SecretariatPCU, which would conduct the tendering, contracting and accounting associatedwith
the activity, andultimately be responsible for the use of the resources that were obtained.

Contracting for the services of NGOs, FBOs and CBOs would follow World Bank guidelines for
selecting consulting firms. A procedure for inviting proposals, screening proponents, and
evaluating proposals would be agreedand detailed inthe Operations Manual.




                                                  - 18-

 When arrangements have been completed for strengthening the protocols, pharmacy services and
 other supporting infrastructure, the procurement of ARV would be undertaken by NPDEC,
 following agreed guidelines applicable to the purchase of branded goods under sole-source
 arrangements.

A procurementassessmentwas conductedduringproject preparation, and its results are described
 in Annex 6.

Financial Management. Financial management would be centered in the SecretariatPCU. A
financial management assessment has been conducted and steps agreed upon to ensure adequate
safeguards (Annex 6).

Key elements of the financial managementregime would include:

a) GOTT would pre-finance project estimates through regular processes of making requisite
     budget allocations, executing these allocations through the OPM, drawing on the consolidated
     fund. GOTT may also requestdirect payments to suppliers inselectedcases.
b) Use of a simplified FMR system that followed Bank guidelines for establishing the chart of
     accounts and report formats; agreedcategories for disbursement.
c) The use of Statementsof Expenditure (SOEs) for the purposesof disbursement.
d) Annual audits by independentauditors selectedprior to loaneffectiveness; and
e) An allowance for retroactive financing of up to 10% of the anticipated loan amount, for
     eligible expenditures made after May 5, 2003 (date of project appraisal) prior to project
     effectiveness.

Use of Cooperating Agencies: In order to scale up the clinical treatment and care components
and to provide the necessary laboratory services to support the expanded response while
improvements in infrastructure, equipment, staffing and training are being made within the
project; the GOTT would conclude implementation agreements with partner agencies. GOTT
would continue to contract with Medical Research Foundation to provide screening, counseling,
treatment and monitoring of HIV/AIDS patients and to be a pilot case for testing the application
of the new surveillance and case management system prior to scaling it up.It would contract with
PAHOKAREC to provide laboratory services supporting VCT and case management, technical
support in establishing protocols, and mentoring and training for the growing public HIV/AIDS
responseinthe public sector.

Monitoring and Evaluation.        The NACC would adopt a comprehensive framework for
monitoring the implementation and results of the National Response and the project. Details
concerning the logical framework and the indicators are included in Annex 1. The Secretariat
would compile information from various authoritative sources tracking the clinical aspects of the
epidemic and would contract for the execution of periodic third generation KAP surveys. The
Secretariat would also regularly monitor and report on the inputs and activities financed under the
project.

To assist the monitoring effort, at the micro level, the project would support the design,
installation and training for operationalizing a new case management and surveillance system.
This system would reinforce the epidemiological research that is currently being undertaken by
MOH, CAREC and MRF.




                                               - 19-

 Annual reviews of implementation progress (inputs and outputs) would be part of the work
programming cycle to ensure that lessons from ongoing experience are accommodated. A mid
term strategic review and final impart monitoring would be conducted with the assistance of third
parties.

D: Project Rationale

1. Projectalternativesconsidered andreasonsfor rejection:

Following experience with most successful HIV/AIDS projects, the GOTT has made two major
design elements:

(a)     Multi-Sectoral Approach versus Single Sector (Health): GOTT has decided to engage
        activities in prevention and treatment that span several sectors and involved multiple
        partnerships so as to "internalize"      most of the cultural, social, economic and
        medicallhealth factors affecting the progress of the epidemic.

(b)     Centralized Vertical Care Management versus Decentralized Care: There has been little
        or no effective care for HIV/AIDS patients in Trinidad and Tobago. At the introductory
        stage of improving care, it is considered advisable from the perspective of care
        management, to ensure continuity of care, treatment modification, and efficient use of
        materials and drugs to establish a centralized and vertical reporting treatment and care
        regime.


2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies:
(completed, ongoing and planned)
The Bank has no experience in lending to GOTT for the health sector. GOTT has, however,
received assistance from the IDB (health sector management reform), CARET (epidemiological
research, technical assistance), and bilateral and intemational agencies and NGOs (largely
through technical assistance, and support for selectedNGO activities).

3. Lessonslearnedandreflected inthe proposed project design:

The project adapts design features that underpin the Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Prevention and
Control Program, and have been successful in other countries. These include the following:


    0   Demonstrating a high level of Government commitment and providing clear national
        leadership for the program.
    0   Building collaboration networks with NGOs and community groups as a complement to
        public sector agencies.
    0   Deconcentrating the initiatives to address the epidemic.
   0    Including the focus on treatment and care as a continuum inthe program.
   0   Providing focus on behavior change of specific groups practicing risky life-styles as a
       key element of preventionand control; and
   0   Adopting implementation measures that provide flexibility and responsiveness to the
       epidemic as it evolves.




                                              - 20 -

The proposed project also adapts lessons from the previous experience with the National Task
Force and AIDS Program, in that it would create an advisory body - the NACC - with direct
involvement in project implementation and it would be reporting to the Cabinet to ensure a
stronger institutional structure. Second, the project is beingdriven by pre-identified monitorable
goals with financial resources allocated through Ministries to achieve them. Third, management
of the HIV/AIDS activities is being assigned to dedicated persons both within agencies (focal
points) and within the new Secretariat to the NACC, which brings managerial accountability.
Finally, the implementation of the project would be on the basis of annual work plans, and on a
contracted services basis to allow for maximum flexibility and adaptability of successful
experience in the project duringits implementation period.
4. Indications of borrowercommitment andownership:
To highlight the importance attached to confronting HIV/AIDS, the NACC is located in the
Office of the Prime Minister. GOTT has also authorized the work of a multi-sectoral Task Force
in recommending a national plan for HIV/AIDS prevention and control. It has also included
financing for the first year activities in the 2003 budget.

There i s already broad ownership of interventions to prevent and control HIVIAIDS, as is evident
in the large number of stakeholders that manifest interest in a project. Many of these are also
represented in the Task Force and would be invited to serve on the NACC. The Government
approved on May 15, 2003 the proposed implementation arrangements for the project.
Government in its 2020 Vision has identified the health sector as one of the sectors for which
greater financial resourceswill be committed.

5. Value added of Bank support inthis project:

Through its participation, the Bank would re-enforce the GOTT adoption of institutional
arrangements for sustaining the HIV/AIDS prevention and control program, and would provide
necessary incremental resources to invest in this development. It would also re-enforce GOTT's
policy to scale up ART by assisting it to establish conditions for a successful project. The Bank
would also strengthen the partnerships that GOTT has and i s building with PAHOKAREC,
UNAIDS, and inthe dialogue with suppliers of ARV drugs.

E. SummaryProjectAnalysis

1. Economic:

[XI Summarize issuesbelow (e.g., fiscal impact, pricingdistortions)

The implementation of the National Strategic Plan is likely to prevent a reduction of economic
growth due to the epidemic inthe range of 0.5% to 1.5% per year. The project itself would yield
benefits in terms of productivity gains (labor) as highas USD200 million. Cost savings through
disease prevention would create additional benefits of more than USD 25 million. The total of
benefits would outweigh project costs (USD25 million) by far. Expectedrecurrent costs of the
project would add about USD2.5 million or 2 % to the recurrent health sector budget. Thus, the
project should be financially sustainable beyondthe period of IBRDsupport.




                                                 -21 -

  2. Financial:


  [XI Summarize issues below (e.g., cost recovery, tariff policies, financial controls and
 accountability)

 GOTT is undertaking the project as a national responsibility and is not planning cost recovery
 measures. It will establish financial management and procurement capacity within the Secretariat
 through a contract with UNDP (as a contribution to project counterpart financing) for a period of
  12 months, with a transition plan being activated thereafter. GOTT will have complied with
 conditions of the financial managementassessment prior to loan effectiveness.

 3. Technical:

 [XISummarize issuesbelow (e.g., appropriate technology, costing)

The project follows internationally accepted best practices for HIV/AIDS response, as validated
by UNAIDS and PAHONHO.                 The project hinges mainly on well-tested cost-effective
prevention interventions such as social marketing for condoms, prevention of MTC transmission,
 supply of safe blood, prevention and control of STIs and TB, and face-to-face IEC for positive
behavioral changes, particularly among high risk groups. Treatment and care aspects would be
managed with the participation of the Medical Research Foundation of Trinidad and Tobago, a
non-government entity, that has conducted research inthe filed of retrovirology (HN and HTLV-
I)incollaborationwiththeUSNationalInstitutes ofHealth(NHI), USNationalCancerInstitute,
Dartmouth College, Duke University, and the Institute of Human Virology, University of
Maryland, resultingin many scientific publications inrecognized international journals.

4. Institutional:

[XI Summarize issues below (e.g., project management, M&E capacity, administrative
regulations)

4.1 Executing Agencies

GOTT's experience with addressingHIV/AIDS through multi-sectoral institutional arrangements
i s relatively new, although models are available that could be adapted. GOTT has decided to
follow these models and has created the NACC and selected a qualified Chairperson to provide
its leadership. The SecretariatPCU for this project will be newly formed. However, it would
build expertise in essential financial management, procurement, monitoring and evaluation
methodology services with assistancefrom a recognized source of expertise (UNDP).

4.2 Project Management

The project would be managed following procedures covering work programming, financial
management, procurement, relations with the NGOcommunity, monitoring indicators and overall
accountabilities as described in an Operations Manual. Approval of this manual would be a
condition of effectiveness.




                                             - 22 -

4.3 Procurement Issues

A procurement assessment indicated that there are no outstanding issues provided that the
recommendations of the assessment are adopted.

4.4 Financial Management Issues

A financial management assessment has made recommendations to ensure sound financial
managementof the project and these are beingacted upon.

5. Environmental:                 EnvironmentalCategory: B (Partial Assessment)

5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and Environmental
Management Plan (EMP) preparation (including consultation and disclosure) and the significant
issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.

a. The project itself is not expected to have negative environmental effects. However, it also
presents an opportunity for addressing issues related to the management of bio-medical waste in
the country. An action programwill be financed duringproject implementation.

The PCU would also follow guidelines for environmental assessment prior to undertaking the
construction of new facilities and small civil works (space conditioning) in existing structures.
These are listed in Annex 2-b and will be incorporated in the Operations Manual and bidding
documents.

b. Environmentalcategory:        [I A             Ex1    B      [l C           [IFI

c. JustificatiodRationale for category rating:
Having identified a related environmental problem, the project would provide the means for
addressing it (Annex 2b).

d. Localgroups and NGOsconsulted: See "Social" below.

e. Resettlement
[XINone

5.2     What are the main features of the EMPand are they adequate?

The major findings and specific recommendations of the biomedical waste assessment have been
received and provide a detailed, facility-by-facility statement of improvements that could be
undertaken inthe short term with minimal expense.

5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:

      Date of receipt of final draft: May 20, 2003.

5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b)
draft EA report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan?
Describe mechanismsof consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?




                                               - 23 -

 Information for the EA has been developed through a facility-by-facility survey that engaged the
 major stakeholders in each case, including health authorities and staff.

 5.5 What mechanisms have been establishedto monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on
 the environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?

 The EMP has provided grounds for an action plan for establishing technically sound biomedical
 waste management from collection to final disposal.          The project team will monitor the
 development and adoption of biomedical waste management standards and safeguards as part of
 regular supervision missions.

As assessed duringproject preparation by the Project team, it is expected that the environmental
and social impacts resulting from the execution of the above-mentioned civil works during the
implementation of the project will be minimal, in view of the following considerations: the vast
majority of the interventions are space conditioning in existing facilities, thus they will not affect
the activities nor the traffic in the neighborhoods. The construction of the new National Public
Health laboratory and the Queen's ParkCounseling Center and Clinic would take into account the
guidelines listed in Annex 2-b. Theproject's Operations Manual, a loan efSectiveness condition,
will include World Bank guidelines andframework in the event of any resettlement caused by the
project, alongside guidelines for construction works and for improving biomedical waste
management and disposal in theparticipating institutions.


6. Social:
While the project will attempt to resolve complex social issues related to reducing discrimination,
improving rights and modifying sexual behavior, these issues do not at this time appear to be an
impediment to initiating project activity. Broad involvement of stakeholders in the development
of the HIV/ADS strategy and plan i s expected to provide guidance on how various interests can
be included, and the mechanismsfor continuing consultationon project implementation.

6.1 Summarize key social issuesrelevant to project objectives

The social issues involved with HIV/AIDS in the Caribbean region are relatively well known.
These include stigma and discrimination against HIV/AIDS, gender inequity, and the role of the
church, family structure, and inter-generational dimensions. These factors can affect HIV
transmission through their influences on sexual behavior and knowledge and attitudes towards
HIV/AIDS. Social issues have been well diagnosed in Trinidad and Tobago, most recently
manifested in the multi-sectoral Task Force, which developed the National Strategic Plan. The
project would begin, therefore with an adequate basis of understanding. The program would also
be modified as the social setting changes inresponse to the program itself.

Stigma and Discrimination:

This is the glaring issue among all social factors. The project would address this through a
combinationof actions:

        (i)     Identify strategic partners (the media, political, cultural, religious, business and
                community leaders) and offer them training through HIV/AIDS sensitization
                workshops.
       (ii) Coordinate these partners in IEC/BCC campaigns in the media and the
                communities.


                                               - 24 -

                  Assist the Government in developinga framework for the protection of the rights
                  of PLWA, their families and other vulnerable groups of the population (for
                  PLWA, this concerns confidentiality, employment, housing, mandatory testing
                  for the purposes of obtaining insurance, immigration, employment, and access to
                  compassionate health care).
                  Organize workshops for lawyers and legal aide counselors on such
                  legislatiordregulations.
                  Implement patient exit polls at facilities offering HIV/AIDS services.
                  Set up a complaint bureau and hot-lines where people facing stigma and
                  discriminationcan voice their grievances and seek help; and
                  Systematically involve PLWA in public information efforts to render the
                  epidemic visible and "humanize" the disease.


6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholdersparticipatinginthe project?
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:

Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups. In effect, all residents of Trinidad and Tobago
are direct and indirect beneficiaries of, and stakeholders in the project. The development of the
national action plan involves a broad cross section of stakeholders, including PLWA, and has
given voice to these beneficiaries.

High risk groups such as HIVIAIDS pregnant women, adolescents and young adults, MSM,
CSW, prisoners, military, commercial drivers and tourism workers, would be the primary
beneficiaries of the project. However, given the fact that HIV/ALDS i s an epidemic without
selectivity, all population groups would be considered vulnerable. Many of them would
participate actively in project activities, such as peer education, role-playing, condom
distribution, etc.

b. Other key stakeholders:

There are presumed to be few other stakeholders in the project and the National Response.
However, key Caribbean institutions supporting HIV/AIDS prevention and control include
CARICOM, OECS, OECSPPS, PAHOKAREC, and CDB. Locally, the Chamber of Industry
and Commerce, the Medical association and the Inter Religious Organization (RO) are important
stakeholders in HIV/AIDSpreventionandcontrol efforts.

6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaborations with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?

First, in the preparation of the National Strategic Plan, as mentioned above, a series of
consultations has been underway with NGOs and civil society to discuss the draft plan. Second,
representatives of NGOs and civil society will be included inthe NACC. Third, NGOs and CBOs
would be involved as implementing agencies, especially in prevention, advocacy, and care and
support activities. Mechanisms for NGOs and CBOs to be involved in implementation will be
spelled out inthe Operations Manual of the project.




                                               - 25 -

 6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
 development outcomes?

 In addition to direct involvement of key Government Ministries (Finance, Health and others),
 NGOs and civil society groups will be representedinthe NCAA. They have been involved in the
 design and will continue to be involved in the implementation and monitoring of the project
 activities, and are expected to participate in the periodic evaluation of project activities and the
 preparation of new annual work plans.

 6.5 How will project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?

 The Secretariat will conduct dialogue with stakeholders through its reporting with the NACC. In
 addition, it would receive feedback through stakeholder participation in the annual and the mid-
 term reviews of progress.

 7. ParticipatoryApproach:

 See "Social" above

 8. Checklist of BankPolicies:

IPolicy
 8.1 Do any of the following safeguards apply to the project?

 X        Environmental Assessment [OD 4.01)
          Natural Habitats /OP/BP/GP 4.04)
          Forestry (OP 4.36)
         PestManagement /OP 4.09)
        'Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)
          Indigenous Peoples(OD 4.20)
         Involuntary Resettlement (OP4.30)
         Safety of Dams (OP 4.37)
         Projects on International Waterways (OP 7.50)
         Projects in DisputedAreas [OP 7.60)


         Financingof recurrent costs (OMS 10.02)
         Cost sharing above country 3-yr averageIOP/BP/GP 6.30)
         Retroactive financing above normal limit /OP/GP/BP 12.IO)
         Financial management(OP/BP 10.02)
 X       Involvement of NGO's (GP 14.70)
         Other (provide necessarv details)

 8.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard
policies:

A procurement and financial management assessment has been completed, and actions for
compliance with Bank norms have been incorporated in the Operations Manual. Based on the
results of the EMP, as noted above, project components include support to strengthen the
biomedical waste management system in public health facilities, including investments in
equipment, training, and technical assistance.



                                                - 26 -

 F: SustainabilityandRisks
 1. Sustainability:
 Initiatives begun under the project are expected to become sustainable through the development
 of institutional arrangements that are light, flexible, and financially supportable (the NACC and
 PCU/Secretariat); and project activities would become progressively mainstreamed into the
 public sector with budgetary space created for them. Incremental recurrent costs of the program,
 including the provision of ARV drugs, are estimated at about US$2.5 million per year,
 representing a small fraction of the overall GOTT annual budget of about US$2.5 billion.


 2. Critical Risks:
                      Risk                       RiskRating           RiskMitigationMeasure         ~




  FromOutputsto Objective
      1. Maintaininggovernment                       N         1. The leadership provided by the
          commitment to HIV/AIDS                               Office of the Prime Minister i s
          reduction                                  M         evidence of the highpriority given to
      2. Maintaininggood governance                            the project. NACC representsa broad
      3. Achieving financial sustainability          M         cross section of public and private
          post project                                         interests
                                                               2. NACC Secretariat i s re-enforced
                                                               with competent staff and agreed
                                                               guidelines
                                                               3. The Government in its 2020 vision
                                                               has identified the health sector as one
                                                               of the sectorsfor which greater
                                                               financial resources will be committed.
  From Componentsto Outputs
      1. Providing adequate counterpart               M        1. Project account replenished at the
          financing                                            start of the fiscal year
      2. Availability of appropriately               M         2. Development of a committed cadre
          trained and committedhuman                           of personnel through an ongoing
          resources                                  M         training program andcompetitive
      3. GOTT leadership in reducing                           compensation package
          stigma and providing anti-                           3. Ongoing information programs to
          discrimination law                                   promote a balanced view of
                                                               HIV/AIDS and drafting of appropriate
                                                               legislation andconsultations with
                                                               stakeholders
  3verallRisk Rating:                                  M
         Risk Rating- H(HighRisk), S (Substan 11Risk), M (h ldest Risk),N(Negligibleor Low Risk)


3. PossibleControversialAspects:

By the very nature of the epidemic and the most dominant means of its spread, addressing
HIV/AIDS will be controversial in that it requires open discussions and recognition of sexual
behavior. During the period of the project when public awareness i s being created and specific
information is being transmitted to high-riskgroups, controversies are likely to arise provoked by
sincerely held moral, religious and cultural beliefs and norms. The GOTT is dealing with these



                                                 - 27 -

issuesthrough educationandpublic information programs.

G. MainLoanConditions

1. Effectiveness Conditions:

In addition to standard Bank conditions for loan effectiveness, GOlT would confirm the
appointment of key members of the NACC and staff of the Secretariat; adopt the implementation
planfor the first project year andaprocurementplanto support it; approveanOperationsManual
governing project implementation; the agreed financial management system, satisfactory to the
Bank, shall be establishedand become operational; and independent auditors, acceptable to the
Bank, shallbeappointed.

H. Readinessfor Implementation

GOTThasapprovedthe legal framework for the NACC andhasnominatedkey members and
staff of the Secretariat. It hasproduceda draft OperationsManualthat includesthe first year's
program of actions andthe supportingprocurement plan. It has also establishedinter-agency
liaison with key partnersinthe country (MRF;CAREC; UNDP).


I.CompliancewithBankPolicies

The project complies with all applicableBank policies.




        Patricio Mkquez, Team Leader
           & /                      / I
                                                          Ana-Maria Arriagada, Sector Diredor




                                               - 28 -

                   Annex 1:Project DesignSummary and Monitoring Framework
                  TrinidadandTobago HIV/AIDS Preventionand ControlProject

                                                  Annex l a
                                          Project Design Summary

           Note: For some indicators, no information was available regarding baselinedata (N.A.)and/or
          discussionsconcerning targetsnot concluded.These information gaps will be closed during thefirst
          year of project implementation.

Hierarchy of             Indicators               Baseline       Means of           Critical assumptions
objectives                                        and Targets    verification
CAS Goal
Developing human         See progress towards                                       (From goal to Bank
capital through                                                                    mission)
investments in           preventing and

health                  controlling the spread                                     Other macroeconomic
                        o f HIV/AIDS                                                and social variables
                                                                                    within and beyond the
                                                                                    control of the
                                                                                    government are neutral
                                                                                    or favorable

Project Developmen Objectives
Reduce the              HIV prevalence among   I  Baseline:    I National         I (From objectives and
incidence of HIV        pregnant women            Target:        surveillance /     outcomes to goals)
infections                                        NA             Program
                                                                 monitoring         Determinants of health
                                                                 Frequency:         outside the control of
                                                                 continuous         the project remain
Mitigate the            Percentage of             Baseline:      National vital     neutral or favorable
negative impact of      mortality attributable    Target:        statistics
HIV/AIDS on             to AIDS                   NA             Frequency:
persons infected and                                             continuous
affected
Key Project Outcomes
Advance safe and        Percentage of general     Baseline:      Population
healthy sexual          population who both       Target         based survey
behavior among the      correctly identify ways   (2005): 90%    Frequency:
general population      of preventing the         Target         beginning, mid
                        sexual transmission of    (2007)         and end of 5-
                        HIV and reject major      95%            year plan
                        misconceptions about
                        HIV transmission
Advance safe and        Percent o f single        Baseline:      Population
healthy sexual          people aged 15 to 24      Target: +      based
attitudes, behavior     reporting the use of a    50%            behavioral
snd practices among     condom at last                           survey
vulnerable/high risk    intercourse during last                  Frequency:
3opulations             12months.                                beginning, mid
                                                                 and end of 5-
                                                                 year plan
                        Percentageo f CSW        Baseline:       Behavioral
                        reporting the use of a   Target:  +      survey
                        :ondom duringthe last    75%             Frequency:
                        intercourse within the                   beginning, mid
                        last 12 months
                                                    - 29 -

 Hierarchy of          Indicators              Baseline     Meansof         Critical assumptions
 obiectives                                    and Targets  verification
                                                            year plan
 Reduce mother-to-     Percentageof HIV-       Baseline:    Program
 child transmission    negative infants born   Target: +    Monitoring
                       to HIV-infected         50%          Frequency:
                       mothers                              continuous
Increase the           Percentage of people    Baseline:    Population
population's           aged 15-49 who have     Target: 40%  survey
knowledge o f its      voluntarily requested                Frequency:
sero-status           an HIV test, received                 beginning, mid
                      the test results in the               and end of 5-
                      last 12 months                        year plan
Improve the           Number of STI cases      Baseline:    Program
management and        reported from facilities Target: +    monitoring
control o f STIs      that provide STI         60%          Frequency:
                      services according to                 continuous
                      national guidelines
Improve access to     Number of HIV            Target: 6000 Program
and utilization of    infected people                       monitoring
treatment and care    receiving antiretroviral              Frequency:
for HIV/AIDS          treatment over the                    continuous
                      period 2003 to 2007
Create an             Percentageof             Baseline:    Household
environment that      households with an       Target: NA   survey
supports the infected adult aged 15-49 who                  Frequency:
and the affected      is HIV infected and                   beginning, mid
                      has been illfor at least              and end of 5-
                      three consecutive                     year plan
                      months during the last
                      12months that
                      received external
                      unpaid help in caring
                      for the patient or
                      replacing lost income
Reduce stigma and     Percentageof             Baseline:    Workplace
discrimination        xterpriseskompanies      Target: 50%  survey
against PLWA          [sampled) with non-                   Frequency:
                      discriminatory policies               Beginning, mid
                      mdpractices in                        and end o f 5-
                      Fecruitment,                          year plan
                      advancementsand
                      3enefits for employees
                      nfected with HIV




Key Project Outputs


.EC programs for     Percentageo f             Baseline:                    (From outputs to
zeneral population   (sampled)                 Target: NA                   outcomes and
:xpanded             enterprisedcompanies                                   objectives)
                     with HIV/AIDS
                     education programs                                     Currently prevailing
                     performed in the last                                  distrustand
                     12 months                                              dissatisfaction o f PLWA

                                              I            I                with diagnostic and
                                                - 30 -

Hierarchy of         Indicators              Baseline     Means of        Critical assumptions
objectives                                   and Targets  verification
IEC programs         Number of Youth-        Baseline: 0  Program         with diagnostic and
targeting the youth  Drop-in Centers fully   Target: 7    monitoring      treatment services will
expanded             operational including                Frequency:      be overcome
                     peer education                       continuous
                     programs                                             The national plan
Availability of      Total number of         Baseline:    Special survey  receives full and
condoms improved     condoms available for   Target: NA   Frequency:      sustained support of all
                     distribution nationwide              annual          stakeholders
                     during the preceding
                     12 months divided by                                 Religious communities
                     population aged 15-49                                will not challenge key
                     (Condom availability                                 strategies of the national
                     1)                                                   plan
Access to P-MTCT     Percentageof antenatal  Baseline:    Program
improved             clinics offering or     Target: NA   monitoring /    Current human resource
                    referring for VCT                     Facility survey shortages will be
                                                          Frequency:      overcome and retention
                                                          Beginning, mid  of staff is ensured
                                                          and end of 5-
                                                          year plan       Financial resources
Access to VCT       Number of public         Baseline:    Facility survey earmarked for the plan
improved            facilities that are      Target:      Frequency:      are adequate
                    staffed by trained       Trinidad     Beginning, mid
                    counselors providing     5 hospitals  and end of 5-
                    specialized HIV          5 district   year plan
                    counseling and testing   health
                                             facilities
                                             15 health
                                             centers
                                             QPCCC
                                             Tobago:
                                             5 health
                                             centers
Access to effective Number of public         Baseline:    Facility survey
management of STIs  facilities that provide  QPCCC        Frequency:
improved            diagnosis, counseling    Target:      Beginning, mid
                    and treatment of STIs    NA           and end o f 5-
                    according to national                 year plan
                    guidelines
Access to treatment Number of health care    Baseline:    Facility survey
and care for        facilities that have the Target:      Frequency:
HIV/AIDS            capacity to deliver      Facility     Beginning, mid
improved            appropriate palliative   survey       and end of 5-
                    care, treatment for                   year plan
                    opportunistic
                    infections and referral
                    for HIV-infected
                    patients according to
                    national guidelines




                                               - 3 1 -

Hierarchy of         Indicators               Baseline     Means of      Critical assumptions
objectives                                    and Targets  verification
Capacity of NGOs     Number of NGOs and       Baseline:    Program
and CBOs to          CBOs engaged in the      Target: N A  monitoring
respond to the needs responseto the
of PLWA              HIV/AIDS epidemic
strengthened         that received financial
                     or technical support
                     within the national
                     strategic plan and the
                     last 12 months
Legal framework      Legislation on           Target year: Program
that protects the    HIV/AIDS                 2004         monitoring
rights of PLWA and   discrimination in the
other groups         workplace reviewed
affected by          and amendments
HIV/AIDS             jubmitted to
reviewed, amended    Parliament as
as appropriate and   3ppropriate
enforced
STIand HIV/AIDS      2uarterly national       Target year: Program
surveillance         jurveillance reports     2004         monitoring
strengthened         lisseminated to all                   Frequency:
                     ;takeholders                          continuous
Appropriate          ?ercentageof key         Target: NA   Program
institutional and    xogress indicators that               monitoring
management           ire tracked and                       Frequency:
arrangementsfor the  .eportedto decision                   continuous
national expanded    nakers and
response established itakeholders in the last
                     12 months
                     'ercentage of PCU        Target:      Program
                     luties inwhich           100%         monitoring
                     upervision and                        Frequency:
                     inancial requirements                 continuous
                     Ire met in the last 12
                     nonths




                                               - 32 -

                                                Annex lb
                 Trinidad and Tobago HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Project

                                   Project Monitoring Framework


 Note:
         The presented log frame provides a comprehensive framework for monitoring the
         implementation and results of the National Strategic Plan.
         In comparison to other outcomes, overarching goals (expected impact) are directly related
         to the two overarching goals of the National Strategic Plan.
         Outputs are defined as the results of a production process fully under the control of the
         implementation agency andreflect products of strategic activities.
         Within priority area I,the log frame includes strategic activities targeting CSW as an
         example for activities targeting other high-risk groups (strategic activities C,E&F).
         Indicators are drawn from the listed references. Core indicators as suggested by UNAIDS
         are marked with    "*".  Key relationships between outputs and outcomes represented by
         corresponding indicators are illustratedin figure 1for each priority area.
         Note: For some indicators, no information was available regarding baselinedata (N.A.)
         andor discussionsconcerning targetsnot concluded. Theseinformation gaps will be
         closed during theJirst year of project implementation.


References:

 1. The Republic of Trinidad andTobago: Five-year national HIVIAIDS strategic plan. 2002.
2. Caribbean Cooperation inHealth Secretariat: A new vision for Caribbean health. 1999.
3. Caribbean Health ResearchCouncil: Caribbean Indicators and measurementtools. 2003.
4. UNAIDS: National AIDS Programmes: a guide to monitoring and evaluation. Geneva 2000.
5. UNAIDS: Monitoringthe Declaration of Commitment to HIV/AIDS: Guidelines for the
    construction of core indicators. Geneva2002.
6. USAID: Handbookof Indicators for HIV/AIDS/STIprograms. 2000.


Hierarchy of             Indicators                Baseline and Targets       Means of verification
objectives
Overarching Goals (EXFected Impact)
Reduce the incidence of  HIV prevalence among      Baseline:                 National surveillance I Program
HIV infections           pregnant women     *      Target:                    monitoring
                                                   NA                         Frequency: continuous
                         Number of newly           Baseline:                  Program monitoring
                         reported HIV cases        Target: - 50%              Frequency: continuous
                         (broken down by gender
                         and age groups)
Mitigate the negative    Percentageof mortality    Baseline:                 National vital statistics
impact of HIV/AIDS on    attributable to AIDS      Target:                                continuous
persons infected and                               NA                       I Frequency:
affected
                         Percentageof children     Baseline:                 Household survey
                         under 15 years of age     Target:                   Frequency: beginning, mid and end
                         that have lost either     NA                        o f 5-year plan
                         their mother, or father
                         or both varents  *
                                                 - 33 -

                           Percentageof                Baseline:          Population basedbehavioral survey
 healthy sexual behavior   individuals who have       Target:             Frequency: beginning, mid and end
 among the general         had sex with a non-        NA                  of 5-year plan
 population                marital, non-
                           cohabitating partner in
                           the last 12 months of all
                           respondentsreporting
                           sexual activity in the
                           last 12 months  *
                           Percentageof general       Baseline:           Population basedsurvey
                           population who both        Target (2005): 90%  Frequency: beginning, mid and end
                          correctly identify ways     Target (2007)       of 5-year plan
                           of preventing the sexual   95%
                          transmission o f HIV
                          and reject major
                          misconceptions about
                          HIV transmission     *
Advance safe and          Percent of single people    Baseline:           Population basedbehavioral survey
healthy sexual attitudes, aged 15 to 24 reporting     Target: + 50%       Frequency: beginning, midand end
behavior and practices    the use of a condom at                           of 5-year plan
among vulnerablehigh      last intercourse of all
risk populations          single people aged 15 to
                          24 sexually active
                          duringthe last 12
                          months   *
                          Age by which 50% of         Baseline:            Population basedbehavioral survey
                          young men and women         Target: NA          Frequency: beginning, mid and end
                          aged 15-24 have had                              of 5-year plan
                          first penetrative sex *
                          Percentageo f CSW           Baseline:            Behavioral survey
                          reporting the use of a      Target: +75%        Frequency: beginning, mid and end
                          condom during the last                           of 5-year plan
                          intercourse with a client
                          of those who had sex
                          with clients within the
                          last 12 months   *
                          Percentageof HIV-           Baseline:            Program Monitoring
transmission              negative infants born to    Target: +50%         Frequency: continuous
                          HIV-infected mothers
Increase the              Percentage of people        Baseline:            Population survey
population's knowledge    aged 15-49 who have         Target: 40%          Frequency: beginning, mid and end
of its sero-status        voluntarily requested an                         o f 5-year pian
                          H I V test, received the
                          test and the test results
                          inthe last 12 months    *
                          Percentageof blood          Baseline:            Facility survey
                          units transfused in the     Target: NA          Frequency: annual
                          last 12 months that have
                          been adequately
                          screenedfor HIV
                          according to national
                          guidelines   *




                                                    - 34 -

 Improve the               Number of STI cases       Baseline:        Program monitoring
 management and            reported from facilities  Target: +60%     Frequency: continuous
 control of STIs           that provide STI
                           services according to
                           national guidelines
 Improve access to and     Number of HIV             Target: 6000     Program monitoring
 utilization of treatment  infected people                            Frequency: continuous
 and care for HIV/AIDS     receiving antiretroviral
                           treatment over the
                           period 2003 to 2007
                           Number of people          Baseline:        Facility survey
                           living with AIDS          Target: N A      Frequency:
                           receiving treatment for                    Beginning, mid and end of 5-year
                           01s according to                           plan
                           national guidelines in
                           the last 12months
                           Percentageof infected     Baseline:        Household survey
that supports the          and affected individuals  PLWA:            Frequency:
infected and the affected  who received supportive   Affected:        Beginning, mid and end of 5-year
                          counseling over the last   Target           plan
                           12 months                 PLWA: 75%
                                                     Affected: 50%
                          Percentageof               Baseline:        Household survey
                          households with an         Target: NA       Frequency:
                          adult aged 15-49 who is                     Beginning, mid and end of 5-year
                          HIV infected and has                        plan
                          been illfor at least three
                          consecutive months
                          duringthe last 12
                          months that received
                          external unpaid help in
                          caring for the patient or
                          replacing lost income   *
Reduce stigma and         Percentageof people        Baseline:        Population survey
discrimination against    expressing an accepting    Target: 50%      Frequency:
PLWA                      attitude towards people                     Beginning, midand end of 5-year
                          with HIV, o f all people                    plan
                          surveyed aged 15-49*
                          Percentageof               Baseline:        Workplace survey
                          enterprises/companies      Target: 50%      Frequency:
                          (sampled) with non-                         Beginning, mid and end of 5-year
                          discriminatory policies                     plan
                          and practices in
                          recruitment,
                          advancements and
                          benefits for employees
                          infected with HIV   *
Build capacity to         AIDS program effort        Baseline:        Special survey
effectively implement     index (the average score   rarget: NA       Frequency:
the national strategic    given to a national                         Beginning, mid and end of 5-year
HIV/AIDS plan             program by a defined                        plan
                          group o f individuals
                          asked about progress in
                          over 90 areas of
                          programming    *
                          Percentageof outcome       rarget: NA       Program monitoring
                          indicator targets                           Frequency:
                          achieved in time                            Continuous
                                                     5 -

                          Average number of TV         Baseline:            Program monitoring
  general population       and radio spots with        Target: 24           Frequency:
                           IEC messagesper week                             Continuous
                          Percentageof (sampled)       Baseline:            Workplace survey
                          enterprisedcompanies         Target: NA           Frequency:
                           with HIV/AIDS                                    Beginning, mid and end of 5-year
                          education programs                                plan
                          performed in the last 12
                           months
                          HFLEincorporated into        Target year: 2004    Program monitoring
  the youth expanded      formal primary and
                          secondary school
                          curricula
                          Number of Youth-Drop-        Baseline: 0          Program monitoring
                          inCenters fully              Target: 7            Frequency: continuous
                          operational including
                          peer education
                          programs
  IEC programs targeting  Education material           Target year: 2005    Program monitoring
  CSW implemented         targeted to CSW
                          developed and
                          distribution commenced
  Availability of condoms Social marketing             Target year: 2005    Program monitoring
  improved                program fully
                          implemented
                          Total number of              Baseline:            Special survey
I                         condoms available for        Target: NA           Frequency: annual
                          distribution nationwide
                          during the preceding 12
                          months divided by
                          population aged 15-49
                          Percentageof antenatal       Baseline:            Program monitoring t
  improved                clinics offering or          Target: NA           Facility survey
                          referring for VCT*                                Frequency:
                                                                            Beginning, mid and end of 5-year
                                                                            plan
                          Percentageof women           Baseline:            Facility survey
                          testing positive at          Target: NA           Frequency:
                          selected antenatal                                Beginning, mid and end of 5-year
                          clinics who received a                            plan
                          complete course of
                          antiretroviral therapy
                          accordingto national
                          guidelines during the
1 Access                  last 12 months   *
        to VCT            Number of public             Baseline:            Facility survey
                          facilities that are staffed  Target:              Frequency:
                          by trained counselors        Trinidad             Beginning, midand end of 5-year
                          providing specialized        5 hospitals          plan
                          HIV counseling and           5 district health
                          testing                      facilities
                                                       15 health centers
                                                       QPCCC
                                                       Tobago:
                                                       5 health centers


                                                     - 36 -

Access to effective      Numberof public           Baseline: QPCCC     Facility survey
management of STIs       facilities that provide   Target: NA          Frequency:
improved                 diagnosis, counseling                         Beginning, midand end o f 5-year
                         and treatment of STIs                         plan
                         according to national
                         guidelines
                         National guidelines for   Target year: 2004   Program monitoring
                         diagnosis, counseling
                         and treatment for STIs
                         developed
Access to treatment and  Numberof health care      Baseline:           Program monitoring /
care for HIV/AIDS        facilities providing      Target:             Facility survey
improved                 HAART according to        Program monitoring  Frequency:
                         national guidelines       Continuous          Beginning, mid and end o f 5-year
                                                                       plan
                         Number of health care     Baseline:           Facility survey
                         facilities that have the  Target:             Frequency:
                         capacity to deliver       Facility survey     Beginning, mid and end of 5-year
                         appropriate palliative                        plan
                         care, treatment for
                         opportunistic infections
                         and referral for HIV-
                        infected patients
                        according to national
                        guidelines   *
                        Percentageof health        Baseline:           Facility survey
                        practitioners (e.g.        Target: + 50%       Frequency:
                        physicians, nurses) that   Program monitoring  Beginning, mid and end o f 5-year
                        received training in the   Continuous          plan
                        care and treatment of
                        HIV/AIDS
Capacity of NGOs and    Number of NGOs and         Baseline:           Program monitoring
CBOs to respond to the   CBOs engaged in the       Target: NA
needs of PLWA            response to the
strengthened             HIV/AIDS epidemic
                         that received financial
                         or technical support
                         within the national
                         strategic plan and the
                        last 12 months
Legal framework that     Legislationon             Target year: 2005   Program monitoring
protects the rights of  HIV/AIDS
PLWA and other groups   jiscrimination in the
affected by HIV/AIDS    workplace reviewed and
reviewed, amendedas     3mendments submitted
appropriate and         :o Parliament as
xforced                 ippropriate
                        Rights of PLWA in          Target year: 2005   Program monitoring
                        iational legislation
                        .eviewed and
                        imendments submitted
                         o Parliament as
                        ippropriate
3TIand HIV/AIDS         2uarterly national         Target year: NA     Program monitoring Frequency:
surveillance            urveillance reports                            continuous
Strengthened            iisseminated to all
                        ;takeholders   *

                                                 - 37 -

                      Number of laboratory         Baseline: 0        Program monitoring
                      facilities performing        Target:            Frequency: continuous
                      ELISA HIV tests and
                      linked to NSUthrough
                      ITplatform
                      National surveillance       Target year: NA     Program monitoring
                      unitappropriately
                      staffed
Capacity to research  Amount of financial          Baseline:          Institutional survey
epidemiological,      resources available to      Target: NA          Frequency: annual
behavioral and        national institutions that
treatment aspectsof   undertake research in
HIV/AIDS strengthened the area of HIV/AIDS
Appropriate           Percentageof key            Target: NA          Program monitoring Frequency:
institutional and     progress indicators that                        continuous
management            are tracked and reported
arrangementsfor the   to decision makers and
national expanded     stakeholders
responseestablished
                      Percentageo f PCE           Target: 100%        Program monitoring Frequency:
                      duties in which                                 continuous
                      supervision and
                      financial requirements
                      are met in the last 12
                      months
                      National HIV/AIDS           Target year: 2003   Program monitoring
                      committee established
                      and convenes meetings




                                                - 38 -

                                                 Annex 2a
                 TrinidadandTobago HIV/AIDS Preventionand ControlProject

                                       DetailedProject Description

I.TheHIV/AIDSNationalStrategicPlan

The project would contribute to implement the expanded national response proposed under the Five-year
HIVIAIDS National Strategic Plan, 2003 - 2007. The Plan sets out fundamental principles (inclusion,
sustainability, accountability, and respect for human rights), a broad tactical approach, and detailed
strategic activities necessaryto stop the epidemic and keep it under control. Specifically, the Plan would
provide the structure for guiding agents to take action; supply guidelines for organizing and scheduling
activities; serve as a benchmark for measuring the country's achievements in its fight against the
pandemic; and serve as the main vehicle for assisting in the procurement of financing for programs and
projects.

The Plan sets out two overarching goals:

         (a) To reduce the incidence of HIV infections inTrinidad and Tobago; and
         (b) To mitigate the negative impact of HIV/AIDS on persons infected and affected in Trinidad
             and Tobago.

To achieve these goals, the Plan proposes five priority areas of intervention, each one with specific
objectives:

11. Priority Areas

 1. Prevention

    Suecific Objectives: (a) promote safe and healthy sexual behaviors among the general population; (b)
    promote healthy sexual attitudes, behavior and practices among vulnerable/ high-riskpopulations; (c)
    reduce the rate of mother-to-child transmission; (d) reduce the probability of post exposure infection
    through improved bio-medical waste management; (e) increase the population's knowledge of its sero
    status; (f) to reduce the rate of mother-to-child transmission; and g) improve the management and
    control of STIs.

2. Treatment, Careand Support

    Specific Objectives: (a) improve access to treatment and care for HIVIAIDS including the provision
    of antiretroviral drugs; (b) create an environment that supports the infected and the affected in their
    home communities; and (c) provide extended treatment for opportunistic infections that accompany
    HIV/AIDS.

3. Advocacy and Rights

    Specific Obiectives: (a) reduce stigma and discrimination against PLWA; (b) ensure rights for
   PLWA.

4. Surveillance and Research

   Specific objectives: (a) strengthen the surveillance systems for STIs/HIV/AIDS; (b) undertake and
   participate ineffective clinical and behavioral researchon HIV/AIDS and related issues.


                                                   - 39 -

 5. Program Management, Coordination and Evaluation

     Specific Objectives: (a) achieve national commitment, support and ownership of the expanded
     strategic response to HIV/AIDS; (b) build capacity among critical stakeholders in the expanded
    nationalresponse; (c) monitor the implementation of the expandedresponse.

111. Project Objectives

To assist inachieving the two overarching goals of the Plan (see above), the project aims at:

    (a) Halting the spreadof new HIV infections.
    (b) Reducingthe morbidity and mortality attributedto HIV/AIDS.
    (c) Increasing life expectancy and quality of life of People Living with AIDS (PLWA); and
    (d) Building sustainable institutional capacity for managing HIV/AIDS prevention and control
         activities for the longer term.
IV. Projectcomponents
Activities for project support have been identified during project preparation and grouped into 5
components along the lines of the 5 priority areas of the Plan. These components would apply to
Trinidad, Tobago or both:


COMPONENT 1: PREVENTION OF THE SPREAD OF HIVIAIDS TRANSMISSION(US$8.055
million)

Promotionof Behavior Change

Heighten Education and Awareness. The project would design and implement a Communications
Program to intensify HIV/ADS education and awareness programs, using multiple communication
channels to target messages to different audiences. In particular, interventions will focus on encouraging
delayed sexual activity for those who have not yet started and on encouraging the sexually active
population to adopt safe sexual practices. Electronic and print media as well as Internet will be used,
incorporating the use of music, drama and national personalities to make them culturally relevant.
National and cultural festivals would be another focus of the communications program to fostering sexual
behavior change. The experience and expertise of PLWA, educators, health professionals, NGOs as well
as faith-based organizations (FBOs) will be used in the design and delivery of the messages. The private
sector, which possesses economies of scale in media advertising, would be joined as a strategic partner.
The project would finance consultations with stakeholders and line ministries on mass media campaign
contents and IEC materials, consultant services (firms) for planning, production and execution of highly
targeted media campaigns, and the planning, production and dissemination of IEC materials for each
component intervention, as well as assessments of E C intervention's impact and systematic incorporation
of improvements.

High Risk Groups. Young women, men who have sex with men (MSM), commercial sex
workers (CSWs), prisoners, youth's in-and out-of-school and substance abusers are singled out
for special attention. In each case, the project would promote behavior change interventions
through risk reduction programs, VCT testing, treatment and care.

Young Women. Studies in Trinidad and Tobago suggest that young girls engage in sexual
relationships with older men as a result of exchanging sex for economic gain. The project would
support expanding the Health and Family Life Education (HFLE) program and other projects aimed at
buildingthe self-esteemof the nation's young women.

                                                   - 40 -

 Youths In-and Out-of-School. The project would support scaling up peer-education programs available at
 youth drop-in-centers. Access of gays and bisexual youth to these facilities would be. Collaboration with
 the Ministry of Education, Ministry of Sports and Youth, the National Youth Council and other agencies
 will facilitate the expansion of youth abstinence programs and the incorporation of HFLEand HN/AIDS
education into youth sporting and other activities. These interventions must, however be accentuatedby
the formal incorporation of HFLE into the primary and secondary school curriculum and therefore the
nation's teachers will receive the requisite training to empower them to deliver these modules. For out-of-
 school youth, the strategic approach will include education messages to reach them as well as the hosting
of national workshops for the upgrading of skills. It will be necessary to undertake regular surveys on
youth sexuality to monitor and evaluate the extent to which programs achieve the desired behavior
modification.

Men who Have Sex with Men (MSM). The project would support activities through NGOs that provide
support to this group. The M S MChat Room and Friends for Life will benefit from this initiative.

Commercial Sex Workers. The potential of the tourism industry to fuel the spread of the epidemic
requires the introduction of skill-buildingprograms for youths in Tobago to steer them away from the
necessity to engage in transactional sex. Targeted IEC material for the CSW community in general and
for Tobago's "Beach Boys" and "Beach Girls" will be developed in an effort to promote safer sex
practices and influence behavior change.

Prisoners and Prison Emdoyees. Group counseling on HIV and related issues, condom distribution,
treatment, and care will be provided to the incarcerated population and prison officers as part of the
strategy for reducing the riskof infection among this group.

Drug;Users. Although intravenous druguse(IDU)as a mode of HIVtransmission is very uncommonin
Trinidad and Tobago, the Project would target this group through the National Alcohol and DrugAbuse
Program (NADAP) and would include HIV/AIDS related education for drug users through NGOs
devoted to care for this group.

The project would finance consulting services to: (a) plan annual campaigns and produce materials for
target groups; (b) conduct rapid mapping exercises with participation of NGOs, CBOs and stakeholders;
(c) identify most effective interventions to reach high risk groups, with participation of stakeholders. It
would also finance annual audiovisual campaigns executed by NGOs, interactive sessions, role-playing,
and material distribution as well as audiovisual equipment and software; a pilot testing of innovative
methods to reach high risk groups with support of NGO, CBOs, private practitioners; peer training, skill
building workshops; and implementation of other innovative outreach campaigns and assessment of
interventions.

The expected impact of these interventions would be a 50% reduction in the reported HIV incidence rate
among females between 13-19 years, males and females between 15-24 years, MSM, prisoners, and
substance abusers.

Improve availability andaccessibilityof condoms

A Social Marketing program would address the recommendation in the Audit of National Programs and
Laboratories, Trinidad and Tobago -ANPL-7:"Currently, male and female condoms are the only barrier
methods that prevent the transmission of sexually transmitted infections, including HIV, during sexual


  KPMGConsulting(2001). Audit of National Programmes and Laboratories, Trinidad and Tobaao: National HN/AIDS/ STI
Proaramme.


                                                    - 4 1 -

 intercourse. Promoting and supporting the use of condoms must be one of the core basic preventive
 strategies for HIV/AIDS programs. In Trinidad and Tobago, there i s a need to de-stigmatize and
 normalize condom usage by promoting condoms as part of a positive and healthy lifestyle. This Social
 Marketing program would provide promotion and education on condom use among peer groups stressing
 sexual responsibility especially among young groups. The existing commercial distribution network i s
 identified as a critical partner to the success of this intervention. The project would support consulting
 services for developing social marketing campaigns for condom use according to target groups,
 implementation of training for condom distribution and use and purchasing of condoms in the volume
 requiredby the project.

 Mother-to-ChildTransmission MTCT-Prevention
                                    -

The project would support the continuation and nationwide expansion of the MTCT Prevention Program
under implementation by the MOH (see first section of component I1for a description of the health
network). Initially, this Program would offer counseling and testing to pregnant women and provides a
pre-partum six (6) week regimen of antiretroviral therapy (UT) to mothers testing HIV positive. Babies
bom to HIV positive mothers are also treated for six weeks. Nutritional replacement therapy is provided
to nursing mothers. A cost-effectiveness evaluation would be made after one year of experience with this
Program, to decide whether to continue with the current programor to make changes, possibly to different
regimes8. Support from the RHAs, CAREC and the MRF would become critical to ensure nationwide
expansion of the following MTCT programactivities:

a) Voluntary counseling and HIV testing of women attending all public antenatal clinics (all hospitals
     and health centers).
b) Deployment of a reference network of laboratories to ensure full VCT coverage and to facilitate
     timely receipt of results.
c) Administering of drugtherapy to HIV positive mothers and newborns.
d) Testing of babiesbornto HIV positive mothers to the age of eighteen months.
e) Provision of six months of nutritional replacement therapy to all HIV nursingmothers.
f) Appropriatetraining of healthcare staff; and
g) Expansion of the programto the private health sector.

The project would finance technical assistance to review planned MTCT program interventions and
support their implementation; production and distribution of MTCT guidelines, clinical protocols and
other publications; training for health care workers and doctors on MTCT; post-counseling and support
for positive mothers andcounseling on avoiding infection to sero-negative women; laboratory services for
screening newborns for HIV/AIDS; Pap smears on regular basis for women for HIV status; Lab materials
and testing kits for screening, pre/post counseling pregnant women after 12th week of pregnancy and for
anonymous sero-prevalence of HIV, Hepatitis B, HTLVl infections in pregnant women; Nevirapine drug
purchasing and distribution to women who test positive and their newborns; public relations campaign
planning, production and execution to decrease stigma on HIV infectedpregnant women.

The expected impact of this intervention would be a 50% increase of HIV-free babies born to HIV
infected mothers.




* Alternativeregimenstoconsider: ACTG 076/ANRS 024; Thailand-CDC; HIVNETEAINT 012

                                                     - 42 -

 VCT NationalProgram

 Voluntary testing and counseling (VCT) is an effective tool for preventing HIV transmission, since
 individual's knowledge of hisher serostatus stimulates early healthy-seeking behavior and induces the
 adoption of actions to prevent the spread of the disease. The only public VCT center is located at the
 Queen's Park Counseling Center and Clinic (QPCCC). Although HIV testing i s available at private
 laboratories, counseling services are, for the most part, notably absent. The project would support a
 national VCT Program using the network of public health facilities strategically located throughout the
 country - in the five main hospitals (Port of Spain General Hospital, Eric Williams Medical Complex,
 San Fernando General Hospital, Sangre Grande District Hospital, and the Scarborough Hospital in
 Tobago), all District Health facilities and at least fifteen (15) health centers. Youths tend to utilize public
 health centers infrequently, and given the need to provide services that are "friendly" to them, counseling
 for youths will be provided at seven (5) Youth Drop-in-centers in Trinidad (Port of Spain; San Fernando;
Arima; Point Fortin; and Chaguanas) and two in Tobago: Charlottesville and Scarborough (see first
 section of component I1for a description of the health network). A national policy with guidelines for
confidentiality will be designed, implemented and closely monitored. This i s necessary especially in light
of reports of breach of confidentiality within the current system. Further, training for a cadre of
counselors will be provided.

Private VCT Sites: The project would promote the establishment of private VCT sites by the insurance
sector and private sector business organizations, to provide VCT services to their clients. The NGOs
offering HIVIAIDS counseling and care services should also be included inthe partnership. Expansionof
VCT will also require the development of standardized protocols and training in these procedures, and
incorporation of the necessary best practice associated with VCT will be a key pre-requisite for a
successful program.

The project would finance consultant services for VCT organization and training; upgrading physical
capacity at health facilities to perform VCT; training services for nurses, counselors, blood bank workers
and physicians in health network; audiovisual equipment and software purchasing for counseling and
confidential testing.

The expected result of this programwould be at least 300,000 additional persons accessing VCT services
over the life of the project

STIs SyndromicManagement

The management and control of Sexually Transmitted Infections (STIs) i s integral to reducing the HIV
incidence rate, as is the introduction of post-exposure prophylaxis (PEP). The project would support
activities to increase the population's knowledge and awareness of these infections and to treat them
under the syndromic approach.         Diagnosis, treatment and counseling of STIs would be provided
throughout the primary health care network in Trinidad and Tobago. The QPCCC would provide these
services to the North West Regional Health Authority's (NWRHA) catchment population, and will
coordinate the STI management approach in the other Regional Health Authorities, as well as provide
health care practitioners with education and training in STI management and control (see first section of
component I1for a description of the health network). National protocols for diagnosis and treatment will
be developed. The project would ensure that the required laboratory testing services are in place to
support the delivery of STI services across all regions. Also, training of staff would be provided to the
Trinidad and Tobago Public Health Laboratory (TPHL) and regional hospital laboratories to enable them
to execute these functions.




                                                      - 43 -

 About 50% of new STIs occur in the people 5-24 years old. However, young people are often dissatisfied
 with services they receive at public health facilities and as a result rarely access these services. A full
 Youth Clinical Service Center would be made available to the youths of Tobago as Tobago's stakeholders
 identifiedthe needfor such a facility. In addition to this, the ongoing efforts of the Ministry of Sport and
 Youth Affairs (MoS&YA), youth NGOs (YNGOs) and CBOs (YCBOs) will be acknowledged and
 supported. The project would support the training of Health staff to appropriately runthis facility.

 The project would finance training, education and reorientation courses for health workers in syndromic
 management approaches; equipment for clinical examination, lab equipment, audiovisuals purchasing for
 STI; pre-packed therapy drugs purchasing for STIs; and distribution of E C materials for STIs in health
 facilities and other selectedoutlets.

 The expected outcome of these activities would be a 60% increase in the amount of STI cases reported,
 managed, and monitored.

 ImprovedBioMedicalWasteManagement(see Annex 2b)

 With an increasein the volume of testing associatedwith an expandedHIV/AIDS treatment program,
 additionalcapacity and improved practices would be supported for the management of biomedical wastes.
 These improvements would be made in the context of a broader review and refurbishingprograminthis
 area; touching on the revision of legislation and regulations, reform of administrative practices and
 treatment and collection norms; financing of treatment and disposal equipment at the facility level; and
the training of personnel.The project would finance the consultant services, training, equipment and
 infrastructure improvements recommended by the audit of biomedical waste practices and procedures.

BloodBankandTransfusionServices

Since 1985, the blood supply for Trinidad and Tobago has been routinely screened for HIV and it can
safely be said that the national blood transfusion system i s comparable to international standards. Despite
this, the expanded strategic response must continue to address issues relating to blood transfusion and
HIV. In this regard, the national guidelines on screeningandtransfusion will beconstantly monitoredand
revised as necessary. In addition, counseling will be extended to donors who test positive. This will be
accomplished through the establishment of a referral system between the National Blood Transfusion
Unitandthe networkof regionalVCT sites that will beestablished.

Post-exposure services: The following activities will be undertaken to ensure appropriate protection to
employees dealing with HIV/AIDS:

0    Development and implementation of national policies for post exposure prophylaxis for all public
     sector staff.
     Ensuingthe continuous availability of drugs for managementof post-exposure prophylaxis.
0    Ensuringthat policies for occupational exposure to HIV are integrated into Occupational Health and
     Safety codes and private sector business organizations-PSBOs-, which will be encouraged to offer
     post-exposure prophylaxis to their employees.

The project would finance technical assistance to ensure 100% HIV testing of donated blood;
complementing lab equipment and reagent supplies for hospitals; training lab staff at hospitals in blood
transfusion and lab quality control and blood bank screening.

The expected impact of this intervention i s maintaining 0% transmission of HIV through blood
transfusions.



                                                    - 44 -

COMPONENT 2: TREATMENT,CAREAND SUPPORT (US$11.13million)

Health Services Network

A key element for establishing treatment, care and support for HIV/AIDS patients, is an appropriate
health network (public and private). Under the Health Sector Reform Program initiated 9 years ago, the
MOH decentralized the financial and decision-making capacity to four Regional Health Authorities-
RHA-: The North-West RHA, with seat in Port of Spain; the South-West RHA, with seat in San
Fernando; the Eastem RHA, with seat in Sangre Grande; and the Tobago RHA. Each RHA has under
implementation a Primary Health Care Network -PHCN-, with District Health Centers, enhanced health
centers, health centers and outreach health centers. District health Centers have excellent ambulatory
facilities, but lack laboratory services. All lab tests are sent to general hospitals located in the seat of the
RHA. This undermines the capacity of doctors for making differential diagnosis, especially in emergency
cases, thus reducing effectiveness, increasing unnecessary referrals and hindering a possible expansion of
HIV screening and diagnosis needed. Outreach centers are served by mobile teams that go from health
centers to provide primary health care in designated days of the week. The spatial locations of PHCN
facilities and arrangements for primary care delivery have important implications for deciding where to
install capacity for STIs syndromic management, VCT, MTCT, and ARV treatment.

Three criteria were tentatively agreed upon to decide which health centers could run the STI syndromic
management program, VCT, and full MTCT: i)Distance of health centers from district health facilities:
Health centers located less than 30 minutes by foot from district health centers would send blood samples
collected in situ and from outreach health centers to the nearest district health center for HIV testing;
these centers would run STI syndromic management, VCT and MTCT for people living under their
catchment areas and people served by the outreach health centers ii)A health center located 30 minutes or
more from the district health center and at least with a permanent physician, would be equipped with HIV
rapid testing for VCT, including pregnant women, but would refer HIV+ to the nearest facility with
MTCT.It would be able to run STI syndromic management; and iii)Road access from healthcenters to
outreach and district health centers. The project would also support the training of staff of the PHCNto
runthese HIV/AIDS preventive programs.

With above criteria, the project would install the capacity for HIV testing in selected health centers, as
well as in all Enhanced Health Centers and District Health Centers-DHC-. Some DHC with a large
number of HIV/AIDS patients living in their catchment area would have CD4 testing available. General
hospitals in Port of Spain (Northwest Region), San Fernando (South West Region), Sangre Grande
(Eastern Region), and Scarborough (Tobago Region) would be supported by the project to install lab
equipment and staffing for diagnostic and confirmatory HIV testing, as well as CD4 testing.

The National Public Health Laboratory: This important institution is located in a decaying building, and
most spaces are cramped with fumiture, lab equipment, archives, and other elements. About one third of
the lab equipment i s obsolete, and staff is very limited. The NSUis also located in this buildingand lacks
basic information technology to fulfill its functions, among which i s the tracking and reporting on the
HIV/AIDS epidemic. The project would finance the construction of a new building within the same site,
and would complement the required equipment to ensure appropriate performance of the public health
laboratory functions. It would also finance the training of a medical epidemiologist overseas. Rapid
confirmation testing and PCR would also be financed as well as the best alternative between leasing Viral
Load equipment by the National Health Laboratory or contracting with CAREC or other overseas
facilities for the supply of requiredViral Loadtesting services.

Treatment:Presently, MRF has 600 patients under ARV therapy. ARV therapy would be administered in
the MRF, the general hospitals of Port of Spain, San Fernando, and Scarborough, the Eric Williams
Medical Complex, the Cyril Ross Home, and in selected DHC: Arima, Chaguanas (in the Northwest
Region) under the supervision of MRF, Couva, Spartia (in the South Wet Region) under the supervision

                                                      - 45 -

 of San Fernando General Hospital, and SangreGrande (inthe Eastern Region) under supervision of MRF.
 To be able to cover these sites with ARV supervision, MRF would require hiringand training staff. This
 institution has the scientific and technical competence to be involved in these important activities.
 However, it doe not have the capacity for expanding them because its limited human resources, lab and
 space constraints. Thus, the project would support matching MRF staff and training additional needs and
 MRFwould provideservicesequivalent to these investments underacontract of services.

 Training of treatingphysicians in the use ARV therapy is a prerequisite and a priority to introducing these
 drugs. A core of health professionals to work in HIV/AIDS care and treatment would be allowed to "self
 select" or opt into the program as the main vehicle/resource for transferring knowledge throughout the
 rest of the health sector. In the immediate period, the MRF will continue to be the main agency for
 training and introducing ARV therapy at the identified sites. It is also envisaged that the University of the
 West Indies (UWI) would play a role in developing this faculty locally, through such initiatives as the
 Institutional Strengthening Project by the European Union. The local program will also draw on support
 from the Caribbean HIV/AIDS Regional Training Network (CHART), which i s a PANCAP initiative
 geared towards the use of support from international agencies, regional expertise and centers of
excellence. Continuous training of health professionals in ARV management will also be implementedin
 addition to the provision of psychosocial support for caregivers within the health care network.

 Opportunistic infections are the cause of death in many HIV/AIDS patients. As a result, protocols for
palliative care and clinical management of 01s will be implemented and monitored. The private sector
 will be encouraged to adopt these protocols.        Adherence to these protocols would be ensured by
introducing HIV/AIDS and 01clinical management modules in the cumculum of all nurses, doctors,
pharmacists, nutritionists, and social workers with ongoing training of practitioners.

Care:Support beyond medical care to those infected and directly affected by HIV is an essential part of
HIV/AIDS care and treatment. This support would include the provision of economic and social support
to those who require it, and nutritional services for PLWA. Research programs that assess the socio-
economic needs of disadvantaged PLWA and their affected families will be undertaken. This would
provide the necessary data for a referral system between government agencies, NGOs and CBOs to
provide required social and economic support services that will be developed. In addition, NGOs and
CBOs devoted to home care would be trained in skills for home-based care of HIV/AIDS patients as well
as the provision of support services for HIV orphans. CARE, Cyril Ross Home, OASIS, CARITAS and
TAS will receive these required strengthening.

The project would finance the construction of the new Queen's Park Counseling Center and Clinic, and
space conditioning of other related health facilities; purchase of equipment for selected hospitals and
health centers for HIV lab screening and testing; training for medical staff in ARV, monitoring and drug
resistance; training for lab staff in clinical and HIV/AIDS diagnosis and opportunistic infections;
upgradingpharmacy service infrastructures to ensure timely and permanent HIV/AIDS treatment; training
for pharmacy staff on patient education, better tracking and accountability, timely dispensing practices of
ARV; training manuals and other family education materials development and production for home care;
training for health staff in the counseling patient's relatives, CD4 counts and viral load results meaning,
and patient care; medical supplies for low-income families to cope with care problems ;and community-
basedhome care servicesthrough NGOs.

The project would also finance production and dissemination of clinical protocols for HIV/AIDS
treatment and care, including common 01, TB; training for health staff in the diagnosis of HIV/AIDS,
ART for PLWA, and opportunistic infections treatment and care; drugs for triple ART (assuming 10,000
person-years (US$300 per year) for opportunistic disorders (esophageal and oral candidiasis, genital
herpes, shingles, etc.); treatment of TB with DOTS; purchase of basic drugs for opportunistic infections.




                                                    - 46 -

 Expected results: At least 6,000 PLWA receiving free ARV therapy and HIVIAIDS care at selected
 treatment centers; establishment of a quality reporting system for HIV care for patients; increase in the
 number of health practitioners trained and specializing in HIV/AIDS treatment and care. HIV/AIDS
 service organizations with an enhanced ability to respond to the needs of their clients; a well developed
 referral system between HIV/AIDS service organizations public and non-government organizations that
 provide social support; at least 75% of PLWA and 50% of persons affected by HIV/AIDS receive
 supportive counseling.

 COMPONENT 3: ADVOCACYAND RIGHTS (US $0.45 million)

The Project would promote openness and acceptance of PLWA to reduce the level of stigma and
discrimination facing the PLWA community. Development of a national workplace policy, with the
business sector taking a lead role in this initiative, would be a main effort. Also, companies would be
encouraged to include provisions for HIV/AIDS in their Employee Assistance Programs (EAP) with
emphasis on counseling, care and support for infected employees. The GOTT would review and propose
amendments if needed in relation to existing legislation to prevent the discrimination against PLWA in
the workplace. The project would provide the finance for the retention of services of consultants to review
the legislation with respect to discrimination against PLWA in the workplace and other fundamental
rights of PLWA and to make recommendations as to the amendments of such legislation and or propose
legislation which may be needed. The project will also finance NGO services for planning and
implementing positive advocacy campaigns. Influential public personalities including political figures
will be used to advance the cause of HIV/AIDS. Enforcement of these policies would be monitored
through annual surveys. Implementation of measures for monitoring and highlighting discrimination of
PLWA would also be sought. To reduce underreporting and stigmatization due to perceived lack of
confidentiality, high priority would be given to provide access to secured clinical records via Internet
protected with encrypted technology.

COMPONENT 4: SURVEILLANCE AND RESEARCH (US$2.52 million)

The Assessment of DiseaseSurveillance in T&T conducted by CAREC and funded by the World Bank,
concluded that there are ambiguities in the administrative structure consisting of the County Medical
Office of Health -CMOH-, the Regional Surveillance Unit-RSU-, the National Surveillance Unit -NSU-,
and the Ministry of Health. Shortage of human resources, especially at the NSU located at the National
Public Health Laboratory, makes impossible data feedback to the reporting sites, the medical community,
and the public. There are limitations on case and contact tracing investigations for HIV/ADS, and STIs.
HIV/AIDS is not officially a reportable disease, thus reporting i s focused largely on AIDS cases.
According to the Surveillance System Assessment, a small but influential number of private physicians do
not report HIV/AIDS cases or even demographics on their patients due to confidentiality and
stigmatization concerns. As part of the 1997 evaluation of HIV/AIDS/STI surveillance, it was estimated
that only 45% of AIDS cases were reported to the NSUas AIDS cases.

Incompatible software systems and variable compliance in reporting has severely constrained HIV/AIDS
data analysis. HIV test statistics buildon information provided by the National Public Health Laboratory
and a physician sentinel surveillance pilot project. It is assumed that 50% of HIV testing takes currently
place outside the public sector facilities. Surveillance nurses collect mortality data from mortuaries. The
proportion of registered death i s considered close to 100% and unclassified deaths account for less than
10%. Analytical work of the National Surveillance Unit is supported by CAREC. In addition to the
activities of the National Surveillance Unit, the Ministry of Health (MOH) collects data on the HIV
prevalence among pregnant women participating in the Prevention of Mother-to-Child-Transmission
Project. The Medical Research Foundation collects data regarding the patients seen and treated in its
service facility (e.g. highly active antiretroviraltreatment (HAART). Information on sero-prevalence rates


 CAREC:Report on the Assessment of DiseaseSurveillance inTrinidad andTobago. June- Oct, 199.

                                                      - 47 -

 among high-risk groups is out-of-date or lacking. The Government, public services and other agencies
 potentially involved in the National HIV/AIDS Program have limited experience with the concepts and
 principles of M&E. Currently; the Director position of the National Surveillance Unit remains open. The
 unit lacks a fully trained epidemiologist and is staffed with only one statistician. Current staffing levels at
 the Medical Research Foundation do not allow for a timeliness analysis of data collected at the facility
 while ensuringhighquality medical services. Building an effective ITplatform should be given priority in
 the project implementation. Current legislation and regulation should be reviewed and possibly amended
 if it impedes effective M&E(e.g. private sector reportingobligations). The scope for collaborations and
 assistance inM&Eactivities by regional institutions such as CHRC should be explored.

 The surveillance system i s an essential element in the success of the treatment and care component, as
 well as in the evaluation of the whole project. The existing surveillance system will require evaluation
 and improvements such as the incorporation of private sector reporting mechanisms and the
 reconstruction of the TPHLs system. An examination of its HIV testing protocol will be critical. There
 will also be the need to provide appropriate training and staffing to the NSU. Regular surveys will be
 conducted to monitor the progress of activities. The Project would provide technical assistance and
 funding to support the MOH and other participating government agencies in developing and
 strengthening the capacity to analyze the STI/HIV/AIDS situation, to target vulnerable groups, and to
 improve resource allocation and clinical decision-making.

The project would support the implementation of standardized protocols for behavioral ("second
generation") and biological surveillance with the assistance of CAREC, MRF and other partners. These
institutions would also assist the MOH in providing technical support towards the strengthening of the
STI/HIV/AIDS surveillance and respective programming and execution of surveys. The STI/HIV/AIDS
information system design would provide treating physicians with access to online information on
diagnostic and lab testing relative to the management of opportunistic infections, anti-retroviral status,
CD4 and viral load, applied history and date sensitive treatment, non-compliance alert, as well as up to
date information on drug dispensation, online therapeutic protocols, and adverse effects help. Integrity
and confidentiality of the electronic medical records would be assured with encrypting technology. The
project would fund the technical assistance required for the selection, acquisition, adaptation and
implementation of clinical information systems focusing on HIV/AIDS case management and
surveillance from applications available in the market.

To support the case management and surveillance system, additional resources would be required to
complement existing hardware and software, and to strengthen the institutional IT management capacity
including training, technical support and operation and maintenance for the Information Technology (IT)
platform. The establishment of local area networks (LAN) and wide area network (WAN) among
participating agencies will allow voice, data and video communications, incorporating Tobago's
surveillance into the national picture as proposed in the HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan. The integrated system
would provide decentralized data entry, processing and access to information at the point of delivery of
care (Hospitals and Health Centers). It would also coordinate electronic data transfer protocols between
private physicians and labs linked with MOH's centralized health information system with large data
storage capabilities and secured virtual private network (VPN) for the protection of patient's
confidentiality. The applications and respective information technology platform should be developed and
integrated in stages to allow the required reengineering, training and institutionalization of IT
managementcapacity. Details are included in Annex 2c

The project would finance risk sexual behavior surveys; HIV-AIDS surveillance training; TD/HN/AIDS
Software; training and acquisition of the Information Technology platform: LANNAN installation,
Hubs, UPS, communications; servers, work stations, security and operational software; scanners and
Printers; broad band installation & annual service; and research proposed by national and regional
agencies.


                                                    - 48 -

The scope of research activities would address issues on HIV/AIDS Epidemiology, behavioral changes,
clinical and community management of HN/AIDS and cost-effectiveness of interventions Behavioral
studies which will assess the relationship betweenpoverty and HN/AIDS, drugabuse and HIV/AIDS and
domestic violence and HIV/AIDS and other relevant issues, will be conducted. The results of these
researchactivities will be usedto inform the design and focus of interventionprograms, as they will serve
to pinpoint the driving forces behindthe spread of the epidemic. Researchproposals would be examined
and selected for possible financing.

Monitoring and Evaluation

A monitoring framework has been agreed that would permit NACC to track the course of the epidemic
and evaluate its success in meeting the GOTT's strategic goals. Cost of implementing this process would
be financed from the project.

The HIV/AIDS case management system, the installation of IT Platform in hospitals, laboratories and
health centers and the online access to private physicians, would provide securedreal time information on
treatment costs and outcomes at all levels of patient care.      The information available would enable
project managementunits to monitor performance of project implementation, and would contribute to the
impact evaluation of the project. The project would provide for third-party technical evaluators of the
project's progress at mid-term and prior to closing. With regional support from CAFEC, the MOHwould
strengthen its epidemiological and analytical capacity to monitor the HIV/AIDS situation and to evaluate
the impact of the project.

COMPONENT V: PROGRAMME MANAGEMENT, COORDINATION AND EVALUATION (US$
2.02 million)

The single most important factor to achieving success of project implementation i s the creation and
empowerment of institutional arrangements with the capacity to manage and coordinate the expanded
response. The project would be implemented through an institutional and management structure that
would permit the widest participation of stakeholder, NGO and community groups and that would elevate
public accountability for results. Implementation arrangements should make use of scarce human
resources and complement them as required in areas of technical capacity as well as financial and
administrative management through the sharing of functions among agencies. It would also add selected
specialized staff not yet available in Trinidad and Tobago in areas of overall HIV/AIDS multi-sectoral
program management and behavior change. This structure would also recognize the differences in the
unique social and cultural differences between Trinidad and Tobago, and the opportunities this presents
confrontingthe epidemic inthese two islands. To accomplish this, the project governance structure should
comprise:

To accomplish these objectives, the GOTT has adopted the following governance structure for the
National response, and the project:

(a) Office of the Prime Minister: The GOTT has attached the responsibility for the management and
results of the response directly to the Prime Minister's Office. This would provide strong visibility and
accountability of the response and the project vis-i-vis the broad public interest. This arrangement would
provide the Office of the Prime Minister directly with advice and commentary on HIV/AIDS policy and
strategic directions for the response,and accounting for results.

(b) A National AIDS Multi-Sectoral Coordination Committee (NACC): Under the authority of the Office
of the Prime Minister, the GOTT has approved the formation of a NACC which would include the
participation of major HIV/AIDS stakeholder groups, such as representatives of relevant public and
private institutions, NGOs, PLWA, health care providers, civil society advocates, and intemational


                                                   - 49 -

 agencies working on the field (such as CAREC/PAHO/WHO, UNAIDS, UNDP).Such a structure proved
 successful as the National HIV/AIDS national response preparatory task force, whose work was
 completed in December 2002. The NACC would advise the GOTT on HIV/AIDS policy, set the
 priorities for the project advise on budget parameters, and ensure completion of the National Strategic
 Plan. This committee would be fully accountableto Office of the Prime Minister for project results.

 (c) Chairperson of the NACC: The NACC would be chaired by a person selected on the basis of hisher
 reputation and public credibility in the area of public health and social development. The Chairperson
 would be a national spokespersonfor the National HIV/AIDS Response, an interface between the public
 and the Government on matters of HIV/AIDS advocacy, and a major point of contact between Trinidad
 andTobago andthe international HIV/AIDS community.

 (d) The Secretariat: A Secretariathas beenestablished to be the operating arm of the NACC issues and to
 implement its decisions. Its role would be to plan and program HIV/AIDS prevention and control work
plans, manage the financing of services performed by others rather than provide these services directly,
and monitor results. The Secretariat would be staffed with inter alia: (i)
                                                                         a Technical Director who would
be responsible for overall management of the work; (ii)a Deputy Technical Director who may be the
coordinator for the Strategic Plan in Tobago; (iii)a Program Officer for Strategy Planning and
Management;        (iv) a Program Officer for Monitoring and Evaluation; (v) an Information and
Communication Specialist; (vi) a Finance Officer; (vii) an Executive Administrative Officer responsible
for procurement; (viii) an Executive Administrative Secretary; (ix) a Senior Administrative Secretary; (x)
a Driver/Messenger/Office Assistant and (xi) a Maidoffice Assistant. To ensure long-term sustainability
of the NACC and the Secretariat, such staff may be engaged through personal services contracts or
secondments from other branches of government service. The Secretariat would also serve as the Project
Coordinating Unit (PCU) for the project.

(e) Tobago HIV/AIDS Coordination Office: The Tobago House of Assembly (THA) will be responsible
for the coordination of National Responseand project activities inTobago and will appoint a coordinator.
With a population of about 50,000 (exceeding, for example, the population of St. Kitts and Nevis) this
would be considered a full-time assignment. This Office would be located in Tobago and the
coordinatorfliaison officer would "tele-commute" to Trinidad and visit on a regular basis to ensure
consistency of efforts in Tobago with overall project implementation.

(f) HIVIAIDS Focal Points in Government Ministries/Agencies: Progressively, within the public sector,
an increasing number of ministries and agencies would assume different roles in HIV/AIDS prevention
and control. The Ministrv of Health would be the dominant ministry in this regard, being responsible for
all clinical aspects of the project. MOH would also be responsible for implementing an improved
biomedical waste management program In the first project year, additional key ministries such as
Education and Social Services and others with on-going HIV/AIDS activities that could be readily
absorbed, would participate fully in areas such as prevention (IEC) and community care. Others would
come into the project as they developed viable and credible work plans. An agency focal uoint, which
would be an individual identified in each participating Ministry or agency, would be responsible for
coordinating HIV/AIDS related activities of their institutions with regard to the specific needs and
characteristics of their respective constituencies. In the case of MOH, this would be the Chief Medical
Officer. He/she and other focal points would be responsible, with the technical and financial support of
the Secretariat and PCU, for the design and implementation of project activities in their respective areas.
Details of these arrangementswould be given inthe Project Operations Manual.

(g) Non-governmental, faith-based and community-based organizations: NGOs, CBOs and FBOs would
be invited to initiate new HIV/AIDS prevention and control activities or to extend and continue those that
they are currently managing, through contracts with the Secretariat. Selected NGOs may be solicited to
perform specific functions as well. They would, depending on their comparative advantages, focus on
serving the needs of specific target groups at risk or in need of care. Many such organizations are

                                                    - 50 -

 relatively small and lack the legal status and managerial structure required to enter into contracts,
 although they could play an important role in their respective communities in supporting PLWA and their
 families. In these cases, an arrangement would be made with the Trinidad and Tobago HIV/AIDS
 Alliance (TTHAA), to act as their representative. Details of the relationship between the Secretariat and
 the NGO community are given in the Operations Manual.

 The project would finance coordination meetings; reporting and public outreach costs; office equipment;
 incremental national staffing; incremental operating costs; consulting services related to baseline studies;
 midtermreview and final review; and annual financial audits.

 V. Ensuringthe Effectiveness of the projectinTobago

The island of Tobago has socio-cultural peculiarities distinct from those of Trinidad and it has a
constitutional self-governing structure.    To be truly effective, this project recognizes and takes into
account the heterogeneity of the twin-islands. Despite the fact that there i s a single overall strategic
framework for guiding Trinidad and Tobago's expanded response, Tobago will within this framework,
position its response in a manner that will be most efficient and cost effective to the island. For this
reason, issues such as travel cost to Trinidad for counseling and testing services are given due
consideration when identifying the location of facilities. During the consultations held with Tobago's
stakeholders, two major strategic areas for action were identified. Thus, Tobago would implement the
following project activitiesunderthe two identifiedbroad strategic action areas:

 1. Education. Prevention andAdvocacy: Activities identifiedfor implementation inTobago include:

         (a)     Communicationprograms to increaseTobago's knowledge and awarenessof
                 HIVIAIDS.
         (b)     Riskassessment and riskreduction strategiesfor specific target groups.
         (c)     Programs for the promotion of safer sexual practices to populations at risk.
         (d)     Activities for reducing stigma and discrimination of those already infectedand affected
                 by HIV/AIDS; and
         (e)     Initiatives for addressing rights issues.

2. Treatment, Care and Support: Activities identifiedfor implementationinclude:

        (a)      VCT and MTCT Prevention Programs.
        (b)      Clinical management system for HIV/AIDS.
        (c)      Treatment programs for STI, and HIV/AIDS.
        (d)      Provision of social support for PLWA.
        (e)      Development of the Tobago Network for PLWA; and
        (f)      Support to AIDS service organizations.

In addition, the surveillance system would be updated and IT training, hardware and software would be
financed to link it to the health system with the one of the MOH inTrinidad.




                                                     - 5 1 -

                                                    Annex 2b
                 Trinidad and Tobago HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Project
                                     Management of Bio-MedicalWastes

 General
 The Environmental Health Division of the Ministry of Health conducted a Biomedical Waste Survey
 during the months of March and April 2003. The survey was carried out in Public Hospitals, Private
 Hospitals (Nursing Homes), and Accident and Emergency Health facilities, Health Centers, Dental
Clinics, Funeral Homes and Medical Laboratories.

A summary of the numbers of sites visited and the amounts of general and biomedical waste generated is
given in Table 1.
                                 Summary of BiomedicalWaste Generation
                                  Sample of PublicandPrivateFacilities"
                                              March, April 2003




* Dentalfacilities accounted for negligible amounts of waste and therefore are excluded

Overall, about 108 tons of general hospitalklinic waste is produced each month in the facilities surveyed
which would indicate that about 196 tons per month were generated overall (equivalent to 2,400 tons per
year). Of this amount, about 10%on average i s biomedical waste, of which almost all i s considered to be
infectious waste. While the generation of general waste i s relatively homogenous across types of facility
(with the exception of emergency facilities), a preponderance of the biomedical waste i s generated in
numerous, small, and decentralized healthcare clinics. This implies that reliable and securetransportation
is a significant factor in the safety of the overall system as may be in-house collection, sorting, handling
and treatment.

LegalFramework

While there are laws, which govern the management of waste in general, Trinidad and Tobago, do not
have a body of regulation dedicated to the specific issues of Biomedical Waste Management.
Among the sources of current regulation are:

a       Public Health Ordinance (1950). This Ordinance is used to control general conditions, which
        may adversely impact on public health. To a large extent it addresses:

        - Vector Control
        - Foodand Water Quality
        - Approval of BuildingPlans
        - Domestic Waste Disposal



                                                       - 52 -

 0        The Environmental Management Act (2000). This Act deals specifically with Pollution Control
          and at present the emphasis is on the Industrial Sector.


 0        Private Hospitals Act. This is an instrument, which can be used to exert control in Private Health
          Facilities, but will require the enactment of appropriate regulation.

A number of topics are not specifically treated including the definition of various categories of waste
making the identification of "biomedical" and "infectious" waste transparent and actionable; the
transportation of such wastes and residues; the differentiated treatment and disposal of such wastes and
the definition of mandatory management structures for consistent collection, treatment and disposal.

Inlight of the above observations, a framework for ensuringthe effective monitoring andcontrol of the
Biomedical Waste environment may require the improvement in relevant legislation.

BiomedicalWaste ManagementPractices

Despite the absence of a complete legal and regulatory framework and documented protocols for
Biomedical Waste Management, the practices employed at the health institutions have emerged from the
background of infection control and in fact the hospital infection control committees have done quite
well. However, there is no organized record keepingin the system. Each institution benefits from specific
Biomedical Programs with clearly identified budgetary financing. Also, without adequate framework and
protocols, there is a risk to the present systems from a change in the volume and character of the
potentially infectious wastes that an expanded HIV/AIDS treatment and control program might create.

While segregation, collection, treatment and disposal of waste are in general satisfactory, there still
remains the needto address the issue of open burningat the Port of Spain General Hospital.

Assessments of Typesof Facilities"

1. Public Hospitals

The survey covered 11of 14 such facilities. These produce about 17% of all biomedical waste. There was
little record keeping in these institutions on medical waste generated. Quality control officers, nursing
administrator, made approximate figures available.

There were no written guidelines with respect to collection, storage and disposal of health care waste.
However, there was a working system of waste semeaation at all hospitals and healthcare facilities.

Incinerators were operating at Port of Spain, San Fernando Caura, Mt. Hope and Sangre Grande. The
Port of Spain incinerator is in disrepair and non-functional leading to open burning. The San Fernando,
Caura, Mt.Hope and Sangre Grande incinerators are in good working condition. The Point Fortin,
Mayaro, and St. Ann's incinerators are non-functional. Amoco and Atlantic LNGhave committed to
provide incinerators for Mayaro and Point Fortin Hospitals respectively. Sharps items are collected at all
health care institutions inred/white plastic bins. These bins are collected for incineration at Mt.Hope,
Sangre Grande and San Fernando Hospitals. All ash wastes from incinerators are bagged and disposed of
at the landfill sites.

All infections waste/pathological wastes were collected inbiohazardbags, which are red incolor or black
bags red banded. The waste was then incinerated. General wastes at the hospitals were removed by
contractors and at the health facilities by the Regional corporations.


IoThis section is summarized from an audit report prepared by the Environmental Health Division, Ministry of
Health, April 25, 2003. Specific facility-by-facility data are included in that report.

                                                         - 53 -

 All body fluids and washings from the mortuary and laboratory wastes were disposed of in the sewer. All
 usedchemicals were neutralizedbefore disposal into the sewer. Laboratory facilities existed at Mt. Hope,
 San Fernando, Port of Spain, Sangre Grande and Caura.'

 Food and Drugs Division kept all expired drugs at the government institutions for inspection before
disposal. All packaging materials were disposed of as general garbage. Pressurized containers were
disposed of as general garbage at all the institutions.

All infectious wastes/pathological waste generated at St. Ann's, St. James Medical Complex, and
Radiotherapy Center were sent to Mt.Hope for incineration. Staff was provided with adequate protective
gear.

2. Accident and Emergency Facilities:

Five (5) Accident and Emergency health facilities or 100% were surveyed in this exercise. Health care
waste accounted for 4.9% of the total waste produced (general and health care waste). All sharps were
collected in the prescribed bins and sent to Mt. Hope, Sangre Grande or San Fernando Hospitals for
incineration.

Although segregation of waste is practiced, the Regional Corporation removes infectious waste produced
with general wastes. The incinerator at Chaguanas is non-functional. All liquidbio-medical waste go into
roadside drain or into the septic tank and general waste produced i s removed by the Regional
Corporations.

Hospital staff is provided with adequate protective gears. Ground staff, who removes wastes from
hospitals, is only provided with gloves. However, there are no written guidelines for the collection,
storage and disposal of health care waste.

3. Private Hospitals and NursingHomes


Out of a total of fifteen (15) Private Hospitals, eight (8) or 53% were surveyed. Of the total waste
produced by these facilities, health care waste accounted for 5.25%. Incinerators were provided at
Medical Associates, Surgi Med and Augustus LongHospital for disposal of infectious, pathological waste
and sharps.


Southern Specialist center practices open burningin a concrete bin. St/ Augustine Private Hospital sends
their wastes for incineration to Mt. Hope (EWMSC). Sharps, infectious waste and pathological waste
produced at Gulf View Medical Complex are sent to Kaizen Environmental at Pointe-a-Pierre for
incineration.

Segregation of waste is practiced at all the private hospitals. However, there was no proper record keeping
on waste generated. The matron, store manager and maintenance staff provided approximate figures.

The nursingassistantsand wardsmen handle the waste in the buildingand the ground staff removes waste
to the outside. The hospital staff was provided with adequate protective gears, the ground staff was
provided with gloves.

All liquid wastes, laboratory wastes produced at private hospitals were disposed of into the sewer in
sewered areas. Where no such facility existed, liquid wastes (biomedical) were disposed of into roadside
drains. Removal of general wastes and ash from incinerators were taken by the regional corporations and
privatecontractors.

                                                     - 54 -

 There were no written guidelines for the collection, storageand disposal of health care waste.

 3. Health Centers

 Out of a total of 104Health Centers in Trinidad 38 or 37% were surveyed. This class of facility accounts
 for the largest volume of biomedical waste (almost 50%). However, as elsewhere, there were no records
 of medical waste generated at these facilities with respect to type and quantity.

 There were no written guideline concerning collection, storage and disposal of health care waste.

 None of the staff handling health care waste had any formal training in handling such waste except some
 nurses in cases as they relate to AIDS patients.

 Eighty percent (80%) of the waste generated at these facilities can be categorized as general waste
 (kitchen etc.).   Twenty percent (20%) can be categorized as medical waste.           This includes sharps,
 dressings, protective gear (gloves, linens, blood, aprons etc.).

 At all these institutions sharps were collected in plastic bins (red and white) designated for this purpose.
 These are taken to different sites for incineration, e.g. Sangre Grande District Hospital, Eric Williams
 Medical Complex and San Fernando General Hospital. The containers as well as the sharps are
 incinerated.

At some health centers e.g. Arima and Sangre Grande some dressings are collected and sent for
incineration. However at other Health Centers this waste i s put out with general waste to be collectedby
the various Regional Corporations. At some health centers where collection of waste by the regional
corporations was not regular some burningwas camed out.

All liquid waste is washed into public drains, septic tanks or sewer systems. All staff was generally
provided with adequate protective gear, (gloves, aprons, face masks etc.).

All expired drugs are kept at the dispensaries until checked and disposed of by the food and drugs
division.

There were no designated areas at these facilities for the temporary storage of waste before collection by
the Regional Corporations. However the waste was stored in closed areas. It should be noted that some of
the health centers surveyed were housedat temporary locations due to renovation works at the permanent
locations, this has resulted in inadequate space at these facilities, creatingproblems of re-storage of waste.

5. Funeral Homes


Of the thirty-five (35) Funeral Homes inTrinidad ten (10) or 29% were surveyed. Again, records of waste
generatedat Funeral Homes are not kept.

Protective clothing is up to required standards and the international code of handling of the dead is
practiced. Infectious wastes are placed in garbage bags and are disposed of as general waste except at
Belgrove Funeral Home where they are incinerated and the ashes placed in garbage bags for removal by
the respective Regional Corporations. With respect to Dass Funeral home, general waste and infectious
waste are taken to the landfill site at Claxton Bay. All sharps are placed in 300ml plastic bottles and
disposed of as general garbage.

Ash (cremations) are removed by relatives of the deceased or placed in cremation gardens at Belgroves
and the St. James crematorium. All body washings from Dass and Belgrove Funeral Homes enter the

                                                     - 55 -

 central Sewer system. The others surveyed disposed of their liquid waste into septic tank and S/A pits.
 The embalming process involves placing the chemicals into the jugular vein replacing the blood. The
 blood (body fluids) is disposedof into the sewedseptic tank system.

 Victoria Laboratory at Chaguanas i s a branch of the Victoria Laboratory of Vistabella. All body fluids
 are disposedof at the Laboratory inVistabella. Chemicals are neutralized before disposal.

 All body parts are placed within the corpse. No body parts are disposed of outside the body. The corpses
 are brought prepared for cremation from the funeral homes at the St. James crematorium. The relatives of
 the deceased either take the cremains away or those unclaimed are buried on the compound. One acre of
 landis providedfor this purpose.

 ConclusionsandAction Planfor ImprovingBiomedicalWaste ManagementPractices

The Survey shows that there is an adequate level of segregation, in-house handling, treatment and
ultimate disposal of most biomedical wastes, although there are gaps in management, equipment,
incinerationand treatment that presentrisks to the integrity of the overall system. This results in part from
the system being derived from the application of general infection control practices, and not seen as a
specifically targeted or regulated area of attention.

Improving the situation, and mitigating the risks would be addressed through a set of system-wide
interventions as follows:

(a>          Improving the legal and regulatory framework: consultants would review the legal and
            regulatory framework that exists and propose improvements in definitions, management
            arrangements, scope of coverage of regulation to include the transportation of wastes and
             residuesand site disposal.
(b)         Codification of practices: in consultation with facility management and with the support of
            outside experts, practices and procedures would be codified, to ensure that all steps in the
            system were specifically covered, and that "international standards" were applied.
(c>         Clarification of management responsibilities: from practice and regulations, facilities would
            reinforce and/or establish biomedical waste management responsibilities in clear personnel
            assignments.
(4          Staff training and development: the MOH would organize and conduct a programto train and
            familiarize employees in all of the 173 facilities with the new guidelines and protocols that
            have been developed. It would then continue to monitor the application of these under the
            authority of the revised regulatory framework.
(e)         Upgrading facilities and equipment: the application of new practices would be supported with
            a complement of small equipment and specific site improvements and/or equipment repairs as
            necessary for their application (protective gear, trolleys, bins and containers, monitoring and
            recording equipment, fluid waste containers and piping, etc). In addition, consultants would
            review the system demands for inter-site transportation of wastes, incineration and disposal,
            leading to a recommendation for investments in new incineration and disposal technology.
            These investments would also be financed.

TheMinistry of Health would manage the implementation of the above action plan to be supported under
theproject. A budget envelopof about US$2.8 million may be allocatedfor these activities.




                                                    - 56 -

 CivilWorksto be FinancedUnder ProposedProject


The objective of the interventions to improve the infrastructure as part of the proposed project would be
to enhance the response capacity of health facilities to provide quality services and scale up the
HIV/AIDS program. Duringproject preparation, the project team conducted site visits and met with the
directors and staff of health facilities, and with the Project Administrative Unit of the IDB (currently
financing a Health Sector Reform Program through the Ministry of Health), in order to identify and
confirm a list of sites requiring space conditioning and construction with World Bank project financing.
These sites would include: the National Public Health Laboratory, QPCCC, National Blood Bank,
ambulatory health centers and those that require some smaller reforms for the installation of the
information system. Needs include:
         i)TheNationalPublicHealthLaboratorywouldbereplacedowingtoitsdeteriorationandlimited
size. Based on the actual equipment, services and staff, the operation area without expansion of services
was established in 9500 square feet.
         ii)AnewQueen's ParkCounselingCenterandClinic(QPCCC) ofabout10,500sq. ft.wouldbe
built to meet present demandsfor space, however, the size could be adjusted when the location of the new
buildingis decided uponanddemandfor services revised.
         iii)NationalBloodBankwouldaddabout1,100sqfttothecurrentlaboratory,whichistoosmall
for efficient operations.
         iv) Seven district health facilities will have small space conditioning reforms to meet the
program's needs; and
         v) Four enhanced health centers will be reorganized.


The investment would cost about US$5.4 million and would include construction, studies, designs and
supervision of construction. Appropriate complements of equipment valued at US$1.2 million and
training valued at US$ 0.1 million would also be financed.


As assessed during project preparation by the Project team, it is expected that the environmental and
social impacts resulting from the execution of the above-mentioned civil works during the
implementation of the project will be minimal, in view of the following considerations: the vast majority
of the interventions are refurbishing works within the interior of the facilities, thus they will not affect the
activities nor the traffic in the neighborhoods. The construction of the new National Public Health
Laboratory and the Queen Park Counseling Center and Clinic would take into the account the
environmental guidelines listed below for civil works.        The project's Operations Manual, a loan
effectiveness condition, will include World Bank's guidelines and framework in the event of any
resettlement caused by the project, alongside guidelines for construction works and for improving
biomedical waste management and disposal in theparticipating institutions.

In addition, the programming of works for the new project would include the adoption of procedures
currently followed under an IDB-financed project in the health sector for supervision of works, and in
detail in the bidding and contracting documents for the protection of the environment and occupational
safety.


Stakeholder Consultation

The preparation of the biomedical waste management audit involved ample consultation with authorities
and staff of health facilities, including private sector providers. Different stakeholders (line ministries,
non-governmental entities such as the Medical Research Foundation of Trinidad and Tobago, and other

                                                    - 57 -

organizations such as the Caribbean Network of People Living with AIDS), more recently during the
May5-9, 2003 period, have provided feedback on project objectives, components, assessments (including
technical, environmental, and economic and financial assessments), and implementation strategies. These
groups also endorsed the proposed investments, including those contemplated for the strengthening of the
biomedical waste management systems inthe participating health facilities. The GOTT also approved the
proposed investments under this project, including the investments needed for improving the biomedical
waste managementsysteminparticipatinghealth facilities.

Managementof EnvironmentalRisks of Small ConstructionWorks

The proposed HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Project in Trinidad and Tobago, building upon the
environmental norms and guidelines used during the implementation of the IDB-financed health project,
envisages building andor conditioning available space of several health facilities. In the preparation of
the request for proposals, the project's PCU, along with the line ministries involved, would take into
account the following guidelines that will be incorporated in the project's Operations Manual and
Standard BiddingDocuments for Civil Works. Particularly, appropriate specifications would be described
inthe biddingdocuments for civil works to mitigate environmental risksthat may be identified.

Environmental Screening


The PCU would assess the potential environmental risks of the project's civil works investments which
would depend on the type of construction (new National Public Health Laboratory and Queen's Park
Counseling Center and Clinic, space conditioning in existing facilities), area available (congested vs. open
area), the location (urban vs. rural) of the proposed construction and whether it i s new work or space
conditioning in existing facilities. It may call on the Ministry of Works and Transport and the Ministry
of Health for expert advice on the matter.


Proposals for the new construction of the National Public Health Laboratory and the Queen's Park
Counseling Center and Clinic would be screenedto identify the following risk o f


                Resettlement of families and businesses, the presence of squatters or any other land titling
                conflicts; this risk is not envisioned in the construction of the new Public Health
                Laboratory as the proposed site i s located within the premises of the existingbuildingthat
                will be demolished.
                Interruption or limitation of accesses to dwellings or businesses either permanently or
                temporarily (duringconstruction).
                Encroachmentheduction of green areas, parks, and other recreational areas.
                Demolition of buildingsof higharchitectural or historical value.
                Deterioration of urban quality and property value in the immediate vicinity of the works
                or deterioration of unique architectural characteristics in the neighborhood.
                Increasedaccidents in areas with highdensity of schools, hospitals, and commercial use;
                Harmingurban infrastructure (sidewalks, power and telephone lines, water and sewerage
                mains, etc.).
                Creating nuisancesduringconstruction (dust, wastes, and heavy construction traffic).
                Raisingnatural hazards (floods, soil instability); and
                Protecting historically and culturally significant sites.

Bidding documents and contracts would specify terms and conditions governing the works activity to
minimize and mitigate these risks.



                                                   - 58 -

 Environmental Management Tools
 Environmentalconsiderations for the engineeringdesign

 The engineering design of project works would take into consideration: (i)   connections of the buildingsto
 the potable water system and the capacity of the existing water distribution network or the need to
 establish a water supply systemfor the building(well, storage tank, pumpingstation, etc.); (ii) connection
to the sewerage network and the need for capacity expansion for receiving collectors or the need for a
 wastewater treatment system for the building (septic tank, infiltration ditch); (iii)    the treatment of
 wastewater before being discharged to the sewerage networks or the wastewater treatment system; (iv) the
management of runoff and the facilities for its recollection and evacuation, having in mind the existing
downstream systems; (iv) the systems of recollection, storage and transportation of solid wastes generated
in the building, incorporating the structures for separation and recycling; (v) appropriate access systems
for pedestrians, municipal and inter-municipal buses, bicycles ,children and handicapped people; (vii) the
need to integrate buildingdesign with architectonic characteristics of the surrounding neighborhood; and
(vii) avoiding the use of materials such as wood from tropical forests, lead-based paints, asbestos, for
example.

EnvironmentalEnhancement

The architectural design for the National Public Health Laboratory building and the Queen's Park
Counseling Center and Clinic could bring opportunities to incorporate and reinforce the criteria of
environmentally friendly buildings. The feasibility of incorporating these aspects into the design would be
analyzed duringthe conceptualization phase of the architectural designs and duringthe engineering designs.
This analysis could include: (i) panels to satisfy totally or partially the electricity needs; (ii) water
                                  solar                                                              rain
storage for the irrigation of gardens and green zones; (iii)   maximizing natural light in order to minimize
artificial light needs; (iv) planting of native species in gardens and green areas; (v) natural ventilation
systems, minimizing the necessities of air conditioning; and (vi) the stabilization of slopes using vegetative
measures.

EnvironmentalManagement of ConstructionActivities

Biddingdocuments would request contractors to address the following issues when deemed significant by
the PCU and participating line ministries: (I)   pedestrian safety and traffic congestion during construction
due to the increase of heavy traffic (of the construction itself and from traffic detours) in high traffic
avenues and exit ramps; (ii)   dust and particulate materials, causing nuisances to surrounding families and
businesses, specially to vulnerable people (children, elders); (iii)undesirable noise levels due to the
machinery and equipment specially in areas with hospitals, homes for the elderly, schools; (iv) degradation
of lateral streets due to heavy equipment machinery and traffic detours; (v) the interruption of services
(water, electricity, telephone, bus routes) duringconstruction; (vi) the adequate disposal of garbage, metals,
used oils, and excess material, generated during construction; (vii) the need of informing the population
about construction and work schedules, interruption of services, traffic detour routes, provisional bus
routes; and (viii) pedestrian security measures, specially for school children, duringconstruction.

Bidding documents would also ask for the identification of suitable sites for waste disposal, the
environmental management necessary (compacting, re-soiling and re-vegetation, drainage control), and the
associatedtransportation costs should be included in project design and cost estimates.




                                                   - 59 -

Environmental Supervision during Construction

Supervision of construction would include the compliance with the environmental specifications of
contracts.

Environmental Measures duringthe Operational Phase

Duringthe operational phase of the construction of the National Public Health Laboratory and the Queen
Park Counseling Center and Clinic adequate provisions would guarantee: (I)           the maintenance of the
systems of collection and treatment of wastewater; (ii)   the adequate collection and disposal of solid waste,
incorporatingrecycling systems and the separationof materials; and (iii)   the maintenance of complimentary
systems (solar panels, etc.). The engineering design should include the preparation of operational manuals
and maintenance of all systems.

PublicConsultationPriorto the ConstructionPhase

The PCU may identify the need for community consultation in the area of influence of the proposed new
constructions. To this end, a processwould be undertaken with the assistanceof recognized professionals
for disseminating information and generating feedback from stakeholders who may be specifically
targeted and the public at large. The consultation program may involve both formal and informal
presentationsand meetings with the target groups, and information dissemination campaigns.

InstitutionalArrangementsand Responsibilitiesfor Implementationand Supervisionof Mitigation
Activities

The Office of the Prime Minister through the PCU will be in charge of managing the implementation
and supervision of the mitigation activities identified in this environmental assessment.


ImplementationArrangements for CivilWorks
The construction and refurbishingactivities will have separate implementation arrangements to ensure
their effective implementation. The PCU will function as the implementation entity of the project, and


         Review the final designs for the construction and refurbishingof facilities.
         Initiate the biddingprocess for the construction and refurbishing of hospitals, health centers, and
         other facilities.
         Evaluate the equipment inventory, develop technical specifications for equipment and procedures
        for their procurement.
        Be responsible for the settlement of invoices and the purchase of goods and services;
        Arrange for the drafting of contracts, their execution and their amendments.
        Oversee the implementationof contracts.
        Prepare periodic reports on the finances of the project, the procurement of goods, and other
        financial and technical reports.
        Ensure that all necessary approvals are obtained from the World Bank consistent with its
        procedures; and
        Ensure that all reports are prepared in a manner acceptable to GOTT and the World Bank and are
        submittedin a timely manner.



                                                    - 60 -

Phases to the Refurbishinglor New Constructions

Feasibility Phase: This phase includes the analysis of the refurbishingof the internal functionality of each
health facility to make them suitable for HIV/AIDS programs. Likewise this phase would include the
revision of studies and plans that have been prepared for the National Public Health Laboratory and the
Queen's Park Counseling Center and Clinic. The final product will be a master plan for the refurbishing
and the new works to be included inthe HIV/AIDS program.


Design Phase: The design phase includes the preparation of design briefs for the Health Centers and the
new National Public Health Laboratory and Queen's Park Counseling Center and Clinic. The schematic
designs will be approved by the PCU, and the detailed design will be executed in accordance with
technical specifications and the Bill of Quantities.


Once detailed designs are finalized and agreed upon by the GOTT. The PCU will prepare the bidding
documents for review by the World Bank. The PCU would hire consultant companies according to the
guidelines of the World Bank.


Construction Phase: Construction phase will be supervised by the PCU, which will engage the appropriate
project management support. The Project Manager will supervise construction progress and prepare the
necessarydocumentation and payment orders to pay contractors as specified in the individual contracts.
Main responsibility would be to ensurethe quality of the construction and its timeliness. The PCU will be
responsible for expeditingpayments to contractors.




                                                    - 61 -

                                             Annex 2c
           Trinidad and Tobago HIV/AIDS Prevention and ControlProject


                             Information Technology (IT) Platform
                   For the STI/HIV/AIDS Surveillance Information System

 The strategies proposed for the acquisition and implementation of the Information Technology (IT)
 platform needed to support and operate the surveillance information system and the STI/HIV/AIDS
 clinical Management Information System (MIS), including hardware, software, training, technical
 support and operation and maintenance needs, were reviewed in meetings with MOHauthorities and
the Chief of IS/IT Information Units (ISAT-U) of the MOH. The proposed system was given high
priority within the HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan, particularly the option allowing encrypted security via
Internet access to private providers as a mean to protect patient confidentiality in order to reduce
underreporting and stigmatization.

To ensure sustainability, implementation would be scheduled in stages reaching full-scale operation
by the end of the third year of the project. The proposed implementation should be coordinated with
the civil works program included in the Project for the selected facilities in VCT, treating rooms,
emergency rooms, laboratories and blood banks, ergonomic nursing counters and connections, as
well as the inclusion of dedicated electrical wiring for 24 hours energy supply, embedded conduits,
and secured server rooms. The implementation in stages will allow for the time required to train all
health providers in the adaptation and adoption of the information technology in patient care in the
MRFand participatingHospitals and the District Health Facilities and Enhanced Health Centers, as
well as the incorporation of new protocols and reengineering processes required by ARVT and
second generation STYHIVIAIDS Surveillance System.

The STI/HIV/AIDS information system and the clinical Case Management System would be                      .
implemented providing decentralized data entry, processing and access to information at the point of
delivery of care (Hospitals and Health Centers) and coordinated electronic data transfer with MOH's
centralized integrated health information system. Secured Web based browsers through IPprotocols
(virtual private network (VPN)) and encrypted technology for the protection of patient's
confidentiality should be available to private physicians and labs to access the MOH's centralized
integrated health information system (HIS). MOH's HIS would be supported by data warehousing
and data marts and storage capabilities or outsourced storage area networks (SAN) (to be defined
with the W A N architecture in the third Stage). The applications and acquisition of IT Platform
should be developed and integrated in steps, accordingto the following recommended stages:

(a)     Preparation of RFP, short list and selection, and awarding of technical assistance for the
        implementation of STI/HIV/AIDS clinical management information system (MIS) to
        support case management and clinical decision making from applications available in the
        market; inthe preparatory stage, technical specifications for the hardware and software to be
        acquired and respective biddingprocesses will be defined according to the agreements being
        signed by the MOHand the RHA for the hospitals participatingin the first stage. A tentative
        budget is includedinTable 11, indicating the possible sequence of the procurement processes
        by year.
(b)     6 months parameterization and pilot testing in the MRF, in parallel with the initiation of
        training of the clinical and paramedic staff participating in the first stage implementation;12

        additional laboratory and blood bank test processing module provided by CAREC would
        interface through the Internet, the MOH's intranet or with dial-up connections with the
        STI/HIV/AIDS information system operated by the Epidemiology Unit with the technical
        support of the MOH's IS/IT-U.


                                              - 62 -

       (c)     Initiation of First Stage (first year) implementation in Regional Hospitals, National Public
               Health Laboratory (TPHL) and National BloodTransfusion ServicePOSGH -Pt. Spain.
       (d)     The Second Stage would initiate in the second year of the Project, including the District
               Health Facilities and limited interventions in the enhanced health centers.
       (e)     The third stage will include the testing and implementationof the connectivity and wide area
               network to be provided by the GOT" Backbone Project.

Table 2. Proposed Budget andTime Schedulefor the HIV/AIDS Surveillance and Research
Component

      Expenditure Category               us$                                                            TOTAL
                                         First
                                         Year                                              Year
TechnicalAssistance:
                                          80,250                                                           751,500
STI/HIV/AIDS Software licenses,
application, adaptation, testing,         25,000     150,000     125,000     130,000         20,000        450,000
training and implementation
Risky sexual behavior Surveys
                                          30,000      30,000       30,000      30,000        30,000        150,000
Broad band installation & annual
service                                   25,250      50,500       50,500      25,250                      151,500
Training
                                          22,259      37,259       37,259      37,259        15,000        149,035
HIV-AIDS surveillance training
                                        10,000       25,000      25,000      25,000          15,000        100,000
Information Technology training
                                          12.259      12.259       12.259      12.259                       49,035
Equipment:
                                         278,269     321,140     296,900     224,592                     1,120,901
LANinstallation, Hubs, UPS,
communications                            32.769      75,640       51,400    224,592                       384,401
Servers, work stations and
                                                     215,833     215,833                                   647,500

                                          29.667      29,667       29,667                                   89,000
SUB-TOTAL
                                        380,778      588,899     539,659     447,101         65,000      2,021,436

Research

ResearchNational Agencies                25,000      50,000   I    75,000I     75,000  I     25,000        250,000
                                    I                         I          I             I
ResearchInternational Agencies           25,000      50,000        75,000      75,000        25,000        250,000
SUB-TOTAL
                                         50,000      100,000     150,000     150,000         50,000        500,000
                            TOTAL
                                        430,778     688,899     689,659      597,101       115,000       2,521,436
 * Excluding Servers and Network Operations Software and other Office & Antivirus software licenses ti be provided by
 NationalInformationSystemsCentre (NIX).

      The work to be executed by the technical assistance for the integration and implementation of the
      information system for STI/HIV/AIDS surveillance would include: i)definition of surveillance
      indicators: biological indicators (HIV prevalence, STI prevalence, TB prevalence, HIV and AIDS
     cases (adults and pediatric); behavioral indicators (use of condom, age at first sexual experience,

                                                     - 63 -

 non-regular sexual partners in the last 12 months); socio-demographic indicators (age, sex, socio-
 economic and educational status, residency and migration status, marital status) from multi-sectoral
 sources; ii)identification of data sources particularly public and private health centers and labs, the
 blood bank, NGOs and other participating agencies; census data; and integration strategies to link
 patient individual records from multiple sources; iii)standard coding definitions for patient
 identification and contact tracing including the standardization of the unique ID code generated by
 the providers or the Lab in the HIV Antibody Test; iv) restricted access to patient name, IDcard and
 cross-reference with Registry data base to prevent redundant testing and reporting), diagnosis
 (ICD 10 and procedures (medical, laboratory tests, blood bank, diagnostic imaging, hospital, others);
 v) classification of vulnerable sub-groups; vi) criteria for the definition of early dates for HIV and
 AIDS diagnosis and clinical exams; vii) mechanisms and methodologies for data validation and
 cross-analysis from HIV-AIDS case notification system and sentinel surveillance systems; viii)
 security and confidentiality of STI/HIV/AIDS databases, electronic transfer protocols, encrypted
 double key, access control, electronic trail and auditing, compliance monitoring and quality control
procedures; ix) development of interfaces for the integration of the HIV/AIDS case management
notification facilities with geo-referential mapping tools and CAREC's modules: CariSurv Lab IS
2000, PHLIS, COMDIS, MORTBASE and other DrugSupply Systems (C40); and x) anonymity and
confidentiality of epidemiological analysis and research studies.

The technical specifications for the IT platform agreeable to the World Bank and approved by the
NISC to be included in biddingdocuments for the purchase and installation of the hardware should
include the responsibility of the provider to install and configure the server's operational software
from licenses to be provided by the NISC within their Enterprise Agreement with Microsoft (MS
Back Office Suite or equivalent with network administrator, servers manager, web page creation, E-
mail exchange; Windows Advanced Server, SQL 2000 (or superior) with OLAP application or
equivalent, with technological upgrade advantage for at least three years, network anti-virus and web
firewall; multi-licenses for office applications) and other geo-referenced mapping software;
statistical packages; epidemiological modeling and forecasting applications; alternate energy supply
system (UPS) and wiring; structured wiring or wireless as appropriate for voice, data and video local
area networks (LAN). Extended warranty for the repair and maintenance of the equipment for at
least three years should be considered.

Among the strategies that will be critical to ensure the sustainability of the IT platform, i s the one
related to the required technical support in the operation, upgrade and maintenance of the IT
networks and applications. Therefore, the NACC Secretariat should require before the allocation of
respective ITresources, the signing of agreements between the Regional Health Authorities (RHAs)
and the MOH to secure qualified ITprofessionals at regional hospitals and District health Facilities
for database and network administration and technical support. The MOH ISIT-U operational
capabilities should also be strengthened with certified IT professionals to support the future W A N
operation and the L A N s at the different MOH facilities, including Headquarters, the National Public
Health Laboratory and the QPCC & C.

Training should be provided to managers, health professionals and technicians, financial and
administrative staff of the MOH, the RHAs and respective health facilities in the use of information
technology, and inthe respective mission critical applications, including the retrieval, geo-referenced
statistical and epidemiologicalanalysis and the use of information indecision making.




                                              - 64 -

9 0 0 0
 I  I 1 I o l o 1


       m o o
       N Z N
       w"
       F   F




       O O N
           F




       cooq
       co  r

       -
       o o q
       a  Ncn
          3




       m




$ 2
E n

O O O T      o o o c
"W OQCQ U    2 e r :
        c       i    c


             ? \ 4 b d
            z g   b d-

            0 0 0 - 4
            m m - c
               m - 4



3
b s o a
      O P   0 0 - v
      m r   m m w d
               m T I



"zag
a
   N    V




          c
          P
          I;
          Q
          1
          3
         5aE
          Q



          Q

    3.A (2) EstimatedProject Costs by Component

                                                                            Foreign  Local
Component                                                          Total    Cost     cost
I. Preventionof the Spreadof HIVIAIDS
1.Promotionof BehaviorChange
     (a. General PopulationInformation, Education, Communication)      (550)    (475)     (751
     (b. Outreachand PreventionServicesfor Vulnerableand High Risk
   Groups)                                                            (1485)    (845)    (640)
          (Subtotal Promotion of Behavior Change)                      2035      1320      715
2. Condom SocialMarketing and Distribution                             1780    1773.8     6.25
3. Prevention of Mother to Child Transmissionof HIV (MTCT)               600   364.25  235.75
4. StrengthenedVoluntary Testingand Counseling                           475    313.8   161.25
5. ImprovedManagementof Sexually TransmittedInfections (STIs)            225   153.75    71.25
6.Improvementof Biomedical WasteManagement                             2860      2150      710
7. Blood Bank Quality Control                                             80     51.3    28.75
          Sub total Preventionof HIVIAIDSSpread                        8055      6127  1928.25
11.Treatment, CareandSupport
1. Health CareFacilities and Laboratory CapacityStrengthening          6,725    3,698    3,028
2. Pharmacy Strengthening                                                130       70       60
3. Home Careand Community-basedCarefor PLWA                              720      340      380
4. Managementof OpportunisticInfection andPalliative Care                475      219  256.25
5. HAART                                                               3080      3060       20
          SubTotal Treatment and Care                                 11,130    7,386    3,744
111.Advocacy andRights
          Sub Total Advocacy andRights                                   450      450        0
IV. Surveillanceand Research
1.Developmentof STI-HIV-AIDSInformation andClinicalManagement
System                                                                   749      712       38
2. Establishmentof Information TechnologyPlatform                      1275       898      377
3. EpidemiologicalResearch and Clinical Trials                           500      500        0
          SubTotal SurveillanceandResearch                             2,524    2,110      414
V. Program Management, Coordination and Evaluation
1. Supportfor NACCActivities                                             150       38    112.5
2. Supportfor Project Coordination Unit                                1870       855    1015
3. Evaluations                                                           170      170        0
          SubTotalProgramManagement, Coordination and
     Evaluation                                                        2190      1063    1127
Total Direct Project Costs                                           24,350     17135    7215
Unallocated                                                              450      450        0
Front EndFee                                                             200      200        0
Total Project Costs                                                   25000     17785    7215



                                                - 69 -

3.B. EstimatedProject Costs by Category
US$ Million

                              ESTIMATED SOURCEOFFUNDING
    PROJECTCOSTSPER
         CATEGORY                          LJTiF
Works                            6.20         4.70    1.5     76

Goods:
       a) Supplies, Equipment
       and Condoms               7.15         6.18    0.97    86

       b) ARV drugs              3.03         2.7    0.33     89

ConsultingServicesand Training   5.92         5.34    0.58    90


Operatingcosts                   2.05         0.43    1.62    20


Front-EndFee                     0.20         0.20           100


Unallocated                      0.45         0.45           100


TOTAL PROJECTCOSTS               25.0         20.0    5.0

                                              80%    20%




                                        - 70 -

                                              Annex 4
             Trinidad and Tobago HIV/AIDS Preventionand Control Project

                                        Economic Analysis

 The GOTT developed a National Strategic Plan to respond to the HIV/AIDS epidemic and costs
 were estimated as approximately US$90.0 million over the period 2003-2007". The HIVIAIDS
 Prevention and Control Project is expected to cover about US$25.0 million of the amount.
 Approximately US$20.0 million would be financed through the BRD loan.

 The five-year program would represent less than 0.1% of expected govemment spending
 (US$lO.O billion) over the same time period and about US$14.00 per capita per year. The project
 itself would represent28% of the total programcosts.

 The GOTT faces three key issues and questions with respect to the financing of the National
 Strategic Plan:

     1. The extent to which the programwould be financed out of public resources.
     2. The cost-effectiveness of the program; and
     3. The financial sustainability of the program.

Economic Rationalefor Public Sector Financing

The estimated prevalence of HIV/AIDS in Trinidad and Tobago (2 - 2.5% of the population aged
 15-49 years) i s similar to other countries in the Region. Currently, approximately 18,000
individuals are infected. Over the next years, the number of HIV positive cases i s estimated to
increase by about 7.5% per year12, which would result in about 22,700 cases and 430 deaths from
AIDS by 2007. However, the reported prevalence is likely to underestimate the actual spread of
the infection, since stigma associated with the HIV infection and a wide-spread lack of
confidence in the confidentiality of testing results has resulted in a limited uptake of scarce
counseling and testing services.

The country's economy i s projected to grow at about 5% per annum between 2003-2005. This
growth would be driven by expansions in the following sectors: energy, hotel and restaurants,
transportation, communication, construction, and housing and real estate. These sectors account
for about 98% of GDP. Trinidad and Tobago i s competitive in these sectors because of a well-
educated labor force and a hospitable social and economic environment. The service sector
accounts for about 64% of employment, industry for approximately 14%. Construction and
agriculture account for 11% each. Highly dependant on a productive labor force, the sectors
currently driving income and growth are vulnerable to the loss of key workers and managers. In
small economies, disability and death of relatively few individuals can have a disproportionately
high impact on economic prospects than in larger economies with larger labor markets and talent
pools. HIV and AIDS in Trinidad and Tobago mainly affect the population aged 15-49 years, in
particular males (62%). As this segment of the population is the key pool of labor supply, the
epidemic poses a substantial threat to economic growth in Trinidad and Tobago. Therefore,


11 UWI, Health Economics Unit: Five Year National HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan; January 2003-December
2007 October 2002.
12CARECKDC: Estimatesof People Living with HIV/AIDS in the CAREC MemberCountries, 2001


                                               -71 -

 governmental intervention and a key role of the public sector in efforts to minimize the risks of
 mortality and morbidity due to HIV/AIDS are welljustified.
 Trinidad and Tobago's principal sources of growth are also vulnerable to changes in the
 perception of the country, mainly affecting tourism and offshore business. Maintaining visible
 and effective action to contain infectious diseases, especially HIV would be important to maintain
 the favorable international perception of the two islands.

 The Health Economics Unit of the University of the West Indies (HEU/UWI) has estimated
 (1998) the economic costs of the untreatedHIV/AIDS epidemic in terms of forgone GDP growth
 in Trinidad and Tobago to be between 1%and 1.5% per year. Studies of larger but less developed
economies and low-income countries in Africa place the growth reduction at about 0.2% per year.
However, these economies are much more dependant on agriculture, less dependant on tourism,
and enjoy a larger labor pool than Trinidad and Tobago. Even if dissimilar, the studies indicate a
minimum level of economic losses Trinidad and Tobago would face if the epidemic were not
appropriately addressed. Applying the estimated losses in growth to the projected growth of 5%
per annum and given a GDP of US$8.9 billion in the base year 2001, the country's foregone
economic gain would range between US$lOO million (low loss rate assumption) and US$600
million (high loss rate assumption) per year over the period of 2003 to 2007 (Table A).

Table A. Estimated Economic Cost of Un-addressed HIV Epidemic (USD billions)

Year              Projected           Projected GDP with Projected GDP with Projected
                  GDP                 annual loss of         1 annual loss of 0.5 GDP                 with
                  (a)                 point (b)                  points(c)               annual loss of
                                                                                         0.2 points (d)
2001              8.9                 8.9 (0)                    8.9 (0)                 8.9 (0)
2002              9.3                 9.3 (0)                    9.3(0)                  9.3 (0)
2003              9.8                 9.6 (.2)                   9.7 (.1)                9.7 (.1)
2004              10.3                10.0(3                      10.2(.l\               10.2 (.l\
2005              10.8                10.4 (.4)                   10.6 (.2)              10.7 (.1)
2006              11.4                10.8(.6)                    11.1 (.3)              11.3 (.1)
2007              11.9                11.3 (.6)                   11.6 (.3)              11.8 (.1)
Cumulative                           2.1                          1.o                    0.5
Loss

Note: Figures in parenthesis represent losses with respect to the base case
a) Base case: World Bank estimates, basic country data for GDP in 2001 and growth rates for 2001-2005 at
5%
b) High loss rate scenario: UWI; Modeling the Macroeconomic Impact of HIV/AIDS in the English
Caribbean: the case of Trinidad and Tobago.and Jamaica. (loss of 1 percentage point of projected growth
rate (growth at 4%)
c) Intermediate loss rate scenario: estimates assume annual loss o f GDP by 0.5% percentage points (growth
at 4.5 %)
d) Low loss rate scenario: R. Bonnel; Does HIV/AIDS increase or decrease growth in Africa? ACTAfrica,
World Bank (growth at 4.8%).

Based on the presented simulations, the implementation of the National Strategic plan would
prevent economic losses in terms of protected growth in the magnitude of US$0.5 to 2 billion
over the period of 2003 to 2007. The cost of the National Strategic Plan is estimated as US$90
million. Thus, expected economic returns will outweigh program costs by far. Hence, the
Government would make a sound economic choice inpursuingthe program.


                                                   - 72 -

 Cost-Effectivenessof the National Strategic Plan

 HEU/UWIhas estimatedthat the National Strategic Plan would reducethe spreadof the epidemic
 from about 1,200 new infections per year to about 350 per year (70% reduction). Thus, over the
 period of 5 years 3,800 infections would be averted. Assuming that an inverted infection yields
  10 years of productive life, the National Strategic Plan would generate 38,000 of productive life-
 years saved. Given a current GDP per capital of US$6,300, 38,000 years of productive life saved
 equate to benefits as much as US$ 240.5 million. In addition, the implementation of the National
 Strategic Plan would result in "savings" of treatment costs of about US$31 million (assuming that
 an infectedperson under adequate care will live on average for 10years and that the costs of care
 are approximately US$800 per year). Total benefits of US280 million would largely exceed the
 cost of the National Strategic Plan.

 Cost-Effectivenessof the project

Project benefits are considered to be more modest than those of the National Strategic Plan given
 its limited scope. A reduction of the incidence rate by 50% i s anticipated over the period 2003-
2007. Usingsimilar assumptionsas in the calculations for the National Strategic Plan, the number
of new infections averted would be 3,200. Accordingly, benefits would accrue to a total of US$
228 million. This comparesfavorably with the cost of the project (USD25 million).

Economic and FinancialSustainability

The National Strategic Plan. According to the HEUUWI analysis, the annual cost of the
National Strategic Plan (approximately US$18 million) would representabout 10% of the average
recurrent health sector budget for 2001 and 2002 (US$170 million and US$l88 million
respectively). Thus, the cost of the National Strategic Plan would be significant in terms of
govemment spending. This does not, however, account for the savings that might result from
reduced costs of treating opportunistic infections, the cost of family disability, orphans care, and
other social issuesrelatedto poverty and HIV/AIDS.

The Project. The estimated identifiable cost of the project is US$25 million (of which US$
450,000 is unallocated). The recurrent costs generatedby the project are as US$3.5 million (Table
B).Ofthis amount approximately US$2.5 million would be incremental assuming that the current
govemment staff dedicated to HIV/AIDS work is not increased (which does not at this time
appearto be necessary).
Trinidad and Tobago incurred on average US$150 million in recurrent expenditures on health per
year (2001, 2002), and about US$22.2 million in capital costs. Within these costs, the public
sector supply of ARV drugs procuredthrough the NIPDEC i s about US$3.0 million per year.
Recurrent costs of the HIV/AIDS program would add about US$2.5 million or about 2 % to the
recurrent health sector budget assuming that no additional staff would be employed. Under
current pricing, treatment protocols and given the estimated number of patients requiring
HAART, the purchase of ARV drugs needed for treatment would amount to an increment of 1%
inthe current nationaldrugbudget (US$67 million).
Overall, the incremental resources required to maintain the project should be financially
sustainable.




                                                - 73 -

                                                        Annex5
                   Trinidad and Tobago HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Project

                                                  FinancialSummary

                                                      (us$ooo's)




IBRD Loan                              7153      4851    4122     2176     1700    20,000
Governmentof Trinidad/Tobago           2162      1114     578      169      449    5000           3543

      * Notes: Post project recurrent cost estimated as sum o f (i) project year costs for operating costs, ARV
                                                                  last
      drugs, condoms, NGO services and training; (ii) of overall project civil works costs; (iii)20% of
                                                        10%
      overall project general goods costs, and (iv) no ongoing consultant services




                                                         - 74 -

   Annex 6: Procurement,FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements

            TrinidadandTobagoHIV/AIDS Preventionand ControlProject


                                             Annex 6a
                                   ProcurementArrangements

 Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with World Bank
 "Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", published in January 1995
 (revised JanuarytAugust 1996, September 1997 and January 1999); and "Guidelines: Selection
 and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" publishedinJanuary 1997 (revised in
 September 1999, January 1999 and March 2002), and the provisions stipulated in the Loan
 Agreement.

 The methods to be used for the procurement described below, andthe estimated amounts for each
 method, are summarized in Table A. The threshold contract values for the use of each method
 are fixed inTable B.

Procurement of Works. Works procured under this project would include the construction of
new buildings for the National Public Health Laboratory and the Queen's Park Counseling Center
and Clinic and refurbishing of other related public health facilities totaling US$6. 2 million.
Works to cost more than US$l,000,000 will be procured following International Competitive
Bidding (ICB) procedures, using World Bank-issued Standard Bidding Documents (SBDs).
Contracts estimated with an estimated value below this threshold would be procured using
National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures, using standard bidding documents agreed in
advance with the World Bank. Works estimated to cost less than US$250,000 may be procured
based on at least three quotations received in response to a model request for quotations agreed in
advance with the World Bank which will include detailed technical specifications, required
delivery date, guaranteesand conditions, and a basic form of agreement.

Procurementof Goods. Goods procured under this project would include: (a) medical supplies,
audiovisual equipment, dissemination materials, lab materials and testing kits, equipment for
hospitals and biomedical waste management equipment; (b) antiretroviral (ARV) drugs; and (c)
condoms totaling US$10.2 million. To the extent possible, contracts for these goods (other than
ARV drugs) will be grouped into bidding packages of more than $250,000 equivalent and
procured following ICB procedures, using World Bank-issued SBDs. Contracts with estimated
values below this threshold per contract may be procured using NCB procedures and standard
biddingdocuments agreed with the World Bank. Contracts for goods which cannot be grouped
into larger bidding packages and estimated to cost less than US$50,000 per contract may be
procured using shopping (National /International) procedures based on a model request for
quotations satisfactory to the World Bank.

Direct Contracting. An amount to about US$3.0 million is envisaged for procurement of ARV
drugs following "direct contracting" procedures acceptable to the World Bank, through the
National Insurance Property Development Company Ltd. (NIPDEC). NIPDEC i s a limited
liability company, which has been charged by the Ministry of Health to procure pharmaceuticals
and most medical supplies used in the public health system. NIPDEC procures items included in
the national drug formulary through competitive bidding. NIPDEC has obtained competitive
prices through this process and it also manages the importation, warehousing and distribution of




                                               - 75 -

 supplies to hospitals and clinics. Any fees charged by NIPDEC will be paid with Government
 funding.

 Selection of Consultants. Consultant services are estimated to cost US$5.9 million equivalent.
 They will include consultant services for the preparation of technical specifications and
 supervision of civil works contracts, production and execution of information, education, and
 communication campaigns, software development and installation, sexual behavior surveys, and
 research.

 Firms. Contracts for firms estimatedto cost more than US$lOO,OO will be procured usinga
 Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) method. Contracts for firms estimated to cost less than
 US$lOO,OOO may be procured following section processes basedon Consultant Qualifications
 (CQ) or Least Cost Selection (LCS) methods.

 NGO, CBO,FBO. The procurement of services of NGOs, CBOs andFBOs would follow the
 guidelines specified for the selection of firms. The Operations Manual would include a bidding
 and evaluation procedurethat would be followed.

 Individuals. Specialized advisory serviceswould beprovidedby individual consultants selected
 by comparison of qualifications of three candidates andhired inaccordance with the provisions of
 paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the World Bank's Consultant Guidelines.

 Training.    Training activities will include: cost of tuition, material and traveling; cost of
 registration, travel, venue, and food. Training services are estimated to cost US$1.2 million
 equivalent and would be procured following shopping procedures whenever is applicable.

 Assessment of the agency's capacity to implement procurement

An assessment of the capacity of the Project Coordination Unit(PCU) to implement procurement
actions for the project was carried out and its findings are described in a report dated March 17,
2003. The proposed organization, the staffing of the PCU and the project implementation
arrangements are satisfactory. The PCU, to operate within the Office of the Prime Minister,
would have the assistance of the National Insurance Property Development Company Limited
(NIPDEC) in procurement of drugs. This agency follows an acceptable tendering process in
which suppliers are invited to offer prices for items included in a "national formulary", and an
evaluation committee acceptslowest evaluated prices for quantities to be delivered throughout the
budget year. NIPDEC currently procures anti-retroviral drugs under an agreement with the
MOH. Under a special agreement, UNDP would assist the PCU to develop the capacity to
manage a World Bank-financed project, including the recruitment of a procurement specialist
(following World Bank approved terms of reference and qualifications), and providing
procurement support/advice in the utilization of World Bank guidelines and procedures. This
arrangement would be for initial period 12 months, at which time the UNDP involvement would
be reviewed.
The main risk identified in the assessment i s that the proposed PCUhas recently been established
and staffed. Other risks include: (i) local legislation requirement for registration of bidders may
restrict participation of foreign bidders; (ii) local legislation does not provide for international
advertising, which may limit foreign firms participation; (iii)the bidding documents currently
being utilized by Government entities are not fully satisfactory; (iv) UNDP and NIPDEC are not
familiar with the World Bank Standard Form for the evaluation of bids and proposals for
consultant services; (v) the Central Tenders Board awards the contracts on the basis of the



                                                 - 76 -

recommendations made by an Evaluation Committee designated on a case-by-case basis;
nomination of a different EvaluationCommittee for each bid or invitation may cause substantial
delays to project execution; and (vi) lack of a systemto adequately maintain procurement records.
The following plan to address these risks i s included in the PCA report and was agreed by the
Borrower:

Prior to Negotiations the Borrower submitted a final draft Procurement Plan for the entire Project
and a Schedule of Procurement Actions for the first year of project implementation, sufficient to
validate the project's procurement framework. It was also agreed in negotiations that procurement
and selection of consultants under the Project would be camed out using standard documents
satisfactory to the World Bank. Finally, it was also indicated that registration for the submission
of bids for goods and services is not required for the submission of bids and that International
Advertising i s used for the procurement of goods under ICB and the expression of interest for the
selection of consultants for contracts valued more than US $200,000.

It was agreed during Negotiations,that conditionsfor effectivenesswould include:
    a) The Operations Manual, satisfactory to the World Bank, would include inter alia: (i)a
    disposition for the nomination of an EvaluationCommittee, that would be supplemented with
    the necessary expertise on an as needed basis, which would serve throughout the project for
    all bids and invitations required for project implementation; (ii)guidelines for the
    management of the procurement records, and (iii)     procurement thresholds and procedures,
    standard biddingdocuments to be usedfor each procurement method, and modelcontracts for
    works and goods procured on the basis of three quotations or shopping.
    b) The procurement staff within the SecretariatRCU, NIPDEC and UNDP be hired and
    trained, inthe use of Bank StandardEvaluation Forms; and

    c) Implementation of an adequate filing system of documents, and electronic databases on
    procurement and financial records of contracts financed under the loan (see Financial
    Management).




                                                - 77 -

                                TableA: ProjectCosts by ProcurementArrangements
                                                       (US$ million equivalent)




3. Consultant Services & Training       I                                                5.82                           5.92     I




I/       Figures in parenthesisare the amounts to be financedby the World Bank Loan. All costs includecontingencies.
21       Includescivil works andgoods to be procuredthrough nationalshopping, consultingservices, services of contracted
         staff of the projectmanagementoffice, training, technical assistance services, front-endfee andcost of the Sub-projects
         contractedby communities.
3/       ARV drugs will be direct contracting through NIPDEC




                                                             - 78 -

                     Table Al: Consultant SelectionArrangements
                                      (US$ million equivalent)




I\Includingcontingencies

           Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
                 QBS = Quality-based Selection
                  SFI3 = Selection under a Fixed Budget
                 LCS = Least-Cost Selection
                 CQ = Selection Basedon Consultants' Qualifications
                 Other = Selection of individualconsultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Commercial
                 Practices, etc.
                 N.B.F.= Not Bank-financed
                 Figures inparenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank.




                                              - 79 -

              Table B. Summary of Procurement Methods and Prior Review Thresholds

   The proposed thresholds for prior review are based on the procurement capacity assessment of the
   SecretariatjProject CoordinatingUnit (PCU). Inaddition to this chart of prior review of individual
   procurement actions, the annual procurement plan will be reviewed and approved by the World
   Bank annually.

                                   Contract Value                                           Contracts Subject to
                                      Threshold                    Procurement                   Prior Review
   Expenditure Category            (US$ thousands)                    Method                    (US$ millions)
1.Works                                > 1,000                          ICB                         All: 4.8
                                     >250, <lo00                        NCB              Firstcontract each year: 0.5
                                                                                            First two contracts: 0.4
                                         <250                       3 Quotations
2. Goods                                 >250                           ICB                         All: 3.4
                                         <250                            NCB            Firstcontract each year: 0.34
                                                                                            First two contracts: 0.1
                                         <50                            IS, NS
3. ServicesFirms                         >IO0
                                         <loo                          QCBS                         All: 0.55
                                                                      CQ, LCS                      TORSonly

            Individuals                  >50                   Comparisonof 3 CVs        All (TOR, contract, CV): 0.6
                                                                                                     None
                                          <50                  Comparisonof 3 CVs

                             Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  8.75
                                      Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:      High
                   Frequency of procurement supervision missionsproposed:       One every 6 months during first
                                                                                year and after that one every 12
                                                                                months
                                                                                (Includes special procurement
                                                                                supervisionfor post-reviewlaudits)




                                                  - 80 -

                            Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
    Expenditure Category          Amount of the Loan
                                        us$ooos                 FinancingPercentage

                                  4,700,000                              76%               I
                                  6.175.000                              85%
                                  2,700,000             90% untilexpenditures under this
                                                        category have reached an amount
                                                        equivalent to US$1,350,000 and 70%
                                                        thereafter
4. Consultants Services           5,345,000                              90%

5. Project Operating Costs        430,000               20% untilexpenditures underthis
   (excluding local                                     category have reached an amount
   administrative personnel)                            equivalent to US$320,000; and 7%
                                                        thereafter
                                         0
   and Lnterest Rate Collars
7. Front-end Fee                  200,000
8. Unallocated                    450,000
                                 20,000,000
Total




                                           - 81 -

                                              Annex 6b
            Trinidad andTobagoHIV/AIDS Preventionand ControlProject


                                       FinancialManagement

 FinancialManagementAssessment (FM)

 A financial management assessment was carried out on May 7 - 9, 2003, to review the adequacy
 of the financial management arrangements in place at the PCU for the proposed project. The
 assessment was performed in accordance with World Bank requirements under OPBP 10.02 and
 the Guidelines for FMAssessmentsissuedby the FMBoard in September 2001.

Inline with current World Bank efforts to minimize Borrower's costs of meeting World Bank
fiduciary requirements, the mission attempted to find ways to use existing systems for project
financial management, rather than requiring the creation of new parallel ones. The GOTT
currently uses a manual system for its financial management; therefore it does not have an
automated system that can be used by the PCU.

Conclusion. On the basis of the assessment performed, the financial management team concluded
that, upon completion of a proposed action plan, the financial management arrangements of the
PCU would satisfy the World Bank's minimumfinancial management requirements. Therefore, the
team would advise that the conditions listed in the assessment be considered as conditions of
effectiveness inthe Legal Agreement for the project.

ImplementingEntity

The Office of the Prime Minister through the NACC will execute the project. The NACC would
advise the GOTT on HIV/AIDS policy, set project priorities, advise on budget parameters, and
ensure completion of the National Strategic Plan. The NACC will be accountable to the Office of
the Prime Minister (OPM) for project results. The NACC will implement its decisions through a
Secretariat. The specific responsibilities of the Secretariat include preparing the project's
workplans, managing the financing of technical services (this includes financial management) and
monitoring results.


Subject to GOTT's approval, during the initial stage of the project preparation and
implementation, the PCU will be located within UNDP's local office in Port of Spain. UNDP's
role would include the following preparation activities:


    0   Finalize the Terms of Reference for the assignment.
        Advertise positions.
    0   Shortlist, interview all applicants and contract staff.
    0   Acquire and install all necessary equipment, premises andcomputer applications.
    0   Provide capacity building support to the Unit.
    0   Provide financial management support, report-producing capabilities and monitoring
        observing World Bank disbursement requirements.
    0   Provide procurement suppodadvice in accordance with World Bank and GOTT
        guidelines.




                                                - 82 -

 And the following implementation activities:

     0    Provision of procurement advice and training.
     0    Capacity buildingand training of staff to manage World Bank-financed projects.
     0    Development of acentral project co-ordination unit for all multilateral-financed projects.
     0    Provision of financial managementand reporting support.
     0    Provision of project monitoring services.


 The GOTT will enter into an agreement with UNDP in order to establish the Secretariat, which
 will include the PCU, and manage startuphmplementation of the project.


 Establishment of the PCU with appropriate staffing, organization systems (including a financial
 management system) funds, facilities and other resources in a manner satisfactory to the Bank
 will be a condition of loaneffectiveness.

 These implementation arrangements will be summarized in a project Operations Manual that
 would be agreed upon as a condition of project effectiveness. These details would be discussed
 with stakeholdersduringa project-launching workshop to follow project approval.

FundsFlow

Proceduresfor the flow of funds from the loan andthe requiredcounterpart contribution should
be implemented with due regard to safeguarding the project's resources and ensuring timely
execution of payments.

The project will proceed under a combination of GOTT pre-financing and direct payments from
the Bank loan. Therefore the PCU will not manage a separate special account.

There is an allowance for retroactive financing of up to 10%of the anticipated loan amount, for
eligible expenditures madeafter May 5,2003 (date of project appraisal) prior to project
effectiveness.

Staffing

The PCU, established under the NACC, includes individuals who perform the following
functions:
    ...   Technical direction.
          Accounting management.
          Procurent management.
          Administrative assistance.

The core staff that is the Technical Director, the Accounting Officer and the Procurement Officer
will be hired under UNDPcontracts for the first year of the project. These contracts will then be
assumed by the OPM. The pay scale and benefits of each contract have been prepared in
consultation with the OPM to ensure the maximum amount of consistency at the point of
transition.




                                                - 83 -

 As a condition of effectiveness,the core PCUstaff would be hired.

 Accounting Policiesand Procedures

 Accounting and Administrative procedures will be included as sections of the operations manual
 (in the form of an accounting manual) to ensure that financial transactions are made with
 consideration    to    safeguarding project      assets  and  ensuring   proper entry   in the
 accountinglmonitoring systems. The accounting policies are currently beingdrafted by the local
 TT UNDP office and will be submitted for Bank review by Board presentation and, upon
 finalization, will be included as a chapter of the Operations Manual.

Project Operations Manual. Policies and procedures defined in an Operational Manual (OM)
 would aim to control project activities and ensure staff accountability.

The final O M should be comuleted and submitted for Bank no-obiectionbv effectiveness.

Segregation of duties. The PCU's organizational structure supports adequate segregation of
procurement, accounting and recordingactivities. The authorization to execute a transaction will
be the main responsibility of the Technical Director. The recording of the transaction and
monthly reconciliation's are the main responsibility of the Administrative Assistant who will be
supervised by the Accounting Officer.

Annual Work PlansBudgeting. The SecretariaWCU would be responsible for developing
annual work programs to achieve the short-term goals culminating in the strategic outcomes.
Annual plans would reflect experience gained through the implementation process. The planning
cycle would follow the preparation of the GOTT annual budget. The Bank would agree with each
annual work programprior to its initiation.

Accounting. The PCU will maintain the Program's records and accounts usingthe cash basis of
accounting and following Generally Accepted Accounting Practices and those recommended by
the Bank. Bank loan funds and counterpart funds will be accounted for separately. It is
anticipated that the PCUwill maintain accounting records usingthe UNDPFMToolkit.

A proposed chart of accounts was discussedwith UNDPand was submitted prior to negotiations.
It was considered acceptable.

Information Systems. The PCU will use an automated financial management system. The
current option that was assessed i s the UNDP FMToolkit. This system allows for expenditures
to be segregated by project component/activity, major disbursement category and financing
source, which is compatible with the Bank's recommended practices for project accounting.

However, the TT Government is also looking at the option of implementing other software to
manage the financial management functions. If this is the case, the F M S will need to conduct an
assessmentof the system before it is implementedfor uroiect accounting purposes.

Safeguard over assets, ThePCU will maintain an asset register. The UNDP Toolkit has the
capacity to maintain an automatedasset register. Theasset register will be used to reconcile
against aphysical inventory perj4ormed on a yearly basis.




                                                 - 84 -

 InternalAudit

 The PCU is not subject to an internal audit function although, duringthe first year, the local
 UNDP office will be reviewing all entries made inthe automated accounting system.

 ExternalAudit

 Independent auditors as required by the World Bank's loan agreement would audit project
 Accounts. The Auditor General i s considered to be an independent auditor but may engage
 private firms to assist in meeting audit requirements in a timely manner.

Audit compliance. According to World Bank portfolio records, project audits have not been
 submitted on a timely basis, in some cases more than a year late. As a result, the World Bank
strongly encourages the use of private auditors to ensurethe timely submission of audit reports.

Audit arrangements. Annual project financial statements will be audited in accordance with
International Audit Standards, and in accordance with terms of reference (TORS) acceptable to
the World Bank.       Auditors should provide audit opinions on project financial statements,
statement of expenditures (SOEs), a report on internal controls and a report on compliance with
the terms of the loan agreement and applicable laws and regulations.

The table below summarizesaudit requirements:

         Audit Report                                         DueDate

  Project financial statements   4 months after fiscal year end (April 30)
  SOE                             Same as above
  Special purpose                 Same as above (internal control and compliance)


Reportingand Monitoring

Financial statements and reports will be prepared in formats satisfying both the GOTT and the
World Bank's monitoringand fiduciary purposes.

The PCU will be responsible for producing quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) to be
submitted to the World Bank at the end of each quarter. The FMRs will include a narrative
outlining the Project's major achievements for the quarter, the sources and uses of funds, a
detailed analysis of expenditures by sub-component, a physical progress report, and a
procurement report. FMRs should be submitted to the Bank no later than 45 days after the end of
the reportingperiod.

The PCU/UNDP submitted prior to negotiations a draft FMR format. which was found
acceptable.
The annual financial statements will include the Program's sources and uses of funds, a detailed
analysis of expenditure by sub-component, and the schedule of SOEs presented during the year.
These reports will be made available to the auditors after the end of the fiscal year.




                                                 - 85 -

DisbursementArrangements

The proposed loan would be disbursed over an implementation period of about six years.
Disbursements would be made in accordance with guidelines set out in the World Bank's
Disbursements Handbook.

The GOTT would pre-finance or use direct payments from the loan account to finance project
expenditures. Under this option, the GOTT would provide evidence of sufficient budget
allocation for project expenditures.


As a condition of effectiveness, the GOTT would presentevidence of sufficient budget allocation
to finance the first year of the project's expenditures.


Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs). Direct payment applications will be supported by
SOEs for expenditures that fall above the threshold established by the World Bank's
disbursement department. SOEs will require submittal of full supporting documentation for
payments on contracts that require the World Bank's review. For payments of expenditures that
do not require the Bank's review, the supporting documentation should be maintained at the PCU.

Documents in support of SOEs must be maintained by the PCU for at least one year after the
World Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the loan withdrawal was
made. Such documents must be available to review by external auditors and World Bank staff.

Other procedures. Upon request from the Borrower and subject to the World Bank's approval,
payments would be made: (i)      directly to a third party (supplier or consultant) for goods, works
and services; (ii)to a procurement agent; or (iii) a commercial bank for expenditures against a
                                                    to
World Bank Special Commitment covering a commercial bank's letter of credit.




                                                - 8 6 -

                                   FinancialManagementAction Plan
I Activity                                                  I                ITarget Date                I
  Organization andStaffing
  Preparation and submission of TORs and CVs for PCU GOTT/UNDP                Subject to Cabinet approval
  staff to Bank for no-objections.                                            of proposal.
  Hiring and or appointment of key personnel. At a GOTT                       Subject to Cabinet approval
  minimumthe Head of the NACC, the PCU's core staff.                          of     proposal     but by
                                                                              effectiveness.
  Participation of Project Financial Administration staff in WB/UNDP          At project launch
  Bank Disbursementand Financial Management Training.
 Flow of Funds
 Submission of evidence to support sufficient budget OPM                      By effectiveness
 allocation of funds to finance the project's first year of
 exoenditures.
 Operational Manual
 Submission of final draft of Operations Manual to Bank OPM/PCU               By effectiveness
 for its no-objection.
 ExternalAudit
 Preparationof TORs for audit and submissionto Bank for OPM/PCU               Prior to effectiveness
 no-objection.
 Appointment of independent auditor.                         Auditor General  By effectiveness
 Safeguardover Assets (physical and information)
 Implementation of Fixed Asset Register and supporting PCU                    Prior to effectiveness
 policies and procedures including physical inventories,
 storage/transfer/distribution/retirementsof assets etc.

 Integrated Financial ManagementSystem
 Implementation of IntegratedInformation systems.           IOPM/PCU         IBy effectiveness


 Financial Covenants

 Section 4.01 "Standard" wording: audit reports to be furnished to IBRDno later than four months
 after the end of each fiscal year.

 Section 4.02 "Standard" wording: the due date for the first FMRs is 45 days after the end of the
 quarter in which effectiveness takes place.

 Supervision Plan

After effectiveness, a FMSpecialist must review the annual audit reports and should perform at
 least one supervision mission per year or more often as needed.

Effectiveness Conditions

Based on this assessment, we recommend the following conditions for effectiveness: (i)     provide
evidence of budget allocation for financing of the first year of project expenditures; (ii)hire the
PCU's core staff; and (iii) final version of Operations Manual for Bank no-objection.
                             submit




                                                  - 87 -

                                                   Annex 7
               TrinidadandTobago HIV/AIDS Preventionand Control Project

                                       Project ProcessingSchedule


          Project Schedule             Planned                                        Actual

  Time taken to prepare the project                  9
  (months)
  First Bank mission (identification)           May 2002                             May 2002
  Appraisal mission departure                   May 2003                          May 28,2003
  Negotiations                                  May 2003                           May 29,2003
  Planned Date o f Effectiveness             September 2003                     September 27,2003

  Trinidadand Tobago government officers who worked on the project

              Name                                                    Position

Hon. Conrad Enill                      Minister of Finance
Ms.Alison Lewis                      I Ministrv of Finance                                           I
Mr.Leroy Mayers                        Permanent Secretary, Ministry o f Finance
Mr.HamidO'Brien                        Permanent Secretary, Ministry o f Health
Ms. Carol Hernandez                   Ministry of Legal Affairs
Mr.MichaelMendez                      Ministry of Finance
Ms. Rosemary Johnson                  Director, Corporate Services, Office of the Prime Minister
Dr.IngridNeccles                      Chief, National AIDS Program, Ministry o f Health
Dr.IanPopplewell                      Chief, Epidemiology Unit, Ministry of Health
Dr.Rohit Doon                         Principal Medical Officer, Ministry of Health

 Bankstaff that worked on the project:

                Name                                                    Specialty
 Patricio Marquez                        Task Team Leader
 Juan Carlos Alvarez                     Legal Counsel
 Patricia de laFuente Hoyes              Financial Management Specialist
 Marcelo Osorio                          Procurement Analyst (Consultant)




 Peer Reviewers: SalimHabayeb (WHO); PalomaCuchi (PAHO/WHO); Jonathan Brown (World
 Bank).




                                                     - 88 -

                                            Annex 8
            Trinidad and Tobago HIV/AIDS Preventionand ControlProject

                                  Documentsinthe ProjectFile
A. Project ImplementationPlan

FirstYear Annual Implementation Plan andProcurement Plan
Operations Manual

B. Bank StaffAssessments

Mission Aide Memoire and assessments documents of May 2002, December 2002, February
2003, March 2003, andMay 2003

Other

Five-year National HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan, 2003-2007. Final Report. The Republic of
Trinidad and Tobago. Preparedby the University of the West Indies, HealthEconomics Unit,
October 2002.

Report of the Cohort Analysis Study on Tuberculosis (TB), Ministry of Health, Trinidad and
Tobago. PAHOKAREC, February 2000.

Assessment of the Cost Effectiveness of the DOTS as a Complement to the ExistingProgramfor
TreatingTuberculosis Patients inTrinidad and Tobago. Ministry of Health. July 2000.

Draft Action Plan2001-2005. National Tuberculosis Program. Ministryof Health.

Audit of Public Healthand HospitalLaboratories Information Systems DevelopmentFinal
Report. KPMGConsulting. June 2001.

NationalTuberculosis Control ProgradHansen's DiseaseControl Program. Final Report.
KPMGConsulting. June 2001.

Situational and ResponseAnalysis of HIV/AIDS in Trinidad. UWIHEU/CAREC. August 2001.

NationalHIV/AIDS/STI Program. KPMGConsulting. June 2001.

NationalBloodTransfusion Unit. KPMGConsulting. June 2001

Public HealthLaboratories FinalReport. KPMGConsulting. June 2001.

Medical ResearchFoundationof Trinidad and Tobago. Background, ResearchExperience and
Publications. February 2002.

Biomedical Waste Management Assessment. Ministry of Health. May 2003,

Scientific Publications on the HIV/AIDS Epidemic indifferent internationaljournals by Prof.
Courtenay Bartholomew et al.




                                            - 89 -

                                         Annex 9
        Trinidad and Tobago HIV/AIDS Prevention and ControlProject
                            Statementof Loanand Credits




            4246
            214
            2x44
            17845
            250,88854281
            lao,~l8a23
            19.95
            0.00
            19,w,w.88




                     CAS Annex BS (IFC) for Trinidad and Tobago

                                Trinidad and Tobago
                                 Statement of IFC's
                            Held and Disbursed Portfolio
                                  As of 6130l2002
                              (In US Dollars Millions)

                                           Held                 Disbursed

FY Approval Company            Loan Equity Quasi Partic Loan Equity Quasi Partic
       1996 Caribbean Ispat      13.7       0      0 18.33 13.7    0     0 18.33
       2002 Republic-CLICMBS       20       0      0     0    0    0     0     0
       2001 Royal Merchant         20       0      0     0   20    0     0     0
       2002 Unicell                 5       0      4     0    0    0     0     0

        Total Portfolio:         58.7       0      4 18.33 33.7    0     0 18.33


             Approvals Pending Commitment
                               Loan Equity Quasi Partic
       2001 Royal Merchant     20000        0      0     0
       2002 Republic Bank      20000        0      0     0

  Total Pending Commitment:    40000        0      0     0
                                          - 90 -

                                                                       Annex 10
                                 Trinidad and Tobago HIV/AIDS Preventionand Control Project
                          Trinidad and Tobago at a dance                                                                                         9/23/02

                                                               Trinidad       Latin     Upper-
 POVERTYand SOCIAL                                                 and    America      middle-
                                                                Tobago    & Carib.     income         Development diamond'
 2001
 Population, mid-year (millions)                                    1.3         524        504                          Life expectancy
 GNI percapita (Atlas method, US$)                                5,970       3,560      4,460
 GNI (Atlas method, US$billions)                                    7.8       1,862      2,248                                 -

 Average annual growth, 1995-01                                                                                                I
 Population (%)                                                     0.6          1.5        1.3
 Labor force (%)                                                    2.0          2.2        1.8       GNI                                       Gross
                                                                                                      per                                     primary
 Most recent estimate (latest year available,1995-01)                                                 capita                                nrollment
 Poverty (% ofpopulationbelow nationalpovertyline)
 Urban population (% of totalpopulat/on)                            74            76        77
 Life expectancyat birth (years)                                    73            70        71                                 1
 Infantmortality (per 7,000live bidhs)                               16           29        24
 Child malnutrition (% of childrenunder5)                                          9          9                Access to imoroved water source
 Access to an improved water source (% ofpopulation)                86            85        87
 Illiteracy(% ofpopulationage 152)                                    6           11        10
 Gross primary enrollment (% of school-agepopulation)               102         130        127              ~        Trinidadand Tobago
     Male                                                           102         131        128
                                                                                                             ~       Upper-middle-incomegroup
     Female                                                         101         128        126

 KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                      1981        1991        2000        2001
 GDP (US$ billions)                                     7.0                                           Economic ratios'
                                                                    5.2          8.2        8.9
 Gross domestic InvestmenffGDP                         27.8       16.6          18.2       20.8
 Exportsof goods and ServicedGDP                       43.8       41.8         58.9        54.0                              Trade
 Gross domestic savingslGDP                            36.2       24.5         31.8        31.9
 Gross national savings/GDP                            30.2       15.8         24.7        27.0
Current account balance/GDP                                        -0.9          6.5        6.2
 Interestpayments/GDP                                   1.2         3.2          1.4        1.3
Total debffGDP                                         15.0       48.1         30.0        27.3
Total debt service/exports                              4.1       19.2          10.2        4.0
 Presentvalue of debffGDP                                                      31.I                                            I
 Presentvalue of debffexports                                                  51.9
                                                                                                                          Indebtedness
                                       1981-91 1991-01            2000        2001     2001-05
 (averageannual growth)
GDP                                         -1.3        4.0         6.9          5.0        5 0               -Trinidad       and Tobago
GDP per capita                              -2.3        3.3         6.2         4.3         4.1                       1Inner-middle-incnme nrniin
Exportsof goods and services                7.7         5.5         2.8         -7.7        6.8


STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY

                                                                                                                                                        II
(% of GDP)                                            1981        1991        2000        200'                      investmentand GDP (%)

Aariculture                                             2.3         2.5          1.6        1.6                                                         I
Industry                                               58.4       42.7         44.0        44.9       50
   Manufacturing                                        6.7         9.4         7.5         7.7
Services                                              39.3        54.9         54.4        53.5        0

Privateconsumption                                    51.3        62.6         59.0        57.2      -50
Generalgovemment consumption                           12.6       13.0          9.2        10.8     !

Importsof goods and services                          35.5        33.9         45.3        42.8     1                -GDI            -GDP



                                                 1981-91 199141               2000        2o01     1
(averageannual growth)                                                                               Growthof exports and imports("A)

Agriculture                                            -4.6        3.5         18.7        4.0     I   T                 h
Industry                                               -4.8        4.8          8.9         6.7
  Manufacturing                                        -7.5        7.4         12.3         7.0
Services                                                3.8        3.2          8.3        3.6
Privateconsumption                                     -1.9        1.6          4.1        5.1
Generalgovemment consumption                           -3.9        1.8          3.5        5.1
Gross domestic investment                              -9.5       12.8          9.7        3.3
Importsof goods and services                           -0.2        8.0         -3.2        0.9

Note: 2001 data are preliminaryestimates.
* The diamonds show four key indicatorsin the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. Ifdata are missing, the diamond will
   be incomplete.

                                                                         -91 -

                                                                                                 Trinidad and Tobago

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                         1981   1991       2000   2001      1
                                                                            1::                                                  I
Domestic prices                                                                  Inflation(%)

(% change)                                                                     iZo T                                             I
Consumer prices                           14.3    3.8        3.5    5.1
ImplicitGDP deflator                      7.9     0.0       14.6    3.3

Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                              o
Current revenue                                 30.5       27.2    25.0        1i-5 -     96    97      98       99      00

Current budget balance                           3.3         2.9    0.7
                                                                                ~

Overallsurplusldeficit                           -0.2        1.3    -3.9                        GDP deflator    -CPI


TRADE
                                        1981    1991       2000   2001
(US$ millions)                                                                    Export and import levels(US$ mill.)

Total exports(fob)                             1,753      4,213   4,159
  Fuels                                          985      2,798   2,623
  Chemicals                                      353        737     809
  Manufactures                                    99         199    209
Total imports (cif)                            1,437      3,333   3,552
  Food                                           145         187    213
  Fuel and energy                                 52       1,061    935
  Capital goods                                  472        973   1,234

Exportprice index (1995=100)                      95         140    143                 95    96    97    96     99     00    01

Importprice index (1995=100)                      94          83     80                          Exports         Himports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                        101         169    178

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                        1981   1991        2000   2001           ___.___

(US$millions)                                                                    Current account balanceto GDP ("A)              I
Exportsof goods and services            3,144  2,173      4,842   4,791
Importsof goods and services            2,478  1,766      3,721   3,799
Resourcebalance                           665    407       1,121    992

Net income                               -198   -439       -621   -472
Net currenttransfers                      -69    -14          38     33

Current account balance                          -46        538     553

Financingitems(net)                             -251         -97    -84
Changes in net reserves                 -569     297       -441   -469

Memo:
Reservesincludinggold (US$ millions)    3,350    340      1,386   1,859
Conversionrate (DEC, local/US$)           2.4    4.3         6.3    6.3

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                        1981   1991        2000   2001
(US$millions)                                                                    Composition of 2001 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed    1,050  2,503      2,467   2,425
  IBRD                                    54      38          89     90
  IDA                                      0       0           0      0                                 90

Total debt service                       142    428         500     196
  IBRD                                    10       9          17     17
  IDA                                      0       0           0      0

Compositionof net resource flows
  Official grants                          0       2           1
  Officialcreditors                       84     25          -41    -14
  Privatecreditors                        16   -139          23      -5
  Foreigndirect investment               258    169         650
  Portfolioequity                          0       0           0                                               950

World Bank program
  Commitments                              0     21            0      0          A - IBRD                           E Bilateral
  Disbursements                            3       2         14      11                     D Other multilateral
                                                                                              -                     F Private
                                                                                 C - IMF
                                                                                 B - IDA
  Principalrepayments                      6       6         10      10                                             G Short-term
                                                                                                                     ---
  Net flows                               -3      -4          4       1
  Interestpayments                         5       3          7       7
 Net transfers                            -7      -7          -3     -6


DevelopmentEconomics                                                                                                       9/23/02

                                                     - 92 -

