                             Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)

Section I - Basic Information
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 05/28/2003
A. Basic Project Data (from PDS)
I.A.1. Project Statistics
Country: TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO                                Project ID: P075528
Project: T&T: HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Project Task Team Leader: Patricio V. Marquez
Authorized to Appraise Date: May 22, 2003                   IBRD Amount ($m): 20.00
Bank Approval: June 27, 2003                                IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: LCSHH                                        Sector: Health (100%)
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)            Theme: Fighting communicable diseases (P);
Status: Lending                                             Population and reproductive health (P); Health
                                                            system performance (S); Child health (S)


I.A.2. Project Objectives (From PDS):
The present project is designed to contribute to the achievement of the following strategic goals that the
Government of Trinidad and Tobago (GOTT), has set through the National HIV/AIDS Task Force: (a)
to reduce the incidence of HIV infections; and (b) to mitigate the negative impact of HIV/AIDS on
persons infected and affected in Trinidad and Tobago.

I.A.3. Project Description (From PDS):
The activities for project support have been selected from discussions with the GOTT , NGOs and other
stakeholders and grouped into the 5 components, based on the priority areas contemplated in the
Five-Year National HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan (2003-2007). The priority areas are: (a) Prevention: curb
the spread of new HIV infections; (b) Treatment, Care and Support: reduce the morbidity and mortality
attributed to HIV/AIDS; (c) Advocacy and Human Rights: increase the quality of life of People Living
with AIDS (PLWAs); and (d) Surveillance, Research and Management: build sustainable institutional
capacity for managing HIV/AIDS prevention and control activities for the longer term.

COMPONENT 1: PREVENTION OF THE SPREAD of HIV/AIDS (US$8.06 MILLION)
Component 1 will prevent the spread of the epidemic through the following activities: a) promotion of
behavior change through the design and implementation of a Communications Program to intensify
HIV/AIDS education and awareness programs, using multiple communication channels to target
messages to different audiences; b) improve availability and accessibility of condoms; c) support the
continuation and expansion nationwide of the MTCT Prevention Program under implementation by the
MOH; d) support a national voluntary testing and counseling (VTC) Program using the network
of public health facilities strategically located throughout the country; e) diagnosis, treatment and
counseling of STIs would be provided throughout the primary health care network; f) support training
and improve practices for the management of bio-medical wastes. and g) improvement in blood bank and
transfusion services.

COMPONENT 2: TREATMENT, CARE AND SUPPORT (US$11.13 MILLION)

A key element for establishing treatment, care and support for HIV/AIDS patients, is an appropriate
health network, both public and private The project would finance the installation capacity for HIV
testing in selected health centers, as well as in all Enhanced Health Centers and District Health Centers
(DHC). General hospitals in Port of Spain (Northwest Region), San Fernando (South West Region),
Sangre Grande (Eastern Region), and Scarborough (Tobago Region) would also be supported by the

                                                        2
                                                                                                        ISDS



project financing to install lab equipment and staffing for diagnostic and confirmatory HIV testing, as
well as CD4 testing. The project would finance the construction of a new building for the National
Public Health Laboratory in a neighbouring site, and would complement the required equipment to
ensure appropriate performance of the public health laboratory functions. It would also finance the
training of a medical epidemiologist overseas. Rapid confirmation testing and PCR would also be
financed as well as the best alternative between leasing Viral Load equipment by the National Health
Laboratory or contracting with CAREC or other overseas facilities for the supply of required Viral Load
testing services.

COMPONENT 3: ADVOCACY AND HUMAN RIGHTS (US $0.45 million)

The project would support enactment of anti-discriminatory legislation in the workplace and human
rights education in the wider community of the Caribbean, and inclusion of HIV/AIDS in the Equal
Opportunity Act that protects all citizens. A dedicated HIV/AIDS desk at the Ombudsman's office and
the publication of human rights (HR) abuses in the media will be encouraged in order to monitor such
abuses and provide an avenue for redress.

COMPONENT 4: SURVEILLANCE AND RESEARCH (US$2.52 million)

The project would support the implementation of standardized protocols for behavioral ("second
generation") and biological surveillance with the assistance of CAREC and MRF. These institutions
would also assist the MOH in providing technical support towards the strengthening of the
STI/HIV/AIDS surveillance system and execution of surveys. Integrity and confidentiality of the
electronic medical records would be ensured with encrypting technology.

COMPONENT 5: PROGRAM MANAGEMENT, COORDINATION AND EVALUATION (US$2.59
million including US$ 450,000 unallocated)

The project would support the establishment and initial operations of a sustainable institutional
structure and management team that would allow the country to effectively control and prevent
the spread of HIV/AIDS, and care for PLWAs over the long term. This would be accomplished
by providing the necessary leadership, technical advisory services, staffing, goods, and general
operating costs of the participating institutions and community organizations, including NGOs.

I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)

The project will have a national scope. High risk groups such as HIV/AIDS pregnant women, adolescents and youn
MSM, CSW, prisoners, military, commercial drivers and tourism workers, would be the primary beneficiaries of the
However, given the fact that HIV/AIDS is an epidemic without selectivity, all populations groups would be considered vul


B. Check Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)

Comments:


C. Safeguard Policies Triggered (from PDS)
(click on    for a detailed desciption or click on the policy number for a brief description)
                                     Policy                                           Triggered

    Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)                           Yes    No     TBD

                                                      3
                                                                                                        ISDS




    Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                                 Yes    No       TBD

    Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                                  Yes    No       TBD

    Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                    Yes    No       TBD

    Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                                Yes    No       TBD

    Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                                 Yes    No       TBD

    Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                        Yes    No       TBD

    Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                            Yes    No       TBD

    Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)                 Yes    No       TBD

    Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*                      Yes    No       TBD



Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.

II.D.1a. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
The project itself is not expected to have negative environmental effects. However, it also presents an
opportunity for addressing issues related to the management of bio-medical waste in the country. An
action program will be financed during project implementation.
The Secretariat would also follow the Bank's guidelines for environmental assessment prior to
undertaking small works and rehabilitation of existing structures. These will appear in the Operations
Manual. In addition, although the acquisition of new land implying resettlements is not foreseen, a
framework to manage it will be also included in the Operations Manual.

II.D.1b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
The solid waste produced in health facilities is potentially hazardous, infectious, contagious, or toxic,
posing health risks to staff who handle waste in health facilities and to urban waste collection
operators and scavengers in landfills. The project will help to strengthen the biomedical waste
management structure and processes in participating health facilities.

II.D.1c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
Reduction of health risks for health staff and the community due to improved biomedical waste
management system.

II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
An assessment of the Medical Waste Management in Trinidad and Tobago is included in the Project
Appraisal Document (Annex 2-B).
It will be submitted to the Infoshop as Annex to the Project Information Document.

II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
The major findings and specific recommendations of the biomedical waste assessment have been
received and provides a detailed, facility-by-facility statement of improvements that could be
undertaken in the short term with minimal expense. The assessment has provided grounds for an action
plan for establishing technically sound biomedical waste management from collection to final disposal.
The project team will monitor the development and adoption of biomedical waste management

                                                      4
                                                                                                        ISDS



standards and safeguards as part of regular supervision missions.

As assessed during project preparation by the Project team, it is expected that the environmental and
social impacts resulting from the execution of the above-mentioned civil works during the
implementation of the project will be minimal, in view of the following considerations: the vast
majority of the interventions are rehabilitation works within the interior of the facilities, thus they will
not affect the activities nor the traffic in the neighborhoods. The construction of the new National
Public Health laboratory would be carried out in the current site after the demolition of the existing
infrastructure, thus acquisition of new land implying resettlements or new environmental impact
assessments are not foreseen. The project's Operations Manual, a loan effectiveness condition, will
include World Bank guidelines and framework in the event of any resettlement caused by the project,
alongside guidelines for construction works and for improving biomedical waste management and
disposal in the participating institutions.

A procurement and financial management assessment has been completed, and actions for compliance
with Bank norms have been incorporated in the Operations Manual. Based on the results of the
assessment, as noted above, project components include support to strengthen the biomedical waste
management system in public health facilities, including investments in equipment, training, and
technical assistance.

II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
All Trinidadians are direct and indirect beneficiaries of, and stakeholders in the project. The development
of the National Strategic Action Plan involved a broad cross section of stakeholders, including PLWA,
and has given voice to these beneficiaries.

A series of consultations have been underway with NGOs and civil society to discuss the draft plan.
Second, representatives of NGOs and civil society will be included in the National AIDS Coordinating
Council (NACC). Third, NGOs and CBOs would be involved as implementing agencies, especially in
prevention, advocacy, and care and support activities. Mechanisms for NGOs and CBOs to be involved
in implementation will be spelled out in the Operations Manual of the project. The Secretariat will
conduct dialogue with stakeholders through its reporting with the NACC. In addition, it would receive
feedback through stakeholder participation in the annual and the mid-term reviews of progress.

In addition to direct involvement of key Government Ministries (Financing, Health and others), NGOs
and civil society groups will be represented in the NCAA. They have been involved in the design,
implementation and monitoring of the project activities, and are expected to participate in the periodic
evaluation of project activities, and the preparation of new annual work plans.

Key Caribbean institutions supporting HIV/AIDS prevention and control include CARICOM, OECS,
OECS/PPS, PAHO/CAREC, and ECDB. Locally, the Chamber of Industry and Commerce, the Medical
association, the Carnival Committee/Culturama Committee and the Christian Council are important
stakeholders in HIV/AIDS prevention and control efforts.

E. Safeguards Classification (select in SAP). Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy.
Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is
triggered the provisions of that policy apply.


[ ] S1. ­ Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks

                                                    5
                                                                                                       ISDS



         in management of one or more safeguard areas
[X] S2. ­ One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
         technically and institutionally manageable
[ ] S3. ­ No safeguard issues
[ ] SF. ­ Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
         similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
         safeguard issues.

F. Disclosure Requirements

Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:                        Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                              5/20/2003         5/20/2003
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop                                           5/22/2003
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the Executive
Directors (For category A projects)

Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                                       Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop

Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:                            Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop

Pest Management Plan:                                                     Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop

Dam Safety Management Plan:                                               Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop

If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.

Signed and submitted by              Name                                                 Date
Task Team Leader:                    Patricio V. Marquez                                  05/22/2003
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:


Approved by:                         Name                                                 Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Juan D. Quintero                                         05/28/2003
Sector Manager/Director              Ana-Maria Arriagada                                  05/28/2003

