                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                     Report No: 25720-ID

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                          (CPL-38540; SCL-3854A; SCPD-3854S; PPFB-P1701)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$136 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                      REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                                 FOR A

                         KALIMANTAN URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                              June 24, 2003




Urban Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      (Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2002)

                                Currency Unit = Rupiah
                                          Rp 1 = US$ 0.000112139
                                        US$ 1 = Rp 8,917.50

                                      FISCAL YEAR
                                 January 1    December 31

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ACSD        -   Abolition and Combination, Simplification, Decentralization
BAPPENAS    -   National Development Planning Agency
BOD         -   Biochemical Oxygen Demand
DPRD        -   Local Level Parliament
EIRR        -   Economic Internal Rate of Return
FIRR        -   Financial Internal Rate of Return
GOI         -   Government of Indonesia
IPLT        -   Sludge Treatment Facility
IUIDP       -   Integrated Urban Infrastructure Development Program (or Project)
KIMPRASWIL  -   Ministry of Settlements and Regional Infrastructure
KIP         -   Kampung (poor neighborhood) Improvement Program
LARAP       -   Land Acquisition and Resettlement Action Plan
LG          -   Local Government
LKMD        -   Community Organization
MIP         -   Market Improvement Program
MOF         -   Ministry of Finance
MSRI        -   Ministry of Settlement and Regional Infrastructure
NGO         -   Non-governmental Organization
O&M         -   Operations and Maintenance
PDAM        -   Local Government Water Enterprise
Pemda       -   Local Government
PJM         -   Medium-term Expenditure Program
PMO         -   Local Government Monitoring Office (under the local planning board)
PMU         -   Project Management Unit (under the local department of public works)
QCBS        -   Quality and Cost-Based Selection (of procurement)
RIAP        -   Revenue Improvement Action Plan
SAR         -   Staff Appraisal Report
SLA         -   Subsidiary Loan Agreement
TA          -   Technical Assistance
TPA         -   Final Solid Waste Disposal Site
UfW         -   Unaccounted For Water
UPT-PAL     -   Technical Service Unit - Waste Water Treatment
VOC         -   Vehicle Operating Costs



                              Vice President:      Mr. Jemal-ud-din Kassum
                 Country Manager/Director:         Mr. Andrew Steer, EACIF
                   Sector Manager/Director:        Mr. Keshav Varma, EASUR
           Task Team Leader/Task Manager:          Mr. George Soraya, EASUR

                                         INDONESIA
                   KALIMANTAN URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            16
6. Sustainability                                                                19
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 21
8. Lessons Learned                                                               25
9. Partner Comments                                                              27
10. Additional Information                                                       n/a
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             30
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             33
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             35
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             45
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             49
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                50
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            51
Annex 8. Additional Sectoral Assessment of Solid Waste Management                52

Annex 9. Project Cost Summary by Subsector                                       53
Annex 10. Technical Assistance                                                   54
Annex 11. Resettlement Experience in KUDP                                        55

Project ID: P003951                                                      Project Name: KALIMANTAN URBAN
                                                                         DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Team Leader: George Soraya                                               TL Unit: EASUR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 27, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: KALIMANTAN URBAN DEVELOPMENT                             L/C/TF Number: CPL-38540; SCL-3854A;
                            PROJECT                                                                  SCPD-3854S;
                                                                                                     PPFB-P1701
   Country/Department: INDONESIA                                                          Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: General water/sanitation/flood protection sector (50%); Roads &
                            highways (20%); Housing construction (10%); Sub-national
                            government administration (10%); Central government
                            administration (10%)
                  Theme: Municipal finance (P); Access to urban services for the poor (P);
                            Other urban development (P); Municipal governance and institution
                            building (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    10/10/1989                                        Effective:                         11/02/1995
   Appraisal:    03/24/1994                                            MTR: 10/01/1997                05/10/1999
    Approval:    03/21/1995                                         Closing: 06/30/2001               12/31/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Republic of Indonesia/Participating Cities and their Water Utilities
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Mr. Jemal-ud-din Kassum                        Mr. Gautam Kaji
Country Director:               Mr. Andrew D. Steer                            Ms. Marianne Haug
Sector Manager:                 Mr. Keshav Varma                               Mr. Anupam Khanna
Team Leader at ICR:             Mr. George Soraya                              Ms. Frida Johansen
ICR Primary Author:             George Soraya


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:M

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   S

                    Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

Introduction.

The Indonesia's share of Kalimantan covers the southern three-quarters of the island of Borneo. It
comprises 30% of Indonesia's total land mass, but includes only 5% of the country's population. In 1990,
about 2.5 million people lived in Kalimantan's urban areas, of which 1.9 million lived in the five largest
cities of Pontianak, Banjarmasin, Balikpapan, Samarinda, and Palangka Raya.

Urban services in these five cities were significantly backlogged. Local water entreprises (PDAMs)
supplied between 25-50% of the population with water, either through house connections (28-38%) or
public taps (2-8%). Service tended to be rather unreliable, especially in the dry season. Most people
depended on low quality water from shallow wells, rivers and canals as well as rain water and high-priced
vendor water. Only 50-60% of the population had solid waste collection. Flooding was a major
environmental problem in the low-lying cities. Motorized traffic was growing quickly; however roads are
narrow, rights-of-way were experiencing encroachment, and traffic management was inadequate. Together,
these resulted in frequent traffic congestion. Other typical urban deficiencies such as inadequate budgetary
provision for operations and maintenance (O&M) and inadequate revenue generation.

With these problems in the back-drop, in 1990, the Government of Indonesia (GOI) requested Bank
support for the Kalimantan Urban Development Project (KUDP), designed using GOI's Integrated Urban
Infrastructure Development Project (IUIDP) approach. This approach was developed in the mid-1980s
and integrated the development of urban infrastructure investments in urban transport, water supply,
sewerage and sanitation, flood control, drainage, solid waste management and kampung (poor
neighborhood) improvements under one package.

The main objectives of KUDP were: (a) to improve the provision of urban infrastructure and services and
the efficiency of urban investments; (b) to promote stronger, more autonomous, and financially more
independent municipal governments; and (c) to contribute towards urban poverty reduction, mainly through
better access to essential services and an improved urban environment; and to improve the urban
environment.

Assessment of Objectives. The objectives were clear and consistent with GOI's Five-Year Development
Plan (Repelita V) in meeting the basic service delivery and local government capacities, and also fully
consistent with the Bank Group's 1994 CAS, which emphasized interregional equity, delivering higher
levels of services and enhancing competitiveness in a climate of macroeconomic stability which reigned at
the time.

The project was relatively complex. It covered five cities and at least seven components in each city.
Geographically, the project sites were widely dispersed, covering four provinces on Borneo. However, the
cities chosen were medium-sized cities, which made coverage of multiple components more manageable.
Overall, the project risks were acceptable.

3.2 Revised Objective:
There were no major changes in the project objectives during implementation.



                                                     - 2 -

3.3 Original Components:

The project was to support a five-year program of high priority expenditures in the five cities of
Balikpapan, Banjarmasin, Palangka Raya, Pontianak and Samarinda. These expenditures were allocated
for water supply, urban roads, solid waste management, sanitation, a Kampung (poor neighborhood)
Improvement Program (KIP) and a Market Improvement Program (MIP), and drainage. Institutional
support and training complemented the physical investments. A brief description by component follows.

Water Supply (US$44 million). This component included investments for water treatment plants and
transmission and distribution networks, investments in rehabilitation and leakage control, and increased
operations and maintenance. Expected achievements were five new reservoirs, 105,000 new connections to
the piped water system, more reliable services, and better quality water.

Urban Roads (US$55.9 million). The five cities had an urban road network of some 1000 km including
national, provincial and local roads. The project was to improve their routine maintenance, contribute to
the periodic overlays/rehabilitation of 125 km of roads and improve (widen, upgrade or other works) some
280 km more. In addition, the project would assist in constructing 30 km of new major roads needed to
accommodate rising traffic flows.

Solid Waste Management (US$8.3 million). This component consisted of construction of new final
disposal sites for each city, procurement of bulldozers, dump trucks and containers, and construction of
transfer stations.

Sanitation/Human Waste Disposal (US$11.8 million). This component consisted of the construction of
on-site facilities of pilot sewerage/interceptor schemes and septic sludge disposal sites within the solid
waste disposal sites, and procurement of septic sludge disposal trucks.

KIP/MIP/Infrastructure for Low-cost Housing (US$21.1 million). This component was to improve all
poor villages (kampungs) by 1999. Sixty-four kampungs with an area of about 1000 ha would be upgraded
through provision of roads, paths, drainage, water supply, sanitation, with community participation. The
component would also provide infrastructure, mainly roads, for new low-cost housing developments
covering a total area of about 100 ha, and roads for three pilot urban renewal programs, covering 64 ha in
downtown areas. The component would also improve infrastructure of 24 markets in very poor condition,
covering an area of about 134 ha.

Drainage (US$23.8 million). This component included the rehabilitation and improvement of primary and
secondary drains, normalization of river banks and deferred and incremental O&M.

Project Implementation Support TA (US$10.3 million). This provided engineering services to assist
with the final design stages of the work in the program and supervision of their construction.

Institutional Development Technical Assistance and Training (US$11.7 million). This consisted of
assistance for program management and monitoring, improved environmental and resettlement practices,
institutional capacity building for each agency and technical and managerial training for the water
enterprises. The project also included assistance to the National Planning Agency (BAPPENAS) to further
the Integrated Urban Development Program (IUDP) concept and practice. This also included the
preparation of strategic urban plans and medium-term expenditure programs (PJS) to follow the project
period.


                                                     - 3 -

Assessment of Project Design.

The project design was satisfactory. Although there could have been more participation by the local
governments (LGs) in the overall design process, the project had relatively more input from them than any
similar type project from this era. The project components, and the IUIDP approach in general, were
clearly linked to achieving the project's objectives. The assumption that the LGs would be able to play a
stronger role in project implementation proved valid as LG ownership progressed during the course of the
project. The project's physical investments were robust, and during the financial crisis, the components
became even more relevant. However, on institutional development, the design could have been more
realistic, considering some of the proposed improvements. For example, any proposal for agency
reorganizations required changes beyond the control of the Executing Agency and the implementation
agencies. Fortunately, the unexpected 1998 political reform and decentralization laws made some of these
proposed changes more realistic.

Although initially the project appeared demanding for the LGs, by Loan closing, they were generally able to
step up and meet the challenges. For most of them, this was among their first project where significant
decisions in planning, programming and implementation were actually carried out at the local level, and
their performance in this regard improved considerably by the end of the project. The decision by GOI and
the Bank to decentralize project implementation, especially during the early project period when
government policy was tightly centralized, turned out to be an effective means of implementing the project,
especially during the financial and political crisis in 1998. The project prepared the LGs well for the
eventual implementation of decentralization Laws No. 22/1999 and 25/1999.

3.4 Revised Components:
In order to mitigate the effects of the economic/financial crisis of 1998/99, a program of small
labor-intensive civil works was added to reduce the rapidly increasing urban poverty rate. Furthermore,
small scale programs such as the one-stop permit system, were added to promote good governance. The
project scope was also amended to cover technical assistance for poverty alleviation activities in urban
centers in northern East Java where the crises hit particularly hard.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

Quality at entry was satisfactory. As mentioned above, the project was fully in line with GOI priorities, its
strategy of using the IUIDP approach for urban investment projects, and with the Bank's 1994 CAS
objectives. Annual programs, including major sub-projects, were generally well defined. After the first two
years, some of the smaller sub-projects were programmatic, which provided flexibility in prioritizing
investments and accommodating changes in city conditions. Detailed designs of the larger sub-projects for
the first year were completed before Loan effectiveness, although further minor reviews were required
before their implementation. A detailed list of technical assistance (TA) packages with the responsible
agency clearly identified, was incorporated into the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR). The fact that the list of
TAs had been pre-agreed between GOI and the implementing agencies of the TAs, reduced implementation
time by avoiding having to spend extra time on consensus-building. The consultants for detailed design of
the first year investments were in place relatively soon after Loan effectiveness. The institutional capacity
assessment was largely close to reality, except for management of some of the complex technical assistance
packages, where the capacity of the LGs was less than adequate. The mechanisms for financing and
subsidiary lending were mostly ready on Loan effectiveness. Lessons from the on-going IUIDPs were
generally reflected in the project, including the importance of decentralizing more of the design and
implementation responsibilities to the local governments. The project also incorporated improvements to the



                                                       - 4 -

Project Implementation Agreement (PIA), based on experiences from the then-ongoing East Java Bali (Ln.
3304-IND) and Semarang Surakarta Urban Development (Ln. 3749-IND) Projects.

Risk assumptions. The technical risks of the projects were adequately addressed during preparation and
the covenants in the Loan Agreement were instrumental in mitigating the foreseen risks. In particular, the
covenants targeted towards PDAMs on increasing tariffs regularly and restricting them from paying
dividends to their local governments enabled the supervision team to enforce those principles when LGs
were reluctant to abide by them.
The appraisal mission's assumptions about external risk were mostly valid because of the long-term
stability the country had seen at appraisal. The appraisal team could not have foreseen the serious
financial, political, and social crisis in 1998, which affected project implementation, both in terms of the
speed of implementation and prioritization of programs. However, because the project was mainly
implemented by the LGs, the financial and institutional impacts were minimized, especially in relation to
the provision of counterpart funds.

Compliance with safeguard policies. The local governments' decrees for resettlement and environment
reflected Bank policy and were issued prior to Board. The provisions in the Loan Agreement on these
matters provided effective tools for supervision.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The overall objectives were satisfactorily met. With the exception of the market improvement and
sanitation sub-components, the project's achievements went well beyond the expected outcomes defined at
appraisal. The overall provision of infrastructure was substantially improved through the project. Table 1
below summarizes the ratings for achievement of objectives by component. Subsequent paragraphs
provide details on the outcome of each component.

Objective 1. Improve Provision of Urban Infrastructure and Services and the Efficiency of Urban
Investment.

Table 1: Ratings by Component


 Physical Component                   Rating
Water Supply                       Satisfactory
Drainage                           Satisfactory
Urban Roads                        Satisfactory
Solid Waste                        Marginally
                                  Satisfactory
Human Waste                        Marginally
                                  Satisfactory
KIP/MIIP/Other                     Satisfactory


Water Supply. Overall, achievement of objectives for water supply is satisfactory. Most of the original
works were completed ahead of the original Loan closing date. Two large sub-projects, raw water supply
schemes in Samarinda and Pontianak, were added after the mid-term review, and had to be completed
during the Loan extension period. The project delivered 132,666 new house connections or a 135%
increase from the start of the project, and at least 900 l/s of clean water, in addition to assuring a fresh raw


                                                       - 5 -

water supply during droughts, especially in Pontianak and Samarinda. (This latter problem had caused
serious health issues in 1998.) The coverage of clean piped water supply increased to 66%, an increase of
35 percentage points from the original level of coverage. In contrast, unaccounted-for water (UfW) was not
signficantly reduced; in fact it was higher in two cities after project completion (see Tables 5.1 to 5.5 in
Annex 3).

Urban Roads. Achievements for urban roads are satisfactory. The project was able to improve
accessibility within the cities by improving 25% of the existing roads. A total of 37 km of new arterial
roads have been constructed, 20% more than the existing arterial network in the cities, significantly
improving their traffic conditions. More details are presented in Annex 1, Table 6.

Drainage. Achivements are satisfactory. The project was able to reduce the total flooded area by 1,608 ha
or 14% of the total urban area, which is 6% higher than the SAR target. In addition, the project was also
able to secure 111 km of river banks from encroachment by lining them. Details are presented in Annex 1,
Table 2.

Solid Waste Management. The achievement is marginally satisfactory. Solid waste management in all
cities has improved compared to pre-project conditions. Waste collection and transport from the waste
generator to the temporary and final disposal sites are managed better. In Balikpapan and Pontianak,
innovative programs were even implemented to reduce waste volume. All cities reached their targets for
waste collection, with results ranging from 61% (Banjarmasin) to 82% (Samarinda), as can be seen from
Annex 1, Table 3. In all cities, except Samarinda, new landfill sites were constructed with various degrees
of success, but in two places they are poorly operated.

Sanitation. The achievement of objectives in sanitation is also marginally satisfactory. On-site sanitation
achievements varies from city to city, but generally are marginally satisfactory to unsatisfactory. In four
cities (not Samarinda), sludge disposal and treatment plants (IPLT) were built but are not in operation
except for Pontianak. Sludge trucks were purchased but are not in use due to various institutional reasons.
The off-site sanitation pilot schemes in Banjarmasin as well as in Balikpapan are satisfactory. The targets
for sewer connections were achieved, the effluent complies with the wastewater quality standard, and the
system is functioning.

KIP and Urban Renewal. The implementation of KIP was highly satisfactory. The project was able to
improve 181 locations within poor neighborhoods, covering an area of 2,658 ha, and directly benefiting
46% of the urban population. This achievement is more than 2.5 times the SAR target. Details are
presented in Table 4, Annex 1. The program also established a new mechanism for working with
community organizations (LKMD), which was adopted by some of the LGs. The mechanism allows the
LKMD to manage the project directly, builds more ownership, and expands the available budget through
community contributions.

Market Improvement. The overall achievement is unsatisfactory. Of the 26 markets that have been newly
built or renovated, only half are fully delivering the intended benefits. The market objectives were met in
Pontianak and marginally met in Balikpapan and Samarinda, but not met in Banjarmasin and Palangka
Raya. A comparison of the SAR targets and actual implementation can be seen in Annex 1, Table 5.




                                                       - 6 -

Objective 2. Promote stronger, more autonomous, and financially more independent municipal
governments.

Overall this objective is met, partly because of the project efforts, but mostly due to the enactment of the
decentralization law.

Municipal Planning and Implementation. This objective is satisfactorily met. From the outset the project
design expanded the LG role in project planning and programming. Even before the implementation of
Laws 22 and 25/1999, which broadly provide the framework for more autonomous local government, LGs
were already more involved in planning and programming their respective projects. They have implemented
more than 60% of the overall works, both physical and technical assistance, in the project. Their staff
headed the Project Management Units. With a few exceptions, they also managed their own TA contracts.
All these are relatively unique for urban projects designed during this period.

The project also established the "One-Stop Permit System" aimed at streamlining and simplifying local
government public services in issuing permits. This program was initiated and supported under the
Municipal Innovations Project (Ln. 4400-IND). This program was implemented in all project cities with
different levels of success. This program's sustainability is likely because of local government ownership of
it.

In Pontianak, the project was able to improve participation of the community in formulating the city's
strategic plan, following the City Development Strategy approach that is being piloted by the Bank in
selected cities in Indonesia. This plan is been formally considered in the city budgeting for 2003.

In Pontianak and Banjarmasin the project promoted the privatization of government services for solid waste
management. In Pontianak such effort resulted in a substantial decrease in the number of workers being
managed by the agency, because the workers were transferred to private operators.

PDAMs. This objective was met for the water utilities (PDAMs). The PDAMs are owned by their
respective LGs, and the mayors used to head the PDAM Supervisory Boards. During the project, PDAMs
implemented Ministry of Home Affairs Regulation No.7/1998 changing the composition of the Supervisory
Boards, giving the PDAMs more autonomy. Board membership has changed from five to three
representatives. Where there used to be five bureaucrats on the Board headed by the mayor, only one now
remains. The other two Board members are a consumer representative and a private individual. This
Board composition exposes the PDAMs to more professionalism and business sense. All the project cities
promptly implemented this Regulation, and thus became the first cities in the country to have Supervisory
Boards under the new set-up. Water tariffs used to be approved only by the mayor. But since the fall of
President Suharto, Local Parliaments (DPRD) have demanded to review all requests for water tariff
increases. Raising tariffs was a major problem early in the project. However, with more transparency and
dialogue between the PDAMs and their DPRDs, tariff increases became easier. At project closing,
Balikpapan, Banjarmasin, and Pontianak had tariffs that exceeded their costs of production plus interest
and depreciation. In Pontianak and Banjarmasin, the PDAMs' audited financial reports were published in
the local newspapers as a sign of transparency.

Municipal Finance. Based on the SAR indicators, the participating cities were, in general, able to gain
financial strength in spite of the economic crisis that hit in 1997. The rupiah depreciated from Rp 2,154 to
a US dollar at the time of appraisal, to Rp 15,500 at the height of the crisis in mid-1998, and eventually
improving to around Rp 9,000 at project completion. The country experienced hyper-inflation in 1998 at
65%. The country implemented Law No. 22/1999 on Administrative Decentralization giving more


                                                      - 7 -

financial autonomy to LGs. Law No. 25/1999 on Intergovernmental Fiscal Relations and Law No. 34/1999
on Regional Taxes and Levies streamlined local taxes and charges, eliminating minor ones or grouping
similar accounts together, or reclassifying taxes and charges properly. Law 25/1999 rationalized taxes and
charges to the institution that has the authority to impose it.

Since the LGs' capacity to improve their income generation had occurred before the crisis, and with the
confidence they gained in implementing their own local taxes and charges, these were able to grow almost
at the same rate or higher than the growth rate seen during the five-year period before appraisal. Palangka
Raya, the smallest city in the project and with the slowest growth rate before the project, was able to attain
a 28% growth rate in its local taxes and charges. The lowest growth rate in local taxes and charges during
the project period was Banjarmasin was at 13%, but this is not far from the growth rate of 15% for the
five-year period before project appraisal. Table 2 shows the growth rates of specific local revenues of each
local government from (Bank) FY 1994/95 before the project started to FY02 when the project was
completed.

Water Utility Finance. The PDAMs were significantly affected by the economic crisis, when costs of
chemicals rose as high as four times the pre-crisis cost. The PDAMs could not easily implement tariffs
because of the political instability that ensued. The PDAMs were required to prepare financial recovery
action plans aimed at focusing on improving operational performance. At the end of the Project, except for
Palangka Raya, all of them exceeded the projected new connections (Table 1 of Annex 1). Balikpapan,
Pontianak and Banjarmasin were able to eventually recover and attain their financial covenants (Table 3,
Annex 3), especially of having sufficient revenues to cover operating expenses including depreciation.
Samarinda had difficulties with its raw water supply which was remedied with the completion of the Loa
Kulu raw water supply intake. As new connections were added, average consumption per connection
gradually went down from 26 m3 to as low as 21 m3. A tariff increase scheduled in 2001 was withdrawn
after it created violent reactions from consumers. Still, all the PDAMs need to reschedule their loans before
they can fully recover. A comparison between appraisal and actual figures attained can be seen in Annex 3
Table 5.




                                                      - 8 -

Table 2. Local Revenues, SAR vs. Actual, in Rp Million

2002 Figures in Current Prices
                                      Balikpapan           Banjarmasin           Samarinda          Palangka Raya          Pontianak
                                  SAR,1992  Budget,2002 SAR,1992 Budget,2002 SAR,1992 Budget,2002 SAR,1992 Budget,2002 SAR,1992 Budget,2002


 Local Taxes/Charges                6,033     82,660      4,318    23,812      4,980    35,133         587     8,689     5,224    27,836
 % Annual Growth, 1986-1992            14%                   15%                  22%                  12%                  21%
 % Annual Growth, 1996-2002                        31%                  13%                  23%                  28%                  17%


 Land and Building Tax (PBB)        4,900     23,356         616     6,850     5,306    15,000         240     3,700     1,499      7,326
 % Annual Growth, 1986-1992            37%                   18%                  43%                  19%                  41%
 % Annual Growth, 1996-2002                        10%                   9%                   8%                   5%                  10%


 Other                                 325    47,026         170     6,875         80   24,700         457     9,100        118   11,328


 Total                             11,258    153,042      5,104    37,537     10,366    74,833      1,284    21,489      6,841    46,490
 % Annual Growth, 1986-1992            22%                   16%                  31%                  31%                  24%
 % Annual Growth, 1996-2002                        18%                  14%                  20%                  22%                  18%




2002 Figures in constant prices
                                      Balikpapan           Banjarmasin           Samarinda          Palangka Raya          Pontianak
                                  SAR,1992  Budget,2002 SAR,1992 Budget,2002 SAR,1992 Budget,2002 SAR,1992 Budget,2002 SAR,1992 Budget,2002


 Local Taxes/Charges                6,033     51,435      4,318    13,289      4,980    15,560         587     2,268     5,224    17,321
 % Annual Growth, 1986-1992            14%                   15%                  22%                  12%                  21%
 % Annual Growth, 1996-2002                        23%                   5%                  11%                   4%                   5%


 Land and Building Tax (PBB)        4,900     14,533         616     3,823     5,306      6,643        240       966     1,499      4,558
 % Annual Growth, 1986-1992            37%                   18%                  43%                  19%                  41%
 % Annual Growth, 1996-2002                         4%                   1%                  -2%                 -15%                  -1%


 Other                                 325    29,262         170     3,837         80   10,939         457     2,375        118     7,049


 Total                             11,258     95,229      5,104    20,948     10,366    33,142      1,284      5,609     6,841    28,928
 % Annual Growth, 1986-1992            22%                   16%                  31%                  31%                  24%
 % Annual Growth, 1996-2002                        19%                   6%                   9%                  -1%                   7%



Objective 3a. Contribute towards urban poverty reduction, mainly through better access to essential
services and an improved urban environment.

The project has significantly contributed to reducing poverty and improving the environment through
various components; therefore this objective is satisfactorily met.

On water supply, a significant number of new house connections and public hydrants were targeted in low
income areas, which otherwise would have had to pay water vendors' substantially higher prices. Two
major raw water supply schemes were added in Pontianak and Samarinda, ensuring the availability of fresh
water during the dry season. This was important to the cities because, previously, sea water which could
not be processed by the system, would go upstream during the long dry months. Because of the high
salinity water, the water supply distribution had to be stopped. This stoppage resulted in an outbreak of
cholera in poor neighborhoods in these two cities in 1998. The two raw water schemes now provide
continuously available water supply, including the poor.

On sanitation, in addition to communal septic tanks in poor areas of the city, the pilot off-site system also
provided a sewer system to 1,200 households in poor areas of Balikpapan. In Banjarmasin, half of the
house connections to the off-site system were directed toward the poor.

On the KIP and urban renewal program, the project aimed at improving living conditions in poor




                                                                   - 9 -

neighborhoods. KIP activities benefited over 46% of the population, including a significant portion of poor
residents.

During the 1998 economic crisis, the Loan Agreement was amended to include labor-intensive civil works
to provide temporary relief from the serious unemployment situation in the five cities. The works covered
construction of infrastructure in the poorer areas of the city, for a total cost of about $0.9 million, most of
it disbursed for salaries. The Project also provided critical technical assistance for supervision of a
poverty alleviation program in the northern region of Java Island covering 1300 poor urban villages. The
technical assistance provided support for disbursements of grants to poor communities, affecting about
600,000 families. These funds were required because of a shortage of funds under the on-going Urban
Poverty Project (Cr. 3210-IND).

Objective 3b. Improve the urban environment.

This objective was met. The cities are markedly cleaner now than before implementation. Solid waste
management and collection of human waste were significantly increased over the course of the project, thus
improving urban health conditions. Closing down the poorly managed old landfill sites that were in close
proximity to human settlements, has had a positive impact on the environment. The pilot off-site system
also provided a good example of a functional sewer system in the cities. This is expected to further
increase public awareness, and eventually create strong public pressure on LGs to manage wastewater
better. Although at this stage coverage is small, the LGs of Banjarmasin and Balikpapan, as well as
Central Government have committed to continue the expansion of the pilot systems using domestic funds.
Most of the KIP areas were dedicated to making environmental improvements in poor neighborhoods.

To mitigate against any negative environmental impacts caused by the subprojects, elements of the SAR's
mitigation plan (annex 13) were incorporated into the bidding documents for all physical work contracts,
and the terms of reference of the supervisory consultants also included making sure that the contractors
adhered to those environmental mitigation plans.

4.2 Outputs by components:

Almost all components reached their intended physical outputs. While the quality of the works were
generally acceptable, some poor quality works were also identified during Bank supervision. The quality of
works varies among cities and components. Overall, the quality of work in Pontianak and Balikpapan is
better than in the other cities. In most cases the quality of works was determined by the quality of the
supervision consultants.

Water Supply. The water supply component is rated satisfactory. To a large extent, this component
reached the intended service levels. The upgrading works for the production unit, network expansion and
associated support facilities and activities (pumps, reservoirs, workshops, laboratory, training, consumer
campaign) were also completed satisfactorily. Table 3 below shows the achievement of primary indicators
in four of the five cities (excluding Palangka Raya). From the Loan savings, the project was also able to
provide two large raw water supply schemes in Samarinda and Pontianak. The project made critical
investments to secure fresh water for these cities during the dry season. For additional house connections,
the SAR target was surpassed by about 30%, except for Palangka Raya which was over-targetted in the
first place, due to a flaw in the assumption of demand. It was able to connect only 5,196 connections out
of the 14,020 SAR target. Details on new connections are presented in Annex 1 Table 1.




                                                      - 10 -

As mentioned above, UfW reduction was not significant, although a close look at the figures shows general
improvement towards project closing. A sudden increase in UfW could be explained by increased pressure
brought about by enhanced production capacity (Samarinda, Balikpapan, Banjarmasin). The inconsistent
UfW rate could be due to inaccurate flow measurements (Palangkaraya). It is only in Pontianak that a
consistently declining rate was noted, except for a sudden drop in 1999. The UfW reduction program could
not achieve its objectives for the reason that physical works alone are not an effective way of reducing
leakages. The physical UfW reduction program was not fully carried out in parallel with non-physical
activities such as adminsitrative and institutional improvements, thus reducing the overall effectiveness of
the intervention. A comparison of key water supply indicators based on the SAR and actual achievements
is presented in Annex 1 Table 1.


Table 3. Water Supply

 Primary Indicators        Balikpapan           Samarinda           Banjarmasin           Pontianak            Palangkaraya
Upgrading existing    WTP upgrading and    New WTP and          Emergency measures New WTP and new         New WTP completed
(or constructing new) new wells completed additional works for  for raw water canal booster pumps for      but under utilized
headworks (WTP,                            new intake (Loa      improvement (Riam   raw water mains
well development,                          Kulu) completed      Kanan) completed    (Penepat) completed
intake)
Network               New pipes installed, New pipes installed  New pipes installed New installed and      New pipes installed
rehabilitation and    additional booster                                            rehabilitated pipes far
expansion             pumps constructed                                             exceed the SAR
                                                                                    target
Installation of       New connections      New connections      New connections     New connections        New connections far
additional            exceed target        exceed target        exceed target       exceed target          below target
connections
Supporting facilities N/A                  N/A                  N/A                 New office completed Workshop and
                                                                                    by own borrowing       laboratory completed

Training and          Conducted but no     Conducted but no     N/A                 Conducted but no       Conducted but no
consumer campaign     specific results     specific results                         specific results       specific results



Drainage. The project's achievements went significantly beyond the SAR targets for drainage, so the
component is rated satisfactory. The main achievement of this component was reducing the total area of
inundated areas, both in terms of the duration and frequency (see Table 2, Annex 1.) The Project also
improved 111 km of primary drains. Most of these primary drains are tributaries of rivers passing through
the city. Lining these rivers will continue to substantially reduce the risk of encroachment which has
afflicted many rivers in urban areas and which has serious implications for urban flooding. The benefits of
these investments will be even stronger in the future, because these Kalimantan cities are experiencing rapid
growth, and the risk of encroachment is serious.

Solid Waste Management. Solid waste management in all cities has significantly improved compared to
pre-project conditions. Waste collection and transport from the waste generator to the temporary and final
disposal sites are now managed better. Balikpapan and Pontianak experimented with innovative programs
to reduce waste volume, by involving the community in the overall up-stream management of waste
generation. All cities reached the targets for waste collection, with results ranging from 61%
(Banjarmasin) to 83% (Pontianak), as can be seen from Table 3, Annex 1. All final disposal sites (TPA)
and associated equipment financed by KUDP have been fully constructed and placed in operation.
However, operation and maintenance of the TPAs still fall short of standards for sanitary landfills or even
controlled landfills, with the single exception of Balikpapan. For this reason, the overall achievement is
rated marginally satisfactory.

Sanitation. Community septic tanks have been in general successful elements of the sanitation component



                                                             - 11 -

in all cities, except for Samarinda which saw poor quality works and a lack of community participation. In
Pontianak, the systems are now maintained by users' groups in the communities served. The groups collect
a fee from customers and pay the Sanitation Department for pump-out services. Overall however, this
component did not meet the intended purpose where the Government and community were expected to
expand the program.

There is one successful pilot operation in wastewater collection and treatment, and a second shows great
promise. These are nearly unique in Indonesia and should serve as examples for other cities as they
respond to new (2001) water pollution control regulations that oblige LGs to better manage wastewater
from domestic sources. In Banjarmasin, the secondary treatment plant accomplishes such a high level of
BOD and suspended solids removal (as shown by the diligently maintained monitoring records) that the
effluent is cleaner than the receiving stream, and is reused by the poor living near the installation. It is
rated highly satisfactory as a KUDP sub-component. Customers have shown a willingness to pay for the
service, even in poor neighborhoods, and a sliding-scale tariff has now been phased in. The operation of
the facility has been entrusted to UPT-PAL (Unit Pelayanan Teknis-Pengolahan Air Limbah), which
carries out its responsibilities with obvious pride and with very good results. At Balikpapan, the project
implementing unit has achieved a 100% connection ratio in the service area. However, there is still no
confirmation in terms of what agency will operate and maintain the facility, so operation has not yet begun.


Septic tank sludge treatment facilities (IPLT) were no more successful in the KUDP cities than anywhere
else in Indonesia. None of the facilities is operating near capacity because of a lack of incentives and
enforcement. Most operate sporadically if at all. In Pontianak, land subsidence is affecting the imhoff tank
and ramp; however the Government has been able to operate and establish an institution to manage this,
making this city the only one that may have a sustainaible IPLT. In Palangka Raya the access ramp is too
steep for the pump-out trucks. In Banjarmasin, the question of the agency responsibility for operation has
not been resolved, and in Balikpapan, a water supply has not been connected to the facility. IPLT
construction (design, function, and completeness) and operation are unsatisfactory in all cities.

Kampung Improvement Program. This component could easily be rated highly satisfactory. The project
was able reach more than twice the original area, in term of hectares (1036 ha versus 2370 ha). KIP
activities have taken place in 181 locations versus the target of 99 locations in the SAR. The reason for
this success rate was that the implementation arrangements, whereby the money was managed directly by
the community (LKMD), resulted in lower construction costs. These arrangements also included drawing
significant contributions from the community, thus contributing to expanding KIP coverage. Because of
savings from currency fluctuations, GOI allocated more funds to this component, especially in the last year
of the project. The project also supported a few pilot urban renewal activities in poor neighborhoods along
the river in Balikpapan and Banjarmasin. In Balikpapan the urban renewal scheme at Gunung Sari Ilir was
so successful that it was presented in various conferences as a sample of best practice in urban renewal.

Market Improvement Program. Although this component's physical targets were far exceeded, it was not
effective in three of the project cities, and is therefore rated unsatisfactory (see Table 5, Annex 1). With the
exception of the programs in Pontianak and Balikpapan, the utilization of the markets has not been
encouraging because of the limited participation by the beneficiaries and poor design. In Banjarmasin the
MIP subproject was designed with limited input from the beneficiaries, resulting in a lack of beneficiary
support. Consequently the improved market has seen limited utilization and impact. Palangka Raya is
generally the poorest performer among the five in terms of utilization of investments.

Urban Roads. This component's achievement is rated satisfactory. The project completed improvements to
560 km of roads, or about 126 km over the SAR target (see Table 6 of Annex 1). Four new major arterials
roads, including a 400 m bridge, were constructed, resulting in significantly improved traffic flows. For



                                                       - 12 -

example, Banjarmasin's Liang Anggang Trisakti Road, a new 22 km arterial road with a 400 m bridge, has
significantly eased the city's traffic congestion. Furthermore, this road will help direct the city's
development along the lines set out in the approved master plan. Most of the arterial and collector roads
have been widened and upgraded to hot rolled sheet to reduce O&M costs and to lengthen the roads' life
span. The Iswahyudi and Supadio Roads, two other new arterial roads, considerably improved access to the
rapidly growing airports of Balikpapan and Pontianak, respectively. Overall, about 2.6 km of bridges of
different types and sizes were replaced or improved. In Banjarmasin alone, the project replaced most of the
substandard wooden bridges with wider and stronger concrete bridges, thus improving traffic security and
easing bottlenecks.

Project Implementation Support. Overall, this component was implemented in accordance with the SAR,
and the performance is rated satisfactory. Unlike many other Bank-financed urban projects before, most of
the management of this project's TA was decentralized to the respective LG. Funds were allocated to all
LGs for detailed design and supervision of the sub-projects, as a supplement to the in-house design
capacity of the LG. In most cases these consultants performed marginally satisfactorily, and some
strengthening had to be provided from the central advisory team. The quality of design and supervision for
sanitation components and market sub-components was generally poor except for the sewerage pilot
project, which was handled by the central government. It is clear that LG capacity in the management of a
complex TA (consultant) should be improved.

Furthermore, because of the geographic location, and lack of financial incentives due to the QCBS selection
procedure, the LGs were not able to engage better consultants. The centrally managed supervisory team
was effective in terms of managing the project, and advising the LGs, despite their limited staff during the
last year of the project. All of the LGs consistently provided the required domestic budget for detailed
design and supervision of the simple works. In the KIP program the local governments, from their domestic
funding, had hired NGOs to improve community participation and transparency of the project.

Institutional Development Technical Assistance and Training. The performance of this component is
rated marginally satisfactory. Under the project all LGs were assisted by two packages of TA, i.e., PDAM
advisory services, and Revenue Improvement Action Plan advisory services. The effectiveness of these TAs
varied among LGs. It is obvious that TA is not the strongest vehicle for institutional change. The impact of
this TA depends largely on the quality of the leadership of the agency, and more importantly, on the
willingness and commitment of that agency. In Pontianak, for example, because the head of the cleansing
agency was very committed and dedicated, its small TA was extremely effective in affecting change and it
enabled the privatization of various services of the agency. Whereas in other cities, such as Balikpapan and
Banjarmasin, much larger consultant teams could hardly make any changes. A similar experience is also
found in the PDAM advisory services. Pontianak was most effective in utilizing this TA package. The
Water Supply Development Study was fruitful and resulted in some effective investments. Similarly, the
Waste Water Development Study resulted in two successful pilot sewerage schemes. The Traffic
Management Study was also effective and some of the outcomes of the study were implemented.
Balikpapan, Samarinda and Banjarmasin benefited most from this study.

After Laws No 22/1999 and 25/1999 were enacted, the project provided support to LGs to help them
respond to their newly acquired responsibilities. This component supported the establishment of the
One-Stop Permit system so that the public would have to go to only one office to obtain permits. The
activities in establishing the One-Stop Permit system included TA to undertake the so called ACSD Study
(permit simplification through Abolition and Combination of overlapping and similar permits, S
implification and Decentralization) of permit procedures and processing; software development for the
simplified permit system; computerization for permit processing; training for the staff of the relevant
agencies and the one-roof permit system office; and dissemination of information on the new permit system.
Results and outcomes, in terms of the reduced time needed for permit issuance and response of the relevant


                                                      - 13 -

agencies in processing permits, vary across municipalities. The overall impact of this study is generally
satisfactory, except in Palangka Raya.

In Pontianak a participative development City Development Strategy was also carried out. The output of
the study has been endorsed by the LG and has been used as a main source of budgeting decision-making
for the government's FY 2003.

Details of the performances of each consultants package are summarized in Annex 10.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Urban Roads. In the SAR, EIRRs for urban road subprojects were estimated. Re-estimation of the EIRR
for selected subprojects followed the SAR methodology, thus providing a basis for comparing subproject
economic feasibility before and after completion. Selection was made based on the size of capital
investments. The benefits included savings in vehicle operating costs due to reduced congestion and travel
distances and travel time. For the project to be economically justified, the EIRR had to be at least 10%
without travel time savings.

Of the 21 assessed subprojects, 16 have EIRR higher than the SAR estimates. Even without savings in
travel time, they are found to be economically justified, with EIRRs ranging from 11.1% to 40.5%. Three
large subprojects with investment costs of Rp 3,026 - 10,422 million resulted in EIRRs of 2.0-4.2% due to
high costs relative to the benefits accruing to them. Two medium-size subprojects, Jl. Tjilik Riwut in
Palangkaraya, and Jl. Sohor in Pontianak, did not satisfy the minimum EIRR requirement of 10 percent. Jl.
Tjilik Riwut is a case where unit investment cost was average and the choice of subproject location was
ideal. However, the town's socio-political conditions at appraisal differed vastly from current conditions.
Central planners looked to the town then as a possible future site for the regional capital. Therefore, the 1.5
km primary road improvement connecting the town government center and the airport would have proven
highly beneficial. This barely materialized as reflected in the EIRR. Jl. Sohor, on the other hand, proved to
be an expensive investment. Unit cost per meter of improvement is estimated at Rp 1.7 million, but with a
lower actual average daily traffic volume after implementation, the subproject failed to register a positive
impact. This was verified through actual traffic counts conducted as part of benefits monitoring activities.

During appraisal, the urban roads component represented 31% of the total project cost. The actual cost of
urban roads, after adjusting for inflation, arrives at 29% of the total actual project cost.

Drainage/Flood Control. EIRRs for the drainage and flood control subprojects were not calculated in the
SAR because the expected benefits, such as reductions in flood-related physical damage, traffic disruptions
and health problems, are not easily quantifiable. In lieu of a EIRR, a cost-benefit ratio using increases in
land value was estimated. The project is economically justified if land values increase 0.3 to 29.5%.

For the completed subprojects, the EIRR was estimated applying increase in land value as main benefit.
The results show that 22 of the 27 subprojects analyzed showed increases in land value higher than the
SAR upper limit of 29.5%. Sixteen out of the total 27 reflected positive ERRs, with 11 of these ranging
between 41.3% and 119.7%. Eleven subprojects registered negative returns due to limited coverage
relative to benefits arising from increased land value. Subproject Klandasan Besar in Balikpapan had total
investments amounting to Rp 4,677 million but covered only 15 hectares. Subproject Parit Jl.
Cokroaminoto in Pontianak had a total investment cost of Rp 1,090 million for a service area of only two
hectares. Two subprojects (Sepinggan in Balikpapan and S. Damai in Samarinda) were limited by a small
coverage area as well as a low base cost of Rp 25,000 per hectare.



                                                      - 14 -

The results of the EIRR calculations are shown in Tables 1 and 2 of Annex 3.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Water Supply. For the water supply component, no EIRR was calculated in the SAR as the overall
benefits, including reduced morbidity, are not easily quantifiable. Based on the SAR, the main benefits are
increased piped water availability at reduced costs to users. As a main measure of economic viability,
PDAMs were expected to attain full cost recovery by the end of the project while limiting house connection
tariffs to less than 10% of vendor prices. But PDAMS were bound to increase tariff to such levels as to
ensure that operating expenses, including depreciation and interest, were matched by sufficient revenues.
They were also bound to suspend payments of dividends to their LGs unless strict conditions on availability
of counterpart funds were met. The debt coverage requirement was 1.5 by the end of the grace period,
maintained annually.

Table 3 of Annex 3 shows compliance with financial covenants. The covenant on net operating ratio was
not met due to delays in completing project investments, resulting in delayed installation of new
connections, and tariffs that were not raised as often as required. At project closing in December 2002, all
PDAMs had complied with the covenant of not paying dividends to their LGs. In Balikpapan and
Banjarmasin, tariffs were increased to attain a net income after depreciation. Pontianak, Palangka Raya
and Samarinda raised tariffs in 2002, which should enable them to their comply with this covenant in
2003. Considering the difficulties in first obtaining approval to increase tariffs, and second, being able to
increase the tariff to a point where the average tariff is higher than the SAR targets, compliance is already a
big achievement for the PDAMs.

Target connections in the SAR were eventually surpassed, except in Palangka Raya were the target was not
realistic in the first place. The consultants did not properly determine demand projections for Palangka
Raya. UfW was not correctly addressed in the project, thereby producing erratic results, and resulting UfW
rates that were still quite high at closing. The UFW program was not fully developed and incorporated in
the project design, because it was assumed that it will be developed under a separate technical assistance
during implementation. However, these technical assistance packagess were ineffective, so UfW was not
addressed in the end.

The PDAMs were able to improve their staffing ratio to five or six employees per 1000 connections at
project closing. They were also able to shorten their collection periods to an acceptable level at the end of
the project in an effort to improve their cash condition. The PDAMs need to reschedule their loans in order
to have a reprieve from debt repayment of a few years, to give them a chance to adjust their tariffs to the
required levels, and to generate more revenue through the investments financed by part of the funds
intended for loan repayment. The five PDAMs will probably be able to sustain their good performance
based on these premises. Details of the financial performance of the five PDAMs are given in Annex 3.

FIRRs were estimated for each PDAM to measure project financial performance. Actual cost and revenue
data have been used as historical basis for FIRR projections. The results of the assessment are shown in
Table 4 of Annex 3. PDAM Banjarmasin has the highest FIRR of 27.3%, followed by PDAM Pontianak,
25% and Balikpapan, 23.7%. PDAM Palangka Raya has the lowest FIRR at 11.8% which is almost at par
with the interest rate of 11.75%.




                                                       - 15 -

4.5 Institutional development impact:

Overall, the project generated a modest institutional development impact. The establishment of the PMO,
PMU and PFO at city level has helped local governments gain more control over all the development
projects in their cities during the course of project implementation. The PMU, which was headed by a LG
official, gained important experience in managing projects by reviewing contracts. The PMO also gained
experience in integrating and approving programs of the city as well as those from the central and
provincial levels.

LKMD, NGO. Through the KIP program the project helped improve LG capacity to collaborate with the
community in a more transparent and constructive way. This approach has also been adopted by some of
the LGs in the neighborhood improvement works. Furthermore by providing an opportunity for the LKMD
to manage the KIP, substantial capacity was developed at this level of community organization.

Procurement. Overall, the project improved procurement practices in the LGs. Specifically in Pontianak, in
the last stage of the project, the LG started following the project's procurement procedures, especially post
qualification procedures, for locally financed projects. This has resulted in very competitive tenders and
lower priced contracts.

Privatization of Services. In some cities (Pontianak and Banjamarsin) contracting out certain government
services to private operators was initiated for solid waste management. In Pontianak this action resulted in
a substantial reduction in the number of temporary staff required in the unit. The LG is continuing the
process of contracting out O&M for other city cleaning services as well. Also, most of the cleaning of
markets has been contracted out. Balikpapan has also agreed to initiate this process.

One-Stop Permit System. Although this program came late in the project, it was instrumental in helping
the LGs initiate the process of improving the city permit system. This process is still evolving.

LARAP. In some of the local governments where land acquisition was required, the process of preparing a
Land Acquisition and Resettlement Action Plan (LARAP) helped the LG in planning and implementing
projects in a more participative way. In Banjarmasin and Samarinda, for example, the LG also used
LARAP and the tracer study approach for its own land acquisition.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:


Impact of the Economic/Financial Crisis. The financial crisis that hit Southeast Asia in 1997/1998
affected the project to a large extent. Indonesia was the worst hit country in the region, and the situation
was exacerbated by the ensuing political instability. The rupiah depreciated from Rp 2,154 at the time of
appraisal to Rp 15,500 at the height of the crisis in mid-1998, and settled to around Rp 9,000 at project
completion. The country experienced hyper-inflation that peaked at 65% in 1998. The value of contracts
measured in foreign currency decreased. All contracts had to be reviewed. Some large contracts had to be
terminated because the contractors could no longer fulfill their contractual obligations under the original
contract price. Government issued a regulation allowing contractors seriously affected by the crisis to
terminate with penalty. Tendering slowed down. Fewer contracts with reduced values were implemented,
which slowed disbursements. Counterpart funding requirements for civil works were adjusted from 40% to



                                                       - 16 -

20% of the contract. The generation of local revenue decreased as economic activity slowed down.
Provisions for operations and maintenance were among the first to be cut out of local government budgets.
PDAMs suffered as costs for water treatment chemicals rose as much as four-fold. Power rates,
maintenance materials and salaries also rose sharply. Subsidiary loans already signed became insufficient
to complete the projects. The repayment capability of borrowing local governments and PDAMs was
greatly reduced.

Civil disturbances in Pontianak, Palangka Raya and Banjarmasin, brought about by the outbreak of ethnic
clashes in these areas, seriously disrupted project implementation. This instability occured at different
levels between 1999-2001. In Pontianak and Palangka Raya most of the contracts had to be extended due
to a lack of labor during the periods of turmoil. In Palangka Raya, the protracted ethnic tensions meant
that neither the Bank nor the Executing Agency could carry out significant supervision. Similarly, most of
the project activities in Banjarmasin had to be delayed because of political unrest in that city before the
1997 elections. Furthermore, in FY 2000 the Palangka Raja government building, housing most of the
project files, was destroyed by fire.

Political instability and the resulting uncertainties that arose in 1998 negatively affected the
decision-making process. Decisions related to public services, such as tariff-setting for water supply and
solid waste were particularly hard hit. During this period, law enforcement was also weakened; many
contractors complained of security issues (materials being stolen etc).

Natural calamity. The project continued to suffer from the seasonal haze that engulfed the cities due to
forest fires in the interior regions of Borneo. Implementation of the project in Palangka Raya was adversely
affected when the haze hovered for over a month. No works could be implemented because most people had
to stay at home and transportation to and from Palangka Raya was cut off.


5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Decision-making during preparation. This project took almost six years to prepare because of the poor
performance of the preparation consultants and because of indecisiveness at both GOI and the Bank. The
implementation of the project was to require a series of radical policy changes at the central government
level and some agencies were reluctant to agree. Resistance mainly came because of the very decentralized
nature of the project, under a centralized regime. The length of preparation, in turn, had a serious impact on
the LGs' confidence in the project. In the end, certain cities implemented some of the priority programs
with their own funding, although this was not fully reflected in the SAR.

Delays in budget authorization. GOI's authorization process of channeling project funds (SPABP) was
extremely slow in the initial stages. Although there were some improvements in 1998/1999, the process
again slowed down in subsequent years. When funds authorization was delayed, implementation delays of
several months resulted. Compounding this problem was the change in GOI's fiscal year from April to
March, to January to December starting from FY 2000. Nevertheless, this problem of late budget
authorization could have been overcome had the Ministry of Finance been willing to decentralize the
process to provincial level.

Counterpart budget. Many of the large sub-projects received their counterpart budgets directly from the
central government. After the financial crisis, the central government faced difficulties in providing the
required budget, despite the Bank's agreement to reduce the counterpart budget requirement for civil works
from 40% to 20%. This also contributed to implementation delays.



                                                      - 17 -

Implementation of new laws. The passing of the new laws on decentralization (Laws No. 22/1999 and
No. 25/1999) caused much confusion at the local government level. Project cities suddenly had more
responsibilities thrust upon them and had to manage staff who transferred from the central government.
This transition adversely affected project implementation. Furthermore, following the political crisis, there
were continuous changes within the Executing Agency, including serveral reorganizations and staff
changes, which slowed down the decision making process. Also, the enactment of Law No. 18 on tax
reform considerably reduced taxes and fees that cities could collect, hampering efforts to improve local
revenue generation.

Selection and management of consultants. The project initially suffered from poorly performing
consultants which in turn resulted in poor quality design and supervision. The management of consultants
was also weak. The project manager often had only a minimal understanding of the overall scope of the
project, resulting in his providing limited guidance to consultants.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

Selection and management consultants. As in the case of factors subject to the Executing Agency's
control, the quality of consultants selected and the project management by these consultants were poor.
Because of the remoteness of some project cities (like Palangka Raya) and the cost factor in the selection
process, there was a lack of qualified consultants available to the project. The consultants selected were
generally inexperienced in managing relatively large contracts. They were not able to provide proper
quality control and guidance for the project. These shortcomings adversely affected the proper utilization
of the investments.

Tariff setting was seriously politicized after the decentralization laws were passed. In many cases, even if
the beneficiaries had already agreed to the new tariff level, the local parliaments still objected to the
increase for political reasons. This case was apparent in Samarinda, where the city violated the financial
covenant of maintaining a tariff level covering depreciation and operational costs.

Participation and socialization. Especially in the early part of the decentralization era, the capacity of the
LGs to engage the beneficiaries in program development and implementation was weak. The result was that
the beneficiaries did not fully utilize the investments such as the IPLT in all cities and the market
improvements in Banjarmasin and Palangka Raya.

Continuous staff rotation at the local government. Delays were often caused by the continuous rotation
of staff at the local level and a weak system of orienting the new staff to the project. No systematic
orientation programs were in place during the project implementation.

Misprocurement. Over 960 contracts implemented in the project. An ex-post review found irregularities
in some of the contracts, costing $208,126, mainly in the city of Banjarmasin. The Bank declared
misprocurement on these cases. As mentioned above, continuous staff rotations at local government level
and ineffective orientation programs for newcomers presented continual implementation challenges. These
staff changes meant that tender committees changed continually, and this in turn, resulted in a lack of
familiarity with the Bank procurement procedures and requirements. In four out of five misprocurement
cases, violations were due to unfamiliarity with the Bank guidelines. (It was found that staff were following
GOI procurement rules instead of Bank Guidelines.)

The one remaining case of misprocurement involving Balikpapan's PDAM was due to collusion among the
contractors. The Government audit agency was requested to conduct a review of the case and eventually
confirmed the mission's findings that there has been collusion; the case then was forwarded to the Bank's



                                                     - 18 -

Integrity Unit. The Bank sanctioned the contractors involved in collusive practices, and by the end of the
project, those firms had been officially debarred from the Bank-financed projects. This action will likely
minimize the number of similar cases in future Bank operations. In last year of project, the procurement
system underwent further improvements which are likely to reduce the risk of collusion.

5.4 Costs and financing:

Overall the project was completed without major delays. The originally appraised programs were
completed before the closing date. The extension was required to complete additional works added at the
time of the mid term review (October 1997) in order to utilize Loan savings.

The original project cost at appraisal was US$251.3 million, while the latest project figures indicate a total
cost of US$153.1 million. The total amount of the Loan was reduced due to savings from the depreciation
of the rupiah. In spite of this, the project was able to produce more outputs than envisaged during
appraisal. For instance, the Kampung Improvement Project was able to achieve 250% of the target at
$14.4 million, compared to the SAR figure of U$21.1 million. There were some realignments in the project
costs by component between appraisal and actual costs. The water supply component increased as a
percentage of total project cost from 18% in the SAR to 26% at completion. This is due to the addition of
large, raw water supply schemes for Loa Kulu in Samarinda and Penepat in Pontianak. Incremental O&M
decreased as a percentage of total project cost, from a target of 8% in the SAR to an actual of only 4%.
(O&M was one of the budget components that was reduced by local governments to deal with the effects of
the economic crisis.) The institutional development TA grew as a percentage of total project costs from 5%
in the SAR to an actual of 9%. There are three reasons why TA increased: (a) decentralization and the
introduction of the one-roof permit system required more support; (b) many TAs were implemented before
the economic crisis when the rupiah stood stronger against the US dollar; and (c) many expatriate
consultants were paid in foreign currency. Annex 2 provides further details.

In the end, central government contributed 10% of total project costs compared to the 17% targeted at
appraisal. Local governments also contributed less, 12% out of the SAR target of 16%. PDAMs
contributed less than SAR targets as well, 7% only out of 11%. These decreases are due chiefly to reduced
counterpart funding requirements in FY98 and FY99. Cost comparisons are shown in the financing plan in
Annex 2.

The Loan closing date was extended twice for a total of 18 months to enable the completion of the Loa
Kulu raw water supply scheme in Samarinda, and completion of additional KIP programs intended to
minimize the impact of the economic crisis and social conflict. The additional KIP programs were funded
from Loan savings resulting from the depreciation of the rupiah, and lower construction costs of works
carried out by the communities.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Overall sustainability is considered likely, although it is closely linked to Indonesia's economic recovery
and to its resolution of the remaining decentralization issues. One of the key elements in the project's
sustainability is the local government commitment to provide sufficient annual O&M budget. This
particularly applies to the drainage, solid waste management and sanitation components. For the largest
investments in roads and water supply, the attention given by the LGs is adequate, so sustainability is
likely.



                                                      - 19 -

Water Supply. The sustainability of the water supply investments is likely, except for Palangka Raya. The
main risk to sustainability in this component is availability of raw water and regular tariff adjustments. In
three cities, i.e., Palangka Raya, Pontianak and Samarinda, the raw water source is now secure. In
Balikpapan, improvements made to the Manggar Dam have secured its raw water supply for the near
future. On tariffs, although by the end of the project, most PDAMs had adjusted their tariffs to meet the
operation and depreciation requirements, future adjustments remain uncertain. The latest tariff increase,
benefitting from the new decentralization law, went beyond the Loan covenant requirements, and was
carried out through a transparent and participatory mechanism. If this is maintained, there is a likelihood
that adjustments can be made regularly. Debt service arrears will also need to be rescheduled and currently
two of the PDAMs are in the process of loan-rescheduling. With the exception of Palangka Raya, and to
some extent Samarinda, staffing is adequate to maintain and expand the facilities. (As noted earlier,
Palangka Raya's water program suffered from the beginning from overestimated demands and thus
overdesigned facilities.) Finally, two of these PDAMs, Pontianak and Banjarmasin, are planning to
participate in the proposed Urban Water Supply and Sanitation Project, currently under preparation for
FY05. Participation in this project will allow these PDAMs to further benefit from Bank supervision and
new investments.

Sanitation. Overall, the sustainability of this component is unlikely except for the pilot off-site sanitation
component in Banjarmasin, where both the institutional and financial set-up are already in place. In
Balikpapan, at closing, the institutional set-up remained unresolved; sustainability of this component
depends on the successful resolution of the institutional issues within the next few months. If the
institutional set-up issue can be resolved soon, there is a strong likelihood the facility will be sustainable.
Sustainability for off-site sanitation in Samarinda in unlikely due to unresolved questions regarding the
institutional set-up. The sustainability of the on-site sanitation scheme is also unlikely because of the poor
design and implementation quality, as well as limited beneficiary participation and awareness.

Solid Waste. Sustainability is mixed. From the trend seen during implementation, the level of service to the
people, indicated by service coverage, will likely be sustainable. During the course of the project, the
collection coverage continued to increase, and the domestic budget provided by GOI for this service
continued to increase, indicating GOI's commitment to the component. With the exception of Balikpapan,
landfill sites are unlikely to be maintained at acceptable levels because of the limited O&M budget and
attention given it.

Drainage. Sustainability is unlikely because of the limited O&M budget provided for cleaning of the
drainage due to limited resources especially as the country struggles to recover from the economic crisis.
Exceptions exist in Pontianak and Balikapan where the O&M budget has been increasing.

KIP, Urban Renewal. The sustainability of this component is likely because of the communities'
ownership of the infrastructure built under the project. This sustainability will be enhanced by greater
democracy at the local level, placing greater emphasis on community participation, and resulting in the
implementation of more community based projects after the enactment of the decentralization laws.

Market Improvement. With the exception of Pontianak and Balikpapan, the sustainability of all other
market improvements is unlikely. The main reason is the lack of participation, and as a consequence, lack
of ownership, of the beneficiaries during sub-project design and implementation. The lack of clarity in the
institutional arrangements for overall maintenance and facilities, as well as low budget for O&M, adds to
the difficulties of ensuring sustainability.




                                                      - 20 -

Roads. GOI has traditionally giving high priority to urban road improvement. Improvements in the
allocation of O&M for roads have been seen following enactment of the decentralization laws. The
sustainability for arterial and collector roads is likely, and less likely for local roads due to limited local
government budget support.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

The project was designed to ensure that most of the projects implemented by the agency responsible were
ultimately their responsibility with regards to their operations and management. Therefore, the transition
arrangements to regular operations are generally not at issue. Exceptions are on some of the centrally
managed large water supply schemes and off-site sanitation projects. During the implementation of these
sub-projects, arrangements had been made that the staff of the agency ultimately responsible would be
actively involved from the beginning of the process. With exception of a small off-site sanitation scheme in
Samarinda, the facilities were handed over to the responsible agency upon completion.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

The Bank's performance in project identification is satisfactory. The project was designed and prepared
following the IUIDP approach, consistent with GOI policy and the Bank's CAS. There was no sector work
to draw on at the time, especially for water and sanitation. The five cities chosen for participation in the
project were considered the main engines of growth on Borneo, and were in serious need of infrastructure
development to enable them to strengthen their roles as such.

Preparation. The Bank's performance in preparation is considered mixed. The project preparation period
lasted almost six years, an excessively long period, and resulted in considerable frustration among the
participating LGs. The project preparation team faced serious challenges in getting GOI to agree on a set of
procedures to operationalize of the Statement of Policies for Urban Development (1987) during the heavily
centralized regime, but remained firm through GOI indecisiveness. Finally, the momentum for project
preparation picked up after the November 1992 mission. The project preparation team combined experts in
their respective fields and had provided generally useful guidance to the consultants, although the
continuous changes in the team up to pre-appraisal reduced its effectiveness. Substantive input and
support from field office staff provided more local perspective to the project preparation which was helpful.



Appraisal. The Bank's performance in appraisal was satisfactory. The appraisal team's composition was
sound and consisted of a well-balanced team of experts, including the Bank's negotiating team. The team's
assessment of Government commitment was generally accurate. Assessment of the local government
capacity, although optimistic considering the centralized regime, turned out to be realistic with a minor
exception on technical assistance management. Considering the long standing stability in the country
during the time of appraisal, the risk assessment was reasonably accurate. The multiple crises that afflicted
the country during project implementation could have not been foreseen. The performance indicators under
the project could have been simplified and could have focussed more on impacts rather than outputs. There
was about a one-year lapse between appraisal departure and Board. The main reason for this was delays in
the Government's meeting the conditions of the negotiations, especially the production of a satisfactory
Resettlement Action Plan and the Project Implementation Agreement. These delays were understandable
because of the novel nature of these policies for Indonesia at the time.



                                                      - 21 -

 Overall the performance in lending is satisfactory.

7.2 Supervision:

The Bank supervision was quite satisfactory. In terms of staffing, this project saw an exemplary
combination of headquarters and field office staff working together. The seasoned HQ economist who lead
appraisal and negotiations continued to lead supervision missions for the first few years of implementation,
and a key Jakarta-based national staff participated in each mission. Over time, the HQ team member
groomed the field-based national to take over. A seamless transition ensued, with the national staff taking
over as task team leader in 1998. The field office conducted frequent and intensive supervisions in the
early part of the project. Because the project was managed from the field office for most of its duration,
many follow-up meetings, report reviews and short visits to the cities were easily conducted. Also
follow-up supervision was carried out in between formal supervision missions. (Short missions are not
listed in Annex 4.) The team established a good working relationship with the LGs and the Executing
Agency.

Sectoral issues were adequately addressed. In particular the supervision of the water supply component
was one of the most consistent among the Indonesia urban projects, resulting in physical achievements
beyond the target. Indeed, the supervision's team's strong continuity and consistent approach and messages
were among its strengths.

Supervision slowed down during the political and economic crisis in 1998-2000. For example, no formal
supervision was carried out to Palangka Raya for about two years because of the travel ban imposed due to
the ongoing social conflict. This lack of supervision adversely affected the quality of implementation in
Palangka Raya. However, overall the team was in continuous contact with the five participating cities.
Compared to similar projects, the delays due to the economic crisis were significantly mitigated in
Kalimantan. Close and continuous supervision played a key role in the original program's being completed
by the original closing date. During the crisis, and subsequent political instability in the country, the task
team extended its role as facilitator between the project staff (local government level) and the various
parties such as the local parliaments and NGOs, and helped resolve various issues related to project
implementation. The task team met with various local parliamentarians about tariff increases, sectoral
policies, procurement and counterpart budget requirements. The task team also met with NGOs to explain
the project, especially when GOI's credibility was questioned during the political crisis.

Adequacy of reporting. The team submitted regular back to office reports following each mission. Ratings
were realistic. Actions identified in the aide-memoires were highlighted in the management letters and
PSRs, and were followed up adequately between missions.

Enforcement of Loan covenants. Compliance with Loan covenants was covered in sufficient detail,
particularly covenants pertaining to water supply. The team's financial analyst participated in bi-annual
supervisions and provided ample details on the financial situation of each of the five PDAMs and LGs.
From beginning to end, the team focused on the fiduciary and safeguard elements of the project.

During the crisis the Bank accommodated the borrower's needs by amending the Loan to allow for lower
counterpart funding requirements. This action allowed project implementation to proceed when it might
have otherwise stalled. To mitigate the impact of the crisis on the poor, an amendment was made to add a
labor-intensive programs to reduce unemployment in urban areas. Finally, the Loan Agreement was also
amended to allow the use of Loan savings to implement a poverty alleviation project in northern East Java.



                                                     - 22 -

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory. The Bank's satisfactory performance in lending and
particuarly in supervision was strong. Strong team continuity from preparation and throughout the
eight-year implementation period is particularly commendable.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The identification of the project was strong and consistent with Government policy. GOI's choice of the
IUIDP approach for secondary cities proved effective in addressing urban development issues. There was
indecisiveness in the early part of project preparation, and the consultants selected first performed poorly,
which made for a protracted preparation period. However, GOI's performance picked up in November
1992 when new consultants were appointed. In the latter part of preparation, GOI assigned a very capable
project manager who led preparation until negotiations. Overall borrower performance, especially in the
latter part of the preparation was satisfactory.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Overall the Government's performance in implementation was also satisfactory. The borrowers'
commitment was strong and they actively participated in project supervision. In most cases they were
pro-active in following up on pending action plans agreed during the supervision missions. The
Government was able to navigate the project through the most difficult period of the crisis and was able to
minimize its impact through the amendments mentioned in paragraph 7.2. GOI's success in getting the
project through the crisis is demonstrated by the fact that most of the original sub-projects were completed
to an acceptable quality standard by the original Loan closing date. GOI's performance, however, could
have been better if it had been able to issue budget authorizations in a timely manner. A basic shortcoming
that needs to be mentioned is the failure of the central government to ensure that Samarinda would meet
the covenant for the water tariff increase, and to be firm when the covenant was violated.


7.6 Implementing Agency:

The project had an Executing Agency, the Ministry of Settlement and Regional Infrastructure (MSRI), and
five main implementing agencies, one in each city. There were some other implementation agencies at the
central government, but they managed an insignificant number of contracts.

Executing Agency Performance. At the beginning of implementation, MSRI did a good job of
transfering knowledge to the implementation units. Relative to similar urban projects, the consultants were
recruited in a timely fashion, and the central government played an important role in helping the local
governments select them.

The capacity of MSRI increased progressively during the course of the project implementation and was
pro-active, particularly later in implementation. However, since 1999 when the new decentralization law
enacted there was some confusion about their role. But they seem to be able to slowly find their proper role
at the end of the project implementation. Overall, they provided timely guidance to the local governments
and helped them mobilize consultants in a relatively timely manner, compared to most of the other IUIDPs
under implementation during the period. However, the Executing Agency was not as effective in
supervising contracts under its own ministry. In addition to the difficult financial and political crisis that



                                                     - 23 -

hit at the peak of implementation, the Executing Agency continued to reorganize and reshuffle staff
between 1999 to 2002. But despite such major changes they were able to maintain some continuity.
Against this complex back-drop, the Executing Agency performed satisfactorily.
Performances of the Participating Cities. The performance of each city is summarized in Table 1 below.
Pontianak stands above the other local governments in its overall management of the project. Its local
officials were pro-active and consistent in following up on all agreed action plans in the aide-memoire.
Bank missions noted that in this city, the PMO and PMU had always been very committed and dedicated to
the project. The performance of Palangka Raya is the poorest, especially in pro-activity and supervision
quality. However, it should be noted that Palangka Raya also received the lowest level of attention from
both Central Government and the Bank during project implementation because of various social problems
beyond local control. Samarinda had a mixed performance; it should be noted that there was limited
commitment to meet their covenants despite many reminders. Adjusting the water supply tariff is one
example where the local government did not take its commitments seriously.

Resettlement. All cities in KUDP had sub-projects requiring land acquisition and/or resettlement,
particularly for road widening, development or expansion of final dump sites, and drainage
construction. Nearly all sub-projects involved a small number of project affected persons (less
than 40 families). There were also temporary relocations of traders for market redevelopment in
Banjarmasin and Pontianak. Almost all of the small-scale land acquisition adopted cash
compensation or voluntary release of land agreed with the project affected persons. In general,
these small-scale land acquisitions were carried out and had fairly satisfactory results. The
socialization, consultations and negotiations were relatively well done, and ultimately land was
acquired with compensation as agreed. Details on two different resettlement experiences in
Banjarmasin and Samarinda are provided in Annex 11.

Table 1. Performance of Local Governments by Project Component

Component                              Balikpapan  Banjarmasin Palangka Raya  Pontianak   Samarinda    Overall


Water Supply                                S           S           U            S           MS          S

Drainage                                    S           S            S           S            S          S

Roads                                       S           S            S           S            S          S

Sanitation                                 MS           S           U            MS           U         MS

Solid Waste Management                      S          MS           U            S            U         MS

KIP                                         S           S           HS           HS          HS         HS

MIIP                                       MS          U            U            S            U          U

Urban Renewal                               S           S                        S                       S

Environmental Management                    S           S            S           S            S          S

Resettlement Management                     S           S            S           S            U          S

Project Management Office Management        S           S           U            HS          MS          S

Project Management Unit Management         U           MS           U            HS           U          U


OVERALL                                     S           S           U            S           MS          S


MS=marginally satisfactory

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall Borrower's performance is satisfactory.




                                                     - 24 -

8. Lessons Learned


There are five main lessons arising from the implementation of KUDP.

1(a).    The quality and attitude of leadership are the main elements that affected project
performance. While intellectual, technical and financial capacity are important factors affecting the
performance of a project's implementing agencies, it is the willingness, commitment and care to decide
upon and carry out the right things, for the benefit of the public, by the leaders and key staff that make the
real difference. It has been proven repeatedly that project implementation success or failure is closely
linked to the commitment and attitude of the associated leaders in serving the public.

The Bank's standard approach has been to provide "traditional" technical assistance, assuming that
technical understanding and skill alone would automatically and significantly facilitate project
implementation. However, this has not been validated under KUDP. In most cases, the agency being
supported for management improvement, such as a PDAM, did have the minimum understanding and skill
required to implement its component(s), but its leadership lacked the willingness or commitment to carry it
out. The fact that the sewerage pilot in Banjarmasin succeeded, for example, was, to a large part,
determined by the strong commitment, dedication and integrity of the project manager. A dedicated leader
in the agency receiving a small technical assistance package for solid waste in Pontianak was able to make
a big difference, whereas a similar technical assistance package for agencies with much greater technical
capacity had little impact in the other cities. Similar situations continued to emerge during project
implementation in all sectors. In PDAMs, this is far more obvious. Despite several high capacity technical
assistance packages provided to the PDAMs, little change took place until a new, committed director came
in.

In the future, before agreeing to any support for technical assistance to enhance capacity, or any support,
the attitude and commitment of the agency's leadership should first be assessed. It must be linked to clear
indicators of performance improvement that are mainly determined by the agency itself. While appreciating
the great extent of subjectivity in assessing such leadership qualities, the Bank should invest serious
thought and effort in this aspect before agreeing to any technical assistance, with the understanding that
just focusing on and assessing technical capacity and skill are simply not sufficient to meet the intended
objective. Lessons 1(b) is that TA packages should be phased, with clear benchmarks, in such a way
that allows the Bank to monitor the willingness of the agency to grow and improve. This is critical for
TA packages to improve an agency's management.

2.       Establishing client ownership of covenants early in implementation is essential. During project
preparation, the Bank must emphasize the importance of the proposed legal covenants, not so much
because they are project requirements, but because meeting the covenants themselves will ultimately benefit
the client. Having the client simply agreeing to certain conditions and covenants on paper, or accepting
them as project requirements will not ensure effective implementation. The Bank needs to foster an
understanding of and appreciation for the rationale behind the covenant. A good example is the covenant on
water tariff increases. Despite the covenant, some local governments gave various reasons for not
implementing it. But in one city, after a series of discussions, an understanding was reached with the client
that the tariff increase was essential for the sustainability of the PDAM's operations. As a result, the tariff
was increased beyond the minimum level required under the covenant.




                                                      - 25 -

3.        Integrated urban development projects are suitable for secondary cities (less than 1 million
inhabitants). The integrated approach can be useful in addressing urban development issues in a
comprehensive manner. This is even more valid now in the decentralized environment of Indonesia. In
reality, LGs will be required to think and operate in an integrated manner for their annual budgeting and
programing, whether there is a Bank project or not. One of the major concerns raised in previous
experiences (see Report No. 22214-IND, ICR of Surabaya Urban Development Project and Report No.
23588-IND for Semarang Surakarta Urban Development Project on paragraph Lessons Learned) was the
lack of a sectoral agenda under an integrated approach. This was not such a major issue in this project,
because the cities were relatively small and the works less complex. Furthermore under the new
decentralization law, most of the decisions are now made at city level, which facilitates project
coordination. This was not the case in both the Semarang and Surabaya projects which were implemented
earlier.

Because of the local nature of various issues related to urban development, many more policies are now
determined at the local level than at the central level. Sectoral issues can be addressed adequately, when
duly supported by appropriate expertise from the Bank. For example in water supply, the project was able
to assist in implementing various sector policies. Furthermore, progress can be made faster by
implementing policies which interlink sectors such as water and sanitation. The physical components
(roads, water, sanitation, drainage) of urban projects are also closely interlinked. All these can be
addressed more easily using an integrated approach.

4.        Participation and consultation with the beneficiaries significantly increase ownership of the
investments. The Bank and local governments should invest the necessary time and resources to build the
beneficiary's understanding of and appreciation for the project investments. In the case of the sewerage
schemes in Banjamasin and Balikpapan, significant time was invested to educate and increase the
understanding of the beneficiaries -- the citizens themselves -- resulting in their strong support for the
investments. Despite the serious effects of the financial and economic crisis, the cities of Banjarmasin,
Pontianak and Balikpapan were able to increase water tariffs substantially after intensive beneficiary
consultations and discussions, facilitated by various NGOs. Such an approach requires a more flexible
project implementation timetable, because the amount of time required for this cannot be accurately
predicted. The KIP component in this project also allowed more community participation in design and
implementation, but sometimes this process had to be cut short because the budgeting and financing
processes were incompatible with the participation process. The design of future projects will need greater
flexibility to address this matter.

5.        Facilitation role of Bank missions. To accommodate significant circumstantial changes such as
those experienced by Indonesia during this project, the role of Bank missions will necessarily have to
stretch well beyond traditional supervision. The team needs to be pro-active and play an important role in
facilitating communication among various government agencies. Usually in a crisis accompanied by
profound institutional changes, communication and trust among the various agencies break down, resulting
in slow decision-making and therefore slow implementation progress. As part of supervision, the Bank
team, all Jakarta office staff, took the time to meet with each city's parliament and explain the various
project issues, covenants and requirements, and was, in general, warmly welcomed by both the
implementing agencies and the parliaments. These efforts were instrumental to maintaining project
implementation momentum during the crisis.




                                                      - 26 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

                                       REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
                  MINISTRY OF SETTLEMENTS AND REGIONAL INFRASTRUCTURE
 Jalan Pattimura No. 20 Kebayoran 8aru-Jakarta Selatan 12110 Telp. (021) 72796155, Fex. 72796155


June 17, 2003



Mr. Keshav Varma
Sector Director
Urban Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A

                       Re: Kalimantan Urban Development Project (Loan 3854-IND)
                                 The Government Opinion on the Draft ICR

Dear Mr. Keshav Varma,

        Referring to your letter dated 5 June 2003, herewith we are pleased to forward you the opinions
to the Bank's Draft Implementation Completion Report for Kalimantan Urban Development Project
(KUDP).

        As stated in the Draft ICR that the overall performance of the Kalimantan UDP is rated
satisfactory, we could accept it and expecting to have further development for the sustainability of the
project. We thank you for your continuous cooperation,

                                                                                 Sincerely,



                                                        Budiman Arif
                                     Director General, Rural and Urban Development




Cc:
1. Mr. Andrew D. Steer, Country Manager! World Bank Office, Jakarta
2. Director of Urban and Rural Developmen4 Bappenas
3. Director Settlement and Housing Development, Bappenas
4. Director of External Funds, MOF
5. Director of Central Region, DGURD, MSRI




                                                   - 27 -

1.        Principal Performance Ratings


Although the overall result is different in some extent, the Government of Indonesia
(Gol) believes that the different is due to differences in defining the scale of
parameters or assessment indicator. But in certain degree the Government is basically
agree to the overall result summarized by the Bank.

2.        The Achievement of Objective and Outputs

The Government of Indonesia (GoI) agree that in general the overall objectives were
met, even in particular sectors the project has been able to achieve well above the
expected outcome. However, in improving provision of Urban Infrastructure and
Services as well as the efficiency of Urban Investment, the Government concerns in
some aspects:

         The utilization of the on site Sanitation, of which the built up facilities are in
          general not really in use, which was believed due to some Institutional reason.

         In terms of improving water supply service, increasing water tariff seems to
          be the main concerns to the Bank's side. In fact the most population's
          purchasing power remains low. Some efforts are to be done to ensure that the
          project, particularly in water supply improvement, has really met the targets.

In terms of contribution toward urban poverty alleviation, the Government believes
that efforts have been done mainly through the KIP program, to which the
community-based development has also been promoted through the involvement of
LKMD. Hence, regarding the sustainability of the program the local Governments,
provoked by the Bank, is to promote a self-financing maintenance of the built-up
areas.

In terms of improving the urban environment, the Government agrees that in some
extent the objectives have been met mainly through the improving Mumcipal Solid
Waste Management and promoting the off-site sanitation system. by setting up the
pilot off-site system in a particular housing areas. The Government main concerns is
then to ensure that the revenue or the retribution would cover the operational cost of
both Solid Waste Final Disposal and Waste Water Treatment plan. Therefore. in
certain degree Private Sector Participation should be vigorously promoted. to attract
investment in these sectors as well as promoting operational efficiency. In addition, to
maintain the urban environment quality, efforts still have to be done by improving
public awareness.

In line with Water Enterprise Recovery Program, Ministry of "Kimprawil" has
issued a letter addresses to all Walikota and Bupati throughout Indonesia (copy as
attached), that PDAM who will follow the program should comply with regulations
established by Sub-committee of Water Enterprise Recovery. Therefore, all support
would be given to PDAMs who commit with the regulation.


Regarding The Economic rate of return (EIRR) of both Urban Roads and Drainage,
the Government agrees that the Project has benefited KUDP cities through the
development of Urban Roads. Despite that huge investment. (31 % of total project
cost) has been spent on the sector.




                                                       - 28 -

3.       Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

The Gol agree that Financial Crisis, Civil Disturbances in Pontianak, Palangkaraya
and Banjarmsin, Political instability and Natural Calamity were become the major
factors beyond the control of government which affecting the implementation and
outcome of the project. However, the Government concerns that the selection and
Management of Consultants was become the main factor within the government
control that affects the performance of Project outcome. Efforts should be made to
build the capacity of Project Manager in selecting an appropriate consultant.

4.       Sustainability

The Govermnent agrees in the Bank's ways of rating the Sustainability likeliness in
each component. The Government remains concerns of the unlikeness of Sanitation
component to become sustainable, as this component would help to improve urban
enviromnent quality in general. Effort should be done in setting up institution, which
totally dedicated to manage the urban sanitation as a whole.
In addition, Directorate General of Urban and Rural Development is preparing a letter
addressed to all 5 mayors (Walikota) to take some actions such as provision of 0 &
M budget, providing net operating income, increasing water tariff, setting up
institutional etc. as recommended by the Bank, in order to comply with either loan
covenant or sustainability.

5.       Bank and Borrower Performance

The Government agrees in rating the Bank performance of lending and supervision
was being satisfactory. The aide memoirs issue has helped the Government to trace
the project performance in the process of evaluation. However, the government very
concerns in ways the Bank issuing the No Objection Letter (NOL), as in many cases
the delay in issuing NOL was significantly affecting the performance of the projects.
In terms of the Government performance in implementing the project, in this case
MSRI, it is agreed that the MSRI had been continuing to built its capacity in
implementing such urban development project, despite in a certain degree the
Ministry has not be able to be effectively in supervising some contracts. However, the
Ministry continues to built its capacity to keep up with this.

(b) Cofinanciers:
n.a.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
n.a.

10. Additional Information




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


Table 1. Water supply

                                                                S A R

                     Total Connections                   New Connections          Population Coverage         PDAM Users ' 000

     City     House  Other     Public   Total   House    Other    Public   Total                                       Proj. Beneficiaries

                           1993                               2000                 1993        2000    1993   2000      2000

Balikpapan   24,610  2,030       40     26,680  20,800    na       350     21,150   40%        62%     152    312         160

Banjarmasin  18,271  4,118      318     22,707  33,500    na       250     33,750   28%        62%     141    367         226

Palangkaraya  3,570   229        50     3,849   11,430   2,420     170     14,020   24%        80%      26    112         86

Pontianak    16,385  2,729      150     19,264  17,640   7,468     400     25,508   25%        50%     113    258         145

Samarinda    22,970  2,430      370     25,770  17,400    na       420     17,820   38%        53%     176    321         145


Total        85,806  11,536     928    98,270   100,770   na      1,590   102,360  31%         61%     608   1,370       762


                                                            Implementation

                     New Connections                     New Connections          Population Coverage         PDAM Users ' 000

     City     House  Other     Public   Total   House    Other    Public   Total                                       Proj. Beneficiaries

                           2000                               2002                 2000        2002    2000   2002      2000       2002

Balikpapan   17,787  1,237       33     19,057  20,279   1,404      72     21,755   64%        63%     319    338         167       186

Banjarmasin  22,985   796       494     24,275  39,005   1,429     679     41,113   68%        85%     396    510         255       369

Palangkaraya  3,443   191        -45    3,589    4,771   479       -54     5,196    34%        37%      49    56          23         30

Pontianak    29,195  1,818       83     31,096  33,084   2,453     168     35,705   66%        70%     321    353         208       240

Samarinda    20,695  1,510       54     22,259  27,211   1,545     141     28,897   52%        56%     321    368         145       192


Total        94,105  5,552      619    100,276  124,350 7,310     1,006   132,666  60%         66%    1,406  1,626       798       1,018




Table 2. Drainage and flood control

                                               Drainage Improvement (km)                                    Affected Area
            City
                               New       Primary       Secondary             Tert            Total          Ha             % 0f City
                                                                SAR
Balikpapan                        5           6              17                18              45           214               10%
Banjarmasin                                   8               5                16              28           330               15%
Palangkaraya                                  25             17                19              60           160               14%
Pontianak                                     15              8                18              41           160                5%
Samarinda                                     5               6                3               14           78                 3%
Total                            5           58              51               74              188          942                 8%
                                                       Implementation
Balikpapan                                    20             13                24              57           296               10%
Banjarmasin                                   19              9                20              48           585               33%
Palangkaraya                                  21             17                23              61           158               10%
Pontianak                                     44             20                18              82           355                8%
Samarinda                                     7               8                25              40           214                7%


Total                             -         111              66              111              288          1,608              14%




                                                               - 30 -

Table 3. Solid waste

                   Solid Waste, 1993      % Collected by          Solid Waste, 2000            Solid Waste, 2002

      City    m3/day    lcd  % Collected      2000          m3/day      lcd  % Collected  m3/day    lcd  % Collected
                                  SAR                                              Implementation


Balikpapan     1,159    3.0      56%           80%             1,493 3.0         80%       1,743    3.0      75%
Banjarmasin    1,319    2.6      58%           60%             1,734 2.8         60%       1,812    2.8      61%
Palangkaraya    333     3.0      56%           80%               441 2.5         80%        484     2.5      81%
Pontianak      1,317    3.0      47%           80%             1,800 3.0         75%       1,879    3.0      83%
Samarinda      1,483    3.2      62%           80%             1,901 3.2         82%       2,012    3.2      82%




Table 4. KIP (Slum upgrading)

                         KIPs                       Infrastructure for :                           Totals
      City                                Low cost housing         Urban renewal                             % City
              Locats    Ha    1000 pop.                                                Ha   1000 pop.
                                          Ha      1000 pop.      Ha       1000 pop.                      area      pop.

                                                        SAR

Balikpapan     23      232       108                             24          5        256       113       12       29

Banjarmasin    26      258       130       5          1          20          4        283       135       11       26

Palangkaraya    3       90        19      30          8                               120       27        11       17

Pontianak      20      204       100       7          2                               211       102       7        23

Samarinda      27      232       100      60         17          20          4        312       121       12       26
Total          99     1,016      457      102        28          64          13      1,182     498        12       26

                                                   Implementation
Balikpapan     37      326       185                             100         20       426       205       7        37

Banjarmasin    68      614       340                              5          1        619       341       20       77

Palangkaraya   18      316        90      15          4                               331       94        6        56

Pontianak      21      682       105                             88         17.6      770       123       3        25

Samarinda      37      432       185      42         12          38         7.6       512       204       6        38
Total          181    2,370      905      57         16          231         46      2,658     967        8        46


Table 5. Market improvement

                   # Markets         ha         Suprastructure           # Markets        ha          Suprastructure
       City
                                        SAR                                            Implementation

Balikpapan             3             17             2,250   m 2              2             5               4,164  m2

Banjarmasin            8             40             4,500   m 2              6            20               5,660  m2

Palangkaraya           3             25             2,250   m 2              4            33               6,538  m2

Pontianak              6             40             3,445   m 2              8            16               2,900  m2

Samarinda              4             12             3,455   m 2              6            30               4,934  m2

Total                 24            134           15,900    m2              26            104            24,196 m 2




                                                      - 31 -

Table 6. Roads, in km.

                                             SAR                                               Implementation

      City       Primary   Primary  Secondary Secondary                    Primary   Primary  Secondary Secondary
                                                        Local Roads Total                                        Local Roads Total
                 arterial collector  arterial  collector                   arterial collector  arterial collector



Balikpapan
p.m. 1991 length  25                  37                   81       143                                                      279
Improvement        13                             12       59        84      16                             9       20        44
Rehab/overlay       2         1                    1                  4       4                             3       46        52
New                 4                                                 4                 4                                      4
Subtotal           20         1        0         13        59        92      19         4        0         12       65       100


Banjarmasin
p.m. 1991 length    5         5       15         11       154       191                                                      304
Improvement        12         3        5           9       69        98       3         1        15        25       40        84
Rehab/overlay       8                  1          12                 21       1         0        3         11       86       101
New                14                                                14      22                                               22
Subtotal           34         3        7         21        69       134      26         2        17        36      126       207


Palangkaraya
p.m. 1991 length    3       12        28         26       240       308                                                      593
Improvement         4                  3           6       12        25       2         0                   6       21        30
Rehab/overlay       7                              7        6        20       9                             3        7        19
Subtotal           11         0        3         13        18        45      11         0        0          9       28        48


Pontianak
p.m. 1991 length  25        12        34         22        71       165                                                      238
Improvement                            2           6        5        13      12                  2          7        5        27
Rehab/overlay      17                  11         16       33        77       4                  10        17       33        63
New                12                                                12      15                                               15
Subtotal           29         0       13         21        38       102      30         0        13        24       38       105


Samarinda
p.m. 1991 length  14          9       12         22       186       243                                                      783
Improvement         8         4        1           7       40        60       5         1        3         15       31        55
Rehab/overlay                          2                              2      13                  4          6       19        42
New                                                                   0                          2                             2
Subtotal            8         4        4           7       40        63      18         1        9         21       51        99


Five Cities
p.m. 1991 length  72        39        126        74       732       1,050                                                    2,195
Improvement        38         7        11         39       185       280     38         2        21        62       118      240
Rehab/overlay      34         1        15         35       39        124     30         0        17        40       190      277
New                30         0        0           0        0        30      37         4        2          0        0        43
Total KUDP        103         8       26         74        224      434     105         6        39       101      308       560




                                                                - 32 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

(US$ million)
                                                 Actual / Latest
                              Appraisal Estimate    Estimate         % of
 Project Cost by Component    Amount       %    Amount      %    Appraisal
Water supply                   44.0       18%    39.7      26%       90%
Drainage                       23.8       10%    18.5      12%       78%
Urban roads                    55.9       22%    38.4      25%       69%
Solid waste                     8.3       3%      6.0       4%       73%
Human waste                    11.8       5%      6.7       4%       56%
KIP/MIP/Other                  21.1       8%     14.4       9%       68%
Incremental O&M                20.9       8%      6.2       4%       29%
Implementation support TA      10.3       4%      6.4       4%       62%
Institutional development TA   11.7       5%     14.1       9%      121%
Administration                  5.2       2%      1.2       1%       23%
Total Base Cost                213.0                                  0%
Physical contingencies         16.2       6%                          0%
Price contingencies            20.4       8%                          0%
PPF Repayment                   1.7               1.7               100%
Total Project Cost             251.3             153.1               61%
Total Financing Required       251.3     100%    153.1     100%      61%


See also Annex 9, Project Costs by Subsector


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                          1
                                                  Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category             ICB             NCB                   2    N.B.F.  Total Cost
                                                                      Other
1. Works                             37.30           113.00            0.00      0.00     150.30
                                    (25.00)          (74.70)          (0.00)     (0.00)   (99.70)
2. Goods                             10.00            6.00             2.00      12.00     30.00
                                    (10.00)          (4.00)           (1.00)     (0.00)   (15.00)
3. Services                           0.00            0.00            10.40      0.00      10.40
Engineering & Supervision            (0.00)          (0.00)           (9.00)     (0.00)    (9.00)
4. TA and Training                    0.00            0.00            11.80      0.00      11.80
                                     (0.00)          (0.00)           (10.60)    (0.00)   (10.60)
5. Land, taxes, duties                0.00            0.00             0.00      21.00     21.00
                                     (0.00)          (0.00)           (0.00)     (0.00)    (0.00)
6. Incremental O&M and                0.00            0.00             0.00      26.10     26.10
administration                       (0.00)          (0.00)           (0.00)     (0.00)    (0.00)
   Total                             47.30           119.00           24.20      59.10    249.60
                                    (35.00)          (78.70)          (20.60)    (0.00)   (134.30)
Final project cost also included reimbursement of a PPF for $1.7 million.




                                                  - 33 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                 1
                                                      Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category                 ICB              NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                            Other
1. Works                                14.70             53.97              0.91             3.92             73.50
                                       (10.40)           (46.66)            (0.91)            (0.00)           (57.97)
2. Goods                                7.56              23.74              0.00             2.61             33.91
                                       (6.71)            (23.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (29.71)
3. Services                                                                  6.36             0.00              6.36
Engineering & Supervision                 ()                ()              (5.61)            (0.00)           (5.61)
4. TA and Training                                                          14.11             0.00             14.11
                                          ()                ()             (12.45)            (0.00)           (12.45)
5. Land, taxes, duties                  3.10               8.25              2.05             2.82             16.22
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
6. Incremental O&M and                  0.00               0.00              0.00             7.34              7.34
administration                         (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   Total                                25.36             85.96             23.43             16.69            151.44
                                       (17.11)           (69.66)           (18.97)            (0.00)          (105.74)

 1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

 2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
   of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
   managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




Financing Plan, at Appraisal and Actual (US$million)

                                Appraisal Estimate             Actual / Latest Estimate     Percentage of Appraisal
       Financier         Local   Foreign   Total     %     Local   Foreign  Total      %     Local  Foreign   Total

Central Government        40.5      2.4     42.9   17%       11.9     3.8     15.7    10%     29%    157%      36%
Provincial Government       3.2               3.2   1%        0.7     0.4      1.1    1%      22%              36%
Local Government          39.0      2.0     41.0   16%       13.7     5.0     18.7    12%     35%    249%      46%
Water Utilities           24.7      3.5     28.2   11%        7.7     2.5     10.2    7%      31%     72%      36%
IBRD                      61.3     74.7    136.0   54%       79.4    26.3    105.7    70%    130%     35%      78%
Total Financing          168.7     82.6    251.3   100%     113.5    38.0    151.5   100%     67%     46%      60%




                                                       - 34 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


Urban roads and drainage/flood control. The economic analysis of the urban road and drainage/flood
control subprojects considered only directly quantifiable costs and benefits. As in the SAR, savings in
vehicle operating costs (VOC) and travel time constitute the economic benefits of the urban road
subprojects used in the ERR calculation. For the drainage/flood control subprojects, the economic benefit
considered was the increase in land value in areas directly affected by the drainage/flood control projects.

All costs and benefits were valued at 2002 prices. Financial costs were converted to their equivalent
economic costs by removing taxes and duties, and applying appropriate conversion factors for tradables
and unskilled labor. For tradable components, a shadow exchange rate factor of 1.06 was applied while for
unskilled labor, a shadow wage rate factor of 0.75 was used. For non-tradable components, a standard
conversion factor of 0.94 was applied.

The VOC and travel time savings of the urban road subprojects were calculated based on monitoring data
on traffic counts, VOC for with and without project, and travel time saved. Data were collected by the
BME Consultant, with updates by the ICR consultant. Land value increases resulting from the
drainage/flood control subprojects and estimates of the actual influence area were used as bases for the
calculation of the annual economic benefit generated by each subproject.

All net economic benefit streams of the urban road and drainage/flood control subprojects were discounted
at their assumed economic life, as adopted in the SAR. For new roads, widening and general improvement
subprojects, a 10-year economic life was assumed. For resurfacing and overlay subprojects, an economic
life of five years was applied. In the case of drainage/flood control subprojects where a number of the
subprojects involved improvement of existing drainage channels and construction of primary, secondary
and tertiary systems, the economic life was assumed at five years.

A comparison of the EIRR based on SAR targets and actual completed subprojects are presented in Tables
1 and 2 for urban roads and drainage/flood control, respectively.

Water supply. For this component, FIRR was estimated. Historical information was used to form the
bases for the financial projections. The main assumptions used include the number of existing and
additional connections, minimal capacity utilization attained, reduced levels of UFW, new investments and
loans, tariff increases, and profit generation for use in PDAM programs. SAR targets include DSCR of at
least 1.5 by the end of the grace period, full cost recovery by the end of the project period and tariffs that
are economically feasible.

A comparison of the FIRR for water supply based on SAR targets and actual figures is presented in Table
4. A comparison of financial and operational indicators based on SAR targets and actual figures for the
five participating PDAMs during project implementation (1995 - 2002) are shown in Table 5, while
projections for years 2003 - 2012 are presented in Table 6.

Solid waste management. At the end of the project, only Palangka Raya has attained full cost recovery on
solid waste management. But this does not necessarily mean that it has a better managed solid waste
system. Cleansing charges have improved during the project by improving collection efficiency, although
tariffs were not increased as required. But local governments have realized that they need to provide more
budget to support their operations, even if they had to fund them from other city funds. Banjarmasin and
Pontianak have the highest growth rates in direct O&M expenditures for solid waste. Table 7 shows the



                                                      - 35 -

cost recovery attained by the participating cities.

Table 1. Comparative EIRR: SAR Targets vs. Actual - Urban Roads

                                     SAR Estimates                                Actual

      Sector/Subproject\    EIRR With Time EIRR Without Time  EIRR With Time EIRR Without Time  Investment Cost
                               Savings          Savings          Savings         Savings           (Rp Mill)


   Kota Banjarmasin
     1. Jl H Basri             > 10%            Min. 10%          2.2%            -0.9%                    5,903
     2. Jl Pinus               > 10%            Min. 10%         24.5%            22.3%                     767
     3. Jl Veteran             > 10%            Min. 10%         29.8%            27.8%                     146
     4. Jl Jend A Yani         > 10%            Min. 10%         30.1%            28.1%                    1,440
     5. Jl Trisakti            > 10%            Min. 10%         13.8%            11.1%                  45,710
   Kota Balikpapan
     1. Jl Haryono MT          > 10%            Min. 10%         27.3%            24.7%                    4,912
     2. Jl Yos Sudarso         > 10%            Min. 10%         19.5%            16.9%                    1,194
     3. Jl Iswahyudi           > 10%            Min. 10%         15.4%            13.1%                    6,957
   Kota Palangkaraya
     1. Jl RTA Milono          > 10%            Min. 10%         21.6%            20.2%                    1,079
     2. Jl Tjilik Riwut        > 10%            Min. 10%          6.7%            4.8%                      426
     3. Jl Imam Bonjol         > 10%            Min. 10%         13.3%            12.2%                     731
     4. Jl RA Kartini          > 10%            Min. 10%         43.2%            40.5%                     695
   Kota Pontianak
     1. Jl M Sohor             > 10%            Min. 10%         -1.2%            -3.8%                    1,677
     2. Jl A Rahman            > 10%            Min. 10%         28.7%            27.1%                     567
     3. Jl Tanjung Raya        > 10%            Min. 10%         22.7%            20.9%                     459
     4. Jl Supadio             > 10%            Min. 10%          2.0%            0.3%                   10,422
   Kota Samarinda
     1. JL Suprapto            > 10%            Min. 10%         19.5%            15.9%                    3,538
     2. JL Menuju RSS          > 10%            Min. 10%         21.7%            15.7%                     426
     3. Jl Pandan Wangi        > 10%            Min. 10%         14.6%            12.6%                    6,018
     4. Jl S Parman            > 10%            Min. 10%          4.2%            0.9%                     3,026
     5. Jl KHA Dahlan          > 10%            Min. 10%         21.6%            19.5%                     230



                                                                                     Total Cost          96,322




                                                          - 36 -

Table 2. Comparative EIRR: SAR Targets vs. Actual - Drainage and Flood Control

                                  SAR Estimates                       Actual
      Sector/Subproject\
                                EIRR      Increase in             Increase in  Investment Cost
                                          Land Values    EIRR    Land Values      (Rp Mill)


Kota Banjarmasin
 1. A Yani                                 0.3-29.5%    23.1%       35.9%                 3,185
 2. Saka Permai                            0.3-29.5%    64.5%       31.1%                 1,036
 3. Teluk Dalam                            0.3-29.5%   119.7%       25.7%                  998
 4. Sei Guring                             0.3-29.5%    67.3%       35.9%                  344
 5. Sei Bilu                               0.3-29.5%    82.4%       33.4%                 1,046
Kota Balikpapan
 6. Pandansari                             0.3-29.5%    47.2%       25.7%                  936
 7. SMA 5                                  0.3-29.5%    -13.0%      25.7%                  783
 8. Klandasan II                           0.3-29.5%    51.3%       28.6%                 1,551
 9. Klandasan Besar                        0.3-29.5%     0.0%       38.2%                 4,677
 10. Sepinggan                             0.3-29.5%    -14.4%      39.1%                  549
 11. Terusan Damai                         0.3-29.5%    -4.4%       33.4%                 1,913
Kota Palangkaraya
 12. D. Pengeringan I                      0.3-29.5%     0.0%       30.3%                  446
 13 D. Pengeringan II                      0.3-29.5%    -13.6%      33.4%                  646
 14 D. Pengeringan IIIA                    0.3-29.5%    19.3%       33.4%                  432
 15 D. Pengeringan IIIB                    0.3-29.5%    -26.8%      35.9%                 1,009
 16. D. Pengeringan IV                     0.3-29.5%    92.8%       18.9%                  210
 17. D. Pengeringan V                      0.3-29.5%    -3.1%       39.1%                 1,124
Kota Pontianak
 18. Sei Pahang                            0.3-29.5%    81.8%       33.4%                  850
 19. Parit Beliung                         0.3-29.5%     6.8%       33.4%                  565
 20. Parit Jl H Cokroaminoto               0.3-29.5%     0.0%       38.2%                 1,090
 21. Parit Bangka Beliung                  0.3-29.5%    45.1%       36.4%                  473
 22. Sei Bangkong                          0.3-29.5%    -4.4%       30.3%                  865
 23. Parit Tokaya                          0.3-29.5%    -16.9%      39.1%                 2,406
Kota Samarinda
 24. JL Air Putih                          0.3-29.5%    41.3%       35.9%                  704
 25. Sei Pinang                            0.3-29.5%    84.6%       22.3%                  774
 26. Sungai Air Hitam                      0.3-29.5%    -8.2%       29.7%                 1,540
 27. S Damai                               0.3-29.5%    -10.2%      35.9%                 1,366



                                                                    Total Cost         31,519




                                                          - 37 -

Table 3. PDAM Compliance with Financial Covenants, 1995-2002

                                                1995     1996     1997    1998     1999     2000     2001           2002

Balikpapan
Net Income before depreciation                  4,335    4,593    3,997     624    4,996    2,805   (1,172)        9,290
Net income after depreciation (1999 onwards)       79     460       356  (3,359)    126    (2,169)  (9,441)        1,897
Tariff Increase Implementation
      Month/Year implemented                                                       Jul-99                  Apr-02, Jul-02
      % Increase in Tariff "A"                                                       45%                             60%
      To Average                                  979    1,170    1,157   1,001    1,677    1,680    1,720         2,448
      Tariff "A"                                  547     547       547     547     793       793     793
Payment of dividends to PEMDA                     -        -        -       -        -        -        -              -

Banjarmasin
Net Income before depreciation                  2,339   (1,730)  (1,760)  4,148   (5,379)  (6,610)   6,605       17,176
Net income after depreciation (1999 onwards)   (6,973) (11,209) (11,314) (3,918) (13,263) (15,931)  (3,892)        7,268
Tariff Increase Implementation
      Month/Year implemented                                     Aug-97
      % Increase in Tariff "A"                                      25%                                88%           25%
      To Average                                  813     806     1,048   1,048    1,048    1,048    1,971         2,382
      Tariff "A"                                          400       500     450     450       450
Payment of dividends to PEMDA                             930       -       -        -        -        -              -

Palangka Raya
Net Income before depreciation                    940     698       672   1,473    1,935    2,303    2,638         3,195
Net income after depreciation (1999 onwards)    (886)    (106)   (1,402)   (804)   (863)   (1,227)  (1,619)       (1,460)
Tariff Increase Implementation
      Month/Year implemented                                                                         Jul-01        Oct-02
      % Increase in Tariff "A"                                                                         25%           67%
      To Average                                  688     761       931   1,204    1,325    1,299    1,478         1,726
      Tariff "A"                                  320     320       320                       530     630
Payment of dividends to PEMDA                     -        -        -       -        -        -        -

Pontianak
Net Income before depreciation                  2,005    2,949    1,808   3,154    5,320    7,769     971            495
Net income after depreciation (1999 onwards)      383     952     (800)    (593)   1,241    2,664   (3,821)       (4,297)
Tariff Increase Implementation
      Month/Year implemented                   Dec-95                              Jul-99                         May-02
      % Increase in Tariff "A"                                                       31%                             50%
      To Average                                  801    1,003    1,016     953    1,129    1,571    1,463         2,048
      Tariff "A"                                  400     400       400     400     524       524     524            950
Payment of dividends to PEMDA                     -        -        -       -        -        250      -              -

Samarinda
Net Income before depreciation                  3,851    4,111    1,754   1,964    2,566    2,156   (2,172)        4,602
Net income after depreciation (1999 onwards)    2,049    (700)   (2,587) (2,986)  (1,598)  (1,613) (10,082)       (3,030)
Tariff Increase Implementation
      Month/Year implemented                                              Apr-98                           May&Nov-02
      % Increase in Tariff "A"                                              40%                              20% , 5%
      To Average                                1,000    1,008    1,018     996    1,038    1,086    1,115         1,521
      Tariff "A"                                  400     400       400     560
Payment of dividends to PEMDA                     -        -        -       -        -        -        -              -


PDAM Balikpapan did not attain a net operating income after depreciation until 2001. Debt service
arrears had accumulated to Rp 28.24 billion at Loan closing. One reason for these arrears is the late and




                                                           - 38 -

insufficient implementation of tariff increases. As soon as the PDAM implemented a 60% tariff increase in
April and July of 2002, it realized a net operating income after depreciation. Another reason is the late
decision on the funding of additional wells to supplement existing wells during a prolonged drought.
Unaccounted-for water was uncontrolled, starting at 24% at the start of the project, reaching its highest
point of 35% in 1999, and settling down to 29% at closing. (As noted in the main text, there was no
specific program in the project to address this.) The PDAM exerted efforts to meet new connection targets,
slightly surpassing the SAR target by 605 connections at Loan closing. The PDAM further improved its
staffing ratio from 7 to 5 staff per 1000 connections at the end of the project. It was able to shorten the
collection period from 82 days at project start-up to only 58 days at completion. The PDAM is expected to
have a net operating income for the next 10 years, as long as: (a) its debts are rescheduled; (b) it makes
18,500 new connections by 2009; (c) it reduces UfW 25% by year 2007; and (d) tariffs are increased by
15% to 20% every two years. The debt service ratio will be 1.5 times and higher starting 2004. Highlights
of the PDAM's performance from 19952002 and projections for 2003 are shown in Tables 5.1.

PDAM Banjarmasin. The PDAM had accumulated debt service arrears of Rp 15.56 billion at Loan
closing, and had a net operating income only in the one year after implementing a tariff increase, which was
not enough. This changed in 2001 when the PDAM was able to obtain approval to increase tariff
periodically. Other reasons for not meeting financial covenants earlier are the delayed completion canal for
the raw water supply, the inter-connection of transmission lines, and the subsequent installation of new
connections. As soon as these were completed, the PDAM was able to make progress toward achieving the
number of new connections targeted in the SAR, indeed even surpassed it by 7,363 connections at closing.
UfW was not controlled. From 45% at the start of the project, it rose to 57% in 1997 and settled down to
39% at closing. (There was no program in the project specifically addressing this.) On the positive side,
the PDAM was able to improve its staffing ratio from 10 to only 5 employees per 1000 connections at
closing. It was able to shorten the collection period from 80 days to 60 days. The PDAM should have a
net operating income for the next 10 years, as long as: (a) its debts are rescheduled; (b) it makes 35,500
new connections by 2008; (c) it reduces UfW to 30% by 2005; and (d) it increases tariffs by 20% in 2004
and 10% every two years thereafter. The debt service ratio will be 1.5 times, and higher starting 2004.
Highlights of the PDAM's performance from 1995  2002 and projections for 2003 are shown in Tables
5.2 of this Annex.

PDAM Palangka Raya had debt service arrears amounting to Rp 3.66 billion at Loan closing. It never
attained a net operating income from the start of the project, until 2003 when tariffs were increased by 25%
in July 2001, followed by a 67% increase in October 2002. The PDAM only installed 5,196 connections
compared with the SAR target of 14,020. This could be because the PDAM's service area has very good
alternative ground water sources and people prefer not connect to the PDAM's system. Average monthly
consumption per connection was only 17 m3, very far behind the SAR assumption of 27 m3. UfW was
erratic, starting with 24% at start-up, to 40% in 1998, settling down to 29% at closing. (There was no
specific program in the project to address this.) The PDAM was able to improve its staffing ratio from
12:1000 at the start of the project to only 6:1000 at the end of the project. Its collection period improved
from 140 days in 1995 to 120 days in 2002. The PDAM is expected to always have a net operating income
for the next ten years, as long as: (a) its debts are rescheduled; (b) it makes 11,500 new connections by
2012; (c) it reduces UfW to 25% by 2006; and (d) it increases tariff by 20% in 2004 and 15% every two
years thereafter. The debt service ratio will be 1.5 times and higher starting 2004. Highlights of the
PDAM's performance from 19952002 and projections for 2003 are shown in Tables 5.3 of this Annex .

PDAM Pontianak had debt service arrears amounting to Rp 19.25 billion at Loan closing. It attained net
operating income one to two years after a tariff increase, and would incur a net loss because tariffs were
not raised as required. The 50% tariff increase in 2002 and another 10% in 2003 will ensure a net


                                                       - 39 -

operating income for the coming years. To compensate, the PDAM was able to surpass the new
connections target in the SAR by 10,197 connections at closing. Staffing ratio was greatly improved from
10:1000 at project start to 6:1000 at project closing. The duration of the collection period improved from
73 days in 1995 to only 45 days in 2002. Ufw was 60% at project start, reached its lowest level of 20% in
1999 and went up again to 40% by the end of the project. There was no specific program to address this in
the project. The PDAM is expected to have a net operating income for the next ten years, as long as: (a)
one of its two loans can be rescheduled; (b) it makes additional 43,000 new connections until 2010; (c) it
reduces UfW to 25% by year 2007; and (d) it increases tariffs by 15% in 2005 and every two years
thereafter. Its debt service ratio will be 1.5 times and higher starting 2004. Highlights of the PDAM's
performance from 19952002 and projections for 2003 are shown in Tables 5.4.

PDAM Samarinda had debt service arrears amounting to Rp 22.84 billion at Loan closing. It met the
covenant for net income after depreciation for the first time at Loan closing. Tariffs were raised only in
1998 (40%) and then through a series of increases implemented in May (20%) and November (5%) 2002
which should give the PDAM a net operating income in 2003 that will be sustained thereafter. The
completion of the 200 l/s water treatment plant was delayed. This was compounded by the prolonged
drought that resulted in salty water being pumped from its existing raw water intake. The Loa Kulu raw
water supply system was constructed upstream to respond to this. These caused the PDAM to be slow in
making new connections, although it picked up once the WTP was completed, and surpassed the SAR
target by 11,077 connections at Loan closing. PDAM Samarinda was the only PDAM that showed
consistency in dealing with its UfW problem, which was 49% at project start, rising to 56% in 1997, but
gradually improving to 38% at closing. The PDAM was able to still improve the very low staffing ratio at
project start at 6:1000 to 5:1000 at project closing. Due to cash difficulties, the PDAM was prompted to
improve its collection period from 117 days in 1998 to only 63 days in 2002. The PDAM is expected to
have a net operating income for the next ten years, as long as: (a) its loans can be rescheduled; (b) it makes
14,000 new connections until 2008; (c) it reduces UFW to 25% by year 2007; and (d) it increases tariffs
by 15% in 2005 and every two years thereafter. Its debt service ratio will be 1.5 times and higher in 2003
and starting from 2007. This ratio will be between 1.13 and 135 times during the rescheduling period of
2004-2006. Highlights of the PDAM's performance from 1995  2002 and projections for 2003 are shown
in Tables 5.5.

Table 4. Comparative FIRR: SAR Targets vs. Actual - Water Supply

                                             SAR Estimate                                                  Actual
                                                  Cost Recovery
   Sector/Subproject\                                                   Debt                             Cost Recovery         Debt
                         FIRR   Capital Cost                          Coverage   FIRR   Capital Cost                         Coverage   N P V
                                 (Rp Mill)    O&M Cost    O&M Cost +                     (Rp Mill)   O&M Cost    O&M Cost +            (Rp Mill)
                                                         Depreciation  Ratio                                    Depreciation  Ratio


 PDAM Balikpapan                   24,835      1995         1995       1996     23.7%      43,767     1995         2002       2004      68,359
 PDAM Banjarmasin                  30,315      1995         2000       2000     27.3%      43,455     1995         2002       2004     132,827
 PDAM Palangkaraya                 22,649      1995         1999       2000     11.8%      24,295     1995         2003       2004         765
 PDAM Pontianak                    43,853      1995         1997       1996     25.2%      68,206     1995         2003       2004     122,960
 PDAM Samarinda                    19,761      1995         1995       1996     16.7%      68,495     1995         2003       2003      33,085


             Total Cost           141,413                                                 248,219




                                                                     - 40 -

Table 5.1 PDAM Balikpapan Financial & Operational Indicators, SAR vs Actual - 1995-2002, and 2003 Projected


             Particulars              1995      1996         1997      1998        1999       2000       2001     2002    2003
SAR
Total Connections                     31,424     34,135      37,102    40,352      43,917     47,830
New Connections                        2,478       2,711      2,967     3,251       3,564      3,913
Water Sold, m3 mill                   11,858     13,543      15,590    17,170      17,170     17,170
Water Sold/Connection/Month, m3          31          33         35          35         33          30
Unaccounted-for-water, %
Average Tariff, Rp/m3                    931         -        1,066        -        1,173         -
Total Revenues, Rp mill               12,343     14,079      18,662    18,684      21,486     21,486
Net Profit(Loss), Rp mill                441       3,751      4,519     4,118       6,896      4,254
Operating Ratio, %                      86%         84%        71%        74%         66%        70%
Debt Service Ratio                      0.98        1.24       2.54       2.59       2.95        1.75
Actual
Total Connections                     38,928     42,306      46,561    50,001      52,808     55,473     56,288   58,171  61,171
New Connections                        2,911       3,378      4,255     3,440       2,807      2,665        815    1,883   3,000
Water Sold, m3 mill                   10.029     10.369      10.647    11.805      11.859     12.504     13.694   14.613  15.037
Water Sold/Connection/Month, m3          22          21         20          20         19          19        20      21      21
Unaccounted-for-water                   24%         25%        29%        31%         35%        33%        29%     29%     29%
Average Tariff, Rp/m3                    979       1,170      1,157     1,001       1,677      1,680      1,720    2,448   2,448
Total Revenues, Rp mill               13,617     14,644      14,830    13,474      21,814     23,478     24,748   38,299  39,667
Net Profit(Loss), Rp mill                78         452         457     (3,245)       287      (1,798)    (9,409)  1,707     278
Operating Ratio, %                      51%         52%        58%        76%         63%        73%        88%     63%     71%
Debt Service Ratio                                                                                                          1.38
Staff/1000 Connections                     7           7          6           6          6          5          5      5        5
Collection Period, Days                  82          66         46          56         53          55        53      58      55




                                                                  - 41 -

Table 5.2 PDAM Banjarmasin Financial & Operational Indicators, SAR vs Actual - 1995-2002, and 2003 Projected


             Particulars             1995       1996        1997       1998        1999       2000       2001      2002     2003
SAR
Total Connections                     29,097     33,076      37,692    43,045      49,255     56,457
New Connections                        3,431      3,979       4,616      5,353       6,209      7,202
Water Sold, m3 mill                    9,428     14,238      15,790    17,748      19,127     20,988
Water Sold/Connection/Month, m3           27          36         35         34          32         31
Unaccounted-for-water, %
Average Tariff, Rp/m3                    -           894        -        1,077         -          -
Total Revenues, Rp mill                6,759     13,269      14,715    21,503      23,173     33,057
Net Profit(Loss), Rp mill             (9,375)    (5,764)     (6,155)      (483)     (1,055)     4,988
Operating Ratio, %                     239%        143%        142%      102%        105%         72%
Debt Service Ratio                       -           -          -          -           -         2.02
Actual
Total Connections                     26,675     32,397      37,864    42,794      46,522     48,791     58,914    65,629   71,629
New Connections                        2,167      5,722       5,467      4,930       3,728      2,269    10,123     6,715    6,000
Water Sold, m3 mill                    8.593      9.845       9.440    11.562      13.443     15.058     15.103    17.187   18.942
Water Sold/Connection/Month, m3           28          28         22         24          25         26         23       23       23
Unaccounted-for-water                    45%         49%        57%        43%         36%        37%        41%      39%      35%
Average Tariff, Rp/m3                    813         806      1,048      1,048       1,048      1,048      1,971    2,382    2,464
Total Revenues, Rp mill                8,072     10,710      11,839    14,697      17,020     19,099     38,393    47,657   52,818
Net Profit(Loss), Rp mill             (6,843)   (11,072)    (10,968)    (3,538)   (12,864)   (15,347)     (3,596)   6,541    6,518
Operating Ratio, %                       71%         71%        76%        67%         73%        81%        58%      49%      57%
Debt Service Ratio                                                                                                            1.08
Staff/1000 Connections                    10           9          8          7           7          6          6        5        6
Collection Period, Days                   80          75         83         87          86         80         57       60       60


Table 5.3 PDAM Palangka Raya Financial & Operational Indicators, SAR vs Actual - 1995-2002, and 2003 Projected


             Particulars             1995       1996        1997       1998        1999       2000       2001      2002     2003
SAR
Total Connections                      5,917      7,353       9,152    11,414      14,264     17,869
New Connections                        1,148      1,436       1,799      2,261       2,851      3,605
Water Sold, m3 mill                    1,195      1,797       2,946      4,281       5,310      5,766
Water Sold/Connection/Month, m3           17          20         27         31          31         27
Unaccounted-for-water, %
Average Tariff, Rp/m3                    -           844        -        1,028         -        1,239
Total Revenues, Rp mill                  709      1,440       2,360      4,630       5,743      7,483
Net Profit(Loss), Rp mill               (934)    (1,367)     (1,303)      (248)        380        (24)
Operating Ratio, %                     232%        195%        155%      105%          93%        73%
Debt Service Ratio                       -           -          -          -           -         3.18
Actual
Total Connections                      4,939      5,122       5,535      6,628       7,282      8,402      9,123   10,009   11,009
New Connections                          126         183        413      1,093         654      1,120        721      886    1,000
Water Sold, m3 mill                    1.284      1.284       1.284      1.284       1.583      1.637      1.771    1.923    2.112
Water Sold/Connection/Month, m3           22          21         20         18          19         17         17       17       17
Unaccounted-for-water, %                 24%         27%        22%        40%         30%        21%        28%      29%      28%
Average Tariff, Rp/m3                    688         761        931      1,204       1,325      1,299      1,478    1,726    2,808
Total Revenues, Rp mill                  946      1,376       1,349      1,758       2,660      2,640      2,893    3,566    6,245
Net Profit(Loss), Rp mill               (886)       (106)    (1,402)      (804)       (863)    (1,227)    (1,619)  (1,460)      15
Operating Ratio, %                       99%         58%        70%        85%         79%        95%        96%      92%      63%
Debt Service Ratio                                                                                                            0.46
Staff/1000 Connections                    12          10          9          8           7          7          6        6        6
Collection Period, Days                  140         122        123        124         128        131        135      120      100




                                                                   - 42 -

Table 5.4 PDAM Pontianak Financial & Operational Indicators, SAR vs Actual - 1995-2002, and 2003 Projected


             Particulars              1995        1996       1997      1998        1999       2000       2001     2002      2003
SAR
Total Connections                     24,384      27,474     30,988    34,990      39,556     44,772
New Connections                        2,721       3,090       3,514     4,002       4,566      5,216
Water Sold, m3 mill                    7,056       9,420     11,400    13,230      15,850     17,753
Water Sold/Connection/Month, m3           24          29          31         32         33         33
Unaccounted-for-water, %
Average Tariff, Rp/m3                    818         -           982        -        1,080        -
Total Revenues, Rp mill                5,793       7,734     10,763    12,491      17,957     18,285
Net Profit(Loss), Rp mill               (832)     (1,197)        754       224       3,579       (686)
Operating Ratio, %                     232%        195%        155%      105%          93%        73%
Debt Service Ratio                      1.43        3.58       32.05      2.45        4.92       0.52
Actual
Total Connections                     25,496      30,117     33,968    36,936      42,407     53,160     55,552    57,769   60,769
New Connections                        3,432       4,621       3,851     2,968       5,471    10,753      2,392     2,217    3,000
Water Sold, m3 mill                    6.535       7.880       8.319   10.288      13.949     15.000     16.146    16.998   17.781
Water Sold/Connection/Month, m3           23          24          22         24         29         26         25       25       25
Unaccounted-for-water, %                 60%         55%        47%        47%         29%        36%       38%       40%      35%
Average Tariff, Rp/m3                    801       1,003       1,016       953       1,129      1,571     1,463     2,048    2,536
Total Revenues, Rp mill                6,632       9,471       9,981   11,550      18,813     30,012     25,942    36,658   47,628
Net Profit(Loss), Rp mill                548       1,032        (479)     (321)      1,149      2,243     (3,349)  (4,297)  14,179
Operating Ratio, %                       55%         51%        58%        63%         50%        57%       70%       59%      50%
Debt Service Ratio                                                                                                   6.28     1.07
Staff/1000 Connections                    10           9           9          8          8          7          6        6        6
Collection Period, Days                   73          48          42         44         59         45         47       45       45


Table 5.5 PDAM Samarinda Financial & Operational Indicators, SAR vs Actual - 1994-2002, and 2003 Projected


             Particulars              1995        1996       1997      1998        1999       2000       2001     2002      2003
SAR
Total Connections                     29,875      32,192     34,704    37,429      40,384     43,590
New Connections                        2,136       2,316       2,512     2,725       2,956      3,206
Water Sold, m3 mill                   12,902      15,019     17,170    19,354      21,302     22,259
Water Sold/Connection/Month, m3           36          39          41         43         44         43
Unaccounted-for-water, %
Average Tariff, Rp/m3                    871         -           946        -        1,038        -
Total Revenues, Rp mill               11,287      13,139     17,273    19,470      22,502     23,512
Net Profit(Loss), Rp mill                470       1,498       3,094     3,552       5,245      2,608
Operating Ratio, %                       70%         73%        61%        67%         66%        69%
Debt Service Ratio                      1.35        1.83        3.15      2.95        3.64       1.07
Actual
Total Connections                     34,421      46,022     51,774    50,583      51,198     52,323     57,095    58,961   61,961
New Connections                        4,357      11,601       5,752    (1,191)        615      1,125     4,772     1,866    3,000
Water Sold, m3 mill                    9.182      10.353     10.811    11.963      13.142     15.047     17.052    17.052   17.776
Water Sold/Connection/Month, m3           24          21          18         19         22         24         26       24       25
Unaccounted-for-water, %                 49%         52%        56%        50%         48%        42%       38%       38%      29%
Average Tariff, Rp/m3                  1,000       1,008       1,018       996       1,038      1,086     1,115     1,521    1,774
Total Revenues, Rp mill               11,501      13,543     12,856    13,529      15,474     18,077     23,542    30,276   36,648
Net Profit(Loss), Rp mill              1,844        (700)     (2,587)   (3,227)     (1,527)    (1,349)    (9,347)  (2,270)   1,123
Operating Ratio, %                       67%         63%        80%        75%         73%        76%       85%       75%      68%
Debt Service Ratio                                                                                                           10.69
Staff/1000 Connections                     6           6           5          6          6          6          5        5        5
Collection Period, Days                  113         113         115       117          94         76         63       63       55




                                                                    - 43 -

Table 7. Solid Waste Cost Recovery, Amounts in Rp Million


                                                    1994/95    1995/96     1996/97    1997/98 1998/99 1999/2000 2000   2001   2002 *  Growth


Balikpapan
COST RECOVERY                                         95%        116%       123%      137%     130%    127%     114%   113%   51%

Cleansing Charges (Retribusi Kebersihan)             1,183       1,718      1,798      2,087   2,158    2,191   1,654  2,395  2,394     4%

Direct Operations and Maintenance Expenses           1,248       1,483      1,459      1,524   1,654    1,720   1,449  2,120  4,665     5%


Samarinda
COST RECOVERY                                         85%        108%       49%        54%     52%      51%     53%    24%    51%

Cleansing Charges (Retribusi Kebersihan)              473        581         547       631     688      820      683   1,804  2,394     4%

Direct Operations and Maintenance Expenses            556        538        1,124      1,162   1,318    1,601   1,284  7,646  4,665     5%


Banjarmasin
COST RECOVERY                                        105%        124%       96%       103%     55%      47%     30%    58%    44%

Cleansing Charges (Retribusi Kebersihan)              765        829         860       920     739      755      568   1,627  1,880    12%

Direct Operations and Maintenance Expenses            730        671         898       895     1,344    1,616   1,878  2,802  4,284    25%


Pontianak
COST RECOVERY                                         56%        47%        43%        61%     52%      37%     50%    67%    54%

Cleansing Charges (Retribusi Kebersihan)              534        532         509       826     865      821      532   2,045  2,290    20%

Direct Operations and Maintenance Expenses            946        1,129      1,194      1,348   1,678    2,197   1,060  3,066  4,257    21%


Palangka Raya
COST RECOVERY                                        no data   no data     no data    no data  50%     1138%    131%   426%   360%

Cleansing Charges (Retribusi Kebersihan)             no data   no data     no data    no data  147      171      161    192    400     28% **
Direct Operations and Maintenance Expenses           no data   no data     no data    no data  293       15      123    45     111    -22% **

   * Based on revised budget; actual figures not yet available

   ** Growth rate from BY 1998/99 to BY 2002; previous city records destroyed by fire




                                                                                - 44 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              February 1989             3    INSTITUTIONAL
                                             DEVELOPMENT (1); URBAN
                                             PLANNER (1); URBAN
                                             TRANSPORT ENGINEER (1)
              July 1989                 2    INSTITUTIONAL
                                             DEVELOPMENT (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1)
              December 1989             5    INSTITUTIONAL
                                             DEVELOPMENT (1); URBAN
                                             PLANNER (1); MUNICIPAL
                                             ENGINEER (1); OPERATIONS
                                             OFFICER (1); FINANCIAL
                                             ANALYST (1)
              March 1990                4    INSTITUTIONAL
                                             DEVELOPMENT (1);
                                             MUNICIPAL ENGINEER (1);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
              November 1990             2    ECONOMIST (1); MUNICIPAL
                                             ENGINEER (1)
              November 1991             4    FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                             MUNICIPAL ENGINEER (1);
                                             URBAN PLANNER (2);
              November 1992           10     FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1); URBAN
                                             TRANSPORT (1); MUNICIPAL
                                             ENGINEER (1); URBAN
                                             PLANNERS (2);
                                             ENVIRONMENT (1); WATER
                                             ENGINEER (1); MUNICIPAL
                                             FINANCE (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT/OPERATION
                                             S OFFICER (1)
              Pre-appraisal             7    FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
              November 1993                  MUNICIPAL FINANCE (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENT (1);
                                             MUNICIPAL ENGINEER (1);
                                             WATER/SANITATION
                                             ENGINEER (1); ECONOMIST
                                             (1); URBAN TRANSPORT (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              Appraisal: June           8    FINANCIAL ANALYST
              1994                           (1); URBAN TRANSPORT
                                             (2); WATER ENGINEER
                                             (1);


                                              - 45 -

                                  ENVIRONMENT/SANITAR
                                  Y ENGINEER (1);
                                  ECONOMIST (1);
                                  MUNICIPAL ENGINEER
                                  (1); URBAN PLANNER (1)
           Appraisal            5 SANITATION SPECIALIST (1);
           Follow-up: August      SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT (2);
           1994                   MUNICIPAL ENGINEER (1);
                                  URBAN TRANSPORT (1)
           Follow-up: Sept      2 ECONOMIST (1); MUNICIPAL
           1994                   ENGINEER (1)
           Negotiations:        8 ECONOMIST (1); URBAN
           February 1995          PLANNER (1); URBAN
                                  ENVMT SPECIALIST (1);
                                  MUNICIPAL ENGINEER (1);
                                  COUNSEL (1);
                                  DISBURSEMENT OFFICERS
                                  (2)

Supervision
           10/13/1995           5 ENGINEER/WATER &             S    S
                                  SANI. (1); ECON,/TASK
                                  MANAGER (1);
                                  ENGINEER/IUIDP (1);
                                  PLANNER/FINANCIAL
                                  (1);
                                  ENGINEER/PROCUREME
                                  NT (1)
           02/15/1996           3 ENGINEER (2); ECONOMIST,     S    S
                                  TM (1)
           05/10/1996           7 ENGINEER (2); ECONOMIST      S    S
                                  (1); ECONOMIST, TM (1);
                                  FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1);
                                  URBAN PLANNER (1);
                                  ENVIRONMENT SPECIALIST
                                  (1)
           10/30/1996           4 PR. ECONOMIST, TM (1);       S    S
                                  SANITARY ENGINEER (1);
                                  ECONOMIST (1);
                                  RESETTLEMENT (1)
           03/05/1997           6 PR. ECONOMIST, TM (1);       S    S
                                  CONSULTANT (1);
                                  FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                  OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                  SANITARY ENGINEER (1);
                                  FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
           12/22/1997           2 PR. ECONOMIST, TM (1);       S    S
                                  OPERATIONS
                                  OFFICER/MUNICIPAL
                                  ENGINEER (1)
           11/03/1998           6 MUNICIPAL ENGINEER (1);      S    S
                                  FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                  ENVIRONMENTAL (1);




                                  - 46 -

                      WATER SUPPLY (1);
                      RESETTLEMENT (1); FLOOD
                      CONTROL (1)
      06/10/1999    8 MUNICIPAL ENGINEER (1);     S    S
      MID TERM        FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
      REVIEW          WATER SUPPLY (1);
                      RESETTLEMENT (1);
                      DRAINAGE (1);
                      ENVIRONMENTAL
                      SPECIALISTS (2); QUALITY
                      ASSURANCE (1)
      11/14/1999    6 MUNICIPAL ENGINEER (1);     S    S
                      FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                      ENVIRONMENTAL ( 1);
                      WATER SUPPLY (1);
                      RESETTLEMENT (1);
                      PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                      (1)
      3/17/2000     1 TTL, OPERATIONS OFFICER     S    S
      07/28/2000    5 TTL, OPERATIONS OFFICER     S    S
                      (1); SANITARY ENGINEER
                      (1); FINANCIAL ANALYST
                      (1); RESETTLEMENT
                      SPECIALIST (1);
                      INSTITUTIONAL SPEC. (1)
      06/21/2001    4 MUNICIPAL ENGINEER (1);     S    S
                      FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                      WATER SUPPLY (1);
                      RESETTLEMENT (1)
      12/03/2001    4 MUNICIPAL ENGINEER (1);     S    S
                      FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                      WATER SUPPLY (1);
                      RESETTLEMENT (1)
      05/03/2002    5 MUNICIPAL ENGINEER (1);     S    S
                      SANITARY ENGINEER (1);
                      FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                      RESETTLEMET SPECIALIST
                      (1); ENVIRONMENTAL
                      SPECIALIST (1)
      12/19/2002    4 MUNICIPAL ENGINEER (1);     S    S
                      SANITARY ENGINEER (1);
                      RESETTLEMET SPECIALIST
                      (1); COMMUNITY
                      DEVELOPMENT SPECIALIST
                      (1)

ICR
      02/08/2003    8 TTL, MUNICIPAL              S    S
                      ENGINEER (1);
                      FINANCIAL
                      ANALYST(1); SANITARY
                      ENGINEER (1);
                      RESETTLEMENT
                      SPECIALIST(1);



                      - 47 -

                                                 ENVIRONMENTAL
                                                 SPECIALIST (2);
                                                 ECONOMIST (1);
                                                 COMMUNITY
                                                 DEVELOPMENT
                                                 SPECIALIST (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                     Actual/Latest Estimate
                                      No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                161.8                          548.8
  Appraisal/Negotiation                       72.0                         185.7
  Supervision                               300.8                          742.1
  ICR                                         12.0                          28.0
  Total                                     546.6                        1,504.6
Costs incurred up to and including FY99 were increased 15% to take into account the differences in the
new accounting system begun in FY00.




                                                 - 48 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 49 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 50 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


1. Aide-memoires of KUDP
2. Draft ICR reports of the PT Mutiara Wiyatadarma Consultants.
3. Final Reports and Quarterly Reports of PT Indah Karya in association with Montgomerry Watson and
PT Kartika Pradiptaprima
4. ICR report of Surabaya Urban Development Report No.22214-IND
5. Staff Appraisal Report of Kalimantan Urban Development Project No. 13154-IND




                                                 - 51 -

Additional Annex 8. Additional Sectoral Assessment of Solid Waste Management



All final disposal sites (TPA) and associated equipment financed by KUDP have been fully constructed and
placed in operation. However, operation and maintenance of the TPAs fall short of standards for sanitary
landfills or even controlled landfills, with the single exception of Balikpapan. In Pontianak and
Banjarmasin, the operation of the TPA has been contracted out to the private sector, leaving Dinas
Kebersihan (Cleansing Department) the responsibility of monitoring and supervising landfill operations.
This is a learning experience for the Dinases, and there will still be a need to further improve their capacity
to supervise the contractors. The contract operation shows promise but is not a panacea. In contrast, in
Balikpapan the operations and maintenance of the landfill are still carried out by Dinas Kebersihan itself,
but the results are very good (highly satisfactory). More details on each city's situation follow.

Pontianak has developed a strategy and work program to improve solid waste management. It is a
comprehensive approach involving privatization of landfill operations, collection, and overall waste
management at major markets, and partnerships with NGOs for street cleaning. As its functions are
transferred to contractors, the city's payroll for solid waste management has been reduced from 523 in 2000
to 92 in 2003. Tariff increases ensure that full cost recovery is achieved by the end of 2004. The
Department is more or less on track in implementing the work plan A tariff increase was enacted and will
take effect in 2003. It is already implemented for commercial customers and is being phased in for
residential customers over a six-month "socialization" period. Pontianak has also improved its accounting
systems so that it can measure the actual cost of solid waste management. Convincing the local parliament
that proper solid waste management should be a high, long-term priority in Pontianak continues to prove
challenging for the local administration.

In Banjarmasin, the Cleanliness, Parks and Cemeteries Department (Dinas Kebersihan, Pertamanan dan
Pemakaman or DKPP) still is facing some obstacles in terms of solid waste management, e.g., a lack of
supporting budget from the LG, lack of revenue for service, lack of skilled personnel, etc. In addition,
there are obstacles related to site conditions, e.g., lack of soil cover, bad weather, condition of the road to
the landfill, etc. The DKPP has an approach to involve the private sector in landfill operation, but because
of limited capacity in DKPP to monitor the activity, the condition of the landfill has not improved since the
last mission visit. It is not clear how DKPP will solve the problem because it feels that city authorities, both
executive and legislative, are not paying attention to these issues. Despite these problems, DKPP is trying
to maintain good service, a fact which is visible in the overall cleanliness of the city.

Balikpapan has the opposite condition. Although it is not very clear when the Cleanliness and Parks
Department(Dinas Kebersihan dan Pertamanan or DKP) will implement its overall work plan, the DKP
has drawn up several Memoranda of Understanding with some big companies in Balikpapan on solid waste
management in the city, and even asked some private companies from Java for proposals to run the
operation of the landfill. Another good example of the DKP plan is to train pro-poor families to carry out at
source-separation of waste to decrease the overall amount of waste going to the landfill, and then teach
them to produce compost from that waste by providing the necessary equipment and facilities.

Palangka Raya has the same problem with Banjarmasin, which is weak capacity to solve solid waste
management problems. The city does not have a plan to privatize the operation of the landfill. There are
some innovations on revenue collection e.g. to involve NGOs and Camat, but they have not been
implemented yet. After visiting the landfill site, it is clear that this Dinas Kebersihan does not have a clear
plan to operate the facility properly.




                                                       - 52 -

Additional Annex 9. Project Cost Summary by Subsector




                                Banjarmasin% of total Balikpapan % of total Palangka  % of total Pontianak % of total Samarinda % of total  Total   % of total
                                            program               program    Raya      program              program             program              program


Water Supply (PDAM)
  SAR                                32,225  21%           26,407  26%          24,381  40%          44,528  33%         21,449   25%        148,990  28%
  Actual                             43,455  19%           43,767  32%          24,295  35%          68,206  35%         68,495   42%        248,219  32%


Drainage & Flood Control
  SAR                                17,633  11%           11,080  11%          8,856   14%          29,231  22%          5,063   6%         71,863   13%
  Actual                             24,653  11%           19,136  14%          12,622  18%          41,307  21%         14,491   9%         112,209  14%


Urban Roads
  SAR                                66,418  43%           29,128  28%          10,674  17%          36,344  27%         22,263   26%        164,827  31%
  Actual                            103,763  46%           40,451  29%          11,606  17%          46,415  24%         43,133   27%        245,368  31%


Solid Waste Management
  SAR                                 8,904   6%            7,197   7%          2,933    5%           9,083   7%          4,988   6%         33,105    6%
  Actual                             12,149   5%            7,503   5%          4,353    6%           8,542   4%          7,615   5%         40,161    5%


Sanitation
  SAR                                 8,826   6%            9,354   9%          2,670    4%           5,292   4%          7,444   9%         33,586    6%
  Actual                             16,709   7%            9,939   7%          3,728    5%           4,467   2%          9,209   6%         44,053    6%


Urban Renewal (KIP/MIP/Housing)
  SAR                                14,788  10%           14,264  14%          7,212   12%           4,851   4%         18,934   22%        60,049   11%
  Actual                             20,403   9%           12,363   9%          9,939   14%          18,865  10%         14,922   9%         76,492   10%


TA Local
  SAR                                 5,126   3%            5,467   5%          4,742    8%           5,126   4%          4,742   6%         25,203    5%
  Actual                              3,023   1%            5,438   4%          2,730    4%           5,528   3%          4,187   3%         20,907    3%


Total
  SAR                               153,920  100%         102,897  100%         61,468  100%       134,455   100%        84,883  100%        537,623  100%
  Actual                            224,156  100%         138,597  100%         69,272  100%       193,331   100%       162,052  100%        787,408  100%




                                                                            - 53 -

Additional Annex 10. Technical Assistance


         C o n t r a c t s o f C o n s u l t a n t s                                                            A G E N C Y                    C o s t             P e r f o m a n c e




 I       D E T A I L E N G I N E E R I N G A N D S U P E R V I S I O N


     1 L O C A L D R A I N A G E , R O A D S , O N S I T E ,
       S A N I T A T I O N S O L I D W A S T E
     a B a n j a r m a s i n 2 n d - 5 t h Y e a r                                          D i n a s P U T k I I B a n j a r m a s i n          2 , 3 7 6 , 0 0 0 M S
     b P a l a n g k a r a y a 2 n d - 5 t h Y e a r                                        D i n a s P U T k I I P a l a n g k a r a y a           7 8 2 , 0 0 0  U
     c B a l i k p a p a n 2 n d - 5 t h Y e a r                                            D i n a s P U T k I I B a l i k p a p a n            3 , 8 6 5 , 3 6 9 M S
     d S a m a r i n d a 2 n d - 5 t h Y e a r                                              D i n a s P U T k I I S a m a r i n d a                 2 4 7 , 1 0 0  M S
     e P o n t i a n a k 2 n d - 5 t h Y e a r                                              D i n a s P U T k I I P o n t i a n a k              2 , 3 4 0 , 0 0 0 S


     2 W a t e r S u p p l y
     a B a n j a r m a s i n 2 n d - 5 t h Y e a r                                          B i n t e k D G C i p t a K a r y a                     9 6 6 , 0 0 6  S
     b P a l a n g k a r a y a 2 n d - 5 t h Y e a r                                        P D A M P a l a n g k a r a y a                         9 6 6 , 0 0 6  M S
     c B a l i k p a p a n 2 n d - 5 t h Y e a r                                            P D A M B a l i k p a p a n                          1 , 9 6 4 , 8 1 2 S
     d S a m a r i n d a 2 n d - 5 t h Y e a r                                              P D A M S a m a r i n d a                            2 , 8 3 1 , 4 9 0 M S
     e P o n t i a n a k 2 n d - 5 t h Y e a r                                              P D A M P o n t i a n a k                            2 , 6 5 9 , 6 1 9 S


     3 N A T I O N A L R O A D S ( P R I M A R Y R O A D S )
       C o n s u l t i n g S e r v i c e s f o r R e v i e w D e s i g n a n d              B i n k o t , B i n a m a r g a                              8 , 0 4 0 S
       C o n s t r u c t i o n S u p e r v i s i o n o f R o a d & B r i d g e W o r k s


     4 P R I M A R Y D R A I N A G E
        - F E D & S u p e r v i s i o n m a j o r d r a i n a g e i n 5 t o w n s           D J C K & R e l a t e d D i n a s P U                2 , 7 3 9 , 5 7 0 M S
        a n d f l o o d c o n t r o l w o r k s P o n t i a n a k , B a l i k p a p a n     Tk II
        & S a m a r i n d a P a l a n g k a r a y a B a n j a r m a s i n


     5 R I V E R P R O T E C T I O N                                                        D i t S u n g a i , P e n g a i r a n                   3 9 8 , 0 8 1  M S


     6 U R G E N T F I R S T Y E A R D E D & S U P E R V I S I O N                          D J C K                                                 6 2 5 , 8 0 0  S
       ( C O M B I N E D I N I I , 1 a )


                                               S U B T O T A L I                                                                               2 2 , 7 6 9 , 8 9 2


 II    I N S T I T U T I O N A L B U I L D I N G M A N A G E M E N T


   1 a P r o j e c t M a n a g e m e n t A d v i s o r y S e r v i c e s ( f o r            D J C K                                              7 , 2 5 0 , 7 9 0 M S
       l o c a l l e v e l ) P M O / P F O / C P M U
   1 b P r o j e c t M a n a g e m e n t A d v i s o r y S e r v i c e s ( f o r            D J C K                                                   1 1 , 5 0 2  S
       l o c a l l e v e l ) P M O / P F O / C P M U


 2     P D A M A D V I S O R Y A S S I S T A N C E
     a P D A M M a n a g e m e n t ( B a n j a r m a s i n )                                P D A M B a n j a r m a s i n                           7 9 3 , 6 0 0  M S
     b P D A M M a n a g e m e n t ( P a l a n g k a r a y a )                              P D A M P a l a n g k a r a y a                         8 9 4 , 0 0 0  U
     c P D A M M a n a g e m e n t ( B a l i k p a p a n )                                  P D A M B a l i k p a p a n                          1 , 0 7 7 , 4 5 1 M S
     d P D A M M a n a g e m e n t ( S a m a r i n d a )                                    P D A M S a m a r i n d a                            1 , 5 4 4 , 2 0 0 U
     e P D A M M a n a g e m e n t ( P o n t i a n a k )                                    P D A M P o n t i a n a k                            1 , 6 0 8 , 0 8 2 S


 3     P O M M S ( I m p r o v e m e n t O & M M a n a g e m e n t                          P U O D                                              1 , 6 1 1 , 3 0 1 U
       System for local Infrastructure


 4     R I A P I M P L E M E N T A T I O N A S S I S T A N C E
       B a n j a r m a s i n                                                                D i s p e n d a T k I I B a n j a r m a s i n           2 6 8 , 8 8 0  M S
       P a l a n g k a r a y a                                                              D i s p e n d a T k I I P a l a n g k a r a y a         2 9 3 , 0 0 7  U
       B a l i k p a p a n                                                                  D i s p e n d a T k I I B a l i k p a p a n             2 6 9 , 5 0 0  S
       S a m a r i n d a                                                                    D i s p e n d a T k I I S a m a r i n d a               2 6 9 , 9 7 0  M S
       P o n t i a n a k                                                                    D i s p e n d a T k I I P o n t i a n a k               2 6 9 , 3 5 4  M S


 5     P R O J E C T M A N A G E M E N T T R A I N I N G                                    P e m d a s                                          1 , 4 3 0 , 9 7 1 S


 6     T R A F F I C M A N A G E M E N T P R O G R A M F O R                                D L L A J R T k I a n d D G L a n d &                   2 4 2 , 1 7 4  S
       B A N J A R M A S I N , B A L I K P A P A N P O N T I A N A K                        T r a n s p o r t
       A N D S A M A R I N D A


 7     L o w C o s t H o u s i n g & U r b a n R e n e w a l S e c t o r                    D J C K & R e l a t e d D i n a s P U                1 , 0 8 4 , 1 9 9 S
       P r o j e c t P e p a r a t i o n & D e v e l o p m e n t A c t i o n                T k I
       P l a n f o r H O U S I N G & U r b a n R e n e w a l


 8     D E V E L O P M E N T o f A p p r o p r i a t e W aste                               P u s l i t b a n g & R e l a t e d D i n a s        1 , 1 4 8 , 7 8 4 S
       D e s p o s a l S y s t e m f o r P o n t i a n a k , & S a m a r i n d a            P U T k I I
       including impl of Pilot Project




                                                                                                        - 54 -

Additional Annex 11. Resettlement Experience in KUDP


All cities in KUDP had sub-projects requiring land acquisition and/or resettlement, particularly for
road widening, development or expansion of final dump sites, and drainage construction. Except
for the Karang Mumus in Samarinda, Jafri Zamzam in Banjarmasin and Loa Hulu road widening
subprojects, all sub-projects generally involved a small number of project affected persons (less
than 40 families). There were also temporary relocations of traders for market redevelopment in
Banjarmasin and Pontianak. Almost all of the small-scale land acquisition adopted cash
compensation or voluntary release of land agreed with the project affected persons. In general,
these small-scale land acquisitions were carried out and had fairly satisfactory results. The
socialization, consultations and negotiations were relatively well done, and ultimately land was
acquired with compensation as agreed. For Banjarmasin the large scale resettlement was
satisfactorily done; however, for large scale resettlement in Karang Mumus in Samarinda, the
process and results are considered unsatisfactory. Details for these two large scale resettlements
are described below.

Jafri Zamzam Road Subproject - Banjarmasin

The local government of Banjarmasin undertook a road widening subproject for the Jafri Zamzam
road in 1998. The length of the road was about 1.2 km, with a total designed width of 13 m
(original width was 5 m). Since the road ran parallel to a river, the widening subproject required
relocating 250 households living along the riverbanks. The LG's commitment to providing a
livable relocation site was quite strong. It prepared a relocation site in the Zahri Saleh area, about
7 km from Jafri Zamzam, including housing, local roads and drainage, public facilities (market,
small mosque, etc) and utilities (water and electricity). The LG helped the children gain admission
to the nearest school. Housing was financed by contributions from the Social Ministry, whereas
infrastructure and facilities were financed by the local budget. The households had to pay for the
houses in installments, but the land was free. At project closing, most of the families living at the
new site were those who had been relocated. Most of them are happy with the new site. The
market is active half-day, as is a neighborhood market; access to previous employment sites is
relatively easy as public transportation reaches the area. Most kiosks in the market are occupied
by families who previously were traders in Jafri Zamzam road. Moreover, public utilities function
well. So far, only a few households have paid the installment though it is long overdue. However
the LG has not sanctioned the majority of the families who have not paid the installment.
Recently, the families inquired with the local government about the possibility of getting tenure
security for the land plots and houses. The implementation of the resettlement scheme for Jafri
Zamzam road widening has been successful at least in maintaining the living standard of the
relocated families; therefore it is considered satisfactory.

Karang Mumus-Bengkuring - Samarinda

About 500 families from the Karang Mumus riverbank in Samarinda were resettled as part of the
LG's efforts to reduce flooding and improve living conditions. The original project did not
anticipate the resettlement program. However, because of the cholera outbreak and fire hazards



                                                 - 55 -

during a drought, the Government requested Bank support to accelarate ressetlement along the
Karang Mumus River. About IDR 3.1 billion (about $300,000) for infrastructure (access road,
local roads, drainage, and water) were allocated for this effort. The LG prepared a LARAP
acceptable to the Bank. However, implementation of the LARAP was not fully consistent with
the plan. The Bank monitored the implementation of LARAP closely during its first year of
implementation. While the LG kept most of its promises, the monitoring and follow-up support
for the affected people were very slow and minimal. The local market has not functioned well, and
is only about half occupied. Many of the resettled people have changed jobs or kept their jobs at
the original site. Overall, utility service is good, but with occasional drainage problems, and
transportation access to the city is generally good. However there is a concern that the LG is not
allocating sufficient budget to maintain the access roads. Overall the cost of the land and housing
at the site place has increased considerably, which has benefitted the affected people. However
because of limited post relocation economic support, the outcome has not been as positive as
expected. Overall the implementation this scheme, particularly from a resettlement point of view,
has been unsatisfactory and the Bank objected to financing the program further.




                                                  - 56 -

- 57 -

