Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFCIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. 10621-KO Type: (PCR)
ANDERSON, / X31676 / T9 111/ ORD
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KOREA
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2309-KO)
APRIL 30, 1992
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department III
Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bs recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents maky not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank auJthorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit            -            Korean Won (W)
$1                             W 750 (at appraisal)
$ 1                            W 861 (at completion)
$ 1                            W 702 (as of March 1990)
ABBREVIATIONS
BoK         -            Bank of Korea
CD          -            Certificate of Deposits
CMA         -            Cash Managem.'nt Accounts
DFC         -            Development Finance Companies
DFI         -            Development Finance Institutions
EDI         -            Economic Development Institute
KBI         -            Korea Banking Institute
KDB         -            Korea Development Bank
KLB         -            Korea Long Term Credit Bank
NBFI        -            Non-Bank Financial Intermediaries
NIF         -            National Investment Fund
Repo        -            Repurchase Agreement
FISCAL YEAR
January - December



THE WORLD BANK               FR OMCI" US  MY
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Oflice of Director-Gene,al
011tionm Efvakatkm
April 30, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:      Project Completion Report on Korea
Industrial Finance Pro1ect (Loan 2309-RO)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Korea - Industrial Finance Project (Loan 2309-KO)" prepared
by the Industry and Energy Operations Division, Country Department III of the
Asia Region, with Part II contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project
has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a rstricted distribudon and may be used by recipients only In the performance
of their official dudes. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World anok authorization.



FOR OFMCL USE ONLY
P1'OJECT COHPLEflJ REPORT
I!IUSTRIAL_FINACE PROJECT
(LOAN 2309-KO)
1ABLE OF CONTENTS
PAGE NO.
Preface ..................................... o 
Evaluation SuMMary  ....................... .                                  ii
PART I:  PROJECT REVIEW PROd DANK'S PERSPECTIJE . . . . . . . . . .               1
Project Identity  ............. ... ................................... 
Project Background  . . . . . ... ....   . . ..  . . ....... .. .. ... .          1
Project Objectives and Description  . . . ... . . . . . . . . . .   .             1
Project Insttution........................                                        2
Project Design  .... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   .                2
Project Implementation                    ......................                 3
Project Results . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . .                          3
Policy Component  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          .. ..... . .          3
Credit Component  . . . .. ..   .......              ... .. . . . . . .        6
Technical Assistance Component                  .................              7
Project Sustainability                    ......................                  7
Bank Performace  ..a.....                                  . ........             7
Borrower Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              8
Lessons .. . . .   . *   * 9   *                                                  9
PART lI:  PRCJECT REVIEW IRON BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . .              11
PART III:  STATISTICALZIlnlOII4ATIOI     *      .........        .. *........   27
1.  Related Bank Loans  . . . . .. .. .             . . . . .  . .   . . . . . . .  29
2.  Project Timetable ... . . . . . . . . . .. . . .  . . . .. .. ..            30
3.  Cumulative and Actual Disbursements .. ..            . . . .    . . . . . . .  31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (CONT'DI
4. Proiect Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    32
4.1 Sectoral and Geographical Distribution of Subprojects (RDB)    32
4.2 Sectoral and Geographical Distribution of Subprojects (KLB)    33
4.3 SumiXrized Data on Economic Contribution
of Subprojects (RDB)  .... . . .....a....................    34
4.4 Summarized Data on Economic Contribution
of Subprojects (RLB) .t . .  .  .(...a.....................  35
4.5 List of Participating Institutions in the Training Projects    38
4.6 Subloans Granted to Participating Institutions Under the
Training Project .o..           .......................     39
4.7 Korea Banking Institute - Staff Training . . . . . . . . .     40
5. KDB's Financial and Operational Performance . . . . . . . . . .    41
5.1  Summary of Operations (1983-89)  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    45
5.2 Projected and Actual Balance Sheets  . . . . . . . . . . .     46
5.3 Projected and Actual Income Statements (1983-89) . . . . .     48
5.4 Projected and Actual Indicators of Financial
and Operational Performance (1983-89)  . . . . . . . . .    49
5.5 Domestic Currency Resource Mobilization  . . . . . . . . .     50
5.6  Foreign Currency Resource Mobilization . . . . . . . . . .    52
6. KLB'i Yinancial and Operational Performance . . . . . . . . . .    55
6.1  Sumary of Operations (1983-89)  . . . . . . . . . . . . .     58
6.2 Projected Balance Sheets  .          .      ...... . .         60
6.3 Actual Balance Sheets  ................ .                      62
6.4 Projected Income Statements  . . . . . . . . . , . . . .       64
6.5 Actual Income Statements         .. .............             65
6.6 Projectedlatiohnalysis.................                        66
6.7 Actual Ratio Analysis  ................. .                    68
6.8 Statement of Resources (1983-89) . . . . . . . . . . . . .     69
7.  Proiect Performance of the Korea Bankina Institute  . . . . . .   70
7.1 RBI Balance Sheet  . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  71
7.2  IBI Statement of Income  .  . . . . a  . . . . . . . . .      72
8. Status of Bank Covenants                                           73
9. Use of Bank Resources . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    77
9.1  Staff Inputs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    77
9.2 Missions .a. . . . . . . . . .      .& *  .  .. . . . . . . . .  78



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDUS'LAIAL FINANCE PROJECT
(Loan 2309-KO)
PREFACE
This report prasents an evaluation of the results achieved under the
first Industrial Finance Project in Korea, for which Loan 2309-KO was
approved on June 9, 1983. The US$255.0 million loan in support of the
Government's financial sector policy reform,  priority industrial
investments through a credit component, and a strengthened financial system
through a technical assistance component was made to three Project
Entities: Korea Development Bank, Korea Long Term Credit Bank and the
Ministry of Finance/Korea Banking Institute. The loan closed on December
31, 1988 with about US$2.3 million of the loan amount undisbursed and
cancelled. The last disbursement was made on May 16, 1988.
The PCR was prepared by the Industry and Energy Operations Division,
Country Department II, Asia Region (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I
and III). The PCR draws on the Staff Appraisal Report; the Loan, Guarantee
and Project Agreements; supervision reports, correspondence between the
Bank and the Project Entities; internal Bank memoranda; the Project
Entities' finar-ial reports and project data provided by the Project
Entities. It presents a review of the implementation of the project, the
extent to which the policy and institutional objectives were achieved and
the results of the investments made. The borrowers have been helpful in
providing useful data for Part III and submitted their respective Part II
as contribution to the PCR.



- liii -
INDUSTRIA  FINCE   OECT
(LOAN 2309-KO)
EVAWUATJON SMR
1.    The project loan for US$255.0 million reflected the Bank's new
approach to industrial lending in Korea and its principal objectives were:
(a) support the Government's financfl sector policy reforms, particularly
those which were to be implemented or achieved over the period 1983-85; (b)
support priority industrial Investments by financing the foreign exchange
requirements of KDB and KLB; and (c) strengthen the financial system by way
of training and technical assistance. The project had a policy package
summarized in a Policy Letter, a credit component to KDB for US$130.0
million and to KLB for US$120.0 million, and a technical assistance
component coordinated and supervised by KBI for US$5.0 million (para. 3.01-
3.02).
2.      The financial policy objectives of the program sought reforms in
the following areas:   intarest rate decontrol, liberalization of
commercial banks, supervision of fiaiancial institutions, directed credits,
corporate indebtedness and equity market development. In the area of
interest rates, the main objective of the reforms was to seek Government's
agreement in maintaining real positive rates. With respect to
liberalization of commercial banks, the main objective was to improve the
efficiency and competitiveness of commercial banks. In the area of
financial supervision, the reforms aimed at adjusting supervisory
procedures to the new requirements of a liberalized markets. For directed
credits, the objectives were to reduce the flow and burden of the NIF on
financial institutions. Finally, the reforms aimed at improving the
relative attractiveness of equity financing for corporations and investors
and at fostering the development of the equity market (paras. 6.01-7.11).
3.   The progress of the financial sector liberalization was favorable and
continued through a series of steps undertaken by the Government over 1983-
85. Due to a low level of inflation and a decline in market rates,
interest rates in Korea remained significantly positive in real terms
during the project period. These conditions permitted the Government to
achieve its interest rate objectives under the reform. There was a change
in the status and scope of activity of local commarcial and foreign banks.
The Government has unified and strengthened supervisory functions for banks
and NBFIs by supporting the existing Office of Bank Supervision and
Examination and by establishing new departments within it to supervise
NBFIs. The Government reduced net contribution to the NIF and total loans
granted under it in 1985. Finally, in its effort to attract equity
financing, the Government reduced the criteria for issuing shares,
established funds exclusively for pension funds and gave foreign investors
greater access to the securities market. Several measures were also
introduced to promote the issuance of bonds and tax changes were introduced
to encourage public offerings and new shares (paras. 7.03-7.11).



- iv -
4.    Utilization of the credit compontent by KDB and KLB has been
satisfactory for most of the project period. Initially, the rate of funds
utilization slowed considerably in the third quarter of 1985 due to three
factors: (a) a general. slowdown in investment dem;.nd in Korea which began
in mid-1985; (b) competition from th-e BoK's Won export facility; and (c)
perceived non-competitiveness of Brtk funds following the drop in interest
rates prevailing in the international capital markets. However, BoK's
export facility was no longer available and the investment climate began to
improve in 1986 so disbursements improved. Regarding the uncompetitiveness
of Bank's subloan rates, discussions between the Bank, KDB and the
Government resulted in the reduc-lon of the covenanted minimum spread to 1%
in 1987 (paras. 7.12-7.13).
5.    Changes were also made in the original agreements at various stages
of project implementation to encourage further utilization of the loan.
These changes were: (a) reducing the interest rate spreads on Bank-
financed subloans; (b) increasing the maximum subloan size; (c) revising
upward the debt equity limitation; (d) permitting on exceptional basis the
financing of up to lOOX of local costs; and (e) arranging for a revolving
fund as a means to move funds quickly (para. 7.14).
6.    As a result the original objectives of the credit component were
achieved. Under the loan a total of $247.8 million was disbursed out of
the original amount of $250.0 million. A total of 145 subloans were
approved under the loan; 89 for KLB ($119.3 million) and 56 for KIB ($128.4
million). The objectives of the two technical assistance components--
overseas training and computerization have also been satisfactorily
achieved (paras. 7.15-7.16).
7.    The project had significant benefits:  (a) it facilitated a close and
effective dialogue with the Government on financial sector policies; (b)
the credit component provided the financial support to deserving investment
projects; (c) the institution building component benefited not only KDB and
KLB but also otheL financial institutions which participated in the
overseas Lraining program; and (d) the computerization program strengchened
the Government's tax collection efforts while helping the financial sector
set up a reliable credit information system (para 8.01).
8.    The performance of the Bank and its supervision of the project was
satisfactory. Likewise, the performance of the borrowers on the whole, was
also satisfactory throughout the project period. The main lessons to be
drawn from the operation are: (a) financial liberalization is a complex
task in which the Bank would have to be involved over several years through
a series of operations in order to achieve significant and durable results;
(b) Korea's approach to financial sector reform was tailored to the
changing economic climate; (c) the stability of the macroeconomic
environment is an important factor in successful financial liberalization;
(d) the flexibility shown by the Bank was an importarnt element in project
implementation; (e) care should be taken before requesting specific
confidential financial data ex ante; and (f) the operation showed that
there are large potential payoffs in supporting a reform program enjoying
strong Government commitment and in investing in project design (paras.
9.01-11.07).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2309-RO)
PART Is PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANV'S PERSPECTIVE
1.          Project Identity
Name               : Industrial Finance Project
Loan Number        : 2309-KO
RVP Unit           : Asia Region
Country            : Republic of Korea
Sector            : Industry
Subsector         : Finance
2.          Project Background
2.01        The Government, in the 1980s, recognized that its extensive
role in directing the course of industrial development through selective
directed credit allocation, discriminatory fiscal incentives and protection
policies was no longer appropriate to the increasing complexity and
sophistication of Korea's industrial sector. Hence, in 1981, the
Government undertook a number of important measures which provided the
basis for the Bank's first SAL and initiated a reform of the financial
system aimed at improving resource allocation and increasing the
effectiveness of financial intermediaries.
2.02        The Bank's Financial Sector Review initiated in 1979 reiterated
the call for financial sector reform. The Government took its first step
towards financial liberalization in 1981 with the partial liberalization of
short-term tnterest rates on commercial paper. In 1982 the Government
proceeded with a radical simplification of the detailed regulations of
commercial banks and the privatization of government holdings in four of
the five largest commercial banks. Further steps were taken in June 1982,
with the simplificat'.on of the lending structure, removal of subsidized
lending rates or. selective lending programs and widening of interest
spreads for financial intermediaries.
3.          Project Objectives and Description
3.01        The first Industrial Finance Project reflected the Bank's new
approach to industrial lending in Korea. Its principal objectives were to:
(a) support the Government's financial sector policy reform, particularly
those which were to be implemented or achieved over a two-year period 1983-
85; (b) support priority industrial investments through a credit component
financing part of the foreign exchange requirements of the Korea
Development Bank (KDB) and the Korea Long Term Credit Bank (KLB); and (c)
strengthen the financial system through a technical assistance component.



2-
3.02        The project provided for:  (a) a policy package outlining the
sectoral issues to be addressed and summarized in a Policy Letter from the
Minister of Finance; (b) a credit component to KDB totalling 130 million
and 1LB for $120 million; and (c) a technical assistance component of $5
million of which $2.5 million would cover the foreign exchange requirement
of an overseas training program geared to meeting the needs of financial
supervisory agencies and of selected financial institutions, and the other
$2.5 million would defray part of the cost of consultants to help in
establishing a system for computerizing data on financial transactions.
Implementation of the technical assistance component would be coordineted
and supervised by the Korea Banking Institute (KBI).
4.          Project-Institution
4.01        KDB was establishedi in 1954 as a government-owned development
bank. It operates primarily as the financing arm of the Government's
industrial investment policies and, as such, administers most of the
Government's major selective lending schemes for industry (except for the
short term export credit program). It also finances major projects in the
transportation and power sectors. Although it finances both public and
private sector projects, only large scale enterprises (those employing more
than 300 persons and with total assets over W500 million) are eligible to
borrow. As of 1988, KDB was the single largest financial institution in
Korea with total assets of W12.3 trillion and the largest source of term
finance for . 'dustry in Korea.
4.02        KLB was established in 1967 as the Korean Development Finanice
Corporation and converted in 1980 into the Korea Long Term Credit Bank with
the enactment of the Long Term Credit Bank Law. Since then, it has been
empowered to extend a complete range of development banking services. It
is, to date, the only privately owned development finance institution in
Korea, providing essentially medium and long term financing to private
encerprises. KLB is a publicly held corporation and its stock is listed on
the Korea Stock Exchange. As of 1988, KLB's total assets amounted to W2.5
trillion and its equity capital at W180.3 billion. Of its total share
capital, 83X is held by local private investors and 17X by foreign
financial institutions.
4.03        KBI was established in 1976 by 11 banks, including the Bank of
Korea, to develop and administer training programs for Korean financial
institutions. It has acquired over the yeare substantial experience in this
field. During loan negotiations, KBI submi.:ted and the Bank reviewed a
pre-implementation study on training targets and requirements for the
principal training beneficiaries.
5.          Project Design
5.01        The conceptual foundation for the project was innovative and
appropriate.  As a project with a limited policy package, the Bank was
fully aware of the fact that financial reform in Korea is a dynamic process
which had to run its course.  Hence, a more comprehensive approach at that
time would be unnecessary and impractical.  The financial sector lending
was also never intended to be a one-shot affair (a second financial sector



-3-
loan was processed in FY86). Under the loan, salient issues of the sector
would be dealt with as part of the Bank's c"alogue with Korean officials.
5.02        The project was well prepared; its timing and scope enabled the
Bank to continue its involvement in the discussions of the financial sector
liberalization process, provided the Government credit fox a long list of
commendable actions it has approved or undertaken in pursuing financial
liberalization, and to made needed resources available to the participating
DFIs. The project's multi-institutional lending approach was welcomed by
the Government and the two DFIs.
5.03        Unlike previous operations, a sPnele loan was made available to
the Government and monies were relent to par Liipating DFIs under
Subsidiary Loan Agreements. While no formal apex arrangement was
eventually decided, the format was expected to simplify loan administration
and to set the stage for the next industrial finance operations.
Operationally, it was more efficient for the Bank to provide multi-
institutional lending in the light of staff commitments and due to the
growing maturity and insritutional development of the parcicipating DFIs.
Furthermore, the sophistication of the financial system and the economy was
a strong inducement for the Bank to shift its focus in lending to macro-
policy issues; that can best be achieved by multi-institutional loans.
6.          Projoct Implementation
6.01        Overall, the project components were successfully executed.
The progress of the financial sector liberalization (detailed in the paras.
on major project results) was favorable and continued through a series of
successive steps undertaken by the Government and announced at frequent
intervals. Despite the progress, however, major problems during the
implementation period remained inadequately addressed and became the main
focus of the second financial sector loan (under preparation in 1986): (a)
in the area of commercial bank liberalization, the important issue of the
commercial banks' non-performing assets continued to be a serious threat to
improvement of financial sector performance; (b) with regard to interest
rates, an area of concern was the continued administration of interest
rates which limited the flexibility of banks to link lending rates with
risk or maturity while encouraging the proliferation of more sophisticated,
less regulated lending instrument., often accessible only to prime
corporations; (c) in the area of bank supervision, a shift in the
regulatory system to enhance the banks' autonomy of action was not fully
achieved; (d) in the area of corporate indebtedness, strengthening of the
securities market remained an importaxit issue, considering the importance
of the corporate sector in the economy; and (e) in the area of directed
credit, further reductions in the role of the National Investment Fund
(NIF) as well as of other funds and :egulations remained valid but
unattained objectives.
7.          Proiect Results
7.01        Policy Component.  The financial policy objectives of the
reform program and the Government's steps to meet them over 1983-35
(project implementation period) were as follows:



-4-
7.02        (a)  Interest Rate Decontrol2.,  Agreement was reached that the
Government woald mr.intain real positive rates, narrow the differential
between controlled and market rates, and ensure ar. adequate spread for
commercial banks. Measures intended to address these issues included
raising the upper limit of commercial bank lending rates, introducing new
financial instruments with higher rates to facilitate interest rate
adjustments, and pursuing effective economic management policies to help
contain inflation.
.03         Interest rates in Korea remained significa:.;ly positive in real
terms during the period on account of the low level of inflation and a
decline (consistent with worldwide trends) in market rates. These
conditions permitted the Government to achieve its interest rate objectives
under the reform. Banks for the first time were permitted a modest
discretionary range of lending rate band within which they were f?ee to set
rates. In addition, the liberalization of the lssuing rate for corporate
bonds and CDs constituted a step towards liberalization of interest rates.
However, in response to the priority objectives of stimulating economic
activity and to the worldwide decline of interest rates, the authorities
reduced the maximum lending rate from 13.51 to 121 and the lending rate
band from 3.5X to 21 in 1986. New financial instruments (such as
negotiable CDs and CMAs) were also introduced in 1984 and ammercial banks
were permitted to issue higher yielding CDs, as a means of bolstering their
competitive position in the broader financial markets.
7.04        (b)  Liberalization of ComUercial Bank-s.  The main objectives
of the banking sector reform were to improve efficiency and
competitiveness.
7.05        A significant result of the commercial banking reforms was the
changes in the status and scope of activity of foreign banks. In 1984
foreign banks were given membership in the National Banks Association and
tthe Clearing House and the definition of "capital' for foreign bank
branches was broadened so that foreign banks became less constrained in
their lending activity and in issuing guarantees and acceptances.
Meanwhile, two new nationwide commercial banks were established as joint
ventures with foreign banks in 1984. In 1985 foreign banks were allowed
limited competition with domestic banks (to undertake trust business) and
in 1986 they were given access to the Bank of Korea (BoK) rediscount
facility.
7.06        There were other significant measures implemented.  In 1984 six
more commercial banks were allowed to offer trust business on the basis of
free competition (formerly only the Seoul Bank and Trust Company and other
local commercial banks approved in 1983 were allowed). In 1985
restrictions on chartering Non-Bank Financial Intermediaries (NBFIs) were
1/ The Government did not liberalize lending rates until December 1988
when it felt that conditions were propitious. Deposit rates have not been
liberalized as yet since the percentage of bad loans in the banks'
portfolio is perceived as still too high.



-5-
relaxed and NBFIs were allowed to engage in new activities.   In 1984, a
committee was set up to review the roles of specialized banks within the
financial system but its delioerations are still underway.
7.07        (c)  Supervision of Financial Institutions.  The reforms aimed
to cover the following aspects of bank supervision: the need to adjust
supervisory procedutres to the new requirements of a liberalized market with
emphasis on monitoring examination and implementation rather than strict
guidelines and control; training of supervisory staff; and the clear
demarcation of the functiotns of supervisory agencies. The Government, in
this area, has unified and strengthened supervisory functions for banks and
NBFIs by supporting the existing Office of Bank Supervision and Examination
and by establishing new departments within this supervisory body to
supervise NBFIs.
7.08        (d)  Directed Credit.  The objectives of the reforms were to
reduce the flow of directed credit; reduce the burden of the NIF on
financial institutions and its transfer to specialized development banks;
adjust the NIF lending rate to the level of the genaral lending rate except
for rates to restructursd enterprises; and earmark NIF fund allocations on
sectoral :.asis rather than on an enterprise basis. The Government reduced
net contribution to the NIF from W 73 billion in 1984 to W 37 billion in
1985 and total loans extended were reduced frcm W 499 billion in 1984 to W
464 billion in 1985. However, net Government contributions to NIF and the
volume of loans extended increased again in 1986 due to the Government's
desire to stimulate economic act'vity and to support new initiatives in
technology-intensive projects, export promotion and small-scale industries.
7.09        The Government's overall commitment to limit its intervention
in private economic activities and to reduce preferential credits is
reflected in the reduction of direct government funding of KDB, its
principal agent for directed credits. NIF funds to KDB was substantially
reduced from W 222.6 billion in 1983 to W 198.6 billion in 1987.
7.10        Regarding another special credit facility, BoK substantially
expanded the Won export fund in August, 1985, making funds available
(through commercial banks) to borrowers at 111 with no foreign exchange
risks, for purchases of both domestic and imported goods. However, the
Government discontinued this special facility in April 1986.
7.11        (e)  CorRorate Indebtedness and Equity Market DeveloRment.  The
main objectives of the reform were to improve the relative attractiveness
of equity financing for corporations and investors and to foster the
development of the equity market. Among the measures sought were: to
encourage private firms to go public; to revitalize the over-the-counter
market; to allow issuance of shares at market price rather than par; and to
reduce restrictions on foreign investments. The Government undertook the
following measures: reducing from three to one the criteria to be
satisfied for issuing shares at market rather than at par; increasing the
limit governing participation in the Employer Securities Savings Scheme;
establishing investment funds exclusively for pension funds; directly
negotiating with pension funds to place their money with investment/trust
funds; and giving foreign investors greater access to the securities market



-6-
through the expansion of the Korea Fund. To promote the issuance of bonds,
the Government relaxed the issuing terms of non-guarantee corporate bonds;
developed the compound rate bonds; dlversified the corporate bonds; and
allowed Korean companies to issue overseas convertible bonds valued at up
to 15X of their net worth. Several tax changes were also introduced to
encourage public offerings and new shares. Finally, an independent credit
rating system and information agency was established to help banks
strengthen their capabilities to develop their own credit criteria,
including appropriate debt equity and debt service guidelines. The problem
of corporate indebtedness, however, continues to be managed through the
prime bank system. Furthermore, due to economic conditions the debt
ceiling for large corporations was relaxed for export financing and
equipment investment for export industries.
7.12        Credit Comgonent.  This component was made available for
financing industrial projects (mainly medium- and large-scale enterprises)
selected and appraised by KDB and KLB and implemented under a typical DFC
operation. Access to Bank funds were limited to firms with sound
financial structures (defined as firms with a maximum debt/equity ratio of
4.5:1). A subloan ceiling (eliminated in the second industrial finance
loan) and a single borrower limit exposure of $15 million were imposed
along with a free limit of $5.0 million.
7.13        The level of utilization of the credit component by KLB and KDB
has been satisfactory for most of the project period. The rate of
utilization of the funds slowed down considerably in the third quarter of
1985 and as a result, some $30 million of the KDB credit component and $3.3
million of the KLB component remained uncommitted. The slow utilization
was caused by three factors: (a) a general slowdown in investment demand
in Korea which began in mid-1985; (b) competition from the BoK's Won export
facility; and (c) perceived non-competitiveness of Bank funds following the
drop in interest rates prevailing in the international capital markets to
which Koreans had already access. The higher interest rate on Bank
subloans was due in part to the covenanted minimum 2X spread. However,
BoK's export facility was no longer available for the purchase of imports
and the investment climate began to improve in 1986 so that prospects for
disbursements, particularly for the second industrial finance loan,
improved. Regarding the uncompetitiveness of Bank subloan rates,
discussions between the Bank, KDB and the Government resulted in the
reduction of the covenanted minimum spread to 1% in 1987.
7.14        To encour¶ge further utilization of the credit component, the
following changes wer made in the original agreements at various stages of
project implementation: (a) reducing the interest rate spreads on bank-
financed subloans; (b) increasing the maximum subloan size; (c) revising
upward the debt equity limitation; (d) permitting on exceptional basis, the
financing of up to 1001 of local costs; and (e) arranging for a revolving
fund as a means to move funds quickly.
7.15        The original objectives of the credit component were achieved.
Under the loan, a total of $247.8 million was disbursed out of the original
credit component of $250.0 million while the remaining $2.2 million was
cancelled. At project completion, the loan was fully committed except for



a small amount resulting from partial subloan cancellations. There were no
extensions to the completion date of December 31, 1986. A total of 145
subloans were approved under the loan; 89 for KLB involving IBRD funds
totalling $119.3 million and 56 for KDB amounting to $128.4 million.
Subloan size was satisfactory with the range of subloan amounts from
$50,000 to $15.0 million; above the free limit (A") subloans accounted for
31X of total approvals under the project. The disbursements benefitted
about 127 sub-borrowers and generated about 12,685 additional jobs.
Foreign exchange earned and saved by KDB and KLB was estimated at $920
million.
7.16        Technical Assistance Component.  The objective of the project's
two technical assistance components have been satisfactorily achieved. The
overseas training program managed by KBI resulted in the training of about
408 staff from 21 financial institutions and the Ministry of Finance at
four different locations abroad and in Korea for a total cost of $2.4
million. The Bank also assisted KBI in: (a) preparing pro forma contracts
to be used by DFIs in their training program, which significantly reduced
staffing requirements for reviewing small contracts; (b) designing the post
course evaluation format; and (c) preparing the post evaluation report
(with the assistance of EDI). Under the computerization program, aimed at
designing and testing a system of comprehensive data processing of
information provided by commercial banks and other financial institutions,
a Management Information System was designed and implemented by the
Software Development Centre (an affiliate of the Korea Advanced Institute
of Science and Technology) to facilitate effective tax administration and
improve fiscal management. The system was transferred to the Office of
National Tax Administration in September 1984.
*'.         Proiect Svstainabil_it.y
8.01        The project had significant benefits:  (a) it facilitated a
close and effective dialogue with the Government on financial sector
policies; (b) the credit component provided the financial support to
deserving investment projects which are financially and economically
sustainable operations; (c) the institution-building component benefited
not only KDB and KLB, whose maturity and efficiency are already quite high,
but also other financial institutions which participated in the overseas
training program; and (d) the computerization program strengthened the
Government's tax collection efforts while helping the financial sector set
up a reliable credit information system.
9.          Bank Performance
9.01        The performance of the Bank was satisfactory.  The project was
designed as a transition step toward full financial sector loans. It
became the first multi-institutional lending operation in the financial
sector and was an effective interim operation which permitted the
accomplishment of multiple objectives. It enabled continued Bank
involvement in the financial sector, provided time for the Bank to broaden
coverage of its lending operations in the sector, gave the Bank the
opportunity to press ahead with financial sector liberalization and did not



-8-
disrupt the borrowing program of the DFIs which would have been the case if
the Bank opted for a full fledged financial sector loan.
9.02        The supervision of the project was likewise effective and
efficient because: (a) the supervision of the project was twinned with the
preparation of the follow-up project (Second Industrial Finance Loan); (b)
the financial sector issues addressed under the project were also being
addressed under other economic and sector work (SMI loun, SAL II) by the
Bank in Korea; (c) the project implementing agencies performed
satisfactorily; (d) the supervision of KDB and KLB under the credit
components was shared with the Asian Development Bank which was another
important source of credit to these institutions; and (e) the design of the
training components facilitated subsequent follow-up and supervision by the
Bank.
10.         Borrower Performance
10.01       The performance of the borrowers, on the whole, was also
satisfactory throughout the project period. At the top, there was
Government commitment to the financial reform program which facilitated the
project's implementation and which filtered through to the DFIs. The only
problem encountered with the Government during project supervision has been
its reluctance to provide sensitive information in advance of
implementation (e.g., on planned interest changes), for fear of speculative
activity. Since such information is usually informally available to the
Bank, the Bank has come to accept the Government's approach.
10.02       In the course of the Bank's previous lending operations, since
1975 for KDB and since 1968 for KLB, the Bank's role in institution
building has been largely completed for these two institutions. KDB and
KLB's involvement helped further the Bank's supervision efforts. KBI, like
KDB and KLB, is a mature and competent institution which, despite its lack
of prior familiarity with the Bank's procedures and requirements,
nonetheless discharged ably its role in the implementation of the training
components.
10.03       Several concerns were raised by the Bank with regard to the low
profitability of KDB, and the capitalization and future roles of both KDB
and KLB in a liberalized financial environment. Under the loan, to improve
its profitability, KDB agreed to maintain a minimum 2% weighted average
effective spread on its commercial borrowings and a maximum long-term debt
to equity ratio of 10 to 1. In 1985, KDB did not maintain the covenanted
2X minimum weighted average effective spread and in 1986 exceeded the
contractual long-term debt to equity limit. Regarding KLB, its long-term
debt to equity ratio remained just within its covenanted maximum of 15 to
1.
10.04       Several recommendations to diversify and expand its domestic
resource mobilization base and for providing additional services to their
clients, in the case of KLB and for expanding the scope of its activities,
in the case of KDB were still under review by the Government during the
project period. Part III contains an operational and financial performance
review of the main project agencies, KDB, KLB and KBI.



-9-
11.         Lessons
11.01       The main lessons to be drawn from the operation are:
11.02       1.    Financial liberalization is a complex task in which the
Bank would have to be involved over several years through a series of
operations in order to achieve significant and durable results.
11.03       2.    Korea's approach to financial sector reform in gradual
steps rather than sudden big leaps and its sequencing was tailored to the
changing economic climate. On the one hand, the Government's priority of
stimulating economic growth in view of the relatively weak economic
performance in 1985 has in some areas, temporarily affected the pace of
reforms. On the other hand, Korea overcame this adverse macroeconomic
condition with flexible and realistic adjustments to the main elements of
its reform strategy.
11.04       3.    The stability of the macroeconomic environment is an
important factor in successful financial liberalization. In Korea,
although interest rates were administered by the Government, the rates were
maintained at a substantially positive level and the Government's
management of their deregulation was pragmatic. These conditions helped
preserve the stability of the financial system.
11.05       4.    The flexibility shown, on the Bank's part, was an
important element in project implementation inasmuch as the project design
was the first in its field, focussing on broad sector issues yet addressing
important institutional ones.
11.06       5.    Care should be taken before requesting specific
confidential financial data ex ante (e.g., interest rates and equity market
measures), especially those on which expectations formation is usually
based. Given Korea's excellent track record for compliance with agreements
with the Bank, broad agreement on the direct-ion of the reform and specific
measures to be taken toward it should have been sufficient. It is
conceivable that insistence by the Bank on being kept informed in writing,
as required by Bank policy, regarding planned actions in sensitive areas of
the reform might have cost the Bank an unacceptably high amount of
goodwill.
11.07       6.    The operation showed that there are large potential
payoffs in supporting a reform program enjoying strong Government
commitment and in investing in project design. The Bank's involvement was
critical when the initial 'go-no-go" debate on the reforms was being
undertaken within the Government, but once the decision to proceed was
made, the Government remained committed to the program.



- 11 -
PROECT COMPLETION REPORT
IMUTR  FI          PROECT
(LOAN 2309-KO)
PII. PRtOJECT REVIEW   Rt BOR R'S PERSPREVE



-13-
TH_E __MUR OEMUEPMEM BARNK
C. P. 0. BOX 28, SEOUL, KOREA      TELEX KOD8ANK K27463. K24649
CABLE KODEVELBANK SEOUL
Mr. Inder K. Sud, Chief                                        July 24, 1990
Industry and Energy Cperations Division
Country Department I
Asia Region
The World Bank
1818 H St. N.W
Washington, D.C.20433
U.S.A.
Dear Mr. Inder K. Sud
Re. First Industrial Finance Proiect(Loan 2309-KO)
We refer to your letter of 23rd April, 1990.
Enclosed please find our preparations for Project Oompletion Report of the
Captioned Loan.
We take this opportunity to tender our apologies for late presentation.
Sincerely yours,
Ki Hyun Kim
General Manager
Internat.onal Finance Departmant
Encl.



- 14 -
PART II
The review of the pmject
The First Industrial Finance ProJect(the 6th IURD Loan) had finwed
nminly naw and expansion projects in petrochemical industries, machinery
and tectile indistries in Korea fram 1983 to 1986. The period wa a
turning point in the growth of Koren econamy, in which the balm ne of
intemnatianal paynmnt beon to show the considirable surplus aceraoming
the chronical deficits.
With Korea's achieving the trade surplus, its enterprises have gained
ocpabi 1 ities for finrancing their projects fron diverse sources and
protecting their risks using now financial technologies.
In these circwtatwes the Loan faced the now aspect in its role.
1. Currency Pooling Systun w0e initially intracdL d to the First
Industrial Finance Project. The systwn's objective, we presune, wes
the equal distribution of currency risk amung the total inb-borror rs
and hedging the currwncy risk of the IBRD borrowings.
Hbwever, it had adverse effects. The su13-borrowers were negatively
exposed to the currency risk. With the growth of industries and
financial institutions in Korea there were many sub-borrowers which



- 15 -
2. Besides the sub-borrwr's ngetive apmuree to currecy risk by
CPS, IBRD fund had other unique characteristic: IZ decided the
interest rate ef a lan in conection with the cost of its
borrowings for the last six mnnth semter prior to the ctnhmo.-
nunt of such interest period. This did not itmdiaely reflect the
current prevailing rate of fund in the uwket.
In order to cover such amp et KM took active mmure of reducing
the mergin by one percwnt from July 1, 198. This gav EJxh help
to Korean sub-borrws.
3. Generally speaking, IUND end KGB ht  coopetd  clowly in corre
pOndrice with the chd gs of business envir_ ovnts. So in KDB's
ifplementing prectices of the 5th IM  Loan, the momitn  siz of
a sublon wa incread from U*12 million to UtIB million. Nd
the scope of eligible inrwstamnt enterprise t exp_dended; the
eligible debt equity ratio _ enlarged from 4.5 timn to 5 times.
In conclusion, we finmly believ that the 5th IlRD Loaw has Rd a con-
tribution to the de veloapnt of the KVArm  conmw ed its enterprimss
just like the previous feur IBRD Loes".



1- 16 -
15.22. luido DonO YolnindnurIang   k   ,*  ,.. Korea
TEL 7820111 783 7, .  :8A 7310
Yr. Inder K. Sud, Chief                                     Aug. 6. 1990
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department 11
Asia Region
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 K Street, N. W.
Washington, D. C., 20433
U. S. A.
Re : First Industrial Finance ProJect (Loan 2309-2 KO)
Dear Mr. Inder K. Sud
We are herewith enclosing our ProJect Completion Report on First
Industrial Finance Project. Although we tried hard to meet proposed
deadline, It took longer time than expected to complete the report. We
regret any inconvenience It has causAid on you and look forward to your
continued cooperation and guidance In the future.
With warm regards,
Sincerely yours,
_~~~~
K.P. E afn
General Manager
Int'l Banking Dept.



- 17 -
ProJect Completion Reports Por IBRD 2309
Part 2
(A)Bvaluation Of The Bank's Performance
I.The total of USD 119.32 Million has been disbursed out of the original
loan amount of USD 120 Million under Loan 2309-2 KO, an! the remaining USD
0.68 Million has been cancelled. With the prepayments of USD 75.7 million
which has been made from 1987 to 1989, outstanding balance of the loan stands
at USD 25 Million as of Aug.lst ,1990.
2.Such a drastic increase in disbursements in the latter half of 1986 was
mainly due to the closing of the Bank of Korea export facility which made
IBRD LOAN the substitute fund for enterprises' purchasing equipment. And the
Increase of disbursements in 1987 was attributed to l)the general expectation
of improvement in economic condition 2) the continued appreciation of the
Korean Won.
3.The primary purpose of the first industrial finance proJect was to enhan-
ce the productivity of enterprises by expanding production facility and repla-
cing obsolete equipments which were urgently required to strengthen interna-
tional competitiveness.Por that end IBRD funds made a significant contribution
to laying solid foundation for surplus economy in the latter part of 1980s by
providing urgently needed fund for capital investment to corporations. Loan
2309-2 KO benefited 93 sub-borrowers and created estimated 10,000 new Jobs.
About 86x of above loan has gone Into the manufacturing sector and the resain-
ing portion to the non-manufacturing sector.
As shown in the sectoral and geographical distribution of subproJects, va-
ried industrial sectors which range from food, textile and paper to chemicals
and machinery has received the loan. Out of 93 beneficiaries, 71 are located
in Seoul and Kyunggi area reflecting ill-balanced regional development in Korea.



- 18 -
(B)Bvaluation of KLB's performance
I.There has been substantial changes in KLB's organization and management
structure since 1987. The number of employees almost doubled from 342 in 1987
to 666 as of Jun 1990 an! the number of domestic branches also increased from
10 in 1987 to 16 in 1990. As for overseas networks, one wholly-owned subsidi-
ary in Hong Kong and 2 Rep offices In London and Toyko were newly established
in 1989 and 1990 respectively.
The 1989 Ordinary General Meeting of shareholders was held on Feb.27, 1989
and elected 8 directors and I auditor. Former President Tae Yong Ham and former
deputy President Yun Soo Kim were appointed Chairman of the board and Represen-
tative Director-President, respectively.
2.Korean economy has undergone readjustment procedure In 1989 after 3 conse-
cutive years of double-digit growth. Affected by sluggish exports, the Won cur-
rency appreciation, prolonged labor disputes and declining Investments, the gr-
owth rate was conspicuously slowed down. Coupled with inflationary expectation,
the business slump resulted in a depressed economic situation.
Under such economic circumstances, the financial environment also deteri-
orated, and competition among financial institutions intensified by mitigation
of official regulations and emergence of newly established financial institu-
tions.
3. Despite the unfavorable conditions In the trade and financial sectors,
KLB's total assets, as of the end of 1989, recorded R3,922.2 billion which re-
presents a 50.4% increase over 1988 and 9.2 times that of 1980.The composition
of KLB's assets was W3,416.9 billion in liabilities and 1505.4 billion in sha-
reholder's equity.
The  liabilities  consisted  of  R1,408.3 billion in KLB debenture funds,
W610.6 billion in foreign currency funds and 1l,402.5 billion In other debts.
Of shareholder's equity, 1172 billion was Paid-in share capital and remaining
balance 3333.4 billion was retained earnings.



- 19 -
KLB's source of funds comes mainly In two types: local currency and for-
eign currency. the forser fund is raised through debentures sales, receipt of
deposits and borrowinga from government, and the latter by foreign borrowings
and borrowings from the Bank of Korea, known as KPX fund borrowing.
KLB Issued debentures amounting to 1670.3 billion at face value in 1989,
bringing the total amount of debentures issued and outstanding to W1,356 bill-
ion or 35% increase over the previous year. As of December 31, 1989, KLB's de-
posits amounted to W167.0 billion.an increase of an impressive 58.9% over the
previous year.And the portion of specia! funds including the National Investm-
ent Fund,lndustry Promotici Fund and Petroleum ProJect Fund represented W170
billion an increase of 22.0x over the previous year.
As for foreign currency funds, a *a3or source of funds that has been rai-
sed for KLB consists of Bank of Korea foreign currency roll-over credit, am-
ounting to USD 162 million during 1989,because of our improved balance of pay-
ment position vis-a-vis other countries. That has compansated for the decrease
in long term foreign borrowings.
In 1989,KLB approved new loans and investments amounting to W1,667.8 bil-
lion, comprising W475 billion In foreign currency and W1,192.8 billion in lo-
cal currency, representing a 109.8X increase over the previous year. KLB's to-
tal outstanding loans and investsents at the end of 1989 amounted to 12,022
billion in local currency and 1670 billion in foreign currency, for total of
W2,692 billion.
To expand its range of financial products to customers. KLB has also act-
ivated short-term loans and issuance of guarantees. Its outstandings, as of
the end of 1989, amounted to W132.8 b Ilion and W579.9 billion respectively,
which increased by 94.6X and 246.1X over the previous year.
KLB extended its operations to include managing *oney trusts and security
investment trusts by opening its trust business on January 4, 1989. With the
trust business, KLB is focusing on two strategical points. One is to broaden
the base of its household clientele by offering Jointly operated money trusts,



- 20 -
and the other Is to solidify Its position as the professional portfolio manager
for large Individual accoqnts of corporate or the Institutional trustees. After
the first year of operation, total assets accrued from KLB's trust business
reached W320 billion senerating 11.8 billion In Income.
To keep pace with the rapidly changing financial environment, KLB has con-
tinuously diversified Its International operations. During the first year of o-
peration of International Banking Departmeit, KLB's foreign Investnent portfo-
lo has quickly gained Importance among the Bank's various International bank-
Ing activitles.
In 1989, KLB opened KLB Asia Finance, Ltd., a wholly-owned subsidary In Ho-
ng Kong. As a registered deposit taking company, It provides a varity of fin-
ancial services auch as capital market activities, project financing, trade
financing, foreign exchange dealing, etc. KLB also opened representative offi-
ces both In London and Toyko as a preparatory step to extend her business act-
lvities to global financial centers.
4.As a result of the Increased volume of business, KLB's total revenue in
1989 recorded W325.2 billion, an increase of 33.4X over 1988. Out of the total
revenue, Interest Income from local currency loans contributed 53.2% or 1173.0
billion, while Interest Income from foreign currency loans accounted for 21.0X
or 168.5 billion, followed by other Income 183.7 billion, or the remaining
25.8%.
Total expenses In 1989 grew to 1279.9 billion from last year's 1212.9 bi-
llion. Of the total, Interest on KLB debenture which represents 46.8x or W131.0
billion, showed significant growth. On the other hand, Interest on foreign cur-
rency borrowlss remained relatively steady at 154.8 billion, a 3.7x increase
over the previous year. General and administrative expenses comprised 6.3x of
the total or 117.5 billion, compared to last year's 112.4 billion. The increase
was largely due to the hiring of new employees in steps to expand our networks.



- 21 -
As a result, net Income after tax for 1989 Increased to 132.6 billoo from
120.1 billion last year. Return on total ausets,  therefore. stands  at  0.83%,
which Is double that of commercial banks' average. And return oan equity Is
11.73% in 1989, which also exceeds commercial banks' averase by noticeable
marginD.
(C)Overall evaluation of IBRD funds and future cooperation between IBRD nd
KLB
1. IBRD has played a major role In Korea's successful Industrialization
by providing fledsling Korean firms with badly needed equipment loan fund.
Partly thanks to IBRD's financial support, Korea achieved formidable economic
growth which has acquired worldwide recosoition.
However, we have witnessed   several  rroblems  In the managesent of IBiD
Loans since we took Intermidiary role as follows;
Firstly, Korean sub-borrowers have experienced considerable losses through
the foreign exchange risk exposure of CPS, which was a reason of the massive
prepayments on IBRD loans (esp. on CPS loans). In addition, sub-borrowers could
not forecast the size of PX exposure because the portions of each currency In
the Currency Pool could not reasoqably be expected.
Secondly, It usually takes too much effort and time to correct errors whi-
ch sosetimes happen due to one party's fault:.. For Instance, If Incorrect pay-
ment amount Is noticed to IBBD on the due date, We have no choice but to wait
at least for about six months, thus carrying discrepancy between IBID balance
and ours without appropriate adJustment.
Thirdly, one-sidei desisnation of repayment currencies by IBRD has ca-
used sub-borrowers' complaints because It creats additional PX risk burden on
sub-borrowers.



- 22 -
2. Korea has been In the position of beneficiary of IBRD funds In order to
stand on her own feet from the debris of Korean War. But as trade figure has
turned from red to black In recent days. Korea becor_s a helping hand in the
International community. This means that Korean financial Institutions includ-
Ing KLB can Join IBRD's world-wide efforts to help developing nations'industri-
alizatlon.
KLB has taken a leading role In providing medium and long-term equipment
and working capital for more than 20 years since it has started its business as
the Korea Development finance Corporation in 1967. And In this context, we are
looking forward to the days when we can extend our accumulated know-how in long-
term proJect financing for your world development program.



- 23 -
KOREA BANKING INSTITUTE
°-, Samchug.do@3,Jougro-ku Seoul, Korea
Tel:2.739.7770, Fax:2.739.2985
August 22,1990
Nr.Inder K.Sud
Chief of Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department II
Asia Region
The World Bank                                            Bi
1918 H St. N.W.                                          PtVc5
Washington,D.C.20433
Dear Mr. Sud:
Re: First Industrial Finance Project(Loan2309-ko)
Project Completion Report
We are very sorry for delaying to forward the report and statistical
data. Now, we are pleased to send them.
We corrected some figures of the tables that you gave to us. We
made up the balance sheets and income statements on the basis of
our currency Won.
Please accept our apology for delaying.
Sincerely yours,
Hai-bin, Im
Executive Vice President
Korea Banking Institute



- 24 -
PART II
REVIEW OF THE PROJECT
As the environment surrounding the Korean economy had been changing
rapidly in 1980s, the Korean government realized the need for
changing its role as a controller and coordinater. During the
period of four consecutive five-year economic development plans,
the government had successfully fufilled its role as an economic
planner and controller and had contributed greatly to the rapid
growth of the Korean economy.
During the process, however, the financial sector was completely
under the control of the government and merely played the role of
a fund channeling governmental branch. The results were retardation
of the banking sector compared with other sectors, inefficiency
in fund allocation, low productivity in financial services, etc.,
all of which phenomena   were harmful  for the continuance of
economic growth.
To cure and remedy the situation, the government decided to liberal
ize the financial sector by reducing its discretionary power, to
intensify the roles of competitive market forces and to place the
responsibility for management on the financial institutions them
selves. This government policy switch called for much larger
staffs in financial institutions with knowledge and skills in
various fields of the banking business: credit analysis, interna
tional finance, foreign exchange, accounting and auditing, etc.
Therefore, the Korean government initiated a set of training
programs for Korean bankers and concluded a contract named "The
Loan Agreement for the Industrial Finance Project" with the IBRD
on June 29,1983, to finance some portions of the training program.
The total amourat of $2.5 million was scheluled to be drawn upon
for 3 years, from 1984 through 1986, and to be repaid during a
12-year period starting from 1987.
The execution of the training project for bankers was relegated
to the Korea Banking Institute in accordance with the Korea Banking
Institute Agreement for Industrial Finance between the Republic
of Korea and the Korea Banking Institute. KBI has merely assumed
responsibility for carrying out the management and operation of
the training p;.ogram.



- 25
EVALUATION OF OVERSEAS TRAINING UNDER IBRD LOAN
The majority of trainees from 1984 through 1986 under the IBRD
loan had given very favorable responses and high evaluations
about contents and quality of various programs and their instructors
had been highly appreciated. However, they had been reluctant to
openly acknowledge that professional knowledge obtained through
all those overseas training can be directly applicable to our
current banking business, but they have expressed their opinions
*that those knowledges would be of great help in future. We should
not put too much stress on the relevancy of professional knowledge
obtained through overseas trainings to what is currently happening
in Korea banking system.
The purpose of overseas training over the past years could be
said that Korean bank employees were prepared themselves with
sufficient knowledge and advanced techniques for rapid exposure
of our banking system to international environment.
The recent situation in economy and politics has been greatly
changing all over the world. Under these new circumstances, our
banking system inevitably began to transform and adjust itself
through more rapid internationalization and more severe competition
with non-banking institutions and within themselves. They are
also exposed to a new kind of risk related with currency apprecia
tions. These situations lead to more demand and needs for overseas
training.
On the basis of all those considerations, overseas training programs
even in a modest magnitude should be continued because they cannot
be fully replaced or substituted by domestic training programs or
by foreign expert invitation programs. However, they should be
confined to what is of highest quality and standards. The relevancy
of topics to be offered by the overseas training programs to
current banking situations in Korea should not be emphasized, The
relevancy may be increasing rapidly as our economy rapidly evolves.
The relevancy of past overseas training to our bankining situations
seems to be increasing more rapidly than it had been initially
imagined.



- 27 -
PRJECT CNPLETION REPORT
INDUSTRA  FINANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2309-RO)
PART Ill: STATISTICAL INFORMATION



PART III
1. RELATED BANK LOANS
Loan No.       Title                   Purpose             Approval      Status                     Comments
0529   DFC               Finance KLB subprojects.          1968        Closed
0622   DFC II            Finance KLB subprojects.          1969        Closed
0735   DFC IlIl          Finance KLB subprojects.          1971        Closed
0905   DFC IV             Finance KLB subprojects.          1973       Closed
1095   KDB               Finance 1KDB subprojects.          1975       Closed
1094   Program Loan      Support development efforts.      1975        Closed
1145   DFC V             Finance KLB subprojects.          1975        Closed
1219    Program Loan II   Support development efforts.     1976        Closed
1338   KDB II            Finance KDB subprojects.          1976        Closed
1461    DFC VI           Finance KLB subprojects.          1977        Closed
1574   KDB IlIl          Finance KDB subprojects.          1978        Closed
1635   DFC VIl           Finance KLB subprojects.          1978        Closed
1932   KLB               Finance KLB subprojects.          1980        Closed
1933   KDB IV            Finance KDB subprojects.          1980        Closed
2071    SAL              Support development efforts.      1981        Closed
2215   SMMI              Finance SMI subprojects and
technical assistance.             1982       Closed     Loan to SMIB, KLB, CNB and SMIPC.
2354   SAL II            Reform in industry, energy,
and public sector efficiency.     1983       Closed
2571   Ind. Finance 11   Support reforms, provide                                Loan to KDB, KLB and KBI for the
credit and training.              1985     Completed  technical assistance component.
2515   SMI               Finance SMI subprojects and
I_____  I____________  technical assistance.         1985        Closed    Loan to CNB and SMIPC.



2. PROJECT TIMETABLE
Item                       Date Planned                    Date Actual
Identlifcaton MIWon        July, 1981                      July, 1981
Preparation                June, 1981                       Sune, 81
Pro-Appraal Mission        June,1982                        Mr, 1982
Appraisal Mision            May, 1982                        -. :mber, 1982
Post-Appraisal MiMion      February, 1983                  April, 1983
Loan Negodations           May, 1983                       May, 1983
BoardApproWal              June.1983                       June,1983
Loan Signature             June,1983                       June,1983
Loan Ec n                  August, 1983                    September, 1983
Loan Closng                December, 1988                  December, 1988
Loan Competon              December, 1986                  December, 1986
w
0



3. CUMULATIVE AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
(USS milio9nsi
1984         1985              1986            1987            1988
Appraisal Estimat          33.3         157.0             243.0           255.0           255.0
Actual                     22.3         141.3             207.5           242.7           252.7
Acal as a %
of Eunmae                 67.0          90.0             865.4            95.2           99.1
Datesof Fal Dbemt
Ln 2309-KO (1(1 - May 16, 1988
Ln 2309-IKO (KDB) - Mar 16, 1988
Ln 2309-2KO         -   ch 1, 1988



I Sectoral and Geographical Distribution  of  Sub - ProJects I 
PI File  Name   5  - PCR                                                                                                 W  million)
I                                           I       T1 9         8  4                  1        9 8  5                  1  9  8  6
;N O.;   AmOunt   I             I N O.       Amount   I   Z        N o. I    Amount   ;   Z    ;
ISectoral Distribution                      |       I             I          I       I             I         I       I              I
I   Manufacturing  Industries               I   14 1       35,007 |  99.24 1   21 1        29,935 |  72.51 1   13 1         33,218 | 100.00 1
|      Consumer Goods                       I    41         4,7911   13.581       21        1,7191   4.161         3I        5,103I  15.36I
I        Food &  Beverage                         I 1       3,2741    9.281         1              I         I       I              I         I
I        Textiles wearing apparel           1    2 1          712 1   2.02 1    2 1         1,719 1   4.16 1    3 1          5,103     15.36
I             &   Leather                   I       I             I         I        I             I         I
I        Printing &  Publishing             I    1            8051    2.281          1             1
I                                           I       I             *I' .       .                                        I  I
I      Intermediate  Goods                  I    5 1       19,103 1  54.15 1    9 1         8,227 I  19.93 1    6 1         21,455 |  64.59 |
I        Paper &  Paper PrOdUcts                    I             I          I    21          8711    2.11 1    2 1          6,885     20.73|
I        Chemicals, PetroleUm, Coal         I    3 1       10,378 1  29.42 1    1 1         1,836 1   4.45 1    3 1         14,217 1  42.80 1
I                &  Plastic                 I       I             I          I       I             I         I       I              I         I
|        NoD - Metalic Mineral Products    I    2 |         8,725 1  24.73 1    6 |         6,520 1  13.37 1    1 |            353 |   1.06 1
I                                           I       I             I              I   1 .           I         I       I              I    
|      CaPital  Goods                       I    5 1       11,113 1  31.51 1   10 1        19,989 1  48.42 1    4 I          6,660 1  20.05 |
|        Basic Metals                               I             I          I    21        4,4071   10.67I          I              I         I
I        Fabricated  Metal Products,        I    2 1          351 1   1.00 1    3 1          1,322 1   3.20 1    2 1         2,666 1   8.03 1
I            Machinery, & Equipment         I       I             I          I       I             I         I       I              I
|        Electrical Machinery & Appliances I    2 |         4,332 |  12.28 1    5 |        14,260 1  34.55 1    2 1          3,994 1  12.02 1
Transport Equipmet                      1!        6,430;  18.23 ;            ;           ;                  I             ;         ;         w
I   Non - Manufacturing  Industries         I    2 1          269 1   0.76 1    4 1        11,350 1  27.49 1         1              1         1
I                                           I       I             i          I       I             I         I       I              I         I
I                T o t a 1                  1   16 1       35,276 1 100.00 1   25 1        41,285 1 100.00    13 1          33,218 1 100.00 1
I GeograPhical Distribution                 |       |             |          I       I             I         I       I              I         I
1   Seoul     City                          I    31           9991    2.831       21        9,2301   22.36I          I              I         I
I   Busan     City                      'I        21          5931    1.681    21           3,1431    7.61I                  I           I
I   Taegu     City                          I       I             I         I        I             I         I    11         4,100!   12.341
|   Incheon   City                          I       I             I         I    1          1,1721    2.84 1         1              1
I   Kwangju   City                          I    11         6,7521   19.14  I                      I         I    21         1,0031    3.021
I   Kyung - gi       Do                     I    2 1        9,7041   27.521       41        2,3021    5.58I          I              I         I
Chung - Chong NaDo                                21       5,0251   14.24|    21             150 1   0.36 1    1              1861    0.561
I   Chung - Chong Buk  Do                   I    1          7,2221  20.471        61        5,665 1  13.72 1       4         8,057     24.251
I   Choi - La      NaDO                     I       I             I         I        I             I         I    1 o       13,393 1  40.33!
I   Chol - La      BukDO                                                    I        I             I         I       I
I   Kyong - Sang   Nas  Do                        I 1         2981    0.84!       2|        4,476      10.841      21        2,908 1   8.75!
I   Kyong - Sang   Buk Do                         4 1       4,6831   12.281    5           14,446     34.991       21        3,571!   10.751
I   Kang  - Non      Do                     I       I                       I    11           701       1.701                                 I
I                T o t a I                  1   16 I       35,276 1 100.00 I   25 I        41,285 1 100.00 1   13 1         33,218 I 100.00 I
I  .I                                               I             I         JI          .          I         I       I              I         I   .



- 33 -
4.2  PROJECT  DIPLEMENTATION  -  KLB
Sectoral and Geographical Distribution of SubproJects
----------------:°===2====::==--:==Z:SC==:_:========:
(Unit : '000 U$)
Number             Amount
A. Sub-sectoral Distribution
1. Manufacturing:
Food, beverage & tobacco                     15        16    8,244         7
Textile, wearing apparel & leather           22        23   3B,400        31
Paper, paper products & printing              3         3    2,095         2
Chemicals & petroleum, coal, rabber          15        16   14,542        12
& plastic products
Non-metallic mineral products                 7         7    8,542         7
Basic metals                                  6         6    5,852         5
Metal products, machinery & products         17        18   25,770        22
Others                                        3         3    1,124         1
2. Non-mnufacturing
Mining
Transportation                                2         2    3,261         3
Construction                                  2         2    1,529         1
Wholesale & Retail                            3         3   10,841         9
Fishing                                       1         1    1,121         1
Total                                                  96      100  119,321        100
B. Geographical Distribution
Seoul city                                   59        61   84,225        70
Kyung-gi Province                            12        12    7,964         6
South Chunwcheong province
North Chungcheong province
Kangwon province
South Jeonra province                         1         1       512        0
North Jeonra province
South Kyungsang province                      6         7   10,358         9
North Kyswwng province                        2         2    3,781         4
Pusan citY                                    9        10    8,344         7
Daegu city                                    5         5    2.913         3
Incheon city                                  2        2    1,224          1
CheJu province
Total                                                  96       100  119,321       100



In'te I of 2
4.3  PROJECT IMPLEIIE4TTIOB  -  1DB
le name: Po2
Samerised Data on Ecoaceic Contribution of Subp,ojectm
(inb Woo million)
I   Subproject        I'  Nture of   IAsount  I Total Project Cost  I lE     Funds                 Incremental    I nvestment i Total Profit.   Total Export         F .R.3    I      E.LB    I
Mo. II                                           I Disbursed I         (W  W5liop)   I Sof Total I    Eployqent    I per    I  I Year of   I I Year of  I Est.   Actual I Eat.   Actuall
I    Name           ~~~~~I SubproJect  I (W  mill) I   Est.   I  Actual  I Project Coatj  geat.  I Actual IWorker  I Operation )  I Operation )                                     1  
A-01Il Sam Yang Tire            I  Expansion    I    8,752 I   24,725 1   21,949 I              30.8 1    471 I    382 1            57 I        11,875 I    258,551 1 15.1 1 16.3 1 18.6 I 17.5 
A-021 Hyunda  Cement            I  Expansion   1    7,222 1    7,222 1    7,222 1              100.0 1    200 I    200 I            36 I         7.210 J        1.732 114.5 I 13.0 1 21.0 I  1% 0 1
A-031 Ila Industries            I  Expansion    I    6,430 1  133,994 I 96,073 I                 6.7 1    900         943 I        102 I        27.552 1    298,200 1 19.8 I 18.1 I 23.8 I 21.3 1
A-041 Namjia Transport          I      New       I    5,340 I   13,290I   11,243 I              47.5 I       23 I      25 I        450      1     .1000 I      -       I 13.9 1 13.0 1 21.1 I 19.3 I
A-O51 Daewoo Auto Compoments  I  Expanmion   I    8,615 I   47.886 1 46.143 I                   18.7 I    455 I    455 I           101 I           992 I       61.579 ! 12.4 I 13.? 1 17.1 I 18.5 1
A-06! Nomam Ethylene            I  Epaonsion    I   13,393 I  197,600         225.112 1          5.9 1    bn12        334 I        674 1         8,426 I       94.206 I 12.0 I 14.9 I 14.7 I 15.6 i
B-011lYumug Voolen Textile    I  Expansion    I          414!1        4861        486!1         85.2!1       30!       201          24!1         1.572 1       33.215!1        I        1       I       I
B1-0O1Pacific N.tga             I  Expansion    I        163!1        1751        163!1        100.0!1       141       12!          14!1         2.528 1       14.647 1        I       I                I 
B-031Nanil Cemet                I  Expansion    I        375 I        375 1       375 1        100.0 I   -    I   -        I    -      1        13.140 I        3,188 1        I       I        I       I
B-O4IlSamb* evelopmet           I      new       I        90!1        434!1        152!1        59.2!1   -    I   -        I    -      I           452!1       -       I       I        I       I
8-051 Morea Electycaics         Iexpansion   1    3,645 I             450 I    6,179 I          59.0 1    213 I    213 I            29 !         2.565 1    156,836 1 34.0 ! 26.6 1 33.4 I 24.5
B-O6I IllIwa wool Textile       I  Expasmion    I        403!1        450!1       403!1        100.0!I   -    I   -        I    -      I           406!1        6,824 1        I       I        I
"-71IPacific bntal              I  Ixpamsion   I         188!1        242!1       242 1         77.7 1       151       141          17 1         2.528!1       14.647 1        !       I        I
8-081 Kukdoag Oil Company       I   xpanaioa    I    31522 1   505,821 !  434,7'80 I             0.8 1      5001      500!        870!1          2,148!1       27.909 I 15.9!1 15.9 1  30.0 1  30.0
8-09! San DmaChemical           I      NeW       I       553 I      1.053 I     1.053 I         52.5 1       10 I       5 1       211 I              7 I        3,100 I        I        I       I
8-10!I Sam Song Semiconductors I  Expansion   1          975 I        975 !     1.463 I         66.6 I       42 I      40 I         37 1       158,480 I  '2.508*.%63 1 22.2 1 24.3 1 31.5 I 29.4
B-11lyu"bSang Cellopbaae        I  Expeasioo    I        104!         1451         145!1        71.7!1       491        81I         i 18            218!1       8.000!I        I        I
II-12 1 bn  yum$Container       I  expansion    I        179!         343!        234!1         76.5!    -    I   -    I    -          I            21!1       -       I       I        I
B-131 Seoulfood ladutries             neMw      I    3,274 1       9,5811      8,922!          36.7!1    384!        3841          23!           1SoII18.5 119.7 1                             I
B-141 I"NakSsalubllablng    I   xpansion   I             805!1    1,028 I       1.028!1         78.3 1       12!       151          69!1         2,594!1          145!1 13.5!1 15.8 1 
B-151lDaelaan Pulp lndustries   I   xpansion    I        559!1    1,200!          719 1         77.7 1      480!       201          36!1         1.065!1       18.908!1        I        I       I
8l-16! Byubsam Corporation      IExpansion    I    1,503 I    9,120 !    6,434 1                23.4 I    200 I    196 I            33 1          1,252 I       1.384 1 18.8 I 20.5 I 14.3 I 18.6
8-17! Pacific Developomet       IExpansion    !          224 I    1.950 I    1.950 !            11.5 I    101 I        45 I         43 I         2.505 I        6.000 I        I        I       I
B-IS! Gold Star Companyr            Expansion   1        687 I        514 1       855 I         80.3 I       10oi      10 !         86 !         18,030 I  1.378,167 1 28.5 1 21.0 ! 43.2 J 38.0
B-191 Doe lwagTextile           IExpansion   1           298 I        315 I       315 I         94.6 I       12 I      10 I         32 !             15 I       2,235 1        I        I       I
B-201 Korea Line Corporation  I  Expansion    I    3,890 I    5.910 I    5,133 I                75.8 I       25 I      25 I        205 I          1.271 I      66,830 I 19.7 I 20.5 I           I
8-21! Ullsa  Silo Imprt         I      New       I    1,896 I    1,916 I    1,896 I            100.0 I       65 1      70 I         27 11,837 I                        I 14.3 I 14.4 I 
B-221 Korea Machinery           I  Expansion    I    1,172 I    3,464 I    1,172 I             100.0 I       10I!       8 1        141 1         2,621 I       12.645 1 16. 1 I  5.1 I 16.8 I 16.0
8-231 lIanil Cement             I      New       I       680 !        680 I       680 I        100.0 !        8 !       8 !         85 I         13.140 1       3,188 1 14.3 1 15.0 1 15.0 1 15.5
B-241 Union Steel               I      New,            21,827 I    2,522 I    2.522 I           72.4 1       45 I      40 !         63 1        22.620 1    101,208 I 15.4 I 18.6 I 
B-251lSamaSung Electronics      I(proJect cawcelled)          I           III                                  .                                                                         
Sub-Total         I                1   75.178 1  973,866 !  885,043 !                   I  4,786      3,982 I        222 1                 I                                



4.4  PROJECT ISPLEMENTATION  -   KLB                                                                                                                         Page 1 of 3
MM IIIRAL FIRMUE PRWOJT ( IJ1N 2309-2 KO)
Poir 0IiTOrNI RaORT
(W'000 and V million)
(      I$ 1: V 700.00)
SUlMRl17ZI) DATA ON   hONIC IlIBI1N 0? SIPM        
rotal Project Cost  IBRD Funds                   Investent rota  Prof its  Ewrt
bture of  hmnt           amillion)    X of Total   Incremental         Per      ir of       (Year of  inancial ROIME mic R
NO.        Subpro3eet Ibe        k6project Dishrsed                           cosieet  Ewsloynt        Iorker    ertion)   Operation)
________ _(V m*illion,   Est.                       E ktual Fst t       IJSS )     US$          USS )              E st.  k
-I1   blon lndntries Inc.            E         2.347    4.217    4.970    47X            85       85          65     NA           8,500 30   3D    20   20
1-2  Am* Gokqtar Int'l              N         7.252   25.840   25,840    28X            436      436         85      N           24.03D  25   25    21   21
-3   olon  IAtries Inc.             N         6.229    7.827  7.827        80X          115      115         97      NA           4,730  MA    NA   NA    NA
total    15.838   37,884   38.637                     63B       636        247     NA          37.250
-2       Ira trial Co.Ltd.          E          1.066    2.330    2.33D    462            50       5D         67      NA          NA      16   16    24   24
-3    Ion miustries nc.             N         1,051    2,258    2.834    372             26       25        124     NA            1.875  20   20    22   22
-4        Plastic Indtry Co.        R         1.048    178    1,278    82                44       44         41      NA    R      A      NA    NA   NA    NA
-5    Nb uwp  City Gs Co.           N           358    1.337    1,337  m2                54       54         35     NA           NA      NA    NA   NA    NA
-6   Knuik Glass 1ndstry Co.        N           501    1,882  1,882        Z7X            5        5        538     NA            A      18   18    25   25
-7  realbhinwy Co.,Ltd.             R           512       750      756    682         NA       RA        NA         NA           NA      NA    NA   NA    NA
-8   shin spiming Co.               N         1.208    2.988    2.988    40X            B0        8D         71     NA           9.460 1918 1              20
9-  bsai Electrical Eng. Uo.        N           640    1.772    1,770    36X            256      25;         10     NA          30.7  NA    NA   NA    NA
-10 Iion Steel Nrg. Co..Ltd.        R           603       781      780    77m                                      NA NA  NA  NA  NA      A    NA   NA    NA
-11  boi Paper Nf. Co..Ltd.  e                  582    1.945    1.945    30X             7         7        397     NA          N        NA    NA   NA    NA
-12  kwnd* i NDtor Co.,Ltd.         R         1.256   14.616   14.616      92           550  5!0          2,000     NA          NA       NA    NA   NA    NA           W
-13 brnna Co.                       K           209       458      458    4BX         NA       NA        NA         NA           NA      NA    NA   NU    NU'
-14   togi FooCo..,Ltd.             R            38        48       48    798         NA       NA        NA         NA          NA       NA    NA   NA    NA
-15 inS         Reicn Co..Ltd.      E         1.890    5.989    5.98      M            40        4         214          40     NA       NA    NA   NA    NA
-16        Co..Ltd.                 E         2,087   17,151   17,151    12S            72       la         340     NA           4.800NA       NA   NA       A
1-17    Kmw  Ind. Co.                N           2B5    1,687    1,928    14%            60       8)         40      NA          NA      NA    NA   NA    NA
-18  b Gld Stores Co.               E            84    1.433    1.433      6X            55                  37     NA           A       PA    NA   NA    NA
1-19    il SnrCo.,Ltd.              R           837    1.245    1.245    67X              3        3        593     NA          NA       NA    NA   NA    MU
-20  bupjin Enterprise Co.          E           283       391      390    738         NA       NA        NA         NA            1.540  NA    NA   NA    NA
-21   togi Foob Co.,Ltd.            R           188       238      238    782         M        NA        NA         NA          NA       NA    NA   NA    NA
o-22    IrAnlnstries le.            E         2.747    3.805    4.418    62X             85       5          65     NA           5.710  25   25    25  25
-23      m Vool Textile CD.         E           53D       59       53D    1002           14       14         60     NA           71C00NA       NA  NA M      A
-24        City Cas Co..Ltd.        N           370    3,569    3.589   1O             31        3         164     NA          164      NA    NA   NA    NA
-25       Gree Cree Corp.           E           291       300      300    97          NA       NA        N          NA          NA       NA    NA   NA    NA I
-26uuI lCheMical Ind. Co.           E           251    1,500    1,500    17m             37       3          58     NA          NA       NA    NA   NA    NA
-27  bei I   adtryC Go.,Ltd.      E & R         279       351      351    798            7         7         72     NA          NA       NA    NA   NA    NA
1-28  bewo Electronics Co.          E          1.621    2.031    2.031    80X         NA       NA        NA         NA           Z350NA        NA   NA    NA
-29   Vnog Wol Textile Co.          E           583       764      595    88X            6        6         182     NA           7,2D0NA       NA   NA    NA
3-3D  in Surg Remicon Co.,Ltd.      E         1.043  1.775       1,775    589           104      lo          24     NA          NA       NA    NA   NA    NA
-31   tgi FooS Co.,Ltd.             R            65        88       88    742         NA       NA        NA         NA          NA       NA    NA  NA       NA
3-32   a   IndI trial Co.,Ltd.      E         1,147    3.163    3,160    36X             50       ED          0     NA           5.096  18   18   25    25



4.4  PROJECT IMPLUUMATLOR             KLB                                                                                                        Page 2 of 3
Irdntrial Co.,Ud.          E          1.147    3.163    3,160
362           50       5D          90     m            5,096  18   18    25   25
Cb..Ltd.                R         3.448    7.116    7.110    482            815      85           13     M          5.096     33   33    3D   39
Ti-ading CD..Ud.          N            209      344       344    78%         m        m          m          m            m       m      m    m      m
Vool Teirtile OD.         R            451      693       Om     GM          m        m          m          m            4,12D  M       M    M      NA
OD.                     R           W         345   345  Mt               m         m         m          m            m    m   m  m   m
lfd. CO.                E             57      886       885     et         m        m          m          m            4.52D  M       M    M      M
n winning Co.              R          2.131    Z806    2,8DD    769              5D       5D         8D      m            8,574  M       M    M      M
Eler. CD..Ud.          E           192    1.08D    LOOD    18%              3D       3D          51     m            m       m      m    m      m
I Vool Textile Co.          R           sm                  746    71X         MA       m         m         IX19           4.53D  M       M    M      M
Irk L P8irFt Nrg.CD.     R            153    - 227       227    68X         m        m          m          m           m        m      m    m      m
Ziw Co. Ud.               R            284   428   428  ON                   m         m         m          m            m       m   m   m   m
Trading OD..Ltd.          E            132      160       169    78X         m        m          m          m           193.5ffi   M    M    M      M
Omical Co.                E             ag      5m        5M      131           10       10         257     m            m       m      m    m      m
Electronics CD.         R            638      839   ' 839    7OX           m         m         m          m             4.764  M      M    M      M
n Spiming OD.              N            137      183       183    75%         m        m          m          m            m       m      m    m      m
I-C       Industrial Co..Ud.         E          2.W     35.265   36,265      7%           as       865          OD     m            51.017  15   15    2D   2D
-Q          CO.                     N          1.978    9.361    9.351    21X            100      10D         134     m            m       35   35    33   33
H%   kKWng An TEMM le OD.            N            104      145       145    71%         m        NA         m          m              405  M       M    M      M
I-M  IM] iN COMWM & lld.CD.          N            883    1.325    1.35       M             2D       2D          95     m            m       31   31    54   54
I-M  hvft Bpm CD..IAd.               R            222  380           38D  58%           m        m          m          m            m       m   m   m   m
I-551 Mmgym   Cement Ird.CD.         R            -m       63D    1,563    44%          LM        1.000      LOOD      m             11189  m      m    m      m
-S  ;oldater Alps Elec.,CD.         E          1.269    3,594    ISM        35S           35       35         127     m             2.129  24   24    36   35
OD.                     R            12A   458          468    25%           22D      22D         22D     M            m       m      m    m      m
Dairy hd. CD.             E            484      718       600    81X         m        m          m          NA           m       m      m    m      m
Vilene CD..Ud.            R            237      319       319    74%         m        m          m          m            m       M      M    M      NA
RiezLrmics Co.          R            646      857       867    75%         m         m         m          m             1.198  m      m    m      m
Electronics CD.         R            on       900       900    75S         m         m         m          m             1,240  M      M    M      M
C,o..Ltd.               R           113       153      153    741         NA        m         m           m           m       m      m    m       m
i I SUgOr CD..Ltd.           R         1.161    1.795    1.795    652          m         m         m           m           m        m      m    m      m
CLAM.                    E         2.230    5M        5.927    38%            25       25         mg      m             1.167  19   19    32   32
Kuk Ind. CD.               E            z/9    116M      1.6m      17%           50       5D          46.    M             9.900  m      m    m      m
III Glwose Co.              E           355       459       655    54%           31        31         21      m           m        m      m    m      m
Ird. Ltd.              E            791   3D.344   3D.344      a            232      232         187     m            4.011  M       M    M      M
I-M        rir-e Nrg. Co.            E          1.085   13,745   13,745      8%           173       178        110     m         36.187     m      m    m      m
1-0          Ird.CD..Ltd.            R            5V    537          596    n           m        m               1       U19        m       m      m    m      m
00        in Famw  CD..Ltd.          E          3,49D  4,446       4.500    789         m        m          m          m            m       m      m    m      m
KI        i Footh Co..Ltd.           E             96      136       135    71%             3        3          65     m            m       m      m    m      m
Vi lene CD.Ad.            E            853    1.019    1,019    84X             2D       2D          73     m            m       14   14    2D   2D
Zinc CD. Ltd.             E          2.416   37.167   37.167      72           83D      750          64     m            29.680  17   17    24   24
Fxmw  CL.Ltd.             R          2.063    4,43D    4.439    4OX            144      144          44     m            m       m      m    m      m
Dong kd. CD. Ltd.           R          1.383    1.784    2.42D    572             5D       50          2   U79             m       m      m    m      m
Chen CD.                 E         1.234    2.905    2.905    4Z           m            12        346     m            m       m      m    m       m
Glan  Ind.CD.            R            567      719       719    79%         m         m         m          m            m       m      m    m      m
1-79       Fishwies CD..Ltd.         2            785    2,544    2,544    31%             5D       50          73     m             4.045  M      M    M      M
1-80    il Developmt CD..Ltd.        N            799   10.091   10,091      M            150      150          96     m            m       17   17    21   21
1-81   ]on lndmtries Inc.            E            'M      2.258    2.259    34X            25       26         124     m            m       2D   2D    22   22
H2          G89 CD..Ltd.             N             60    2.423    2,476      2X            35       35          78     m            m       m      m    m      m
l-M         PbBM CL.Ltd.             R            6M     3.379    3.379                 m        m          m          m            m       m      m    m      m



C
-- 
E CoE 
N     nw- 
§ SoS
-~~ ~ Lv --



1.5      _            - M
LIST OF PARTICIPATING INSTITUTIONS IN THE TRAINING PROJECTS
INSTITUTION                       LOAN COMMITTED (US$>
-----------------------------------           (as of Dec. 31.1988)
NON MONETARY FINANCIAL INSTITUTION:
-----------------------------------
KOREA DEVELOPMENT BANK                             109.000
EXIMBANK                                            76.000
MONETARY FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS:
-----------------------------------
BANK OF KOREA                                      163.000
KOREA INDUSTRIAL BANK                              137.000
CITIZENS NATIONAL BANK                             176.000
KOREA EXCHANGE BANK                                116.000
KOREA HOUSING BANK                                 154.000
CHO HEUNG BANK                                     137.000
COMMERCIAL BANK OF KOREA                           141.000
KOREA FIRST BANK                                   152.000
HANIL BANK                                         168.000
BANK OF SEOUL                                      165.000
DAEGU BANK                                          13.000
BANK OF PUSAN                                       30.000
KWANGJU BANK                                        19.000
GYEONGNAM BANK                                      13.000
CREDIT GUARANTEE FUND INSTITUTION:
-----------------------------------
KOREA CREDIT GUARANTEE FUND                         56.000
SECURITIES AND INSURANCE COMPANIES:
KOREA STOCK EXCHANGE                                35.000
CAEHAN LIFE INSURANCE                               29.000
DONGBANG LIFE INSURANCE                             25.000
LIFE INSURANCE ASSOCIATION OF. KOREA                17.000
------------------------------------------------------------
TOTAL                             1.931.000
mm m mm m m m mm= =  mm= U 5 B == = mmmmmm= m =  mUm m mm m =  = = mmm m m



- 39 -
4.6 PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION - KBI
SUBLOANSGRANTED 3OQ PARTICIPATING INSTITUTIONS UNDER THE TRAINING PROJECT
INSTITUTION                               DISBURSEMENTS  (S000's)
1984     1985      1986     1987      1988     Total
Korea Development Bank               24        49       36       100       91       300
Eximbank                             16       46        14        69       62       207
Bank of Korea                        50        65       48       149      135       447
Korea Industrial Bank                32        55       50       125       113      375
Citizens National Bank               35        70       71       161       146      483
Korea Exchange Bank                  24        55       37       106       96       318
Korea Housing Bank                   27        72       55       142       128      424
ChoHeungBank                         21        69       47       125       113      375
Commercial Bank of Korea             21        82       38       129       118      388
Korea First Bank                     33        74       45       151       138      441
Hanil Bank                           36        67       65       154       139      461
Bank of Seoul                        41        66       58       151       138      454
Daegu Bank                            5         8        -        12        10       35
Bank of Pusan                         9        18        3        27        25       82
Kwangju Bank                          5        14        -        17        16       52
Gyeongnam Bank                        5         8        -        12        10       35
Korea Credit Guarantee Fund          17        39        -        51       46       153
Korea Stock Exchange                  7         4       24        32        28       95
Daehan Life Insurance                 -         -       29        26       23        78
Dongbang Life Insurance               6         -       19        22        19       66
Ufe Insurance Association             7         -       10        15        13       45



40 -
4.7  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION - KBI
KOREA BANKING INSTITUTE
STAFF TRAINING
(Number of Staff Trained)
I. Training Field                  1984        1985       1986       1987     1988     Total
anking                             69        103         64          95       65      3.
anagement Development               6          2          5          2         2       1
inance                              3          4          11          0        0       1
II. Destination                    1984        1985       1986       1987     1988     Total
urope                               5          5           1          2        2       1
SA                                 43         78         56          45       10      23
hlilippines                        30         26          20          0       25      10
goul                                0          0           3         50       30       8
Duration of Training         Less than    Over 2     Over 1
(Including MoF staff)           2 months     months       year       Total
984                                43          44         11         98
985                                70         40           5        115
986                                45          37         14         96
987                                80          17          0         97
988                                32          37         29         98



- 41 -                             Page 1 of 4
5. KDB's FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE
Operational Performance
Overall Operations. KDB has exhibited consistently strong growth
during the period 1980-87, with its lending and investment operations
either surpassing or being close to projection made at the time of project
appraisal. Total lending and investment operations (on approval basis)
increased at an average annual rate of 18X, from Wl.O trillion in 1979 to
W3.3 trillion in 1987; guarantees issued increased by 10 annually, from
Wl.l trillion in 1979 to W2.4 trillion in 1987.
Lending Operations. Loans continue to account for the bulk of KDB's
annual lending and investment program in aggregate over the 1980-87
period. In 1987, loan approvals amounted to W3,043 billion representing
an increase of 12.2X over 1986 approvals. Of these, Won currency loan
approvals accounted for 72.6X and foreign currency loan approvals, 27.4%
Relative demand for KDB's foreign currency loans, as evidenced by foreign
currency loan approvals as a percentage of total loan approvals and
foreign currency loan commitments as a percentage of total loan
commitments, declined in 1986 and 1987. The relative importance of
lending operations in tei-ms of outstanding portfolio has remained constant
over the years: in both 1979 and 1987, loans as a percentage of KDB's
outstanding loan and investment portfolio (term) stood at 86.62; the
figure increased only slightly to 89.02 in 1988. Most of KDB's lending is
in domestic currency, a trend reinforced in recent years: in 1979, 152 of
its outstanding loan portfolio was denominated in foreign currency; by
1987, the corresponding figure was 132.
Investment Onerations. KDB's investment operations (on the basis of
new approvals as well as outstandings) fluctuated during the period 1979
to 1987 with no discernible pattern. With a substantial portion of
guarantees covered by the Government, these have provided KDB a
significant source of low-cost, low-risk income. During the period 1979-
88, there has been a shift in the new emphasis of KDB's guarantee
operations: domestic currency guarantees as a percentage of total
guarantees issued increased from 6.02 in 1979 to 40.22 in 1988.
In conjunction with the first Bank loan to KDB (Loan 1095-KO; March
1975), the Government agreed to assume the financial risk for all foreign
guarantees already issued for those enterprises controlled by the
Government and for priority enterprises as defined in the KDB Act, under
the Guarantee Release Agreement (GRA) of March 31, 1975. The proportion
of such guarantees has decreased: 24.02 of KDB's outstanding guarantee
portfolio as of December 31, 1988 was covered by the GRA compared to 72.8Z
as of December, 1979.
Financial Performance
Financial Position. KDB experienced significant growth in the last
decade. Total assets increased from W2.9 trillion as of December 31,
1979, to W12.3 trillion as of December 31, 1988, at an average annual rate



- 42 -
Paige 2 of 4
of 17X. Actual figures for assets throughout the period were either above
or very close to projittions made at the time of the Bank's appraisals
Eguitv and Capital Structure. KDB's net worth stood at W1,106.8
billion as of December 31, 1988, representing a doubling of the 1979 net
worth. The increase in net worth was achieved through cash contributions
amounting to W125.0 billion, stock asset revaluation (incremental) of
W70.6 billion and retained earnings. The ratio of long-term debt
(including risk guarantees) to equity rose from 9.99:1 in 1985 to 11.45:1
in 1986, thus bringing KDB into non-compliance with the covenant whereby
KDB agreed to maintain a long-term debt (including risk-guarantees) to
equity ratio of not more than 10 to 1. In 1987, however, as a result of a
capital increase that included a transfer to KDB of equity stock that
Government owned in other corporations, the ratio improved to 9.42:1,
slightly below the covenanted limit; a reduction in the volume of risk
guarantees outstanding led to further improvement in 1988 with a ratio of
8.53:1.
ProfitabillU. KDB's performance during the period of project
implementation was marked by declining profitability. In absolute terms,
net income increased slightly from W37.5 billion in 1979 to W41.6 billion
in 1980 and then steadily declined. Indeed, KDB would have posted losses
from 1985-88 were it not for non-interest income, i.e. guarantee fees and
'other income".
Reported net income was temporarily inflated in 1984 and 1988. Net
income jumped to W37.6 billion in 1984, but W16.3 billion of this amount
represented gains on the sale of KDB's headquarters in Seoul. Net income
in 1988 also shot up to W57.8 billion; however the increased earnings do
not reflect the underlying earning capability of KDB as they were almost
exclusively due to a gain on sale of marketable securities and investments
(W205 billion).
The indicators of financial performance show cause for concern. The
decline in profitability is mirrored in net profit as a percentage of
average net worth which dropped continuously from 7.91 in 1979 to 1.2X in
1987. Again 1984 and 1988 were exceptions, with the downward trend
reversed as the percentage improved to 4.41 and 5.41 respectively; this
resulted from the gains referred to earlier. Excluding these capital
gains, the percentage for 1984 would be 1.71 and for 1988 would be
negative.
The low profitability of KDB can be attributed to the inadequate
spread it is allowed to earn on its resources by the Government which has
to approve any increase in onlending rates: KDB estimates its net spread
at 0.9Z in 1985 and 0.71 in 1986 and 1987. While the spread on its
government borrowings is 0.51. the spread earned on its Industrial Finance
Debentures (IFDs) is negative. The Government did not take actions
relating to the maintenance of a positive spread over domestic debentures
and the increase and hati"onization of onlending rates for foreign currency
funds.



- 43 -
Page 3 of 4
Ouality of Portfolio
The quality of KDB's loan remains sound. The percentage of its loan
portfolio affected by arrears of over three months deteriorated somewhat
in 1987 and 1988 but still was low: it was 0.41 while the corresponding
figure for both 1985 and 1986 was 0.21. The percentage of the loan
portfolio affected by arrears, reachedulings, liquidation and write-offs
decreased from 8.4X in 1986 to 7.11 in 1987.
Resource Mobilization
During the period 1979-88, KDB was successful in mobilizing both
foreign and domestic currency resources. Total term resources increased
four-fold: from W2.5 trillion to W10.0 trillion. The data indicate a
clear shift in the structure of KDB's resources, with Government and
foreign currency borrowings registering a decrease and higher cost IFDs
assuming greater importance, thus increasing KDB's overall cost of funds.
In 1988, long-term liabilities were sourced as follows:
borrowings from the Government of Korea, 28.22, compared to 38.71 in 1985,
30.O in 1986 and 30.11 in 1987; foreign currency borrowings and
debentures, 431, compared to 53.91 in 1985 and 43.6X in 1986; domestic
IFDs, 25.01 compared to 18.81 in 1985, 17.9 in 1986 and 25.71 in 1987.
Foreign borrowings from official sources such as IBRD, ADB and KFW,
accounted for only 1.21 of KDB's long-term liabilities. KDB's efforts to
raise more time deposits to finance its operations were quite successful
in 1986, when they amounted to W334 billion representing a growth rate of
3121 relative to 1985; however time deposits decreased by 6.81 in 1987.
Domestic Currency Resource Mobilization. During the period 1979-87,
the composition of KDB's long term domest'e currency resource base has
changed significantly. Its reliance upon Government funds (budget
allocations and special financing schemes) was reduced, although such
appropriations continue to account for a large portion of its domestic
currency (term) resources. Domestic IFD's became increasingly important
over the period: as of end-1979, they accounted for only 14.31 whereas the
percentage was 60.81 in 1987.
The reduction in direct government funding of KDB reflect the
Government's commitment to limit its intervention in private economic
activities and to reduce preferential credit for which KDB is the
principal agent. New NIF funds were substantially reduced starting 1983:
compared to an annual average W320 billion for the previous 5 years, NIF
funds amounted to W222.6 billion in 1983, 1984 contributions were
drastically cut to W127.9 billion; the amounts for 1985-0-7 ranged from
U208 to W226 billion.
Foreign Currency Resource Mobilization. KDB undertakes syndicated
commercial borrowings, issues foreign currency debentures (primarily
through public placement) and taps foreign official loan sources
(principally from ADB and IBRD). During the period 1980-87, KDB mobilized
a total of W6.7 billion in foreign currency resources, 791 of which
represented syndicated commercial borrowings. Another 141 represented
eurobonds, with official funds (IBRD Loans) accounting for the remaining
71.



- 44 -
Page 4 of 4
In 1974, KDB issued its first eurobond. KDB's success in mobilizing
foreign commercial borrowings at very favorable terms has enabled a
gradual reduction in its dependence on foreign official funds, which
accounted for 751 of total foreign borrowings over the period 1966-73 but
rapidly declined to 22.71 over the period 1974-79 and further to only 8X
in subsequent years. The major advantage of official funds is that they
carry a longer maturity than foreign commercial funds (15 years versus 8
to 10 years), thus enabling KDB to provide longer-term financing to
subborrowers with longer gestation projects.
Since demand for domestic currency financing has generally exceeded
available resources, KDB has, through a swap arrangement with the Bank of
Korea, converted a substantial portion of its commercial foreign exchange
resources into domestic currency. Its practice of utilizing part of its
foreign commercial borrowings to finance domestic currency operations
results from a conscious policy decision endorsed by the Government. Part
of KDB's foreign commercial borrowings was also credited to the BOK for
general foreign exchange financing purposes, thus providing support to
Korea's balance of payments. In effect, KDB was used by the Government as
a vehicle for raising commercial foreign exchange resources not only for
KDB's own purposes, but also for meeting the general needs of the economy.



5.1  KDB's FINANCIAL AND OPERATION1AL PERPORNIANCE
file nun: Proj-Sumlary
Suuwm-y of Operatiaos, 1983-89
(In Billion Won)
I                              I   '8 3        '8 4        . '85   1   '8 6 1   '8 7   I   '88           I '89   1
~~I    .'I                                                                                  l     l     I.. I  I
I  Anwut  I  Aunt  I  AMmuwt I  Mvunt  I  Mnwnt  I ntnat I  MDunt  I
IApprovals                     I          I           I           I          I    .                 I           I
I  Loms Foreign currency       I      1811        236        6511        6071        8331       881         7681
Dowstic Currenoy          1,474 1    1,965 1    1,902 1    2,105 1    2,210 1    2,099 |    2,045 |
Equity Investents                   281        681         481         131       2061         21        2851
onds and Dabentes             1      1141        160         881 60 1               1011       1181        393!
I      Total Approvals         1    1,797 1    2,429 1    2,887 1    2,785 1    3,350 1    3,080 I    3,489 1
I                              I          I           I           I          I           I          I           I
I Disbursements                1          1           1           I          I
I  Loas Foreign currency       1      1781        233        641         607         8331       881!        7661
I          bDmastic Currency    1    1,474 1    1,965       1,902 1    2,105 1    2,210 1   2,099 1    2,045 1
I  Equity Investmnta           1       281         69         481         131        2061         21        285 41
I  Bonds ard Debentures        1      114         1291        66          601        101        1181        393 1
TotalDsburerents D            1,7941    2,3968       2,6E71    2,7851    3,3501    3,0801    3,4891
Iotstandirngs                  1           1          1           1           1          1
I  Loans Foreign currency      1      712 1       719 1    1,018       1,012 1    1,111 1    1,881 I    2,205 1
|         Obmestic Currency    I    4,6141    6,163         5,896B     6,4821    7,5601   7,643 1    8,2581
I  Equity Investment/a         1      5121        5868       605!        600!        79         733       1,030!
I  Ebnds and Debentures/a      1      210 1       249 1      221 1       218 1       303 1    1,316 1       106 1
I      Total Cutstandings      I    8,048 I    6,699 1    7,740 1    8,310 1    9,764 1   11,352 1   11,599 1
I    tartes                    I          I           I                      I           I          I
1     Issued                   1    1,277 1    1,261 1    1,466 1    2,148 1    2,440 I    1,491 1    1,920 1
J    outstanding               1    3,698 I    3,570 1    3,756 1    4,055 1    3,592 1   2,439 1    2,150 1
I    Cover under GRA           I    2,651 1    2,722 1    2,720 1    1,784 I    1,255 1         793 1           I
I                              p .                    I ._                       _ _ _    _ _ _ _ _ _ _   I ._ _ _ _ _ _ _ -



5.2  KDB's FINANCIAL AND OPEBATIONAL PERFORMANCE                                                                                                   Page 1 of 2
File No *
1ul gird Actul S wind  blgis   a of d          31, 13-1
(Hill lbI
Os            I.                 I                 .                                           *I                          
I                     ~ ~~~I '83          1       '88       I        'I5       I         'N          i         '81         I        'B          1         '691
I          Assets                                 i         rI         II -                                  I              -       ,
I                               1I      I     l II Wm   SpE I      I   I           11    II       I  ga         i       I         I  r lI  dl  I P                 I          i
I     ad u ilbits              I 11,131  til1   179,5   I 31,11    1  ,11211,M4,           1 12,1tI 1,0,311   21571   2171,361   2471   1 am  1   2,21   1U7 ,3I
9S itles                    I 23mm141,91431   l,8121   15,981  23,1221  1,12941    1 BlmI              181     3,13I   am,1    3,8151    1O1,11 3I          X1       3,m 1
I go1t-bn  ah                  I 5,1841  9,M31  3,13 1  3,              1   31   513,31    51,6     I    MMZ  I   G,11  I3 E    1  S0,I 121,11 7 3           1          1X    I
I OtaPtmoo       l             I or3two IG   Imm    I 1,1131, 5,31  1       1 31 831    O',s  1   14I,01  1i,3,01    13,43    1,818,1D I   1,60  I,531,1  1,131,64 1
I AIMDimI                      I  48,51   31,221   51,651   10,148 I       11  94,96 581 ,91    16231    1S141    O,111                 1,161    113,1    15X   1             I
1   ts  RUivtls                1 215,3 1 1i,!B11  2i,53 1 232            1 2,01 I7  ,1   241,91   145,111         1,411   118,9 21   30,1  1    B,5    I      ,9  I   11.13 1
offmm stoc                   I         I        I         I        I        I         I          I         I          I          I          I          I          I 3,3 I
I   Tibl lSt As                I 114,2 1 1,3,1   11,81,81 112,514, P2A,           1 32X   I 2,018,13 1 3, I2 1   2,117,461 2,5382 1 3,0181 3         S,1151 3I    2 1  ,1W     I
I                              I        I         I        I        I         I        I          I          I          I          I           I        I          I          I
lllars                         I        I         I        I        I         I        I          I          I          I          I         I          I          I          I
I buticaanstlu                 I        I        I         I        I         I        I          I          I          I          I         I          I          I          I
IVkiii"l La                   I 8     8,731   1    1  34  I 0,331  73s,m  11,112,U l   I,01 I1,00  I 1,3,301 1,13,13I 1,3,01 1,6,5    1 1^7311  1,1,7301
I   Wibils                     131M3I     17,4214,111.41,513,1215,61             14.7A41 I 8,0,911  4,90 1 3,217,4  1  5,302,31 3,3 X           5,I  1   3,3,3 1  8,5171 I
I TilI ib$tic QOry laIs        14,31,6  14,9 1 5,311,60 14,413,23 16,3, 115,03 1 71,291 I   ,661             I  ,18,16 i3  1   ,3I,     5,11,3  I 1,,1 71,2 1   ,17, 1's  I 8,3     I
I   (Out PWtIi tlIS  B  Ion3'1 3,311    3,  1   ls9   1111,06,    1 91 3J41 1,18,3 1 1,2,019   11,3  1 1,451,311  149,X,  1  1,14,61 12X1    1  1,9,3 1
I                              I        I         I        I        I         I        I          I          I          I          I         I          I          I          I
I Rnigiosrstl                  I I 91 61  3,011,313,8A    I 3,311,3i,C141,o17,6211  1,59,3794   1,012,D1  3,I 8,M31  1,32,2111  3,9,X31  1,231  4,1010 1  235,1 51
I lTtpmtIto3)                  I 10,5521  IO,6 1  21,72t 1  1 ,431  3S,131 24,6021   02,411    3,021    17,731 2I1,1 1,,M3 1 2 i,3U1                   1 l,MX    1   31,7 10
I                              I        I         I        I        I         I        I          I          I          I          I         I          I          I          I
It   ls                     15411,71 14,31,x3 18,62,5 I5,83  11,618,5I  1,13,11 I 9,11A331 7,*t, 1  8,3,01 I8,670,154 I 9,0.0 1 9,3N,8  1 9,171,0 1 3,,43,  1
( Los: arrut ptim)             11,017,812 I 33    11,122,2 21  5%371 1,3SS I  1t,15     I    1,6,0 I 1,,1111  1,93,000 I 1,652,0  1 2,111,3      em 1,3,312 I 2.313,3 1 2,067,232
I Kt   eh  las                 14t,3191 18418154 1 5,25911 44,3,437  1 6,312,3 1581  711,9II   15   5,15,1101 8,34,x   I 7.011,9111 8,0,0 I 17,618     1,87,01  81,415,3 I
I runso                        I MtR25l I  AsM  I M,20 1 2SBA6 1 252,131 V1 2,t01 1   229,01t 1   216,#05 I       wZ MA          I|A 1            4W,a3l I9,s1    WI tIS,   S1 , 9 I
I Tel  sma                   I 031  12,481 1 6Bl556    II I          A5X, 17531  0 a,171 1    3,3D1 IS  Il,3      1,071,300 I lOX  I 1,29t  I 1,14,21B  IA       I,C     1P, S13
I (Onwt Wb)                    I IID,aI 1 2,117 I tiAt I  BB,J I Ut,Gt I   WOE  I   19,3 I                 ",IOD 1   130D1C 1   Ir    1  ,013 l s431 1 I1,401 IB 7B,
I l Not  1wm                 Ih,5 EX   I1,£ MM   I   1B I 72N,031 55s,3Nl 1 7B,7621   WX I",       9£,29 I   910,9D I IDXS, I 1^61C,D         1 ^94 1 1,20'a9 1 1,756,331
IIN AMb                        I        I         I        I        I         I        I          I          I          I         I          I          I          I          I
I M"Ii      dliont             I  AIX I 81, 12 ,11  71           17,883    52,8,1   1,8I31   45,4821    11,131   11,301    13,041    AS3,31    KM1    51331    ox331
a km# iau      v             I  up 511  3,7111  218,321  2O8s1   70,1 1  221,1011   3,1491   218,01   9.,01    333.2481   12.3 I                  3I5191   0,1151   38*311
I  TlIitsU                   I 53,43   121X,11  137,512  816s,161  15,23 1  23,1111    73t,381    8 16,731 1  6,01,   1,13,,31  1,337,31  1,16,3          1X,0.1| 1,834,31
I (O.uutnti      o)            I  ZD,t1 117271  122N 1   SP1  1348,1   AM1   ISP                       1* "1        ,1    8,951              1          1          1    45.01
I   Khm b                      I 33,111 I66,50   1  51,31  7, IS1S 5,l171                              e,2111    4IM I,31   MN9,3 1  13,31    BP71   51,311   1,11,331
1  OI in      AIf              I        I1   I             IB 00  I910   O   I MPI   MWI                     I    I               IS    0M 1 O    4I    I   l1     I          I 9,
1 F7 uydS1vas                  I  3t,734 l12X,1181  48,0cI3e1 t 1.1  623,51   17,141    5o,42   11,1371   63,23 1    79,32            3,3Jo1    68,31   m3,0 1    93s,u11
I (0uTt w u)                   I  20,191I   741 01   21,071    ,931   23,I1M1  23.3131    25,41         "311                 23,341          I   a^f  I            I         1
I bWuA0u      3                I  44,1141  M2,3S I ,7s3 131 51 ,721  3OX1  1EX,1             3,7241   31,5111   64,  1   OX,I   17S1 I             8,31         ,1 81  1396,1u1
! TaIw1s I6#,1621 1 ilum1 I13*3 I   ,111  19,901    ,0                                       ,31    I !        43 I 61  6 1,31 I IWO  I 161 3  233     12 1  121,3 I314XW        1



5.2  KDB's  FINANCILL AND OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE                                                                                                   Page 2 of 2
I  uiiXi4iq            1        ',        I        ',         I       '.         I          ,U         I          ,8         I         'U         I          .'i
I  1^61~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lA   IPkd   11I_  I O*                                           atl  i ws    PitdlIw I I
Il tUaJiw t i                  I         I           I      I        I         I         I       I             I       I I                      I   a     I   w      I   a         I
I Sxt-.ulqit                   | 1,431)  145,33)0 12,731 33,211)m    13,16)| 10S,I6    131,117 | 153,151 | 24l,13             133 Dl2 4|,1$3 |        39      3,1|  1    324,154)
I  ndt ptm  o  M-to    1    136,6121  13,51  I        141 81.1 I1,5111,6  1 ,14.1r1  1,46,Ni I 1141,64    1,3 ,5Ao I 1^,1    1,37I,3L    3,111,11  1,J11,  1 2,415,4
I     wd i  lh tt            I  3,513     l    ) 45   ,4I     1, 111M  IHIM1 1,1,213)    53,33?1    l4.1        10,14I       1,991   13,3N1         ,3)    M11            3,3)1
Io To tl  Um IWIN,N  I U3,112i1A            V  I M1 NI3  ,  IIO,31   834 1 14,10  I   1,131 I   1,1 1 ,1 3               140148 3I,41            1,3,3 1    30X     1 3,53  1
bbltuUhuu                     I I       Ia  1            I         I 1      I h    "       I       ,     o I 11S,"  I 41^1" I   w o I 3I  I  I  II t               I          Ip   I
I  luh.almt1 "                                         1 ,I1               a I       I         a  I   am  I                   - II             I x        I              mom  I
I RiftWMI                         -I                             I         1  31,311 154, I                         1 111,141              1        ax1         I     1,54I
flbbliuul*tg                   1                                        3  1 11   ,11          i            18,3    I1       I,811        0!    3 12,2I        0°     3,ms
km I    cm        u            I                                     I         I                                          I          I          I          I          I          I,
offiid m  m,63   1  ,1216)1 M2                             21,8M  1 335,3 1  3,5         4 31,42    23,352     45311         J41    41,1  1 1,11   I M             I    1     ,21
I     muei   km                1   3,M  1  23,16 1      0245,6 4),,1   11,148,11,25,4     3, U1,1    4,0,01 1 3,411,    4,31,541   3.3,4 1 I 4,5, 1   3,3 11   5            ,  I
I      l kmlpho 1cam3,I                  1     121M,M  I 2151 )3,2 3  3,M 3,11 1405   1 3^4         1 8 ,4,38  1 3,3        1 4,43,3 1 4,134,1   4,612,   41  ,3  I 5,14,51I
I am:caratpti)l                IKW   I            11       I       I          I 3 0 0I   33 1,31              I          1  1, 1       I11,0       1    I M         I mmI
I   (lm:     mwrntptIlu)lAl 114,558             I 31,11152,24   215.16 I3,51M   4,113,10  ;H1 33,13)   41  31,354)   5  1,3)  154III   51,61), 1   M    I,5,1    36,3) I    13I
1   Mke4 igmhubmip   12,51,45l1)223UI24, 63I2, k    101 ,U)2, 15,W),ilE    31 3,242)  3,3,161  3,3N,1)  3,132114   3,11,34   2,143,41   2,11                             4,3,31%
Im         icn" b "w*         I         I         I        I        I         I         I          I          I          I          I          I          I          I          I
I    d Pi at elk=          I    014,X 11,16,2      1 1   1,14141,31,111111,11,1 IXM   1,61,3161  1,13,11 I 1,512,12   1,313,511)11           I 1I,,  I 1,161,101   1,1,A   I
I ld"bim         U     e       I      1  2 33,212   3   I,U21    3,32) I 5,351)   1513M1 2,41    21,4111        ,31)1   11,41        11,34I    D,X1  I1,301    21,163)
I    ntonII                    1  55,111     53,31)  51,343U      ,2JU      U,1111   0 ,K18?   11,2 1 4)  ,451)      9,S14)    15,#13        3,31)   I,I        3 I,S  I       V, I33
1       M im _    s           I), il,131 11.IP,3A   1 2,113,1 11,522,13 112,51i,  11,453,54  1 3,154,26  1 1,3,0 1,1 ,61,1 I1,   I 1515,  I 1, 3   1,551231   1,t5,5  1
I   IlIm U       kbou          15 1         51 %   I ,014) I ,131  848,152 U 3,J 1 13 ,11 ,215I   1,M1    I1,31 ,1I  1,140,1)I 1,5,I1P   2,1 ,)  21 t ,3)  2,50W,13   3,01,113,M 
O  ) k e         Pu1m,akc &       3t,5# I    -        I  3J,ON     -     I  U,AI      -      1  4,91    -    1  46,13 1-             I    53,1M   I  -         1   ,1331  12  , I
ToWal b.Utc Wmk       u l 3           13,31.3 1 8,3 1)3,2611,5 14,19,1W3 13 N2,10   S,042    , 13,135)1 40,516   4, 1 1 4,I,33 1  5,5lt,UO    5 ,31%113  6,1X,3,3 I S,PIN1I
b (u    amtpatiu)          I 616,1141  55M,41) I1.250 13 5    ,1 )  55,531    57114) ,IMI  ,1 5) 1 , 1WA    1    423 I      4,U )   113,1 1 1  1, 61,2 13M 3)  1,31,31
Id L k    C      b    nu   1 2,153,16S 12,1,31  1 )3,51,M  1 k215,33 13,5,50 13,21 ,31    4^58,1 1  3JU,3421)  4,16,16) I ,tU, I 4,46,41 I 3,611,03 ) 5,331    3 I  M,14 I
I  Wmii cfor 11ie               1 a    1t,M11   12,553 I  AM  I   1  l,U  S 2   -    I   M11,MIN     -    I   1,311)      -    I   1P5l          -    I   MM          12l5    I
Otk l      mli  ktiU          I1 55,13)   67,515   e,l32)   1,1         4,I  1 up  , I   1imI    15,1   11,12I   2100         3,11)    3lai)    1 3 I           ,alai   13,53A
too-tU lialintim            14,I,1 15,1M1, 16S,85,12411,13,0116,111L    ,4211,06,.1 I 1,1130,41  1,1533,11 I 1,11,11)  1,11,3101 I5,44,  I f. 0 t,US,III        5 1  ,12,1  I
I    Tw  IMI Iitia             16t164 I       t 2    05        115 ) 1,tm1  I,m   11,015,11 1  ,41, 511,23,21)  1,1,011 I 18,01,2 ) 10,41,101)1,14,311  ,4,411 UI,2U,6t t'
Ilibt                          I         I        I         I        I         I        I           I          I          I          I          I          I          I          I
hi Mdboib                     )525,510  531,010)1553,13)1 , 0511)  5 P,01   115,402) 1  13,3)   141l,12) 13I,UI41)            ,X  3,1)   1,43)    " M l)   3,3)1,51,411
I h"        wiI                                MIg  I 1,4 314   2M 3,I ULMIA,323)  24,13)  211,0l1 ) t2,36)   36,312.1  1,6) 2I1,161 I       ,M 111    31,211)    74,13)I  I 5,54
I       t  ilty                ) LS         I 12)    2113)  1           I11,3U 80,23  1    lli,US     3,OU      1,04,6)  1,01,131 111,11U   1  1 ,10,110)  1,3I U,II I  L3um  I
kw  _iaI                                                    IAmM                        Is I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  g       i         I          I          I          I
baticorn                       I 5       31,5) ,  12  ,3t)  361,Ut1  35,511 i35,011   1,2,431 )       141,313)   33,6   2,MI ,M10)   32,141   1,15,1    311,53   1         11241
I   _P   1y                    1,lU,tl2 I 32,M14,1 ,U16 13,201  10,541,3)3 113,3 ) I  IM,213 1 3,23,1  I 2,%2,1141 1,1,115 1  2,151, 1,,M3,3111  2,113,U2 1  ISi,14 0)
I   Al CNto                    14,012   13,,41I43    13,513,55315,1,5 13,1,13) I 6,0,3)  4,04,2 1 3,3.) 1 3,1  1    3,13,w1   2,3,1    313,M                          I 2,1W,16U 4
I dmLt b      t*  l i lkfor  I           I        I         I        I         I        I          I           I       . I           I          I          I          I          I
I       hout.                    4,3       13,40,61 I4 ,12013,510,553) 5,51,81 I ,15,1  I       11   4,065,32 I 3,215,3 I 3,512A 1    3,13,103 i 31,314)  3,1,3 I 2,13,114)
I fIw oblitf ad  _ut 1u       I   -    I   -    I   -    I   -    I   -    I   -    I    -    I    -          I    -     I    -    I    -      I    -    I    -      I          I
I                              I         I        I         i I  I   I                                                     I        I I  a  I             I I        I
~~~~~ '                                                                                      _____                                                             _____  I .3!us,  l!u0.n!uj  @$   0!1S



5.:s    Kw;Di;s   FniiAiwiciAL  ALID  OPERATIONAL  PERFORwAImCE
Fib=e: R*lb
ml 6kbala _ikm Stt, 1913-1
-~~~~~~~~~~~~
II      '83       I       84        I        '-        I       '1        I       '8        I       's        I       ?'        1
I      Yon    f         3       I        I        I        I        I        I         I                                   I                 I        I
I        I    a            I        I        I         I        I        I        I        I     .    I      I        I        I
ll b                            I        I        I        I        I        I         I        I        I        I        I        I        I        I         I
I 1' dwD                        I 13,651   51318131 I  ,141n  3,118) 1 7l5306        3 1   3,139) 718.911 7,S5    1 6328i1 1  ,11   23.1 1ll,11l31  25,13I
I Jit'     b         m         I 12 1   3,149) 2 ,7151 3,2S1  33,161 2139           1 2i03,1   21,1241  10,1    ,211   91,U 1 3P11  12.61   A1N111
I Dtm     Irib ts               I   8.31   3.1811   8,1941   3,212 1    ,124 1  10,1331   4,119t l1,31 1   8,Z911  3,3,61   81,711   2,14)1  9,10   p 2,131 1
1 Ii   ftkm"I cfaW           I   I      ? I  12,713 1   4t,lSI I   ,0tI t1 2,1371   -,   1   4,U92 1   7,515) I ,912  1   53 1  8,181   S,2M  1    ,33l1 111,1
I   gldsl7r1m                 I 599,512I1 s5,ml6 711,184   819,3101  81,1   31,2)41  937,5761  81,Z51  937,3N1  65*311,112,11  3I1,3)*,3III ,1z1,3)1
IW      M                      I             1               1    1             1      1     I1          I      1I          1       1        1            O    I
I Olviili                       I  11,831    3,7311   11,7161   4,5121   11,391   4,8171   11,62I   J,5171   5,3a1   12,41171   8,31   21tb71   8,31   21,837
I   TUo*iNSWN                   I    ,31   3,t331  A2,3121   78,21  32,11  21,A 1 ON11   24,             U71  1G1I  92,931   143D1   1 MP    14I,31        31  I
bTibta      m6o im          I  O,N I    3"1    t,1111   23,5111   4,301D -   I  O,X1    5,131   3,31   5IU            1    4,011  215,231   4,51I    .161I
kI he.                       I   8,151   21,4I 1   9,0V1   31,831 2171   7,7I1   11,!11 3I,9M 1    131 ,5 21,1  4,s0u   91;2    9,I 1, UI  MM1
I   hTblWm                       I l,6171   43,13O 1   7,814   11,151    3, 131 13,K11  525121   N ,z91   W3D1   91,31 M       5,C01  EX  1 3210           97,17O
l W   mb                   I   ,3  1   2,39151,31 75,1151  311 271*1                 1 31 9S,I131 1,6,D I T  9I,9I11 1 ,W,6 1 1,2I 1IAnI   I    D  1 2,1 
bl   Ioo4                           I        I         I        I        I NM  I  I  I  I  I        I  V                        I ImI             I        I
1) E     WWEV                   IA    I 5 SI WMI              I0        .  I WXI          I,f    I011   9       I        I         I.1,02 1  U    I IPI Y MI
AI           a   lf  M                  I         I        I        I        I        I        I        I        I         I        I        I        I        I
l  df1aa ch to u.             I  HO   I      ,11,11XI1.1A I              I I                     A I  II I I    1         1    , 1120           1 I   I    9I
IMalb f a'        Ido         M1 4,           IX     kWI -             0211 -        I    , 1 - I IX I               - I IX I I-I               IA            I 
I   F    iw,('E                 I 13,131 IM1A1 16,311  21,1124 3 1,X2 .I01              211,12 91 3212.1  231;1  32,61 913,81  33,104) I          S11   21,21 I
I    TSI Min.          I          "WI418     1 ,1    SXh I  AM31  U11,5111 S5,0114,611  122,31 3,6 1  21,t1   11,61 1 21 329,9 61    ,3191
I    11  1V                     I  KI  1 69,F5 1  MW,11 I "717!3 Ia, SA3   0.91  OXtl  1 2W2,751  94S,1D 1 SIX,  1 MAO  ILUX     l11,P                I 2 1,E10 3,0  I
I N    bat                      I b,t  1 2    ,50141   2,171   511   6,7211   1 1  AM      7*31   1         U,SO I31   31, 1    13,213 1A    I    1 1  1,1  9,571) I
1   omidaisadW                  I  11,14    8,141   14,3961   3,564    17,3131   17,1   2D,1171  19,014    18,31   39,071   19,*D1   1,"31   23,1   1,412
I T4IFlwciRaI                 I   3,6171  583*3S1  lt,5511  53,5    15,44?  7U,tS1  917,71   813,141   917,301  39,61:1,012,11t  lI7,W1I1,23,UI1t18,4
I Iauru l E'u                      19,61D  3D,511   21,431 1 9,7831  J,5711   21,6s1   25,931 12,6591   21,001  1,413)t  2t,011   3,5I  31,3?   3s,6711
I R ftIifrIm                    I  11,071   5 ,61   11G,3)   18,23   11l,6B1  35,1   35            3,314    112,311  t 1,13 1  53,01   1 8D,13 1   11,31  t   5,513
I Tam  sifwlhI    4,256   1 I,  1   5,1911 -    I   6,21    -    I   17,41                            92I   8391   - I         7,911         1  9,31   4
I WrDwm                          I 2,731  131M  173241   21,AM          AI,3Ml 3I4S  I  2,151   AM36    21,061   12,157?  3*3l I         ,3X1 1,93)   21,9131
I   TIaAib l&QtwE~B             I  49,4l8)  49,131   15,9)61         61621e,3)i  11,5D1   13,815   15,411   aD,11  12,3)   10,6711  23,2n14   32,415)  3,9
I   ITrl Eqw                    I 613.151  ,5'25s  1372,0671 177,524t 814a,131  83;,6721  933,3321  939,31  917,17111  8et,*3  1 a,tn13.411,3,s11,l5,91511,tD,CGs
IIII UfIT                       I  27,014t1   D,3571  21 ,831  3,312M   42,0141  3),353 l  3,731  11,831   t3,5Z21 1 2Z21  53.w91   51,115)  74,)1  57,3D1
I TE3#                         I   4,DZ2) 1,141t    5,196 1      39 1 8,23 1   -    I   7,515 1      921 1   6,473)1    I 15   9,51 1      2)  11,0114D  ,2l9 1
IPku                              1,3,z1   19,213   39,135)  37,6101   35,164?  3),353    4i3.11    10,7111   31,0491  12,8371  54,1211  57,1831  3,31   53,1611



VrI            ire f r  f ri    In            ire Iin Ire    fri Iir   Icn                   i    Wii   I              qw a   I
i    l1        fT I     l     ix    N i                       l      I     .       I        fl    i     i                         I
Ian    Ira    IrS    Isu    I r       Ir 1    In      1,n  Ir        I r t Ia tin    Irn    Io   Iv mqW=1A4Olm     1
1 in    Itr    In      It   I1       IrA  .1        I n    I n     IO      ir    I i     IrB   Ir e   I        APA1  WltW  '1I
I n    IVl       It     n I   I L 6    Irs       I4  fi      fi      I a     i     II' lr    Irl   luie   I     OmdIiLIb/cllI
Iall   Ir      Irn     I r(    Iro    11il    I ei    I a    Ire     IIIe    I ro I Ie     Ir Le   Ire   I      OH 1 I
I      I       I       I      I       I       I      I       I       I       I     I       I      I     I       mumo4lPsI 
lue    Iru    Ifn    Ira    Ire    iro In             Ire    Is) lr          mr    Ireo   irc   Ire   I        *w1a. (.b    "         I
I      I       I I  I  I      I       I       I                      I       I     I       I      I     I      wm m.8*ps   I
ie    ItU    irs    Ieu    Ir         Iru    Ir      lr    Ire    ire    Iru   Ire    Ite   lre   1                 O       pl  I
I      I       I       I      I       I       I      I       I       I     I       I      I     I    Uo'i opl    I
WL    Iolu    I        I I M ire     ire I ire    I  l ire    Irn    i       151   in       re   in   I   am44IINiP              01  I
lvi    Ill    let    I r      In      Irn    Ilnt    ore      0t1   Iu       Ir il   I      r Ii    lrv    I  I.i"_    1
lot    I t     1 01    I rn   I WI In   i            Iii   IVIt   lot    I r    I    iIr    I i   I t     1        qw1qAmt *t I
J-     Int    1        I-     I-      I-      I-     leri   I-       Itn  I-    lrt   I-    lIt   I              PkA1psmmIu  I
a  I   I *   I        I       I       I       I      I       I       I     I       I      I     I                 %No  I
li r   n l     a i     1 inn Ire    I        Ire    Irt   Irn    Iwi    Irn       I ir  IrIs   II    I  m 1     Ps awtespvm    l I
I  I  I  I  I   i  I      I           I       I      I      I      .*     I      I   '                DIN i
iin    I n     In      i n    Itrl    Ir  n       I   eil    Ire    lIre    jr    Ire    In    lie    I I cc         * 3u1;e""I
in     Irn    Irn    ire       r      Irn     i re Ir w      in      Iwo    Ir  I    n     irn    Inr    I                w     l
Iin    Irn     Ir:    'n      Ire    Inr    iro    Iwo    Iro    Irwo    I n    ine    Ire   tin   I              qqiW mUPVl I
I we    I we    I-     t on    -      Iswe    I-     Iwo   I-       I0o  tile   Ie    I-    Inwe  I ntI
I      I       I       I      I       I       I      I       I       I      I      I       I      I     I        a"t              II
It,e    In     In      ire    In      ir      Ire      Ire    r    o irw    inre   Inr    Ire   Ireo   I                 1a) mm"1u I
o              lam     Iro    Irl    1n    Ir I I  Ire    I0W  i  Ire  i  Iro    iwo re 01   tIwo    Ir    to  I    ro   ire   I  uuIwu,1 1 I
I in    In      ie    in      I n         1 1 In     In W    fri    in        n      in    In    I in   I            SW& WWII? I
ie  Ire    lrL         In     Irl     Irel  Iwe    Iwo   Irl     IrW    in    is            re Iwo  I                ul     u     I
ir     Ire           i Ie sri   Irl  I e    111    lIRe    irl             ire   Ii  lIrce   WIs   I        I         M    q      I
I"    I       Ia      I      *I In   I       I S    I a     In      Ire     I     I"    I  C    Is    I               WM         I
I      I awl I owl I aw I    owl I       I   I        I      I o     I    It       I WWI   I            IW
I-       1D' I  .  'I lWML   I 'W1   IIt W9 Ialu I tm'oe' lit's   IeL'I Ine'u     I'iL'hIurwe  Imrn'aloS Itw I &aPv mo            I
I WWI iI n's', I 'MeB   I Ws't Is'' SW   W   I SWee  Iulm's I m'Wrl iim'sW  ius'u',I rOS   I WM'u'IWO  1   *uma4uBq~   I
Iuti   at                               IuIt    Itte 'iuI-InWWI I ta'  Is st  I~lu l I            I     I         a qm1           I
tlI    B I ow    I ow  -o I Usl'l£ I -wi I |ia I o oI IEW    I Net I orw    1 W 6 a o I-w  I Ma |-| I         op Iumil
IrneI        t U I 1ill Iii's'  l'uaw   I 'u'i IsW'  1IMM    I1mWl "  I    OeNeIWo    I uin Iuam 111es w                 a        1
i wiwC I We' I 'VIG I out'I  uluei I "'t IWWI 1 Wi  i11 at "  lI' laC  Is I, lows Ia'sE  I LiazmImp                        m
I W'   I ORWsl1 IW'4 1u'u    IW1uiI ItW  IK Is'  Ii        I WIW6' lu iS'i a lW I  su Wtt I  t Us'i  I WWI I1m
CulWs iuI's£'o  leVa  in's'. IeS'   l's'sIOt U' lWe 1 s Iu'm'  IZBW   la'ue eie'3  iguzlm'ee'a                  L
Il n I m        IiS'te Iru  le oI  IIus  1oWa I             Ie.te i'uei I   As   Ie       I      I     llWelD'Wut  _ qonhluq oi
I suiiet 'somet  Imes l'CI    I s u hm' e ii''  lo'' 1i''  Ioa'' s I 1s   1s' lnoss's'o W#9 l'Lueu'ie'llsI14 "^P
I ti   I       li      li    l I' .~ ~          tip  l       l       l      | .l lipl~  I   tp( Ii   I*lI
I   gI P OO    1  P    I P    1  IWP  I PP        I  PM    I P 1d  IWP  I PPM  I RP  I PPM   IW4 1S   PP."                        I
I    U.        I    U.        I       ,       I    U.        I    U.         II.      1.  I1                       
I ________                    I                                              A____  I X1 51     i       
146t 'Uq   1.0151) Pe IUPiU F &mm IWO Pe  I h
aD3OrJaOd '1xNOLIYdO aNV ivIDTMiLa  saOUax    5'I'



5.5  KDB's FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL PERFORLMiACE
File nrwi: PCR-2                                                                         Pag 1 of 2
Domestic Currency Resource Mobilization
(in Won million)
I Interest Rates(X)                 A Amunt         I
Source             I  kount  I  Term  I Maturity I                       I Camnitted/ I
I                                I          I (years) 1         I  To KMB    Qnlending I disbursed  I COtstanding/a I
*.                               .          .         *                          I            I
118                              ,          .         .         .          .           .          .1 
19831                                                I         I          I           I        .
Eonomic Development Fund       1  343,060 1      35 1   2018 I 7.0-9.5  1 7.5-10.0         343,O60 1    1,056,316
National Investment Fund       1  222,604 I      10 1   1993 I 8.5-9.5  1 8.0-10.0 I    222,604 I    1,587,342
I Tourisn Development Fund       I   12,5W7 1       7 |   1990 | 8.0-9.5  1 8.5-10.0 1       12,567 I        63,895
I Special Industry Supporting Fundl    5,132 1      5 I   1988 1    0      1   1.0    1       5,132 1        26,245 1
I Energy Rationalization Fund    I       361        81    1991 1   8.5    1   10.0   I           361          4,569 I
I Electronics PrmaDtion Fund     1    1,955 1       5 I   1988 I   5.0    I   6.0    I        1,955 I         2,155 1
I Petroletsn Stabilization Fund    I    154 I      20 1   2003 I 8.5-9.5  I   10.0   I          154             154
I Industrial finance debentures   1  370,319 I      5 I   1988 1 10.1-11.0 I   10.0   I    370,319          6 589,014 I    a
11984                            I          I         1         I          1           1            1               1
I-                   I          ~~        ~~I . I .             I           I            I               I    o
I Economic Development Fund      1  127,942 I      35     ? 2019 I 7.0-9.5 6    7.5-10.0 1    127,942 1    1,115,196 1
I National Investment Fund       I  161,871       . 13 1   1997 I 9.0-9.5  I 10.0-11.5 1    161,871 |    1,522,223
I Tourism Development Fund       I   15,705 1       7 |   1991 I 8.0-9.5  I 8.5-10.0 1       15,705          6 59,124
ISpecial Industry Supporting Fundl    9,276 1       5 1   1989 1    0      1   1.0    1       9,276 1        26,476 1
IEnergy Rationalization Fund            6051        8 a    1992 I   8.5    I   10.0   1         605 I         3,941 1
Petroleum Stabilization Fund    I   53,449 I      8 I   1992 I 8.5-9.5  I   10.0   |        53,449 1       53,603 1
I Industrial finance debentures   I  483,274 I      5 1   1989 I 10.4-11.0 I 10.0-11.5 6    483,274 I       840,762 1
I11985                           1          1                                                         
I Economic Development Fund      I  208,268 I      35 I   2020 I  5-9.5   I 7.5-10.0 I    208,268 I    1,162,894
I National Investment Fund       I  156,565 I      10 I   1999 I   10.0   ! 10.5-11.5 1    156,565 I    1,453,549
I Petroleun Stabilization Fund    I   51,843 I      8 I   2003 1 8.5-9.5  I   10.0   I       51,843 I       209,724 1
I Tourism Development Fund       I   18,450 I       7 I   1992 I   8.0    I   10.0   I       18,450 I        64,687
I Special Industry Supporting Fundl   11,325 1      5 1   1990 I    0      I   1.0    1      11,325 1        27,426
I Energy Rationalization Fund    1      532 I       8 1   1993 1   8.5    I   10.0              5 532 1       3,268
I Industrial finance debentures   1  614,665 1      5 I   1990 I 8.9-12.6 I 10.0-11.5       6 814,665 1    1,017,385
*                                *          *         .         .          .  _  _ _ _   .          .__ _ _ _   I  _ _ _ _ _



AND                      ,                                          Page 2 of 2
I  I       I        I         I Interest Rates(%)    I           Amount
Source            I  AmDnt  I  Tenm  IMaturityl                          Comnitted/I 
(years) I        I  To KMB  I Onlending I disbursed  I Outstlandingla
11986                           t          I         I        I          I          I            I              I
_-                             I          I         I      .1     .                 I            I              I
I Econnic Development Fund      1  226,227 1     35 I   202i 1  5-9.5   1 7.5-10.0 1   226,227 1        861,525 1
I National investment Fund      I  189,891 I     10 I   1999 |   10.0   | 10.5-11.5 I    189,891 I    1,139,390 1
I Petroleum Stabilization Furd    I   58,877 1    8 1   2003 1 8.5-9.5  1 5.0-10.0        6 58,877 1    263,503
I Tourism Development Fund      I   25,188 1      7 I   1993     8.0    1   10.0   I    25,188           6 89,452 1
I Special Industry Supporting Fundl   10,678 1    5I   1991 I    0       1   1.0    1    10,678 1        30,898 I
IEnergy Rationalization Fund    1      6256       8      1993 1   8.5    I   10.0   I        625 I        2,6631
I Industrial finance debentures   1  750,000 1    5 I   1992 1 9.3-12.7 I 10.0-11.5 I   750,000 I    1,390,058 1
1987                          I          i
I Eoononic Development Fund     1  211,937 I     35 1   2022 1  5-9.5   1 7.5-10.0 1   211,937 1    1,060,428 1
I National Investmient Fund     1  198,608 1     13 |   2017 1 10-10.5  I 10.5-11.0 I    198,608 I    1,255,546 I
I Petroleum Stabilization Fund    1  107,381      a 8 I   1997 1 3.5-9.5  I  5-10.0  |    107,381 I     215,268 
I Tourism Developennt Fund      1   18,232 1      7 I   1994 1 8.0-8.5  1   10.0   I    18,232 I         75,928 1
I Special Industry S&pporting Fundl   11,737 1    5 1   1992 1    0      1   1.0    1     11,737 1       35,104 I
I Energy Rationalization Fund   1       28 I      8      1 1997 I   8.5    I   10.0   I       28 I         1,576 1
I Industrial Finanoe debentures   I  850,000 I    5 I   1992 I 9.3-12.7 110.0-11.5 I   850,000 I    1,895,509 1
1988
I~~                          ~    ~    ~ ~~ I  I      I          I          I            I              I 
I Econamic Development Fund     I  221,275 1     35 I   2023 I  5-9.6   I 5.5-10.0 I   221,275 1    1,238,164 1
I National Investment Fund      .  136,685 1     10 1   1998 I 10-10.5  I 10.5-11.0 1    136,885 6     1,125,828 1
I Petroleum Stabilization Fund    1  102,197      a 8 1   1996 1 3.5-8.5  1  5-10.0  I    102,197 1     253,343 1
I Tourisn Deelopment Fund       I   20,475 I      8 I   1996 1 8.0-8.5  1   10.0   I    20,475 |         81,802 1
ISpecial Industry Supporting Fundl    8,122 1     51   1993 1    0       1   1.0    1      8,122 1       23,227 1
IEnergy Rationalization Fund    I       281       8 1   1996 1   8.5    1   10.0   I          281           7731
Industrial Develop.ent fund     1    5,688        a 8I    1996 I 5.5-8.0    6 8.5-7.0  I   5,6681         5,868
I Industrlal Finance debentures   I 1,080,049 I   5 1   1993 1 11.5-12.2 I 11.5-12.2 I  1,080,049 I    2,490,164 I
11989                           I          I        I         I          I          I            I              I
I Econonic Development Fund     I  152,728 1     35 I   2024 1  5-9.5   I 5.5-10.0 I    152,728 I    1,386,745 1
I National Investnent Fund      I   84,025 I     10 1   1999 1   10.0   I   10.5   I    84,025 I    1,025,547
I Petroleun Stabilization Fund    I  115,683 I    8 I   1997 I 3.5-8.5  I  5-10.0  I    115,683 I       310,131
I Tourism Development Fund      I   22,542 1      8 I   1997 I 9.0-9.5  1 10.5-11.0 I    22,542 I        87,388 I
I Special Industry Supporting Fundl   15,228 1    5 1   1994 1    0      1   1.0    1    15,228 1        27,318 1
IEnergy Rationalization Fund    I        01       81   19971   8.5    I   10.0   I             01           4441
I Industrial Development fund        4,443 I      8 1   1997 1 5.5-6.0  I 6.5-7.0  I       4,443 I        8,587
I Industrial Finance debentures   I 1,610,876 I   5 1   1994 I 11.5-12.2 1 15.0-13.0 I  1,610,876 I    3,021,173
I                               .__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   .   ,__ _ __ _ _ _ I __ _ _ _ _ __     _ _ _,__ _     _ _ _ _ _ _._ _     __ _ _ _ _ _ ,_     _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _.__ I .  I~__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  



- 52 -
p.-
i    9
0         0                                                        .
I Cw
C?        I?        9                                           I      ! 0 _  
- -   - -- -   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -~~ ~ ~-- - -- - - -   - -     - -    -
8                            5                                                        a  a
_      _         ___        _    _    _    _     _    _    _    _    _    _    _    _     __          .
w ~ ~    ~        ~       ~       ~       ~      @            0 N     0N 
flE Ei                                                      U   't t gg_
.                                                                          a
6~~~~~~~~                                           oj_ o     " o             o    .0
ffi is          8          8                    8                      Bs        8
0__ .___                                                                                                     _____ __________.
j      l=tiS18    j    |                             |          g            O                      ol
I C.               _.;_              _  _    _    _    _    _     _    _    _  _    _    _    _    _    _    _
L   IA.§                                                         g        t            



5.6 KDB's PINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL PERFPOMANCE                                                                                    Page 2 of 3
I                I Date of  I bwnt in arli Equivalenti  Tenm   I               I  Interest ratd(X)    I Qaran-I   Amwt (USS mIllion)
I Sowce of Rds  I AVmurnt I rmncy oar=  I  tamt in I (year) I Naturity  I  To       I OCnlending I  tor   I Owmit-  I Diatw- I outsturd-
I                I           Ited (million) IUSB$(l) I             I                       I          I         I  ted   I          I_nt  lltea
I  MiNteishi    1 3/22/85  I   Y 30,000   1    117.6 I         10 I 3/22V95  I   L1P    I LTR +1.251           1  117.6 I  117.6 1    -
I                           I   Y 20,000,  1       78.4 1      8.1 3/22/93  I LTPR4O.1 I                       I   78.41   78.41    -
I  IB8 J         1 6/20/85  1   UEX09.3   1    409.3 1          8 1 0/20/93  1 3or0 mm ILB3OR+1.251             1  409.3 1  409.31    -
I  I  I  I  I        I           I   L49  (4)  1         1              1         1
I  I  I     I        I           I L4+ (4)   1           1              1         1
I                I           I   U15240.7   1    240.7 1         8 16/8/93 I PrimsO.1I I                            240.7 1  240.71    -
I am_    nm    1 10/2318U  1   US1100.0   I    100.0 I          10 1 11/16/97 I LIOR       I LIBR1.261              100.0 I  100.0 I    100.0
I   Asia Ltd.    I           I               I           I         I           9  X(8)   I            I         I         I         I
I ~      ~~ I         I                          I I        I          I (8)   I               I         I         I         I
I       0 T      i 11/21/85 i         3,000   |    147.9 i       8 i 11/21/93 i LIR+    I LIBOR+1.25I           |  147.9 |  147.9 1    -
I                I            I              I           I         I           I  X(0)   I            I         I         II
I  I  I        I           I         I           I  ~  (4)   I          I         I         I         I
I                I            I              I         . I         I           I           I          I         I         I         I 
I  IBe J          I 4/25/80  1    10,000   1        69.3 1      10 1 4/20/90  I   LTFR   ILTPR  1.251           1   569.3 1   59.3 1       59.3
I                 1           I   p10,000   I       59.39       101           ILwR(fidl               I        I   59.3 1    93 1         69.3     w
I  I     I               I           I         I           II'~~~~~~~~~     ~    ~     ~ ~       ~ ~       ~ ~~~~~~or Syis) III1I
I                 i          I               I           i         I           I           Iw Iw}1                   I         I   I
I    Sutal    I               I 11US1,859.0  1  2,519.8 1          I           I           1          1         I 2,519.8 1 2,519.8 1    218.6
I        I           I~1W,0O0I                   I         I          I           I           I         I         I 
I           I  Y1DO O      I           I         IIIIIII
I te a lI                                                I         I a F                              I         I         I         I
I     Dtis bwk1 3/11/83  1   04O1.0    I            41.51        7 1  4/1/10  1      8.25 |LISORf1.251 R 0 K  1   41.5 1   41.51    -
I  Nara& Su         5 5/19/83  1    10,000   1      43.2 I       71  5/25/90  |       8.6 ILTPR 41.251 R 0 K  1   42.3 1   42.3 1    -
r                .           .7 *                        .         .           *          .                               .t_______    _________



5.6  t(EB's  FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE                                                                              Page 3 of 3
D Oate of  i Anount in cur-I Equivalenti  Term  I               i  Interest rate(%)    I Guaran- I   Azn7st (US$ million)
Sb'oAr  of RFuds I Agrewnent I rencY contrac I aismt in   ( (years) I Maturity  I  To KDB   O Qnlending I  tor       CoMit-  I Disbur- I Ojtstand- 
I             Ited (million) IUS$(milI 1           1                          1         1             ted   I ssint    ing/a   I
1*~~ .                                .         .            .           I                                          .
Credit Suisse I 2/28/84  I   SFr 75.0   1         35.2 1        5 6   3/8/89  1       7.0 I LIBCR+1.251 R 0 K         35.2 1   35.2 1    -       I
I           I                I        .  I         I           I            I           I         I         I         I           I
Yamaic A Secu 1 5/30/84  I   Y 10,000   I         43.6 1        7 1  6/5/91  1        8.0 ILTPR +1.251  R 0 K  I   43.6 1   43.6 1    -          I
I           I                I      .    I         I           I . .                                                    
Credit Suisse   i 10/2/84  I  SFr 100.0   |       38.8 I        5 1 10/16/89 1       6.751 UIBoR+1.25l  R 0 K         38.8 1   38.81       -      I
Mwkir gQjarantyl   2/6/85  1   USS98.0    1        98.01        15  2/15/20001  LIBOCK  ILIBCR+1.251              I   98.0 1   98.01        -      I
Ltd.      I            I    US$2.0    |        2.01         31  2/18/90-  1 LIBM+%  IUBCR+1.251              I    2.0 1    2.01              I
Gneral 8ank, 1  7/4/85  I   EU 50.0   1           39.7 1        71  7/19/92  1 LIBOR+3   ILIBCR+1.251            1   39.7 1   39.7 1        39.7 1
Brucssels    I           I1                                                                                                          
en  IsII                                                                             III                                         
Nkmra Sec.   1 8/22/85  1   V 30,000   1    126.5 1            10 1 8/30/95 6      6.7      LTPR +1.251  R 0 K  1  126.5 1  126.5 1    128.5 1
Swiss Bamk       9/26/85  I   SFr 70.0   1        31.9 1        8 1 10/17/93 I  5.875   1 LIBOR1.251 R O K  1   31.9 1   31.9 1             31.9 1
BA Asia        I 2/11/86  I   US$100.0   1    100.0 I          15 I 2/26/2001    L u R%  I LIBCR+1.251           I  100.0 I  100.0 1    -         I
Deutsche Bwak 1 5/22/86  I   OM 100.0   1         44.1 1        7 I  6/1/93       8 6.625   1 LIBOR1.251         I   44.1 I   44.1  I       44.1 I
I           I                I           I         I           I            I           I                   I         I           I      VI
Yamrichi Sec.    12/21/89 I   Y30,000   I    208.3 1            5 1 12/21/94 I LIOR -   I LIBCR+1.251            I  208.3 1  208.3 1    208.3 1
I           I                I           I         I           1   0.257   1            I         1         1         1            1
Subtotal    I            I   US$200.0   I    851.91             I           1            I           I         I  851.91   851.91        450.5 1
I           I    b           I           I         I           I            I           I         I         I         I I
I           I   L120                               II                                   II CM 20. 0 
I           I  SFr 245.0                 I         I           1            I           I         1         I         1            1
I           I   ECU 50.0                 I         I           I            I           I        I          I         I            I
T O TAL    I              I  US$2,244.3  I  3,586.0                                                               3,566.0  3,566.0        718.41
I           I| '     230,000  1          1         I           1            I           I         I         I         I           I
I           I   OM2CO.O   I              I         I           I            I           I         I 0 0                            I
I           19SFr 245.0   I              1         I           1            I           1         I         1         1           1
I           I    ECU  50.0   I           !         I           !            I           !         I         !         !            I
I   _ _ _ _ _ _   a            a    ~    ~~~ ~~ I    . _  _   _      _  _   _ I _  _  _ I _  _  _ J  _   _   



55 -
Paze I of 3
6.    KLBS FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONL PERFORMANCE
Ooerational Performance
KLB's actual lending and investment operations demonstrated its
success as a long term credit bank since its conversion into one in 1980.
As a long term financial institution, KLB extends sedium and long term
credits to business enterprises in the form of loans, discounts, equity
investments and guarantees, for both equipment purchase and long term
working capital. KLB also offers short term credits within the limits of
the deposits received.
In 1989, KLB approved new loans and investments amounting to V1,926
billion comprising W614 billion in foreign currency loans and W1,045
billion in local currency loans, representing an average annual increase at
the rate of 382 during the 1983-89 period. Table 6.1 sumarizes KLB's loan
and investment portfolio for the period while the table below gives the
breakdown of the components of KLB's portfolio.
Breakdown of KLB's Loan and Investment Portfolio
(Won billion)
1983    1983 1985    1986    1987    1p88   1989
Domestic Loans & Inv.    46      36      52       73      78      70     54
Equity                    -       1       -        2       2       1      2
Debentures               13      25      24        6       5      11     11
FX Currency Loans        41      39      23      21       16      18     32
Total                   lQO    LOO      1QQ
The continued increase in approvals was spurred by the rapid growth
of KLB's domestic currency lending operations. The proportion of domestic
currency loans and investments has increased continuously during the 1983-
89 period on account of the inflow of domestic currency resources from the
sale of long term credit debentures and government directed funds.
Domestic currency loans and investments which represented 46X of the total
portfolio in 1983 inereased substantially to as much an 781 in 1987 before
settling down to 561 by the end of 1989. The relative demand for foreign
currency loans declined on account of the unpopularity of foreign exchange
risk exposure in 1985-88. Its share in lending operations dropped to a low
of 161 in 1987 from a high of 411 in 1983.
Equity investments accounted for about 21 of XB's operations in 1989
with approvals amounting to as much as W48 million. Purchases of bonds and
convertible debentures have increased substantially (from W38 million in
1983 to W219 million in 1989) since KU's conversion into a long term
credit bank although its share in total KUB operations have dropped
considerably since 1976.
To expand its range of financial services, KUB also activated
issuance of guarantees in 1983. The level of guarantee operations (on the



- 56 -
Page 2 of 3
basis of new approvals as well as outatandings) also increased from W454
billion in 1983 to W506 billion In 1989. As in lending operations,
domestic currency guarantees' share of total guarantees increased starting
1985 with total volumes increasing from a low of WO.5 billion in 1983 to
W458 billion in 1989. Foreign currency guarantees, on the other hand,
increased only slightly from W4.7 billion in 1983 to W47.7 billion in 1989.
Financial Performance
Financial Position. KLB's total assets, as of the end of 1989,
recorded a remarkable increase from W955 billion in 1983 to W3,922 billion.
This represents a 541 increase over the 1988 level and an annual average
increase of 27Z for the period. Actual figures have exceeded projections
made at the time of appraisal in 1983.
As of December 31, 1989, 541 of total assets were financed by long
term liability, 331 by current liabilities and 131 by equity. Foreign
currency borrowings accounted for 81 of long term liabilities in 1989
compared to 741 in 1983 reflecting KLB's increasing reliance on the
debenture market.
KLB's net worth stood at W505 billion as of the end of 1989,
representing an increase in the 1983 net worth by as such as six times.
Tho increase in net worth was achieved through cash contributions amounting
to W122 billion, capital surplus and retained earnings.
KLB's debt equity ratio improved considerably, accounted for by a
strengthened equity base, from a high of 16.52x in 1987 to 9.61x in 1988
and 5.05x in 1989.
Resource Mobilization
KLB's sources of funds come mainly in two types: local and foreign
currency funds. Local currency funds are raised through the sale of
debentures, deposits and borrowings from the government-directed special
funds. Foreign currency funds are raised from borrowings from the Bank of
Korea, known as KFX fund borrowing.
Sale of debentures continue to be the major source of local currency
funding with its share reaching a third of total resources. KLB issues
three types of debentures: coupon (51 of total debentures issued),
discount (451) and compound (501). The maturity of these debentures range
from one to five years. Debentures with a term of three years or more
dominate the type of debentures issued. The total amount of debentures
issued and outstanding was W1,408 billion, representing an annual rate of
increase of 271 for the project period.
KIB also tapped government-directed credits or special funds(i.e.,
NIF, Industry Promotion Fund and the Petroleum Project Fund), and demand
and savings deposits from its corporate clients and debenture holders.
During 1989, a total of W170 billion was secured by KIB from government-
directed credits and w167 billion from depositors.
Foreign currency borrowings continue to decline in importance as a
source of long term funding for KLB. At its peak in 1986 of W756 billion,



Page 3 of 3
foreign currency funds dropped to W168 billion in 1989. Because of the
country's improved balance of payments position, KLB relied only on BoK KFX
funds, instead of mobilizing resources from the overseas market.



6.1   KDB's   FINAINCIAL AND OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE                                                                    ,, 1 of 2
lE mmRZ1I  Il=NC Ml   IT BAK
Suiry of Operations(1983-1989)
1983            1984             1985           186              1987            1988             1989
NO.   MOW       No.   MWC        NO.   MDT    NO.   MUfT  NO.   AW                NO.   MN         Nr.   ANW
APPROVAIS                 -   -               -               --
Dmeic Doren  Loas( Nillion)
Approvals                  Z73  13D,104    422  124.464    616  234,377  1,143  402,137  1,387  584,031  1.498  562.193  1,647 1,044,936
Coitments                  27  124,963    427  125,734    586B  22.385  1,145  398,691  1,298  56.6??  1,440  531,931  2,36 1,033,291
Disbsweumts                      114.590          125.423         224,834          360,558         562,511          525,423         682,249
Repmeents                         64,511          98.037          141,784          182,28?         256,102          209,473         284,322
Outstanding at year end    704  271,520    988  208,915  1,301  381,965  2,025  560,236  2,925  866,645  3,458 1,182,595  5,645 1,58,522
Equity  westment(V Million)
Approvals                    1       .DO0     1     -406      6    ,737        4      552      12  12051       19    9,121      15  47,756
Coibtments                   1       300      1     -405      5    2,837       5      650      12   12,051     14    9,121      21   47,756
Disbtursements                       300              95            2,837             650          .12051            9,121           47,756
Converted from Debenture                                                0      2      125                0                                0
Salesof Equity                       140            -691                9               0       1      380               0                0
Obtstanding at year end     39    7,714      43    8,500     47   11,128      54   11,903     65  123,574      78   32S,9      84   80,451
Debertaes(M Nillion)
Approvals                   61   38,440      78   84.812     84  107.930      28   33,655     41   40,348      17   84,812     62  219,250
Coinitments                 63   39.370      75   83,92      71  112,440      27   31,131      25   43,404     17   83,922     84  204,750
Disbsrenmts                       37,239          84,637          112,140          31,817           43,364          64,637          210,250
Repeyments                         7,881          20.412           70,771          113.821          41,991          93,962           34,953
Converted into Equity                                                   0      2      125                                                0
Outstanding at year end    114   56,886    177  120,911    178  162,280    114   80,151       79   81.524      83   52.199     95  227,496
Revolving Funda(S'000)
Approvals                   13    8,728      13    9,282     13    5.565      30   23,315     38   28,199      7   25,400       2    4,364
Coamitents                  15    8,983      13    9,282     12    5,005      23   2D,343           28,710      7   25.440      3    5,455
Disburseuents                      8,23            7,707            8,668          22,407           28.791           7,707            4,055
Repayments                         5,210           2,310            9,703           9,587           23,850           2,310           17,171
Add:Pluctuation from
FX Exchange Rates             -22B          -2,002            3,969            1,408           3,282         -13,563
uMstauding at year end      24   13,2Z7      3B   17,322     37   18,256      43   32,484     54   40,707      59   32,541     60   19,425



6.1  sDB's  FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCJ Eage 2 d2
Foreign Currency LoansW'000)
Approvals                  169  134.205    184  149,23D    155  107,402    141  108,096     72  118,079    151  149.230    206  683,746
Coitments                  159  113.483    188  150.533    179  126,515    135  105,694          114,018    168  150,533    188  575,047
Disbursements                    81.695         139,029         143.517          78,119          117,509         139,029         254,823
Repayments                       74,734          78,754          92,099          95.457          244,059         78.754          190,227
Ad:Fluctuation froa
FX Exchange Rates          -9,259          -26,616          91,354         131,879         184,102         -63,466
Oudstanding at year end    742  531.524    848  565.183    985  707,955  1,064  822,496    987  880,048    935  876,857    907  941,453
Total (V Million Equivalent)
Approvals                  517  282,547    698  340,357    854  445,867  1,346  549,541  1,551  753,119  1.692  801,811  1.551 1.929,080
Comitments                 505  292,055    704  341,818    853  458,844  1,335  539,040  1.336  735,216  1.646  770,944  2,89  1.803.895
Disbursements                   223,635         331,873         473,651         479,743          733,839         720.899       1,171.304
Repayments & Transfer           135.127         185,000         300,714         397.761          510,737         370,677         300.714
Fluetuation from FX Rate          6,868          -5,194         119,065          103,272         89,384           -5.194         119,065
ODustanding at year end    1.623  7689,835  2,092  911,514  2,548 1,203.516  3,300 1,388.770  4.110 1,701,256  4,613 2,.46,284  6,791 3,035,939
1983            1984            1985            1986            1987            1988            1989
NO.   AM=WT    NO.   A0NJ       NO.   AUN       NO.   AN3UK     NO.   AUNT    NO.   MUNT    NO.   AMDUNT
Dosestic Currency Guarwntees(V Million)
Approvals                   3       454      1      270      2    3.141      4    3,001      6    3,533     77  114,458    168  458.375
Outstanding at year end      1      2Do      2      470      2    1,446      5    3,179      6    4,775     74  142,312    203  506,290
Foreign Currency Guarantees($ '000)
Approvals                                   2    7,083       0      597      1    4,083      0        0      8   22,744     12   48,372
Outstading at Year end                       1      781      1      395      1    3,369      1    2.494      9   25.238     20   73.610
Total Guarantees(V Killion Equivalent)
Approvals                   3      451      3    4,961       2    3.561      5    6,066      6    3,987     85  136,902    180  506,047
Outstanding at year end      1      200      3      987      3    1,724      6    5,708      7    6,759     83  167,550    223  579,900



Korea Long Term Credit Bank                                     1  f 2
6.2 KLB's  FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE             --Page 1-of
ProJected Balance Sheets
______________________
Unit : Million won
1983         1984         1985          1986         1987          1988          1989
Assets                                       -------                    -------       ------         ---             -
Curront assets
Cash & bank deposits                       16,000        46,660       40,922        59,181       49,995        74,920       77,830
Yarketable iectikties                      98.225        86,988      108,447       221,461      212,943       144,543      108,435
Short-term loiis                           21,995        16.800       18,000        23,400       36,000        49,000       63,000
Current portioglof loahs &                179,144       248,768      322,651       338,977      336,846       474,952      615,526
debentures
Less : Aliowan6e for lossesi                2,188         2,740        3,460         5,730       10,140        11,050       14,930
Customers' accetance liabi lty              8,100        30,000        9,500         7,500       12,000        15,000        20,000
Accrued interest receivable &
others                                   24.140        31,050       35,714        54;413       23,295        52,885       52,735   o
_______      -------       -------      -------___    _ _ _               _
Subtotal                             345,416       457,526      531,774      699.202       660,939      800,250       922,596   1
Domestic currency loans & debentures        319,147       375,928      52G,904       646,896      879,278    1,251,378    1,553,238
Poreign currency loans                      422.679       487,294      576,271       669,405      741,740       701,690       637,310
Bquity investments                             9,554       19,714       11,774        12,298        13,525       25,367        28,367
Less : Allowance tor losses                    5,830        6,160        8,392        14,660       22,530        26.850        29, 060
Less : Current portion of loans &            179,144      248,768      322,651       338,977      336,846        474,952       615,526
debentures
Long-term customers' acceptance                                         25,500        27,500       68,000       105,000       120,000
liability
Fixed-assets(net) & others                    11,846       14,601        9,650        11,655        12,392       14,835        49,045
Total assets                         923,668    1,100.135    1344,830    1,.713,319    2,016,498    2,396.718    2,665.970
*                       2=====-==   ~~~~~~~~====== !====. =====                =====         ===



6.2   KLB's            AND I           J                       L                                                             Page 2 of 2
Korea Long Term Credit Bats
Projected Balance Sheets
(Continued)
Unit   Million Won
1983         1984          1985          1986          1987          1988          1989
Liabilities                                    -------       -------      -------                       ---
Current liabilities
Deposits                                     20,689        24,344       30,000        36,000        60,000        70,000        90.000
Short-term borrowings                         6.296         4,682        9,700         9,331         5,000         6,000         7,000
Foreign currency deposits                                                                          163,800       275,120       273,610
Current portion of term debt                210,678       221,768      267,408       335,012       426,155       474,952       615,526
Acceptances outstanding                       8,400        30,000        9,500         7,500        12,000        15,000        20,000
Accrued interest payable                     10,814        12,061       39,009        20,433        20,009        16.606        16,816
Other current liabilities                    19,368        22,804            39       33,779        18,116        60,690        60,000
Subtotal                              276,245       315,659       355,656       442,055      705,080       918,368    1,082,952
Domestic currency borrowing                     1,586         1,518         1,451        2,200        73,022       257,457       319,204
Foreign currency borrowings                   426.988       487,904       590,235      692,750       591,276       437,890       368,450
KLB debentures :
Outstanding of KLB debenture                354,018       416,005      568,854       823,658       893,181       983,912    1,222,082
Less : Unamortized discount                  31,295        15,244       54,423        59,095        53,281        92,223       111,073
Accrued interest                             17,401        32,224       34,248        22,238        60,178        82,130        88,550
Less : Current portion of tern  debt        210,678       221,768      267,408       335,012       426,155       474,952       615,526
Long-term acceptances outstanding'             1                           25,500       27,500        68,000       105,000       120,000
Accrued severance benefits                      1,655         2,115         2,500        3,162         3,450         5,200         7.000
Total liabilities                     845,920    1,018,413    1,256,613    1,619,456    1,914,751    2,222,782    2,481,639
Equity
Share capital                                  50,000        50,000        50,000       50,000        50,000        75,000        75,000
Additional paid-in capital                                                                                          37,000        37,000
Retained earnings                              27,748        31,722        38,217       43,863        51,747        61,936        72,331
Subtotal                               77,748        81,722        88,217        93,863       101,747       173,936       184,331
Total Liabilities & Equity                    923,668    1,100,135    1,344,830    1.713,319    2,016,498    2,396,718    2,665.970



6.3  IELB's FINMICIAL AND OPERATIONAL PERFORMIANCE                                                        Page 1 of 2
B. Actual Balanice Sheets
Unit : million won
1983         1984        1985         1986         1987         1988        1989
Assets
Current assets
Cas  &t bank deposits'                     53,001       66,685       63.598      52,.`06      76,496       71.150      140.792
M'arlketable securities                    70.244       76,064      119,613     213.847      155,86    250,780         498.369
Short-term loans                            7,489       14,392       12,857      19,925       34,659       68,241      132.826
Current portion of loans &
debentures                             227,598      311,338    336,293    411, 4 34    462.'477        461,334      729M0O0
Lcss: Allowance for losses                  2,430        3,310        4.017       3,090        8,820;      10,700       13,910
Custowers'acceptance  liability            15,079        7,912        6,651       8,085       10.971       17.955       4(,152
Accrued interest receivalc &
othet s                                 38, 993       33,267      63.796       29,413       65, 954     81,547        35.494
Suototal                             409.974      506, 348    598.791    726,820    797,593    q40, 307  1.k 68, 713
Dorestic currentcy loans &
debeRture                                 490.590      604. 019    781,877      816.632      94,. 178'  1. 234,793  1,. Onh. 1f.
For;ign currtlcy loans                      21. 529      2';8. 915    381,964     560,236    7 9, 513       6,"'. 0¶J3    670,091
Eq,uity iinvtstments                          7,713        7.529       10.298       11,525      23, 367      32, 05       850,451
Less: Allowance for losses                    5.35,        5,810        9,103       18,110      2 2. 4158    2. 694       33,c,70
Less: Cuuriciit plortiont of loatis &
dcl'entXurcs                              227, 5(3.    311,338    336,293    411,434    4162.ii    4       6 1.3 3     7T9. 4 7
;.oa:-.- Ievei :ustot,iers' a.-ffjjtaat-
lialhi Iit-                                             21,1i t25. 437           4i,723       'I.          14').5 596,   3374I
Fi:ed assets(rPOt) & oti-rs                   8,0(17       7,542        8.455        3,926        9, 27's    12,G61 6       4
Total astseL.s                       95-1. 365  1. 1E2, 343  1, 4161. 476  1.739.318  2. l1:3.;  22: 6. 5.R 7  3.'? .2-



Page 2 of 2
6.3  KLB's  FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL PERFOEAIMNCE                                                     Unit : million won
1983        1984         1985        1986         1987        1988         1989
Liabilities
_ _ _ _ _ _
Current liabilities:
Deposits              .                   22, 395      b9. 117     28.725      51,724       52.,559    105,118      167,021
Short-term borrowings                      1,315        1.751       2,615        3,'70       5.725      11.826        6.625
Current portion of term debt             182,407     226.187    278.222    353.538    471.089    496.483    873,743
Acceptar.ces outstanding                  15.079        7.912       6.651       8, 085      10.971      17, 955      46,152
Accrued interest payable                  10,279       13.215      17,492      21, 843      22. 022     22.428       27.812
Other current liabilities                 28.438      27.428       39.710       18,548      71.144      75.430    166.021
Subtotal                            259.913    305,610    373.415    457,508    633.510    729,240  1.287.374
Domestie currency borrowing                  1,586        1.519       2,267       13.090    149,431    295.259    443.767
Foreigk  currency borrowings               456,761      506.458    672.214    756.416        470,648      259,372     167.68'i
Foreign cu!rrency deposits                    -            -            -           -        274,922    394.824    442,931
XLi, debenturcs  :                                                                                                                              ch
Outstandi jg of KLB debentuire           334.545     428. 630    596.129    755.226    865.862  1.010,588  1.3565.044
Less: Unaeortized discount                22, 83834    25.010      56,036      57.253       71,613      69.675       62.157
Accrued ioterest                          28. 779     31.477       35.195      25.131       55. 544      8. ,304    114.449
Lesc.: Current portion of
terc ddtt                           182,407      226,187    278.222    353,538    471.089    496.483    873.743
L.-ng-tern acceptances outstandiiig           -          21.' 39     25,487       44.723      90, 823     149.596    533. 749
Accrued sevcrance beniefits                  1,615        1.965       2,642        3.043       3,986        5. 641       6.'76
Tolhl liabilities                   8 7, 908 1,045.i600  1,373,091  1,644.346  2,011,024  2. 36.. , 566  3, 416. 3,
Sh,are cavitl                               50, 090      50.000      50.Q000      50.000     5P. 000      75, 1i10   172, 0013
Ca;ita1 surplus                              -            -            -           -                       37. 000    238, SOU
retaincd earnings                           26,957       32.743      38.385       44.972      52,791       68,321       94. 56
Suhl eta 1                           76. 957      82. 743      88.385      94,972    102.794    180t1 21        5(5. 3;&9
i'o'.al Liabilities & Equity        954,865  1,128.343  1.461.476  1,739. 318  2.113.818  2. 54. '.-.37  3,922. 239



6,4  KLB's  FIHA1CIAL AND OPERATIOllAL PRRFOPRMNCE
Korea Long Term Credit Bark
Projected Income Statements
Unit   million Won
1983          1984          1985          1986          1987           1988          1989
Income                                         -----       -------                     -------
Interest on loans and debentures
Domestic currency
Short-term loans                             1,100         1,215         1,956         2,228         3,010         4,700          6,300
Long-term loans                             51,674        55,371        71,159        74,350        97,913       129,686        166.040
Foreign currency loans                        45,196        51,503        51,308        66,284        68,691         68,624        63.690
Subtotal                              97,970       108.089       124,423        142,862       169,614       203,010       236,030
Commitment fees                                  1,312         1,338          1,1155         1,856         1,374         1,830          1,050
Dividend                                         1,840         1,150          2,177         2,510         2,940         3,100         3.960
Income from reserve fund                        14,155        13,277        13,961        30,635        27,130         22,020        18.210
Income from FX transactionon & others            1,649         1,351         6,308         5,615         4,480          6,350         6,390
Total revenue                          116,926       125,205        147,984       183,478       205,538       236,310       265,640
Bxpenses                                                                                                                                 4
Interest on borrowings:
Deposits                                       1,680         1,550         1,550         1,777          3,350         4,270         5,600
KLB debenture:                                                            64,548        83,506
Interest on debenture                      25,739        33,255                                     64,890        55,680        57,000
Amortization of discount                   28,801         20,229                                    33,125        50,170         67,670
Foreign currency borrowings                   38,221        44,012        50,085        58,319        59,916         60,690        55,Al0
Other borrowings                                  65           132           819           792         3,740         15,120        21,150
Subtotal                                94,506        99,178       117,002        144,394       165,021       185,930       207,230
Commitment charges                                 823         2,097          1,443         1,313           520           160
G & A expenses                                   5,739         6,427          6,753         7,926         7,980        10,280        12,800
Provision for losses                             1,158         1,440         2,450          7,270         6,970         7,122         6,590
Other expenses                                   2,613         4,098          5,363         7,396         6,122         9,656        11,650
Total expenses                         104,839       113,240        133,011       168,299       186,613       213,148       238,270
Income before income taxes                      12,087        11,965        14,973        15,179         18,925        23,162        27,370
Provision for income taxes                       3,082         3,200         4,500          4,700         7,150         9,020        10,100
Net



'A. Actual Incomc Statements
Unit : million won
1983       1984       1985        1986       1987        1988       1989
Incove
Interest on loans and dc'oentures
Domestic currency .:-
Short-term loans  '                     1,067      1,166       1,788      2,569      3,537       6.190    14,788
Long-term loans & debentures           49,560     57.704    72,567    78.797   100.356   127.446   169,547
Foreign currency loans                   45.983    49,212    57,692    72,146    74,887           64,530    68,461
Subto)tal                           96,610   108,082   .132, 047   153,512   178,780    198,166   252,796
Commitment fees                             1,661       1.354      1,263       1,077      1, 82      2,530    10,092
Dividend                                    1,117       1,346      2.133       2,106      2,832      3.806      5,654
Income from reserve fund                   14,806     12. 899     14.40S    26,682    25,532    28.438    38,261
Income from FX traosaction &
others                                    2. 726     4.706       6,323      9.587       6,364     10.828    18,391
Total reveiiue                      116,920   12S.387   156,174   193,564   215,3'90   243,768   325.194
EPC C ss
Interest on borrorings
Depr,sits                                 1,248       1. 219     1,637      2. 157      2, 925     5. 122     9.000
Kh!  debenture
Interest odl del-ckture               25, 427    31.489    40,312    54,006    57.811    4I,825    79,056
A'-ortization of disconnt              29.,380    23.079    25,687       26.737    38. '981    46.230    51. 43
Foreign curreiicy borroingz:             38,685     46.015      54,82i     65,885    64,.276 1     2,S6    54.823
Gther borrrowings                           451         698        752         464      4,968     16, 7(It,    31, 740
Siibtntal                           95. 191    1'. 500   123,214   149,'249   168,961   112, '"39   2 2 6,562
Cor4itmen;t c'a.rges                         1,532      1.711      1,291       1,I93      1,016      .282           t7
V, A expei,Ses                            6, 186      7.134      6,799      6,. 47      8.075  t11, 055      j, . i4b
i'rovision for Ic.::ses                        920      1.340      4. 129    13, 00       8.700     ;7, 222     9.486
bther expenscs                              2. 182      3. 491     6,361       7,995      7, 349    12. 457    28, 773
Tctal cxrenlses                     lt,. 011   116. 176   141,794   178,164   194,101    11255   279, 934
Income before income taxc:.                10.909      12,211     14,380    15, 41 0    21.209    III.813    4 5, 2(0
Provision for iiicope taxts                 2.700       2,700      4,100       4,000      8,950    0,700    'l, 700
Yet itcop:e                                      1      9               1          '0    1 II  9    10,113       2,560



6.6  ;LsB's FIUAUCIAL AID OPERATIOkAL PflPForP*1ag1  f
Page 1 of 2
Korea Long Term Credit Bank
____________________________
Ratio Analysis
Unit    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989
____           .____                    ------ ___   -    --
1. Income from term loans & debenture/                       13.90   13.32   12.36   11.36  11.21   11.02   11.14
average term loan & deb. portfolio
2. Cost of term debt/ave. term debt                   %      12.80   11.59   11.15   10.49  10.06    9.82    9.81
3. Interest spread(l-2)                               %       1.10    1.73    1.21    0.87   1.15    1.20    1.33
4. Income from FX loan/ave. FX loan                   X      11.10   11.03    9.83   10.15   9.35    9.65    9.51
portfolio
5. Cost of PX term debt/ave. Fx term debt             %       9.20    9.34    9.40    8.74   8.00    8.29    8.24
6. Interest spread(4--5)                              %       1.90    1.69    0.43    1.41   1.35    1.36    1.27
7. Income from Won currency term loans
& deb./ave. Won currency term loans              %       17.80   16.87   15.21   13.01  13.01   11.92   11.92
& deb. portfolio
8. Cost of Von currency term debts/                   X      15.50   14.72   13.09   12.24  11.88   10.83   10.58
Average Won currency term debts
9. Interest spread(7-8)                               %       2.30    2.15    2.12    0.77   1.13    1.09    1.34
10. Income from all portfolio/all                    X       13.80   13.49   12.66   12.35  11.47   11.32   II.36
ave. portfolio
11. Financial expense/ave. debt & equity              %      12.20   11.74   10.17   10.06   9.36    9.06    8.94
12. Earning sprcad                                    X       1.60    1.75    2.49    2.29   2.11    2.26    2.42
13. G & A expenses/ave. total assets                  X       0.70    0.60    0.55    0.50   0.42    0.46    0.51
14. Provision for losses/loans                        %       1.00    1.00    1.00    1.50   1.95    1.95    2.00



6.6  [KLBs FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE                                                   Page 2 of 2
Unit    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989
15. Return on total assets                                      1.30    1.14    1. 11    0.89    0. 94  - 0. 97    1. 03
(before Income taxes)
16. Return on total assets                                      1.00    0.86    0.78    0.61    0.58    0.59    0.65
(after income taxes)
17. Return on equity                                   x       11.58   10.73   11.87   11.16   11.57    8.13    9.37
(after income taxes)
18. Earnings per share *                              won        180      175      209     210   1, 178      943   1,151
19. Cash dividend ratio                                        10.00    8.00   10.00   10.00   10.00   10.00   10.00
20. Payout ratio                                       X       55.50   48.73   47.74   4. 71   42.46   40.52   48.61
(cash dividend/net Income)
21. Interest coverage ratio                          times      1. 12    1.12    1.36    1.24    1.56    1.55    1.53
22. Debt service coverage ratio                      tines      1.05    1.22    1. 21    1.37    1.28    1. 13    1.25
23. D/E ratio                                                  10.48   12.22
- Including current maturity                     times                      10. 18   14.64   14 40    9.49    9.92
- Excluding current maturity                     times                      12.14   12.51   11.86    7.47    7.55
24. Current ratio                                    times      1.25    1.58    1.50    1.58    0.94    0.87    0.85
* 1983-86 : par value (11,000). 87-89   par value (W5,000)



6.7   -hLB's  FINANCIL AND OPERAnTI(L PWOR
V. Ratio Ana1lysis
lnmit   I tj;     1084       I9Hq      !i:t:   I,l7      I08.       19P1'
i. lurntr rr... 'rrm leabl a
debentore / average term
ioam II 4el. portfolio                 X   lt.69       13.00     12.73      11.97    MO.61     il. 87    11.33
2. Cost .F t-ers 4ebt/
ave. term debt                          !    12.94     11.75     11.14      10.80     9.as5      .43       9.55
3 Illrti-it !.rrsol            f.    U. t%                 I. 11,     1.       I l        .         I.
4. Imrome Iron FX loan/
avetX Inoa  portifuli                  %   11.03      10.83     10.29      10.51   10.39       .1.41    111.36
5. los.t oF Fi  lerm debt/
ave. FX term debt                       t    9.34       9.91      9.52      9.29      8. bS     7.55       B. 68
6. Interest spread                         %     1.69       0.92      0.77     1.12       1.74      1.76      1.68
7. Isnt.o.r  from  Won currrasy
term loans b deb./ave. Won
currency Ilerm loass &
deb. portfolio                          X   17.18      15.43     15.51      13.63    12         11.68     11.14
8. Cost or Von turrency term
debts/ Average eos curreney
term debts                              S   18.05      14.05     13.03      12.32    11.69     10.6=.      9.R9
9. Interest spread                              -0.88       1.38      2.49     1.31       0.94      1.03       1.25
10. lucour from *ll rnrtfolio/
all ave. Portfollo                      X    13.49     12.92      12.6b     12.113   11. 5)    19.84       9.33
II. Flrnancln1 e tpeuses/ave. debt
& equity                                *   11.74      10.76     10.28      10.06    9.64       8.77       7.02
12. Earning spread                          %     1.75      2.16       2.38     1.97       1.9s      L.07      2.32
13. C a A expenses/ave. total
assets                                  %    0.70       0.68      0.53      0.42      0.42      0.43       0.47
14. Provision for losses/loans              X     1.00       1.00      1.10     1.90       1.`)      1.90      2.00
15. Return on total assets
(before  income taxes)                        1.14      1.08      0.98     0.89       1.111     1. 2.      1.I;
26. Return on total assets
(after income taxes)                   *    0.86        0.84      0.70     0.66       0.5S      0.79       0.83
17. Returo an eqinty
(after ilcone taxes)                   %   10 67       11.49     11.63      22.01 2i . fin   I1 II         ,.44
18. Earaings Per share                      %   16.40      19.00      20.60    22.ro   24. 7f    26. 2il    1. 911
19. Cash dividend ratio                           8.00     10.00      10.00    10.00   11. 'JO   'In.1I0      In.flu
20. Payout ratio
(cash dividend/net income)              s   48. 73    52.57      48.b4    43.85    1u. 12    3. 35    2O. ilt
21. Interest coverage ratio              time     1.12       .li       1.04     1.30       I.3r      1.40       1.41
22. Debt s.rvice coverage ratio          tine      1 22      1.18      1. 39    1. 30      1. 1I     1. 211     1. ;2
23. D/E ratio
-including current matirity    line    9.30           10.33     14.,:Z     16.1a  I i5        9.t.l      20Ir%
-Excluding current maturity        time    8. 01       8.92     11.2J8    IL 16   13. 21       '.S       14.2z
24. Cnrrrst ratio                        tIle     1.60       1.60      1.50     I. 6       0 0.      l. 1'      1. 211



li.8 iX's FIAMI.CIAAM, OUPLATIM'Ai. rURFOMAHUCF
Statement of resources as of the end of 1983-190
1983          1284           1985          1286           1287           1988          1289
Lcal curn    resources  Killion)                                                                     --
Stare capital                               50.000        50.000         50.000         50.000        50,000         75.000        172,000
Resrves & Retained eanings                  25.57         32,743         38.384         44,92         52,794         68,321        94.5S9
Net stoxklolders' equity                  76,957        82,743         88.384         94,9M        102.794        143,21         286,9
Doastic   a         bcroinns                 1.586         1.519          2.27          13.090       147.485        295.259        443.76?
1aamce of KIt fetatre                     340,440        435.0,5        575.288       723.103        794.249      1.02,.217      1.408.335
Premit an Capital Stod                                                                                              37.000       238.800
Deits received                             22.050         20,117         28,725        51.724         51,956        103.951        160.244
/M-bacic:ronhc" dlrge                       10.53)        13,395         18,088        31,506         37.650         41.165        51.303
Total local acrency resors              451.563        561.870       712,752        914,325      1.134,134     1.649,913      2T569.019
lm:tal mrrencs loans ouLtsning              zn.529         298.915        361.965       5FKI.235       866645       1.182.595      1.580D.2
Bond & Debentire outstanding             58,686        12D.911       162,280         80,151        81.524         52.199        227.496
lFuity investients                        7.714         8,500         11,128         11,9D3        23.574         32.695         80,451
Fixed asets(et cost)                      7,847   -     8,280          9,951         10.812         11,455        12,621         24,177
DefrTmd  ssets                            1,203           521
Res-ed at B.0.K                             474         2.037            570          2,92D         3.628          8,909         24,677
Shrt-teru loa  outstading                 7,489         14.3P2        12,857         19,15         34.496         68,225        130,253
sub-total                             353.032        453,55B       578.751        685.946      1.021,322      1.357.244     2.067.576
Available for dismrsemnt                    98.531       108,314        134,001       228,441        112.812        292,669        501.443
t0s:Ulndisldwsed  omitaent                  17,115        16,210         18,061         54.898        71.165         98,362        241,326
Available for emitinmt                     81.416         92,104        115.940        173.551        41,647        194,3D7       2BD,047
Less:lnamitted apoals                       13.849        13.469         17,051        22.897         24,247         40.380        120,941
Available for apol                         67.567         78.635         98,889        150.654        17.430        153.927        139.106
F;reign Twrec  resres($'WOOD)
IRRD laws                                 548.289        548,289        666.775       654.845        654,845       595,419        593366.
tIB loans                                  247.589       247.570        243.203       219,378        215.697        2i3.254       213.284
PIC  loam                                  17.800         17.800         17,800        17,800         17.800         17,800        17.800
DM3  loan                                   2.000          2,000          2,0           2.000          2.000         2.000          2,000
AID & Caterpi I lar loan                    2.571          2,97t          2,971         2,071          2,971         2,5171         2,971
NO loan                                     20.000        2D.00D         20.000        20.000         20D.000       20.000         20,00
IMMB loan                                  30,000         3D,000         3D.000        3D.000         30.000         30.000        3D,.OO
IBJ lOan                                   50,000         50.000        50,000         5D,ODO         50.000        49P943         49.943
Da  loan                                   225.000       205,000        35.00          364.40D       368.873        353.882       352,885
Refinrnc & Others                           11,990        19,032         30.264        25,870        116,599        827.483      1.514.279
Total fmreign awreny resources         1.155.639      1,232,662     1.428,703      1.387,254      1.478.785     2,112,762      2.7B6.508
I,ss:Total lms dibused                    85B.399        907,428      1,140.945      1.219.064     1.343.247      1.911.43D      2.166,253
Available for diabursehnt                 207,240        235,234        287,758        168,200       135,538        2D1.332       630,255
Less:Ijdiabur.ed ce_itint                  64.670         76.174        59.172         86.746         60.623        107,196       427.420
Available for ouitutt                     232.570        159.060        228.586        81,454         74.915         94,13B       202,835
toss:lkicotted aproNals                     40.849        39.546         20.433        22.835         31.731         51,377        16D.076
Available for apmroal                      191.721       119.514        208.153        58,619         43.184         42.759        42.759
Total femues QW Million equivalent)
Total reos                               1.370,874     1,584.3i3      1,987.869      2.109.384     2,33D.323      3.469.846      4.831.114
Available fwr disbursomt                   334,885       303.441        330.825       373,336        222.448        466.096      1.011.25S
Available fr aitent                       266.425        224,044        319,953       243.715        102,245        275,395       424.120
Available for amwal                        22.081        177.772        284,666       201.148         52.331        190.759        173.693



- 70 -
7.    PROJECT-PEMRfRANCE OF THE KOREA BANKINO INSTITUTE
The Government entered into a Loan Agreement with the Bank to draw in
various currencies the amount of $255.0 million of which $5.0 million may
be used for overseas tralning ($2.5 million) and consultant services ($2.5
million). Under the agreement, the Government relent the proceeds of the
loan to each of the agencies and institutions participating in the
training. Accordingly, the Government entered into a Subsidiary Agreement
with the Miniatry of Finance through the Korea Banking Institute who in
turn made a Subloan Agreement with each of the agencies and institutions
participating in the training. Under the direction and supervision of the
MOF, KBI managed the project to train the staff of aupervisory agencies and
selected financial institutions. The participating institutions consist of
two non-monetary financial institutions, 14 monetary financial
institutions, one credit guarantee fund instltution and four securities and
insurance company. The Training Projects, which aimed at cultivating
financial specialists and promoting the development of advanced financial
techniques to meet the requireoments for the liberalization and
internationalization of the Korean financial system and effective bank
management, covered both academic and on-the-job training.
KBI assisted the HOF in the execution of the Training Projects by
performing managerial activities related to the proceeds of the loans as
preparation of relevant documents for withdrawals and repayments, etc. KBI
also maintained financial records and prepared financial statements only
for the $2.0 million (of the $2.5 mllon) portion of the overseas
training. The remaining $0.5 mill' n was used for the training of the
staff of supervisory agencies and #as administered directly by the MOF.
KBI performance of its responsibilities under the loan has been
satisfactory. In 1984 total assets of the training fund amounted to W442
million and grew to W3,032 million by 1988. In 1988 total subloans
benefitting about 408 staff of participating financial institutions and the
MOF amounted to W2,237 million. To cover mInium direct costs relating to
its financing, the Government collects an administrative fee from KBI at
the rate of 0.5X. KBI is reiobursed by the participating financial
inotitutions for the management fee paid.



nKREA BANKING INSTITUTE
TRAINING PROJFCT UNDER IBRO LOAN AGREEMENT
BALANCE SHEET
December 31. each years
--   -------------------                                                                                             =  - -
YEARS                                 1984          1985           1986           1987           1988           1989
ASSETS
Special account                                                       -    45.650.295      86,486,473      2.238.937     27,292.000
Subloans of I8RD Loan funds                   349.715,450  1.282,763.377 2.064.732.757  2.415,173,465 2,236.520-030  1.902.611.156
Unsettled subloans of IBRD loan funds          75.669,004    48.131.947    182,012.370    152.283,527    89,921,394               -
Due from Government budget.                     1,429.914    351.040.722    427,813.472    403.118,132    626,421.521    705.576.397
interest receivabLe                           10.602.702     48,135,152     80.926.135     86.192,785    7.341.134       79.669,510
co uitient fees receivable                      4.940,394     2.685,355      3.360.951       1,715.702        16.544         27.258
Administrative fees received                           -              -              13           780          1.303          5.583
W  442.357,464  1.732.756,553  2.804.495.993  3.144.970.864  3.032.460.863  2.715,181.904    '
Liabilities
Borrowings from 6overnment. Credit of        349.715,450  1,587,533,527  2,473,238,299  2,803.157.428  2.841,360.504  2.579.807.251
IBRD to Government
Unsettled borrowings from Government,         75,669,004     82,629,134    227,662,665    238,770,000    92.160.331      27.292.000
credit of IBRD to Government
Interest Payable                               10.602.702    59,162,960     96,745,316     99,756,758    98.940.028    108.045.861
Coanitment fees payabLe                        6,370,308      .3,430,932     6.849,713      3,286,678              -         27.258
Administrative fees PaYable                                           -        -                                   -          9,534
9  442.357,464  1,732,756,553  2,804,495,993  3.144.970,864  3.032.460.863  2,715.181.904
---====--==============-=--=====  



!,OJECT PUOENANI'CI. OF 1K31                             KOREA BANKING INSTITUTE
TRAINING PROJECT UNDER IBRD LOAN AGREEMENT
STATENENT F INCOME
the year ended December 31. each years
YEARS                                1984           1985          1986           1987           1988          1989
REVENUE
Interest income on subloans               10.602,702    76.780,300    152,585,373    187,368,096    177.219,815    154,402.375
Interest income on special account                 -             -      3,268,518      2.200,412     5,446,976      3.056.934
Comsitment fee income                     15.393.154      7,356,092     9,555,381      4,476,828       829,021         92.208
Administrative fee income                     S5190         24.229         65.924        191.645        190,278       189.932
Transferred fros Government budget         4.044,624    358.088,518    111,878,110    65,227,963    10.054,951     41.700.689
Foreign currency translation gain                  -             -              -              -    45.56S,026     34.848.371
V   30.045.670   442.249.139    277.353.306    259.464.944    239.306.067    234.290.509   j
EXPENSES
Interest expense on-borrowings            10,602.702    93.538.229    190.427.218    220.972,322   218.385.466    207.136.022
Commitment fee expenses                   19.436,448     9,414,913     17.604,469      9,781,674      5,565.312     5.587,775
Administrative expenses                        6.520        28,660         83,414        236,370       233,24B        319,161
Training expenses for Hinistry of                  -   339.267,337     69,238.205     28.474.578             -     11.614.500
Finance staff
Transferred to Government budset                   -             -              -              -    15.122.041      9,633,051
30.045.670    442.249.139    277.353.306    259.464.944    239.306.067    234,290.509
Excess of revenuesoverenseV-  -                                                                                          -    - -  -  -
Excess of revenues over expenses                       -
_  - - - - -



Page 1 of 4
8. STATUS OF COVENANTS
Section     Activity                                          Remarks
Loan Agreement with the Government:
3.01 (e)    Relend proceeds of Part Cl of the loan to         Complied
financial institutions participating in the
training under contracts in accordance with
the Loan Agreement.
3.02        Exchange views on the progress achieved in        Complied
financial sector reform.
3.05 (a)    Furnish the Bank plans, specifications,           Complied
reports, etc. for Part C of the project
and any changes thereof.
3.05 (b)    Maintenance of procedures and records             Complied
adequate to reflect operations, resources
and expenditures regarding the Project
3.06        For Part C2 of the Project, employ consult-       Complied
ants and experts satisfactory to the Bank
and in accordance with Bank procedures.
3.08 (a)    Carry out training under Cl of the Project        Complied
satisfactory to the Bank; furnish not later
than 12/31/83 a training program and not later
than September 30 each year, schedule to be
carried out in the following years.
3.08 (b)    Furnish to the Bank for approval training         Complied
contracts costing $ 75,000 or more.
4.01 (b)    Maintain seperate accounts reflecting all         Complied
expenditures on which withdrawals from loan
account on the basis of SOEs.
4.01 (c)    (i)  Audit of financial statements for each       Complied
fiscal year.
(ii) Furnish the Bank, as soon as available
but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each year: certified copies of the
financial statements as audited; and the report of
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested.



-74 -                            Pae 2  f4
STATUS OF COVENANTS
Section     Activity                                          Remarks
Project Agreement with KDB:
2.09 (a)    Not to ammend the Policy Statement except         Complied
agreement with the Bank and exchange views
with the Bank on progress of the project.
2.09 (b)    Inform the Bank of any condition which            Complied
interferes with the progress of the project.
3.01 (a)    Maintain procedures and recards to monitor        Complied
progress of the project and to reflect
operations and financial condition of KDB.
3.01 (b)    (i)  Audit of financial statements for each       Comk"lied
fiscal year.
(ii) Furnish the Bank, as soon as available
but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each year: certified copies of the
financial statements as audited; and the report of
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested.
3.01 (c)    Not to incur any debt if consolidated debt        Complied but
outstanding would be lOx the consolidated        actual ratio
capital and surplus.                             close to limit
3.03 (a)    Take steps necessary to protect against           Complied
risk of loss from changes in foreign exchange.
3.03 (b)    Maintain a weighted average effective spread    Not complied
of at least 2Z on its lending from foreign
commercial borrowings.
Schedule    Eligibility of Investment Enterprises:
- Maximum subloan size of $ 15 million           Complied
equivalent.
-  Investment enterpises with debt equity        Complied
ratio not to exceed 5x and for those with
debt equity ratio of 4.5x, should have a
debt service ratio of at least 1.25x during
the first three years of operation.



- 75 -
Page 3 of 4
STATUS OF COVENANTS
Section     Activity                                          Remarks
-  Spread of 2X over cost of proceeds of         Not complied
Bank loan and 1X for the period 7/1/86 to        but Bank agreed
6/30/87.                                         to change in
9/4/86.
Proiect Agreement with KLB:
2.09 (a)    Not to ammend the Policy Statement except         Complied
agreement with the Bank and exchange views
with the Bank on progress of the project.
2.09 (b)    Inform the Bank of any condition which            Complied
interferes with the progress of the project.
3.01 (a)    Maintain procedures and records to monitor        Complied
progress of the project and to reflect
operations and financial condition of KDB.
3.01 (b)    (i)  Audit of financial statements for each       Complied
fiscal year.
(ii) Furnish the Bank, as soon as available
but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each year: certified copies of the
financial statements as audited; and the report of
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested.
3.02        Not to incur debt if total debt outstanding       Complied until
would be greater than 12x the consolidated        1985 when debt
capital and surplus.                             equity ratio
was 13.5x.
Ratio was revi-
ed to 15x under
the Second Ind.
Finance Loan.
3.03        Take steps necessary to protect against           Complied
risk of loss from changes in foreign exchange.
Schedule    Eligibility of Investment Enterprises:
- Maximum size of subloan of $ 10 million.       Complied



- 76 -                              ge 4 of 4
STATUS OF COVENANTS
Section     Activity                                           Remarks
-  Investment enterpises with debt equity         Complied
ratio not to exceed 5x and for those with
debt equity ratio of 4.5x, should have a
debt service ratio of at least 1.25x during
the first three years of operation.
-  Spread of 2% over cost of Bank loan.           Complied



9.1 Use of Bank Resources
Staff Inuns
Stage of
Project Cyce         FY82    FY83    FY84    FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89   TOTAL
Preparation           10.6     19.2       -        -        -        -        -        -      29.8
Appraisal              0.4     74.6        -       -        -        -        -        -      75.0
Negotiations            -       6.1       -        -        -        -        -        -       6.1
Lending Operations    71.3     37.4       -        -        -        -        -        -    108.7
Supervision             -       1.2    13.5       5.7      7.8      1.4      3.6      3.5    36.7
Completion              _-                -        -        -       0.7       -       1.8      2.5
Administration          -       0.5      3.5      0.5      2.3      1.1       -        -       7.9
TOTAL               82.3    139.0     17.0      6.2    10.1       3.2      3.6      5.3    266.7



78 -
9.2 Use of Bank Resources
Mlsdons
Stage of            Month/      No. of   Days In    Specialization           Performance        Typos of
Projoct Cycle         Year   Persons    Field       Represented                 Rating          Problems
nrough Appraisal:   6/81           1       NA  Industrial Economics
5/82          9        14  Industrial Economis_
Development Banking
Flnanclal Policy
npralsal through    11/82          5        21  Development Banking
aard Approval                                   Technia Assistance
Financlal Policy
Industril Economic
2/83          4       NA   Development Banking
Industrial Economics
4/83          1        10  Computer Technology 
oard Approval       7/83           1       NA   Legal Agreements                 _
trough
ifectiveness        8/83           2        7  Development Banking               _
Industrial Economics
'pervision:
Mlssion 1           3184           2        14  Development Banking      Minor to Moderate    Project Performance
Securities Market           Problems       Effects of Policy
Capital Markets                               on KDB
Mlssion 2           6/84           1        21  Development Banking      Minor Problems
sMission 3          4/86           2        14  Development Banking      Minor to Moderate    Project Management
Problems      Development Impact
Overall Status
Aission 4           3/87           1       10  Development Banking      Minor to Moderate    Prolect Management
Problems      Development Impact
Overall Status
Aission 5           3/88          1        10  Development Banking      Moderate Problems   Prolect Management
I__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   I__ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   I__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   O verall  Status



