Document of
The World Bank                                FIL        |
FOR OFFICIAL USE )NLY
Report No. P-3589-K
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION ANJ DEVEI
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$255 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
FOR AN INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
May 20, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
As of iDecember 31, 1982
Current Unit - Korean Won (W)
$1             =   W 750
$ 1 million    =   W 750 million
W 1            =   0.0013
W 1 million   =   $1,333
W 1 billion   =   $1.33 million
ACRONYMS
ADB       -  Asian Development Bank
BOK       -  Bank of Korea
CNB       -  Citizens National Bank
DMB       -  Deposit Money Bank
KAIST     -  Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology
KDB       -  Kora Development Bank
KDFC      -  Korea Development Finance Company
KLB       -  Korea Long-Term Credit Bank
KTAC      -  Korea Technology Advancement Corporation
KTDC      -  Korea Technology Development Corporation
LTCB      -  Long-Term Credit Bank
MOF       -  Ministry of Finance
NIF       -  National Investment Fund
PCR       -  Project Completion Report
SAL       -  Structural Adjustment Loan
SMIB      -  Small and Medium Industry Bank
SMIPC     -  Small and Medium Industry Promotion Corporation



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KOREA
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          The Republic of Korea
Beneficiaries:    The Korea Development Bank (KDB), the Korea Long-Term
Credit Bank (KLB) for the credit component, Ministry of
Finance (MOF), Bank of Korea (BOK), commercial banks and
other financial institutions for the technical assistance/
training component.
Amount:            US$255 million equivalent.
Terms:             15 years, including 3 years of grace at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate. The US$5 million equivalent ear-
marked for the technical assistance component administered
by MOF would have a fixed amortization schedule; the
US$250 million equivalent credit component to be relent to
KDB and KLB would have two separate amortization schedules
conforming substantially to the aggregate of the amortiza-
tion schedules applicable to the specific investment
projects financed out of the proceeds of the proposed loan
by each institution.
Relending
Terms:           The Government would relend the loan proceeds earmarked
for the credit component to KDB and KLB on substantially
the same terms as the Bank loan, except that the Govern-
ment would charge an additional 0.05% loan administration
fee over and above the variable standard Bank interest
rate. The credit component would be allocated to KDB and
KLB with respective amounts of $130 million equivalent and
$120 million equivalent. KDB and KLB would onlend the
proceeds of the credit component to final subborrowers at
a variable interest rate of 2% above the effective cost of
the Bank loan (including the front-end and administration
fees) for a maximum maturity of 13 years, including a
maximum grace period of 3 years.  Subborrowers will assume
the foreign exchange risk. Financial institutions whose
staff would participate in the $2.5 million training
component would enter into relending arrangements with the
Government. The terms and conditions of these arrangements
would provide for an interest rate which would be the same
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
as the Bank's standard variable interest rate; an admini-
strative fee of 0.05%; and a maximum maturity of 15 years
including a maximum grace period of 3 years. The foreign
exchange risk on the training component would be borne by
the participating institutions.
Project
Description:       The project would support the Government's ongoing program
of financial sector reform. The credit component of the
proposed loan would help cover the foreign exchange
requirements of subprolects financed by KDB and KLB over
the next two years, mostly in the manufacturing sector.
It is expected that about 160 high priority investment
projects would be financed under the credit component.
Project benefits are expected to be comparable to those
of previous Bank loans to KDB and KLB where financial and
economic rates of return reached 22% and 32%, respectively.
The technical assistance component is designed to support
the process of financial sector reform through overseas
staff training and to help improve the tax and credit
information system. There are no unusual risks associated
with the project.
Estimated
Disbursements:    Bank FY         1984     1985      1986   1987
-------------$million---------
Annual          33.3   L23.7      86.0   12.0
Cumulative      33.3   157.0    243.0  255.0
Staff Appraisal
Report:            No. 4435-KO dated May '20, 1983.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA FOR AN INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Korea, for the equivalent of US$255 million to help
finance an Industrial Finance Project. The loan is for a term of 15 years
including 3 years of grace at the standard variable interest rate. The
Government will relend $130 million of the Bank loan proceeds to the Korea
Development Bank (KDB), and $120 million of the Bank loan proceeds to the
Korea Long-Term Credit Bank (KLB) on the same terms as the Bank loan, plus
an administrative fee of 0.05% p.a. KDB and KLB will onlend the proceeds of
the loan to final subborrowers at a variable interest rate of 2% above the
effective cost of the Bank loan, (including the front-end and administrative
fees) for a maximum maturity of 13 years, including 3 years of grace. The
portions of the loan earmarked for KDB and KLB would have two separate
amortization schedules conforming substantially to the aggregate amortization
schedules applicable to the specific investment projects financed out of the
proceeds of the proposed loan by each institution.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The latest Economic Report entitled "Korea:  Adjusting to a New
World Environment" was distributed under cover of Sec M82-514 dated June 1,
1982. The following summary is based on this Report together with updating
information obtained during a Bank mission in August 1982. The Country Data
Sheets are attached as Annex 1.
Past Performance
3.        Twenty years ago, Korea was one of the poorest developing
countries, heavily dependent on agriculture, with a weak balance of payments
financed almost entirely through foreign grants. By the early 80s she had
become a semi-industrial, middle-income country with a fairly strong
external payments position. During 1960-81 GNP grew by over 8% p.a. and per
capita income more than tripled in real terms.  The share of the manufac-
turing sector in GNP rose from 14% to 29.5% while the share of agriculture
fell from 36% to 18%. Merchandise exports, principally manufactured goods,
accounted for almost 41% of GNP as against a mere 4% two decades earlier.



-2-
4.         Rapid industrial growth also brought about a marked shift in the
structure of employment. In the early sixties well over half the labor
force had been employed in agriculture. By 1981, employment in this sector
had fallen to a third, while manufacturing absorbed over 20% of the econo-
mically active population. Heavy migration from the rural areas to the
cities combined with deliberate Government policies to improve the agricul-
tural terms of trade and a steady increase in agricultural value added
helped to ensure growth in per capita rural incomes more or less in line
with the rest of the economy through the first half of the 70s. There was
some deterioration in the income levels of the rural households between
1978-81 but this appears to have now been reversed. Korea still compares
favourably with most countries, the ratio of the population below the
poverty line in the rural sector having declined from 40% in the early
sixties to 11% in the late 70s.
Adjustment to Oil Crises and Domestic Shocks, 1974-82
5.         A number of measures enabled Korea to not only surmount the first
oil crisis, which raised the cost of imported fuel by US$700 million within a
matter of a year, but also to average a growth rate of 10% between 1973 and
1978. These included increased borrowing from abroad combined with a
devaluation of the currency, export diversification in products as well as
markets and an increase in public sector savings. However, the very success
of the Korean planners in stimulating the economy generated serious
inflationary pressures. Real wages rose at an average annual rate of 18%
between 1975-78, well in excess of the growth in productivity, and by 1978
the Consumer Price Index (CPI) was increasing at over 18% p.a., compared to
a rate of 10% in 1977. In addition, the large volume of subsidized credit
which was made available to the heavy and chemical industries by the
financial system under the Government's diLrection, brought about an
excessive expansion of capacity in subsectors faced with weak demand while
the traditional light industries were frequently starved of funds. This
trend was in line with the Government's view of Korea's changing comparative
advantage, but it created structural imba:Lances in the manufacturing sector
and in conjunction with exchange rate rig:Ldity and a rising price level, had
a dampening effect on the expansion of exports.
6.         To tackle these problems, the Government announced, in April 1979,
a far reaching program of stabilization-cum-restructuring, but the program
was overwhelmed by a series of unexpected shocks. The oil price hikes in
1979 and 1980 raised Korea's petroleum import bill from about US$2.3 billion
in 1978 to US$6.2 billion in 1980 with the price-induced increase equal to
nearly 6% of GNP in 1980. In October 1979, President Park Chung Hee, the
chief architect of Korea's "economic miracle" since the mid-sixties, was



assassinated. This was followed by a period of the severest political
uncertainty and social unrest in twenty years (with the situation returning
to normal only after the ascendancy of a new Administration under President
Chun Doo Hwan in September 1980). On top of these developments, the
unfavorable weather resulted in a drop in agricultural output of about 22%
in 1980, or over 4% of GNP, and a 15% decline in investment led to a
worsening of deflationary pressures which could not be offset by the 10%
growth of export volume. As a result, GNP fell by 6.2% in 1980, unemploy-
ment increased to 5.2% from 3.2% in 1978 and the higher costs of fuel, raw
materials and foodstuffs pushed up consumer prices by 29% in spite of a 5%
cut in real wages.
7.        The reduction in wages resulted- primarily from the Government's
incomes policy which along with the 26.7% devaluation of the won, were the
two most important measures introduced in 1980 to stabilize the domestic
economy and promote external adjustment. With the won depreciating by a
further 12% in 1981 and real wages decreasing almost 4%, the effects of
these policies on the adjustment process have been very positive, although
recovery has been less rapid than after the first oil shock. Export volume
increased by another 17% in 1981 and together with only moderate real import
growth (7.4%) reduced the current account deficit from US$5.3 billion in
1980 (10% of GNP) to US$4.6 billion (7.4% of GNP). At the same time, on a
year-end basis, inflation was a little over 12% compared to 29% in 1980 and
GNP grew by 6.4%, although some 3% of this reflected a recovery of agricul-
tural production. Inflationary pressures continued to subside through 1982
and the current account BOP deficit which was forecast at US$4.4 billion,
actually amounted to US$2.5 billion, about 3.9% of GNP. This is partly
because of a 3% improvement in the terms of trade, a reduction of oil
imports due to conservation measures, and slower than anticipated growth in
GNP.
8.        Growth of GNP during 1982 was 5.4% and employment increased by
2.7%, much of it in the services sector. But with capacity utilization in
the manufacturing sector averaging 70% and their debt burden remaining high,
the financial position of enterprises remained fragile.
Recent Reflationary Measures
9.        In mid-1982, the Government, encouraged by the improvement in the
balance of payments and the fall in inflation through the first half of the
year, introduced measures to spur economic activity and improve both the
liquidity as well as the profitability of enterprises. The liquidity and
profitability of manufacturing was to be raised by means of a 4% cut in
interest rates introduced in June 1982 and a reduction in corporate taxes
planned for 1983. These changes are also likely to have a favourable



- 4 --
influence on investment. However, given the heavy reliance of the Korean
economy on trade, a full recovery also requires a resurgence of export
demand, which, in view of the economic climate in the OECD countries, has
been slow in materializing. Growth and trade prospects during 1983 appear
more promising, but whether the target of a 7.5% increase in GNP will be
achieved depends very much on an upturn in world trade in the third and
fourth quarters of the year.
Medium Term Prospects
10.       The basic development objectives of the Government for 1983-86 are
to restore growth momentum along with the achievement of price stability and
equity. For this purpose, the Government is placing emphasis on (a) economic
stabilization, (b) export promotion and import liberalization, (c) establish-
ment of an internationally competitive industrial structure, (d) promotion
of the market mechanism, (e) liberalization of the financial sector, and (f)
expansion of social development expenditure. The goal of price stabilization
is to be pursued mainly through fiscal cLiscipline, a prudent monetary policy
and monitoring of wage contracts. Export promotion efforts will be helped by
price stability and a flexible exchange rate policy as well as by quality
improvement and product innovation. The Government also proposes a program of
import liberalization as well as tariff reduction to improve price competi-
tiveness. An important change in industrial policy during the next four years
will be the reduction of the Government's role in promoting the so-called
strategic industries. Investment choice!s will be left increasingly to the
initiative of the private sector with the Government providing only the
general framework. To promote the market mechanism, the Government has
started a program for liberalization of the financial sector, and denatio-
nalized all five of the commercial banks. The Government also proposes that
relatively more public sector resources be allocated to meet the "basic needs"
of people such as education, housing, social security and improved sanitation
and water supply. The basic strategy, which is to expedite structural
adjustment and make greater use of market forces, is sound, but the transition
is going to be difficult and the growth target of 7.5% p.a. might not be
achieved. In any case, during the 80s Korea will have to adjust to a lower
growth rate than in the past two decades and find ways of increasing the
employment intensity of its growth to keep unemployment rates at acceptable
levels. The projected export growth of 9.5% for the medium run, does not
appear unreasonable in terms of the country's past performance, but the
near-term prospects may be somewhate less favourable. Consequently, the
realization of export projections will dlepend on the success of policies to
improve export competitiveness.



- 5 -
11.       External Resource Balance.  As discussed above, provided appro-
priate policies are followed and world trade expands at between, 4-5%, an
increase in total exports to the extent being projected does not appear
unrealistic. In the area of invisibles, an important factor is the
significant reduction in international interest rates in nominal as well as
real terms; this expectation is broadly consistent with the forecasts made
by the World Bank and the IMF. The gross borrowing program envisaged by the
Government (about $6.3 billion p.a.), though large in absolute amounts, is
realistic in terms of availability and prudent in terms of Korea's debt
service capacity, provided export projections are realized.  With the
projected level of borrowings, Korea external debt (including short-term) as
a ratio of GNP would decline from about 53% currently to about 50% in 1986.
*      Currently the short-term portion of total debt is equal to 37% and almost
two thirds of such borrowing is used to finance trade. By 1986 the share of
short-term debt is expected to decline somewhat and a larger percentage of
it would be trade related. If the expectation of a decline in interest
rates materializes and the export projections are realized, the total
debt-service ratio (including interest payments on short-term debt) would
decline slightly from about 20% of exports in 1981 to 19% in 1986. Although
lower than the debt service ratio projected for many of the other non-oil
developing as well as newly industrializing countries, it would be desirable
to assure that the current account deficit declines to the 2% of GNP
projected for 1986 by the Bank and IMF.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
12.       As of February 28, 1983, Korea had received 67 Bank Loans
(including one Third Window Loan) and 8 IDA Credits, totalling US$4,222 mil-
lion in loans and US$106.8 million in credits (taking into account cancel-
lations and the refinancing of one IDA Credit in a subsequent Bank Loan).
As of that date, US$1,171.43 million remained undisbursed on effective
Loans, mostly from commitments in the past two years. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank Loans, IDA Credits, and IFC Investments as of
February 28, 1983 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. As
indicated in the notes, progress on project implementation is generally
satisfactory, and implementation delays have been addressed which had
occurred in a number of projects - mainly irrigation, highways and



- 6 -
population - due primarily to shortfalls in Government budgetary
contributions resulting from cost overruns during a period of high domestic
inflation. The problem was reviewed with the Government during 1981 and the
Government subsequently took measures to increase local funding of Bank
financed projects. As the Government's budgetary situation continues to be
tight, the status and plans for counterpart contributions would remain an
integral part of country implementation reviews held jointly with the
Government. Nevertheless, despite the recent delays, Korea's disbursement
rate remains the highest among major Bank borrowers in East Asia.
13.       In recent years, the thrust of the Bank Group-s lending operations
in Korea has been towards assisting the Government-s efforts: (a) to secure
the external resources required to supplement domestic savinigs in sustaining
a high GNP growth rate by following a policy of rapid export-oriented
industrialization; (b) to avoid the emergence of infrastructure bottlenecks;
and (c) to complement industrial development with agricultural and rural
development schemes aimed at bringing about a better dispersal of the fruits
of growth through raising incomes and improving the quality of life in the
rural areas.
14.       A substantial part of Bank financing has been directed towards the
vital industrial sector through lending to Korea-s four major development
banks. The Korea Long-Term Credit Bank has received US$410.0 million, the
Korea Development Bank US$352.5 million, the Small and Medium Industry
Bank US$205 million in Bank loans for relending to private industry, and
the Citizens National Bank US$60 million to meet the financial needs of the
small enterprises. The primary beneficiaries of these loans have been the
numerous industrial enterprises which have received funds through the
financial intermediaries. This has contributed to the overall development
of the industrial sector, and also to the achievement of institutional
improvements as well as the Government's objective of decentralizing
industry. Additional resources amounting to $130 million for the Korea
Development Bank and $120-million for the Korea Long-Term Credit Bank would
be provided under the proposed loan.
15.       In recent years, the Bank has also been assisting the Government's
effort to develop the country's technological capability. The Electronic
Technology Project (Loan 1676-KO), approved in March 1979, provided the
Korea Institute of Electronics Technology (KIET) with sophisticated
facilities to enable it to undertake production-oriented development work,
and financed an R&D program that is directly linked to the needs of the
electronics industry.  In March 1982, the Bank approved a US$50 million loan
to the Korea Technology Development Corporation (KTDC) whose main objectives
are to accelerate advanced foreign technology imports and support in-house
research development and engineering. In December 1982, the Board further
approved a US$70 million loan (Loan 2215-KO) to the Government for on-lending
to the Small and Medium Industry Promotion Corporation (SMIPC) and selected



DFC's, to help upgrade the technological capabilities and production
practices of Small and Medium Machinery enterprises as well as to provide
credit for financing their investment requirements.
16.       As Korea's economy has continued to grow and the pace of industri-
alization has quickened, there has had to be a parallel expansion of
transport facilities. The Bank Group, through its association with the
Government's efforts to modernize and expand the transport sector, dating
back to 1962, has played an important role in these developments. Financing
of US$434 million has been provided for seven railway projects designed to
increase the railroad's capacity and improve its operations. Five loans
totalling US$459.5 million have been made for highway construction and
paving of high priority sections of the national, provincial and county
networks and for countrywide maintenance organizations, including a US$125.0
million loan for a provincial and county roads project approved by the Board
in December 1982. Two loans amounting to US$147.0 million have been provided
for the expansion of port facilities at Busan and Mugho. A $122 million
loan was recently approved to help improve the distribution of coal and
cement.
17.       Korea's paucity of natural resources and dependence on the
manufacturing segment of its economy have resulted in the adoption of a
strategy based on maximizing the advantages of a skilled and hardworking
labor force. The Bank Group has been involved in helping to meet the
requirements for appropriately trained workers and certain categories of
skilled manpower through its lending for four education projects, which have
pursued the broad objectives of technical manpower development either
through the expansion of relevant subsectors or through specific quality
improvements. Together, these projects have catered to a wide range of
manpower training needs.
18.       Korea's record of achievement in modernizing its agricultural sec-
tor, although less spectacular than the gains made in the industrial sphere,
is nevertheless commendable. The past 15 years have seen agricultural
output grow at an average 4.2% p.a., which has resulted in the country
becoming nearly self-sufficient in its staple food, rice, and made possible
a steady and perceptible improvement in the living standards of the 34% of
Korea-s population who live in the countryside and rely primarily on
agrarian pursuits for their livelihood. The Bank has lent US$375.5 million
for the improvement of irrigation facilities, land and seed development and
the provision of agricultural credit to farmers and processors of agricul-
tural products. In addition, US$155.0 million has been provided for two
rural infrastructure projects in support of the Government-s rural
development program, initiated in 1971, to improve the quality of life and
the standard of living in the rural areas. In 1979, a US$125.0 million loan
was provided by the Bank to help meet the growing demand for municipal,
industrial and irrigation water in the Han Basin southeast of the capital
city, Seoul; reduce flood damage; and generate electricity to augment and
provide peaking capacity for Korea's power system.



- 8 -
19.       The Bank's first essay into t'he field of regional development in
Korea, through a project approved in 1975, has proved successful. The
project was designed to support Government policy by financing high priority
investments in the poor, primarily agricultural, southwest region. A loan
of US$65.0 million for a second project for the development of the region
was approved in 1979. Two loans totalling US$190.0 million were approved in
1981 and in December 1982 for National Urban Land Development and Housing
Projects.
20.       In order to revitalize the economy while ameliorating inflation
and promoting social equity, the Government has taken a number of policy
measures described in Part I above.  Some of the most important of these
measures are incorporated into a structural adjustment program for which a
US$250 million structural adjustment loan was approved by the Executive
Directors in December 1981. The loan was fully disbursed during 1982.
21.       The share of the Bank Group in Korea½s total external MLT debt
disbursed and outstanding at the end of 1981 was about 10%, and its share of
MLT debt service was of the order of 8% at that time. These ratios are
expected to be around 9% and 7% respectively by the mid-eighties.
PART III - FINANCIAL REFORM
Background
22.       As indicated in Part I, Korea's remarkable record of economic
growth has been based on the expansion of industry closely linked with the
successful promotion of exports of manuf'actures. A key feature was the
marriage of dynamic entrepreneurship and a disciplined, mobile and adaptable
labor force with government policy that furnished large and consistent
support to industry through a variety of' instruments, including credit
allocation, protection and fiscal incentives.  The policy instruments have
also been used to give direction to industrial development, with substantial
impact on the industrial structure. For example, the earlier emphasis on the
promotion of light manufactures shifted in the 1970s towards heavy and
chemical industries as the Government was increasingly aware of Korea's
declining comparative advantage in traditional labor intensive industries.
In retrospect, however, the investment program of the mid-seventies was
overly ambitious with an excessive focus on large, capital-intensive
industries.  Overinvestment combined with a sharp economic recession led to
a substantial fall in capacity utilization in the manufacturing sector,
particularly in capital-intensive industries, in the early 1980s. In addi-
tion, the preferential low-cost credit programs financed by thLe Government
in the 1970s served to discourage equity financing and have resulted in a
high degree of corporate indebtedness. This weakness became aL serious
problem in 1980-81 as domestic and overseas interest rates increased
sharply, pushing up borrowing costs while sales revenues were stagnant
because of the economic recession and the slowdown in inflation. The



extremely tight liquidity position of the corporate sector persisted until
mid-1982 when the Government lowered domestic interest rates and interna-
tional rates declined. The increasing severity of these problems was one of
the factors that prompted the Korean authorities to embark on the series of
financial and economic reforms now ongoing (paras. 27-33).
23.       The Government's use of financial incentives, including massive
infusions of closely regulated and directed credit into priority industries,
was coupled with high growth and increasing sophistication in Korea's
financial sector. Average total financial assets grew sixfold over the
period 1975-81 and reached 85.4% of 1981 GNP. Growth was accompanied by
significant structural changes. The share of the commercial banks has
declined in importance from 74% of total assets (excluding the Central Bank)
in 1975 to 66% by end-1981. Nonbank financial intermediaries, whose savings
instruments generally had higher yields than those offered by banks, were
able to increase their share in the financial system from 26% in 1975 to 34%
in 1981. Growth has been particularly rapid for institutions offering high
yield instruments such as investment finance companies, trust companies and
life insurance companies.
24.       The increasing sophistication of the Korean financial sector and
of Korean savers is also evident in the rapid expansion of the securities
market. The stagnation of the stock market in response to the declining
profitability of firms in recent years has been compensated by a rapid
growth of the bond market where yields, in early 1983, were twice as high as
the bank deposit rate. In 1981, manufacturing firms were able to mobilize
resources in the bond market equivalent to almost one-fourth of the total
manufacturing sector credit provided by financial institutions.
25.       In the 1970s, the rapid growth of nonbank intermediaries and of
the securities market resulted largely from the Government's tacit
acquiescence in a higher interest rate regime for this segment of the
market. Since 1981, however, the Government began, as a matter of policy,
to deregulate this segment of the financial sector and to allow market
forces to play a greater role. In general, though, until the late 1970s
strict control over the process of resource allocation by the financial
system was a major tool in the Government's development strategy. Interest
rates were controlled and credit allocation was directed by the Government
in support of priority investments in both the public and private sector.
Preferential financing was funnelled through both the commercial and the
development banks which, in the early 1970s, jointly accounted for about 90%
of the total assets of the financial system. This highly centralized
decision making process allowed the Government to allocate resources
efficiently as long as the economy was relatively small and its structure
simple. By the late 1970s, Government controls over the process of resource
allocation had become increasingly difficult to manage in view of the
growing complexity of the economy.
26.       Government controls also created serious distortions which reduced
the efficiency of the financial system and hindered its development. First,



- 10 -
with respect to interest rates, there was an excessive fragmentation of
lending rates with many of the rates applicable to selective credit programs
being negative in real terms. Second, the fragmentation of rates was also
reflected in the structure of the financial system since it encouraged
excessive specialization of institutions, thus reducing competition and effi-
ciency in the system. Legislated specialization of institutions was
reinforced by detailed government regulation of financial activities,
restrictions on new establishments, and by a supervisory system in charge of
enforcing these regulations which was itself excessively fragmented. The
third source of distortions was the continued growth and expansion of the
directed selective-credit programs which, by the early 1980s, accounted for
more than 20% of total private domestic credit. Directed credits usually
carried negative real rates of interest aLnd also involved detailed earmarking
of funds by the Government often down to the level of individual enterprises
so that handling banks operated more as aL conduit for government funds than
as institutions with independent decision-making authority. Fourth and
finally, distortions in the operations of the financial system have had a
direct impact on the real sector .as resource allocation for investment
was largely influenced by credit availability and cost. As described in
para. 22, this system led to over-investment and low capacity utilization,
particularly in capital-intensive industries which were strongly promoted by
the Government. Moreover, the availability of low-cost debt financing
effectively discouraged equity financing whose cost was substantially
higher, and resulted in excessively high levels of corporate indebtedness
which led to severe liquidity problems when interest rates began to rise
dramatically, both domestically and overseas in 1979-80.
Financial Reform
27.       With the advent of a new economic management team in the Govern-
ment and as the effects of past over-investment in some subsidized subsec-
tors and the 1979-80 economic recession began to manifest themselves, the
Government adopted the view that the degree of centralization of economic
decision-making should be reduced through greater reliance on market mechan-
isms. The Fifth Five Year-Plan (1982-86) is based on this new approach. It
advocates a greater decentralization of investment decisions in the real
sector and liberalization of the process of resource mobilization and alloca-
tion in the financial sector. As regards financial reform, significant
progress has already been made since 1981 and a further series of measures
are planned for the period 1983-84. In general, however, the Government has
rightly adopted a pragmatic, step by step approach, whereby reactions of
both the financial and the real sectors of the economy are closely monitored
and assessed as the basis for further change. To support the financial
reform process, a high-level Financial Reform Commission has been assembled
which prepares studies and technical recommendations on specific subjects.
28.       The Bank has been closely associated with the process of financial
reform in Korea. The Bank's 1977 Economic Report (Report No. 1489-KO) and



- 11 -
the Financial Sector Review in 1979 advocated substantial financial liberali-
zation. A very active dialogue with the Government has continued since. The
most recent understandings are formalized in a "Letter of Development Policy
for the Financial Sector" dated April 14, 1983, which outlines tS'e policy
measures contemplated by the Government over the period 1983-85 in five
critical areas: (a) interest rate level and structure; (b) deregulation of
banks; (c) supervision of financial institutions; (d) selective credit pro-
grams; and (e) corporate indebtedness. The Letter of Development Policy and
a summary of the Key Aspects of Financial Sector Reform are contained in
Annex IV. As a part of the supervision of the proposed loan, the Bank would
monitor progress towards each of the several objectives relating to the five
critical areas cited above which together constitute the two year policy plan
of action for financial reform (Section 3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
As in the already completed phases of reform, it is expected that progress in
these sensitive and complex areas will continue to require a careful assess-
ment of response and reaction of the financial markets, major intermediaries
and borrowers; the pace of progress will be conditioned by the strength of
the economy as a whole, the success of other aspects of the Government's
plan of structural adjustment and recovery, and market assessments thereof.
29.       Interest Rates.  The first steps towards liberalization of the
financial system were taken in 1981 with the partial liberalization of short-
term interest rates on corporate commercial paper. Subsequently, in June
1982 a uniform interest rate structure for the banking sector was established,
thus eliminating the previous system of widely dispersed rates for special
programs. This latest step also involved lowering the commercial banks'
deposit and lending rates to 8% and 10% respectively. The reduction in
interest rates was made possible by the rapid decline in the rate of infla-
tion and was mainly intended to lower the borrowing costs on existing debt
of the corporate sector. This move is consistent with the government com-
mitment in the Policy Letter to: maintain legislated deposit and lending
rates at a highly positive level in real terms, given the current and pro-
jected inflation rate of less than 5% p.a.; restore an interest margin
between deposit and lending rates which is sufficient to ensure bank profit-
ability without government subsidies; and remove the wide dispersion of
interest rates on selective credit programs as the 10% lending rate applies
to all commercial bank loans. The Policy Letter confirms that the Govern-
ment's longer-term objective is the full liberalization of all interest rates
so as to allow market mechanisms to play a dominant role in determining the
level and structure of interest rates. Significant progress has already been
made towards this objective in financial markets outside the commercial bank-
ing sector which have increasingly been able to respond to market forces
within certain government guidelines instead of the legislated rates strictly
enforced for banks. As indicated above (para. 25), this has allowed higher
rates to prevail in the nonbanking segment and has encouraged a more rapid
growth of these institutions within the financial system. Interest rates on
short-term commercial paper and on primary issues of corporate bonds and bank
debentures were about 13-15% in early 1983, very close to the secondary
market rate of 15-16% p.a. The Government has also allowed the development
banks, including the Korea Development Bank (KDB) and the Korea Long-Term



- 12 -
Credit Bank (KLB), to which the credit component of the proposed loan would
be allocated, to charge effective rates of 15-16% on most of their long-term
domestic currency loans. The 5-6% differential between legislated and
market lending rates of early-1983 was still rather high but had narrowed
slightly compared to late 1982 as market rates declined. In general, these
market rates are high (10-11% in real terms), and, to a large extent, reflect
persisting high inflationary expectations.  In an effort to quell inflation-
ary expectations and to further reduce the differential between legislated
and market rates, the Government has made a strong public commitment to main-
taining, and, if possible, reducing Korea's low inflation of currently less
than 5% per annum. The Government's Policy Letter states clearly that full
liberalization of interest rates will be implemented when the differential
between administered and market rates has been reduced further. This is a
reasonable approach given the need to avoid a sharp increase in borrowing
costs which might stall the economic recovery and have a destablizing effect
on a still highly indebted corporate sector. The Government's Policy Letter
proposes to study the desirability of introducing variable deposit rates and
differentiating lending rates to account for risk and maturity as interim
measures prior to full liberalization. The Government will inform the Bank
of the progress in the study of these issues by the end of this year.
30.       Liberalization of Commercial Banks.  A radical simplification of
the regulations imposed on the day to day management of commercial banks
was effected in 1981-83, along with the sale of government ownership in the
five major commercial banks to private investors, and measures to improve
bank profitability.  These measures, however, need to be considered in the
context of the much broader objective of improving efficiency and competi-
tiveness in the financial sector through deregulation of financial activities
and issuance of new licenses in both the banking and nonbanking sectors.
Deregulation aims at dismantling the system of legislated specialization,
whereby certain activities can be undertaken only by specific types of
institutions, which has been responsible for the excessive segmentation of
financial markets and inefficiency due to restricted competition. As indi-
cated in the Policy Letter, commercial banks have already been given broader
authority to engage in activities hitherto restricted to nonbank institu-
tions such as trading in commercial paper and dealing in government bonds.
Additional credit activities are expected to be authorized, including credit
card operations and factoring. The capacity of banks to mobilize various
types of savings will also be expanded with the use of new instruments such
as trust accounts and mutual savings deposits as well as an expanded network
for regional banks. Similarly, nonbank -intermediaries may soon be allowed
to compete more effectively with commercial banks in mobilizing deposits
from the general public. The Government has already passed legislation to
establish a deposit insurance system which would provide additional security
to the deposit substitutes issued by nonbank intermediaries. Two of the
development banks (KDB and KLB) have also proposed revisions of their char-
ters which would expand their deposit-taking authority and improve their
competitiveness with commercial banks. T'hese proposals are being reviewed
by the Government. This program of deregulation is supplemented by more
liberal licensing of new financial institutions. In 1982, two new



- 13 -
commercial banks were licensed to operate nationwide and the number of
licensed non-bank intermediaries expanded rapidly with 10 new finance
companies and 43 mutual savings finance companies. Additional measures are
being considered which would increase the range of activities of finance
companies and would allow the establishment of branches. Adapting to the
more competitive policy environment will provide a major challenge for
existing institutions. Improvements in administrative efficiency and skill
development through intensive staff training will be essential in this
process of adjustment. A component of the proposed loan would support
improved and expanded training for staff of financial institutions.
31.       Supervision of Financial Institutions.  The new philosophy under-
lying the Government s program of financial sector reform has brought with
it a change in the approach to financial supervision. As indicated above,
important steps have been taken in 1981-82 to deregulate banking practices
and simplify the cumbersome regulatory apparatus. Regulations governing
internal management matters such as personnel, organization and budgeting
were abolished and regulations on business operations have been simplified.
The system of financial supervision is also being reformed by replacing
the past reliance on prior authorization by supervisory agencies with
ex-post monitoring of actual performance in relation to a simplified set of
guidelines. The Government's Policy Letter stresses this new perspective
and envisages the possibility of consolidating the supervisory activities of
the Central Bank and of the Ministry of Finance as a logical corollary to
the deregulation of financial activities and the increasing overlap of
functions between various institutions.
32.       Directed Credit.  A major element in the program of financial
sector reform is to reduce government intervention in the operations of the
financial system so that greater efficiency in resource allocation can be
achieved by relying on market forces and a more appropriate system of
investment incentives. Accordingly, the Government intends to supplement
the measures taken in June 1982 to standardize the interest rates on direc-
ted credits (para. 29) by reducing, over time, the proportion of directed
credits in total domestic credit. The National Investment Fund (NIF) and
the short-term export credit facility are the two main selective lending
programs operated by the Government with 9.3% and 8.6%, respectively, of
total private sector credit at end-1982. No change is required in the modus
operandi of the export credit program where government intervention is
minimal now that interest subsidies have been removed. The Policy Letter
outlines the necessary modifications of the NIF program, most of which have
already been adopted. First, the Government has taken steps to increase the
autonomy of handling banks by determining NIF allocations on a sectoral
basis rather than enterprise by enterprise. Second, the handling of NIF
funds by private commercial banks, which has already been decreasing,
would be discontinued by the end of 1984 as a means of reducing government
intervention in their operations. NIF funds would then be solely adminis-
tered by the specialized and development banks which are most qualified



- 14 -
to appraise long-term loan applications, including NIF projects. Third,
the Government would restrict the growth of NIF credits so that the program
continues to decline as a proportion of private credit and bank contribu-
tions to its funding are reduced over time. Finally, the NIF and other
directed credit programs would continue to be operated on a nonsubsidized
basis in the future.
33.       Corporate Indebtedness.  Corporate cash earnings are expected to
improve substantially in 1982-83 following the reduction in lending rates
and corporate taxes legislated by the Government in June 1982.  Higher earn-
ings coupled with some improvement in the strength of the economy can help
improve the debt/equity structure of the corporate sector provided incentives
are given to build up equity positions and repay outstanding borrowings.
With most new borrowings already carrying market rates of interest, banks
are expected to press for repayment of older, lower cost outstanding loans
while borrowers should be anxious to reduce their indebtedness as interest
rates are high. The Government actually encourages banks to foreclose loans
made to companies whose prospects for eventual recovery are doubtful. The
Government has also adopted tax measures, including the exemption from
personal income tax of compulsory legal reserves and alleviation of tax on
assumed dividends for closed corporations, to encourage a build-up of
retained earnings and is considering other steps to strengthen the stock
market and improve the marketability of new share issues.
The Bank's Role and Lending Strategy
34.       The Bank's lending for industry through financial intermediaries
was initiated in 1968. Since then, a total of 18 Bank loans have been made
for an aggregate amount of $1.03 billion through four institutions: KDB and
KLB for medium- to large-scale industries, and the Small and Medium Industry
Bank (SMIB) and the Citizens National Bank (CNB) in support of small
industries. Project Completion Reports on early Bank loans made to these
institutions concluded in each case that the Bank's objectives of resource
transfer, institution building and promotion of investment projects with
high financial and economic returns have been satisfactorily achieved. This
conclusion was supported by the Project Performance Audit Reports.
35.       When reviewing its industrial lending strategy in 1979, the Bank
concluded that the significant progress achieved in strengthening the
institutions utilizing Bank funds for industrial finance made it possible to
shift lending objectives increasingly towards improving indusitrial and
financial sector policies. The Government itself appeared increasingly
willing to address industrial and financial policy issues and to exchange
views with the Bank on such matters. Accordingly, the Bank's lending
program in support of industrial development has been restructured in recent
years and now comprises: (a) a series of structural adjustment loans (SAL)
in support of industrial policy reforms in such areas as tariffs and invest-
ment incentives; (b) industrial finance projects supporting complementary
financial policy reforms; and (c) subsector projects which aim at restruc-
turing specific industrial activities (e.g. machinery subsector) and/or



- 15 -
broadening the institutional support for certain subsectors (e.g. small
industry and technology development). The proposed loan is one of a series
designed to deepen the Bank's role in the financial sector. A planned
follow-on loan in 2-3 years time would be designed to support tne next
phase of financial sector reforms and might include the participation of the
commercial banks following their privatization and strengthening of their
staff capabilities.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
36.       The project was appraised in November 1982 and negotiations were
held in Washington between May 9 and 13, 1983. The Korean delegation was
led by Mr. Yi Dong Kyun, Director, Economic Cooperation Division, MOF. A
Staff Appraisal Report (No. 4435-KO), dated May 20, 1983, is being dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors separately. Supplementary project data
are provided in Annex III.
Project Objectives and Description
37.       The proposed project reflects the Bank-s new approach to indus-
trial lending in Korea. In addition to the financing of high priority
projects in the industrial sector which is inherent in all industrial credit
operations of the Bank, it aims at supporting the ultimate objective of
financial liberalization, and providing technical assistance in the imple-
mentation of these reforms. The proposed project would have three objec-
tives: (a) to help support the Government-s financial sector policy reform,
particularly the specific measures and objectives which the Government
intends to implement or achieve over the two-year period 1983-85; (b) to
facilitate financing of high priority industrial investments by providing
part of the foreign exchange requirements of KDB and KLB in an amount of
$130 million and $120 million, respectively; and (c) to strengthen the
financial system through a technical assistance component of $5 million, of
which $2.5 million would cover the foreign exchange requirements of an over-
seas training program geared to meeting the needs of financial supervisory
agencies and of selected financial institutions, and another $2.5 million
would cover part of the costs of consultants to help in establishing a
system for computerizing data on financial transactions as a basis for
improving credit information and tax collection.
Credit Component
38.       Under the credit component, project funds would be used for finan-
cing economically and financially viable industrial projects, selected and
appraised by KDB and KLB which are well-managed institutions that have
effectively implemented a number of previous Bank projects. The
availability of Bank funds to KDB and KLB would not only directly provide
them with needed longer-term capital, but would also facilitate their
borrowings from other external sources. Both KDB and KLB have ambitious



- 16 -
plans for foreign borrowings and would provide quarterly progress reports to
the Bank on their success in raising funds from other external sources. The
project is intended to finance mainly medium- to large-scale enterprises;
smaller enterprises are being assisted under separate Bank projects. To
ensure that access to Bank funds would be limited to firms having a sound
financial structure, including a degree of indebtedness which is not exces-
sive, KDB and KLB have agreed that firms with a debt/eqity ratio exceeding
4.5:1, inclusive of the proposed subloan, would not be eligible for Bank
financing (Schedule 1 of the draft KDB and KLB Project Agreemnents). In
order to achieve a reasonably wide distribution of project funds, there
would be a $10.0 million ceiling on the amount of individual subloans
(Section 2.02(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). The $5 million free limit,
above which proposed investment projects would be subject to Bank prior
review, would remain unchanged (Section 2.02(c) of the draft Loan
Agreement). Given this ceiling, the Bank would review in detail about 15%
of the total number of subprojects financed under the project:, accounting
for approximately 25% of the credit component.
39.       The Korea Development Bank (KDB).  KDB, a government-owned
development bank, is the single largest financial institution in Korea
(total assets of $7.8 billion) and the largest source of term finance for
industry.  While KDB continues to operate as the financing arm of the
Government's industrial investment programs, an increasing proportion of its
lend- ig ; a1located to the private sector, mainly to large industrial
conglomerates involved in priority activities encouraged by the Government.
Loans to the private sector have increased as a share of KDB"s outstanding
loan portfolio from 38% in 1975 to 64% in 1982. Since the first Bank
operation in 1975, KDB has been very successful in achieving improvements in
its policies, staffing, operating procedures and financing. Due largely to
these improvements, together with the effective leadership provided by KDB-s
management, KDB's annual lending operations have increased from W 204.2
billion ($421 million) in 1975 to W 1.6 trillion ($2.1 billion) in 1982.
40.       The main issue currently facing KDB is that of its future role in
a liberalized economic environment and financial system. The financial
sector objectives included in the Government's Fifth Plan aim at reducing
both government intervention in private: economic activities and the share of
preferential credits provided by the Government for which KDB is the prin-
cipal agent and upon which KDB is excessively reliant for domestic currency
funding. KDB is therefore reviewing several options for increasing its
private sector lending operations and for mobilizing the resources required
to finance such operations. The revitalization plan proposed by KDB to the
MOF includes: diversifying sources of funding, primarily through the accept-
ance of deposits; increasing the competitiveness of its financial services
vis-a-vis other institutions; and giving a greater commercial orientation to
its activities, with more concern for profitability. The Bank has indicated
to KDB and the Government that it would support a greater commercialization
of KDB's operations as this could provide additional momentum to the ongoing
liberalization of the financial sector. Deregulation of KDB's operations
would further reduce segmentation in credit markets and increase competition



- 17 -
among financial intermediaries. It would be necessary to ensure, however,
that KDB competes fairly with other financial institutions by removing some
of the tax and other privileges granted to KDB by the Government. The Bank
has discussed with KDB its future role and will be further consulted prior
to the introduction of any major institutional changes (Section 2.09 of the
draft KDB Project Agreement). A decision on KDB-s future role is expected
towards the end of 1983.
41.       A second major issue for KDB is its profitability, particularly as
this directly relates to its desire to become more commercially oriented.
KDB's profitability, defined as net profit to total assets, declined sharply
from a satisfactory level of 1.8% in 1978 to 0.3% by year-end 1982.  Simi-
larly, KDB's return on average equity declined from 7.5% in 1978 to 2.5% in
1982, substantially below the rate of inflation. This declining profitabil-
ity was due primarily to the narrowing of the spread KDB received on its
lending operations. The reduction in lending margins was particularly
significant for loans made from foreign commercial borrowings which KDB had
converted into domestic currency to alleviate its domestic currency short-
age.  To maintain some degree of competitiveness following the June 1982
reduction in domestic currency lending rates, KDB reduced its nominal
interest margin on converted foreign currency borrowings from 2% in early
1982 to 0.2% in September 1982, a level clearly insufficient to cover
administrative expenses. The recent lowering of international interest
rates has brought down the weighted average cost of KDB's foreign commercial
borrowings and enabled KDB to reduce its nominal onlending rate in January
1983 to 14.2% (effective on-lending rate of 15.6%) while at the same time
allowing a nominal spread of 1.5% and an effective spread of 2.9%. This
on-lending rate is in line with prevailing market rates, although
substantially higher than the 10% commercial bank rate.
42.       KDB-s effective spreads of 2.9% on converted funds and 1.3% on
other nonconverted foreign commercial borrowings give a weighted average
spread on all foreign commercial funds of 2.4%, which is sufficient to
improve KDB's profitability. To ensure that KDB continues to earn an ade-
quate spread on its foreign commercial resources, KDB has agreed that a
weighted average effective spread of at least 2% will be maintained on its
lending operations out of foreign commercial resources (Section 3.03(b) of the
draft KDB Project Agreement).  With regard to foreign official borrowings, a
2% spread is already required. Due to larger spreads, KDB-s profitability
is expected to improve over the 1983-86 projection period. Net profit as a
percentage of average net worth would steadily increase from a projected
3.3% in 1983 to 5.1% in 1986. While still very modest, the 5.1% return pro-
jected in 1986, would be higher than the projected rate of inflation. An
understanding has been reached that KDB will amend its Development Strategy
Statement to include the objective that its future profitability, as measured
by net return on average equity, should be sufficient to maintain the value
of its equity in real terms. The long-term debt/equity ratio is expected to
remain within the contractual limit of 10:1 (Section 3.02 of the draft KDB
Project Agreement) through 1984, but an additional share capital contribution
would be needed in 1985 as the debt/equity ratio is projected to reach 10.8:1
in that year.



- 18 -
43.       To meet its projected loan commitments for the period 1983-86, KDB
plans to borrow approximately $12.6 billion, of which 71% would be mobilized
in foreign currency resources. During the period in which the Bank loan is
expected to be committed (last quarter 1983 to year-end 1985), KDB would
commit $1.3 billion in foreign currency loans. The proposed Bank loan of
$130 million would be used primarily to finance foreign currency loans
having maturities of 10 years or longer and would represent about 10% of
KDB's projected foreign currency commitments.
44.       The Korea Long-Term Credit Bank (KLB).  KLB, formerly established
as the Korea Development Finance Corporation (KDFC), is the only privately-
owned development finance institution in Korea. KLB's long association with
,the Bank was initiated in 1968. Since then, KLB's operations have increased
tremendously, guided by its very able management. This increase has been
particularly significant over the 19791-81 period during which annual
commitments increased from W 67.1 billion ($38.4 million) to W 248.1 billion
($353.1 million) due to greatly expanded domestic currency operations.
Annual commitments declined slightly in 1982 to W 202.4 billion ($268.9 mil-
lion) due to both the poor investment climate prevailing and to some con-
straints on the availability of domestic currency resources (para. 46).
45.       From its establishment in 1967 through 1980, KDFC was dependent on
foreign currency resources, primarily from the Bank, for close to 90% of its
operations.  Although KDFC-s performance was 9utstandi-g -z-th total assets
growing at 43.5% p.a. in 1968-79 and reaching about $430 million by end-1979,
its management felt that growth prospects were adversely affected by a
charter which precluded the mobilization of any domestic currency resources.
In June 1980, KDFC changed its legal status under the terms of the Long-Term
Credit Bank (LTCB) Act and obtained authority to issue long-term domestic
currency debentures and to accept deposits from its corporate borrowers.
46.       In spite of its successful conversion into a long-term credit
bank, the main issue facing KLB is that of further diversifying its domestic
sources of funds and expanding the scope of its operations. For the period
1979-82, KLB-s domestic currency borrowing and lending operations expanded
rapidly and its total assets grew by over 55% p.a. from W 209 billion ($431
million) in 1979 to W 803 billion ($1.1 billion) in 1982. However, KLB
experienced very serious difficulties in issuing debentures in the latter
part of 1982 as investors were unwilling to purchase long-term, fixed rate
savings instruments whose yields appeared low in relation to inflationary
expectations. This problem highlighted KLB's excessive dependence on a
single type of savings instrument to cover its domestic resource require-
ments. Moreover, the LTCB Act imposes a number of restrictions on KLB-s
credit operations (e.g. proportion of working capital financing, deposit
taking, etc.) which reduce its flexibility and competitiveness vis-a-vis
other financial institutions whose operations are being deregulated in the
context of the Government's financial sector reform. To alleviate these
problems, KLB is seeking a revision of the LTCB Act which would give it
access to other types of domestic currency resources (e.g., investment trust



- 19 -
accounts and general deposits) and would allow a diversification of its
financial services (e.g. consumer financing, greater working capital financ-
ing authority, etc.). The Bank supports KLB's request to amend the LTCB Act
so as to increase its operational and financial flexibility and competi-
tiveness in a liberalized financial system. The Bank has discussed with KLB
its future role and will be consulted further prior to the introduction of
any major institutional changes (Section 2.09 of the draft KLB Project
Agreement).
47.        Due to its success in mobilizing both foreign and domestic currency
long-term resources (outstanding domestic currency debentures increased from
W 44.7 billion in 1980 to W 222.9 billion in 1982 while outstanding foreign
currency borrowing increased from W 284.0 billion to W 386.9 billion over
the same period), KLB's long-term debt/equcity ratio is projected to exceed
in 1984 the 10:1 limit previously agreed with the Bank. KLB has had to
postpone its original plan to increase its paid-in capital in 1983 due to
depressed prices in the stock market and a significant decline in KLB's
profitability in the wake of successive lending rate reductions starting in
1980. KLB now plans to build up its reserves before issuing new shares so
as to be able to command a better price for its next issue. The Bank is
willing to support this strategy and has agreed to an increase in KLB's
long-term debt/equity limit to 12:1 (Section 3.02 of the draft KLB Project
Agreement). This relatively high debt/equity is justified because the
quality of KLB's loan portfolio is excellent as demonstrated by a collection
ratio which has not fallen below 98% over the last 10 years. Arrearage
ratios are even more favorable; as of year-end 1982, total arrears of
principal and interest amounted to only 0.2% of the outstanding portfolio.
48.        Similarly to KDB, KLB's profitability declined in recent years.
Decreasing spreads on domestic currency lending operations resulted from
declining lending rates compared to relatively high and fixed borrowing
costs. While lending rates for loans financed from debenture resources
declined by 10.2 percentage points between June 1980 and June 1982, the
weighted average cost of KLB-s debentures declined by only 6.3 percentage
points, so that the weighted average effective spread on these loans moved
from 3.5% in June 1980 to -0.4% in June 1982. KLB expects the spreads on
loans funded from debenture resources to gradually improve as the earlier
and more expensive debenture issues are redeemed. The effective spread is
expected to improve to 1.1% in 1983. Due largely to improving spreads,
KLB's net profit is projected to increase from W 9.0 billion in 1983 to W
13.8 billion in 1987 and KLB-s return on equity from 12.0% to 13.6%.
49.        To meet its projected level of operations, KLB plans to mobilize
W 2.3 trillion ($3.1 billion) over the 1983-87 period, of which 67.5% would
be in domestic currency and 32.5% in foreign currency. During the period in
which the Bank loan is expected to be committed (last quarter 1983 to year-
end 1985), KLB would commit $415 million in foreign currency loans.  The



- 20 -
proposed Bank loan of $120 million would be used primarily to finance foreign
currency loans having maturities of 9 years or longer and would represent
about 30% of KLB's projected foreign currency commitments.
Technical Assistance Component
50.       Training.  Training under the proposed project would consist of
overseas training of selected staff from MOF, BOK, commercial banks and other
financial institutions in order to introduce advanced management practices to
the financial sector and foster greater efficiency in Korean financial
institutions. Implementation of the training component would be coordinated
by the Korea Banking Institute (KBI) which was established in 1976 to develop
and administer training programs for Korean financial institutions. KBI's
experience in organizing this type of training is considered adequate to
ensure satisfactory implementation of the proposed component.
51.       The total cost of overseas training under the proposed project is
estimated at $2.5 million equivalent consisting primarily of on-the-job
overseas training, training seminars and graduate studies. The Government
would relend the funds required for training to the participating financial
institutions under standard subsidiary loan agreements acceptable to the Bank
which would provide for the same interest rate as applicable to the proposed
Bank loan, plus an administrative fee of 0.05%, with a maximum repayment
period of 15 years, including a maximum grace period of 3 years. The foreign
exchange risk would be borne by the participating institutions (Section
3.01(e) and Schedule 7 of the draft Loan Agreement). The detailed training
programs for the balance of 1983 and for each subsequent year wotuld be
subject to prior review by the Bank (Section 3.08(a) of the draft: Loan
Agreement). The signature of an agency agreement between the Government and
KBI, and Bank approval of a standard subsidiary loan agreement between the
Government and the participating financial institutions would be conditions
of disbursement for this component of the project (Sections 3.01(e) and
3.07(a) and Schedule 1, para. 4(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
52.       Computerization.  The computerization program would entail the
analysis, design and testing of a system for processing of data supplied by
the commercial banks and other financial institutions. Development of an
effective data processing system would provide an orderly flow of financial
information to the Government as required for more equitable tax administra-
tion and improved fiscal management. The system would be designed by the
Software Development Center (SDC), an affiliate of the Korea Advanced
Institute of Science and Technology (KAIST). In addition to the system
design, SDC would develop the necessary data base to implement the system and
the multipurpose software of a management information system for institutions
without computers. SDC would also develop, in consultation with the institu-
tions concerned, a software package generating financial data for monetary
authorities as well as for the institutions- own internal management. The
project is being implemented under the overall guidance of a Computerization
Committee chaired by the Vice Minister of Finance. The Government has signed



- 21 -
a contract with KAIST for the design and implementation of the system. The
contract is to be revised to incorporate provisions clearly delineating the
scheduling of tasks and financing arrangements. Signature of a revised and
legally binding contract, acceptable to the Bank, would be a condition of
disbursement for this component of the project (Section 3.07(a) and Schedule
1, para. 4 of the draft Loan Agreement).
53.        The full implementation of the computerization program is expected
to be completed by the end of 1984 at a total cost of about $6 million
consisting of $0.5 million in 1982, $4 million in 1983 and $1.5 million in
1984. The Bank has agreed to finance $2.5 million of 1983 costs. The revised
contract between SDC/KAIST and the Government would include a commitment by
the Government to cover all additional costs of the computerization program.
Features of the Proposed Loan
54.        Relending Arrangements and Terms.  The proposed Bank loan of
$255 million would be made to the Government at the Bank's standard variable
interest. The front-end fee of $637,500 will be paid to the Bank prior to the
effectiveness of the proposed loan. The Government would relend $130 million
of the proceeds of the credit component to KDB and $120 million to KLB on the
same terms and conditions as the Bank's loan but with an additional admin-
istrative fee of 0.05%. The signature of subsidiary loan agreements, satis-
factory to the Bank, between the Government and the two participating
financial institutions would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed
loan (Section 6.01 of draft Loan Agreement). Under the credit component, the
foreign exchange risk would be passed on by the lending institutions to the
final subborrowers.  KDB and KLB would relend the proceeds of the credit
component of the proposed loan at a variable interest rate of 2% above the
effective borrowing cost inclusive of the front-end fee and the standard
administrative fee. Based on the current Bank lending rate of 10.97% the
final lending rate to subborrowers would be about 13% p.a. The foreign
exchange risk is expected to be small as inflation in Korea has become compar-
able to that of its major trading partners so that the effective cost of Bank
funds is expected to be generally in line with current market rates of inter-
est in Korea and with the rates charged by KDB and KLB on long term loans.
Given an expected rate of domestic inflation of less than 5% p.a.  during the
Fifth-Plan period these rates are highly positive in real terms. The vari-
ability of the lending rates applicable to Bank funds is not expected to cause
any durable misalignment with domestic market rates as, historically, market
rates of interest in Korea have generally moved in line with international
interest rates adjusted for the foreign exchange risk. The relending arrange-
ments for the training component are described in para. 51 of this report.
55.        Amortization Schedule.  The $5 million portion of the loan for the
technical assistance component (training and computerization) would have a
fixed amortization schedule and would be repaid by the Government in accord-
ance with the standard terms applicable to Korea, i.e. a 15-year maturity



- 22 -
including a 3-year grace period. The credit component would have two separate
adjustable composite amortization schedules, one for KDB and one for KLB,
reflecting the aggregate amortization schedules of the subloans made by KDB
and KLB, respectively. Individual subloans would have a maximum maturity of
13 years, including a normal grace period of three years. However, to
encourage cofinancing of subprojects with Eoreign commercial borrowings, the
Bank would agree to fit the amortization oE its funding around the shorter
maturity of commercial funds by picking up the later maturities. For
cofinanced subloans, an exception would be made to the normal grace period of
three years by extending it to five years. The maximum maturity of 13 years
would be unchanged. A similar facility was accorded both KDB and KLB under
the previous Bank loans (1932-KO and 1933-K(O).
56.       Procurement.  Procurement under the credit component would be made
on the basis of the standard procurement procedures of KDB and KLB. Both
institutions closely supervise procurement of equipment and require that
competitive procedures, including ICB, be applied whenever justified by the
size and nature of procurement. These procedures have been reviewed and were
found to ensure a satisfactory degree of competition while minimizing delays
in procurement. Under the training component, the Bank would review and
approve in advance, on a regular annual basis, the content, organization and
costs of the training program. Individual training firms or institutes would
be employed on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. Contracts in
excess of $75,000 would be subject to the prior approval of the Bank (Section
3.08(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). The selection of KAIST as the firm
providing the required services under the computerization component has
already been made by the Government. The Bank has reviewed the credentials
and experience of KAIST and concluded that this institute has the competency
needed to implement the program at a cost which appears reasonable by
international standards.
57..      Disbursements.  Withdrawal requests would be presented to the Bank
by the Ministry of Finance (MOF) under the training/computerization component
for technical assistance. Under the training program, disbursements would be
made against 100% of the cost of overseas training for the staff of super-
visory agencies and eligible financial institutions. For training costs of
less than $20,000, disbursements would be made against a certified statement
of expenditure (SOE). All related supporting documents including copies of
contracts and evidence of payment would be retained in one central location
and made available on request for review by Bank staff during supervision
missions. The SOE would be audited annually by independent auditors accept-
able to the Bank (Section 4.01(c) of the draft Loan Agreement). Disbursements
of $20,000 and above would be fully documented. For the computerization com-
ponent, payments would be made directly to KAIST in installments in accordance
with the revised contract with the Government, following satisfactory evidence
of the completion of specific tasks agreed in the contract. Under the credit
component, withdrawal requests would be submitted directly by KDB and KLB. As
with previous Bank loans to KDB and KLB, the proposed loan would be used to
finance (a) 100% of the foreign exchange cost of goods and services imported
directly by subborrowers; and (b) 60% of the cost in domestic currency (repre-
senting the estimated foreign exchange component) of locally manufactured or
of locally procured imported goods and equipment (Section 2.02(b) of the Draft
Loan Agreement).



- 23 -
58.       Expected Benefits and Risks.  An important benefit of the proposed
loan is that it would facilitate a close and effective dialogue with the
Government on financial sector policies. The impact of the reforms already
implemented and the adoption of new policy measures would be monitored
closely during supervision of the loan. This analysis would serve as the
basis for further discussions between the Bank and the Government on the
next steps towards financial sector reform and would provide the under-
pinnings of the Bank's subsequent financial sector loans. The $250 million
credit component would finance high priority investment projects selected by
KDB and KLB. Recent experience with projects financed by KDB and KLB
suggests that approximately 160 subprojects would be financed under the
credit component. Sample FRR and ERR computations for recent projects
financed by these institutions with Bank funds show a weighted average of
22% and 32%, respectively. The projects to be financed under the proposed
loan are expected to yield similar financial and economic returns. The
institution-building impact of the proposed loan is expected to benefit not
only KDB and KLB, whose maturity and efficiency are already quite high, but
also the financial institutions which would participate in the program of
technical assistance. The greater skills and exposure to a different
financial environment, which the overseas training program would provide,
would assist in the process of financial sector reform in Korea and would
help lay the basis of the future participation of commercial banks in the
next Bank-supported Industrial Finance Project. Finally, the program of
computerization of financial sector transactions is expected to strengthen
the Government's tax collection efforts while helping set up a reliable
credit information system.
59.       The institutional risks involved in the proposed project are
minimal. Both KDB and KLB have a long and excellent record showing their
ability to administer satisfactorily the credit component. Similarly, KBI
has developed extensive experience in the organization and supervision of
overseas training courses. As for the computerization program, the
introduction of a more effective credit and tax information system is a
large and complex task which will need to be monitored carefully. The main
risks associated with the proposed loan relate to the program of financial
sector reform and particularly the speed with which it is implemented. Too
rapid a liberalization of the financial system could have a destabilizing
effect on both the corporate and financial sectors which might jeopardize
the existing consensus for reform. Conversely, a higher than expected rate
of inflation or excessively slow liberalization of interest rates could
maintain the differential between market rates and legislated rates and thus
thwart some of the major objectives of the financial sector reform. The
Government is aware of these possible pitfalls and remains strongly com-
mitted to the reform process with the highest priority attached to maintain-
ing inflation at a low level and bringing down inflationary expectations.
Overall, the cautious and consistent approach to liberalization followed by
the Government is reasonable and is likely to prove successful, facilitated,
in part, by the expected economic recovery.



- 24 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
60.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Korea and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the Korea Develop-
ment Bank (KDB), the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the Korea
Long-Term Credit Bank (KLB), and the Report of the Committee provided for in
Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are
being distributed separately. Special conditions of the project are listed
in Section III of Annex III. The special actions that the Government plans
to take under its financial policy reform program are contained in its
Letter of Development Policy. In addition to the features of the Loan and
Project Agreements which are referred to in the text and listed in Section
III of Annex III, the following features are of particular interest: (a)
additional conditions of effectiveness are that (i) the KDB Subsidiary Loan
Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Republic of Korea and KDB, and
(ii) the KLB Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the
Republic of Korea and KLB (Section 6.01(a) and (b) of the draft Loan
Agreement), (b) conditions of disbursement for the technical assistance
component include (i) the signing of an agreement between the Republic of
Korea and the Korea Banking Institute (KBI); (ii) approval by the Bank of
a standard subsidiary loan agreement between the Republic of Korea and the
institutions participating in the training program; and (iii) the signing of
an agreement between the Republic of Korea and the Korea Advanced Institute
of Science and Technology (KAIST) (Schedule 1, para. 4(b) and (c) of the
draft Loan Agreement).
61.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Article of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
62.       I recommend that the Executives Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 20, 1983
Washington, D.C.



ANSX I
- 25 -                                                         Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
KOREA REPUBLIC OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
KOREA REPUBLIC OF                   REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEIAGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.                                                                     - MOST RECENT ESTIMATES!
TOTAL              98-5 MOST RECEST                                            MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL       22.5               1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b          ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   190.0        430.0    1520.0                   890.1                  1902.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILoGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      208.0        657.3    1472.5                   701.7                   1259.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (TMOUSANDS) 25012.0       32241.0   38197.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 27.7          40.7       54.8                   32.4                     65.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         52.2
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                           70.1
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                    2065
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       254.0        327.4      381.8                  255.9                     35.2
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND   1168.8        1389.1    1669.4                  1748.0                     92.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRES.                          42.9        42.1       35.1                   39.9                     39.7
15-64 YRS.                          53.7         54.6       61.1                   56.8                     56.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     3.3         3.3        3.8                    3.3                      4.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                2.1         2.5        1.9                    2.3                      2.4
URBAN                                4.7         6.4        4.9                    3.9                      3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       42.7        30.3       25.3                   31.8                     31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       13.4         9.1        7.9                    9.8                      8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                2.7         2.1        1.6                    2.0                      2.1
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..       671.0      686.0/c
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..          32.0       49.1                   36.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX Of FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-IDO)           89.0         99.0      113.0                  115.6                    110.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    97.4        107.0      117.2/d                106.4                    108.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           57.1         62.8       72.17d                 54.4                     66.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          7.0         8.2       14.3Td                 13.9                     34.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        8.6         3.9        2.1                    6.7                      5.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    54.4          60.3       65.4                   59.8                     64.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             78.3        50.1       34.1                   63.7                     64.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               12.1        58.0       71.0                   32.0                     65.6
URBAN                               18.6        84.0       85.0                   51.9                     78.9
RURAL                                9.5        38.0       54.9                   20.5                     43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         25.0       64.0/e                 37.7                     59.3
URBAN                                           59.0       68.0c7e                65.7                     75.3
RURAL                                 ..          ..       50. O/-e              -24.0                     30.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            3540.8      2238.3    1978.8/d                8540.4                   1617.3
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       3245.1/fg  1786.5/f   487.4Td                 4829.4                   1063.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            2513.5       1949.5      642.4/e               1047.5                    477.4
URBAN                             1286.9      1095.3      754.8k;                651.6                    679.8
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..                 2597.6                   1903.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..         14.9        ..                   27.0                     27.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                5.6         5.0        4.5
URBAN                                5.4          ..
RURAL                                5.6          ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                2.5         2.3        2.0/c
URBAN                                2.8         2.7        2.17                     .
RURAL                               2.4          2.2        2.0d7.
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               28.4        49.9         ..
URBAN                               67.3        92.4         ..
RURAL                               12.4        29.9       64.9/d



- 26-                                                            AN     I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
KOREA REPUBLIC OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
KOREA REPUBLIC OF               REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE4AGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b         ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 94.0        105.0     111.0                    96.2                    104.3
MALE                  99.0       106.0      112.0                   99.8                    106.4
FEMALE                89.0       105.0      111.0                   92.1                    103.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 27.0         42.0      76.0                    37.6                     41.3
MALE                  38.0        51.0       82.0                   41.1                     40.4
FEMALE                14.0        33.0       70.0                   34.1                     41.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (D OF SECONDARY)  14.2          14.3       19.7                   20.8                     33.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            58.2         56.9      48.1                    35.5                     29.9
SECONDARY                          34.3         36.5      39.0                    25.0                     16.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        70.6         87.6       93.0                   73.1                     79.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.5          1.9       6.2                     9.8                     42.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         31.2        124.4     402.2                   116.5                    270.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.3         13.1     150.6                    37.6                    107.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  69.0        136.3     172.8                    53.7                     63.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  4.0           5.2       2.0                     2.8                      2.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      8307.2      11285.2   14637.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   26.1         32.7      32.5                    33.6                     24.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              66.0         50.0      34.0                    52.2                     31.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  9.0         18.0      29.0                    17.9                     23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                33.2         35.0       38.3                   38.5                     33.6
MALE                                 49.5         46.8       51.3                   50.5                     50.4
FEMALE                               17.2         23.0      25.1                    26.6                     16.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.4         1.3        1.0                    1.1                      1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   15.1/h        17.1       16.1/e
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  42.37i;       44.5      45.3T*-
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    5.77/h        7.1        5.71-*
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   19.07di       17.7       16.9Te.
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOHE
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     320.0                   194.7
RURAL                                 ..          ..     270.0                   155.1                    184.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USA PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     370.0                   178.2                    518.0
RURAL                                ..           ..     310.0                   164.9                    371.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..       18.0                   24.4
RURAL                                 ..          ..       11.0                   41.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the Indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1975; /d 1977; /e 1976, /f Registered, not all practicing in the country; /g 1962; /h 1965.
May, 1982



- 27-                                                                                        AME I
Page 3 of 5
ttEPllTJTICNS OF SfEIAL INDICATORS
tless;  UAtheagh the dotsar  dee f" e           ... sorcs  enrlIly jodged 'h.  -a  authrdr"rlr  sod reliable. It ettoad also he ord aht they my coo he inter-
ntionally c...w.ro.blehccs  of shefla-k of stnndcdteod dof  iltinn   nod con.ePt. o-d by difern  c                     Lnre .t collecIng9 the data.  The data are,ae
thelena. unef ci to descriabe older. of   dgl.t,itodiceto trend., end carctrzecetin    c  aJltd  enoo  beteencontres
Theterfeennon grusse  1lh nm   conygop of thesbj.ct coun try  nd (l) a cocotty group with so-h-a  hiaher.. acrege iocose oha  the country grop
ofte  bet t..ty(oep   o           Hg  bom        01lproo    ro   br               ddle Iorome North Afrira and Middle East' Is chose  hetansa of stronger
aoi-uluc  afnoio.It thel dne tnc  fgroup datn "Ia -ce-g-   en poulton ightdarieot anfunchtdcteadswnnl  ohan .t
majority of the countrie   igophnft                 lu that LindIato.  Sic  the co_aE. of contris amog the indi-oor  dpnd  o   he nnat1'bililyo  It
adIn fo-un,  ato    os  eeecised in enletlog geera.ges of .00 indicator tosothr   These ac-rgs.  arc only usful I oowclog the cas of
oeindicatorlat a nims emog the coutry sod refernt  grouPs.
AREA (thous-d sqm.k)                                                                            Vyp4tto,1PI,jH-pit'! Pad- ncc,uban  and oural -Pplto    crl
Totel - Total surft.t erac noptislg i-td so.. co d inland names; 1979 dctn.                    -urhsn,ndcura1 ijdindd b  thei  ts_prniln ounb- of hospital bode
Agertultolnl - gatilms   of agrIcutural are  used ne-eoruely or parwsncey                       sooicieb to pulit -bd peli-te  ono.         r   ptais  hespino1 sode-
foe crops. p a.        market and kitchen gardas or no lie fallen; 1979 data.                 hablittic unse . Hopitals are esablIshments Paantlly nntffnd
by at mas.t coo physicso.  Establiaheeta proodirg p .icupaily costo-
iNP PER CAPITA 1US$) -GNSP Ps.cpt   siee   icestnaktpln . tel                                     d Iatl cr  arelnt-icue.   ua eP"ol,b rr  icuehaa
colated bya       onrin mthed as tirid Noo  bia  (1-80bsi)  1960,                               cdm diacetrnorl P.raeo    stafeIyaphyaliat. (bu  by 
197.  an_d 19fdta.                                                                              meio   sitn.nre   idift.' ec) oich tIter  n-P.tinace -
-deiot  ... poida-    I  Iate  reg   fmdimcl facllitiss.  Po- storm-
ENERGY CON9SUMPTION PER CAPITA - 9A0.1- ... nouption of crca   eegy (coal                         tics)1 paeposa urban hoapitnla Inclde Witti  priunipal/geo.o. h1uspitalo,
and Ilgoirel   etoso          ..aon  gao and bydro-, ouiarad geteml.c-ad roes1 hapitai.  loa  or1 rorai hospitlsl sod medical end nterlty
trinity) 10 kiloga.      tct eanltptcpi;ihI, i7f ad 19'79"                                      ceters.  iprLIned hospitalsr  included.only utfer tota.
data                                                                                         Admisaloos ore lfseta  Ned - Total oaber of adianlno  n o  diach-ngee
Ito . bopirsia dialdod by the eater, of bela.
POPUILATION AltD VITAL STATISTICS O.
Total yn.u.enion. tid-toer~ Ithosand) -A. of Juiy 1; 19Sf. 1970. end 19Sf0                 tHOUSINC
data.                                                               kner~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ags glen of Hueod .(eron  perho',bId) - tta, urban  an  rra-
dehan  poylation Irotten.t of total) -Ratio of u-bao tc totlpplto;Aboshl   ossso  agupo.1liuaewoaaelvn   qater
dfeetdefLeitloon of urbcaareo   my affact c..qpaabildry of data                         und thernio mai. .,A boarder or lodga  nay or   y not he ilolded In
Cmocg  cutries; 1960. 1970,..nt  1II   dota.                                               the houehldto    ainticl  -puryosot
Population Proyncticos                                                knerege outer of persons roe room-totol, utban. ood A--grorulf -- a-   -    -  -brogono -
Porulacon it yar lii C-l.uret pnpuiation projection  are booe.d on 198f               her ofpnon por co  in all orbao. cod ro-ral occpudrc.r.....
ctnipoultinby aE. and ac  atd their mentality ond f-rtilityrc.toa.                       d::elllng.reottl.ielig   o  ottnprrarrsrcue   n
itg liferPecac  a               ott   in tbig wih  -ony'o par capita itotne              Aores to Elatric ity (ce-ent of d-elllns) -tocu1, urban, and r-ol-
lecel  -td fosole lito roponann-y, tuil!icigA on .77.5 yoom.  The parc-                    C'nesloI  daIitigo  etch alecticityi   linot 00ror
menrl  frfotut  raealohne              .ro   rea  ouiog do-lior in                         of ttotal   1b.urc.an  rua       Iling     .P tepcin_ly.
fert.ility acdiog t  incom  Inte  cdpost ftuly plant.ing p-rfra-c..
--c conty  e  hou assigned one of tiot  nie  otoati.on  of mentality                EDUCATIONi
nodfertlitiy trends tot prlecin   opoe.                                                  ddjuatd Etrulm-  Ralf_c
Stationary pupulction-icnoaioerypopulation  chet. itoRo...t.boin-                            remain  echol - tono, mm  and fn-in-rn    oo.ml  n  final
the birth rat  is oquol to the death rat, and also tbreotr_cto-e..-                           nooilment of oil ages at the primary  resP_ecena ges of tpec fo
_al_  -oatn.  Thin to achianed otly af.te  feltiljcyrae  declIne to                           P poi_ay   boln     popula tote; n..ro.lly icue  childre  aged 6-1l
the  .t.c.en  ot  of, unit ne  erutn  rote. sho  oahgeeato                                   yeaoo bun odj--d for diftfrot lengths  f primary  du..atint; for
of c__rre lanc_ aroi  rontly.  The a.ic-ony pnpulltioo std  a                                 coirr  nith u-i-ensa  edoc-tocrnollmtt n pocerd 100 porn-n
neti:mltod on tho banis of thr P-o)-ted chccceitinoah  pplto                                   eoam  ppl   e   eo   rohn   h    fiilohoni ug
Inte  or    06  and the rate of decline nf tactility  -t.n no rePlac-.              uncodar  sco-Ii=ae  n   eot-isotdtht;ood
ment lenni.                                                           e~~~~~~~~~~~ducaion reur at leas t four yrlar  of opptond prinary isrcit
peronnityrpulunino In roanhbd - Th. yeuc nine  ttl.lner.y popoluttu-                   yrn-dns general,  -ucaio..a, tr teocher tri i--Istnticos fur puPils
sian will be reac.hed.                                                                       uoanlly of 12 to 17 yours of a g; cre podnlelnte r  gotorlipl
FPorlanion innilt                                                                                 eucudd,
Pro an. k.. - Mid-yea  popoloiu  pan square kilomte  (iii hoctorta) of                      Puc-tionM -erolmen  (Peret of oncundoyl - Vncolona    ntitutioni
ruralarea  196g  197  and1979 data                                                  incloda tahi-1. Industial, or other yro o  whicoPerate I'depIod-
Poatnha  anlutrl.sd - Conpuned aa aboutfu  ogtcln                        ad                    _nlylo  a  depert-rts of necotdary inatitotien.-
cely  191.  977and1979 data.                                                       Pui tahrcti      rsr,ad occod-ry - Toctl scu_ca_  enr oled in
Purictn   9 ec  trut-r  (rect)--h`   dr  (i-14 yeara). rurkccg-o0e 115-                 prmryad  -oodary MIe  dicided by nuabero of tachero in the
64 ynt.... Iaedrnir-d  65 yooc-ucdor)tpwctae  ofeid-y-orcPu-                                  corr..ap-dicnlernla.
let ion; 1960, 1970. and 1980 dat.                                                          Adu"lt literay nto )rp--nl) - Literate   du1ta (oho no rod and -ict.)
rp,ulatpi:O - t h Rono (erp--) - totl.  - ucuo .    l.-nwhar  of totol oil-                     onp.--trg. of  .,roI adult poolflo  cd 15 year  and o-m
yerpp tu l       fur 1950-Sf, 1960-71. an  1970-t0.
Pnouioti:,o i-uh Hoet rocet -r n- Aotu..l groeth  ae  of urban popu-                       CONSUMPTION
laios  or190-1  1960-7D, cod1910-to.                                                 Poaroerfus  pretuscd popltion) - ynegrcr   op                            co
adtitbea(per tho..tand) - ac-nl lino  lmbs pot thousand of mid-peon                   cur!Noting4 loss then tght ponsono; Io   b   auu ct.b-orsa  and,
,popu-anda; i9hi. IV71, and19ff  ot.                                                         nil itor  nehic co
itods Dn-t taco (po- ch.uacdl - OnuI deotha Pro thon...nd  of  ild-yrar                      Hodin HN,ein-rs frrr,thou,ao  popoatio) - nil cpoo   oeor   n   t
ypaio;16,1910, ocd 1990 data.                                                       brodccon   enrlpii   o  thosad Iu 'poltis  con .....                   on
lienb -rdu-tion Rdn -IwA-log nob-r of da-ght-r   a ne   Ill hbar In                         1 moond r-corer  In onorOnad On roam  when regacrol-i   of rdin
her _-ni  erdonc  pro   i   o tneirtco  pne--n  aeyoific te-                                  onto  a  ioff-et ; data  f- recent yroa sop not ho nonpubla oioco
til tnat;aulpSl-yatoagstdigiitl190odl9.                                                       meat - uncics abo1iahd licen..t. i
F-alp PIa..iog -uAc-ptoo., Aonuol )cbhuaands) - Aon..al  -cb-r of atccpto70O-enr  (per .h.uatd popu laion) -In c.e.er  for. broa1dnad                                 t
of bIrth-ontro  d_nosudr  opcsa  naional f-lo  pl.oonto  progec.                              nnrlpbi elhu-                  oplco;ccldnottcadP  recicrs
mem   of obild-b-uing 0gw (15-44 yaa   h   u   it-oto    eie t                ogo          eNenpaper Cincalatinn Y(pe  thuadr lto)-Sot  thl                   nrowte
cli nannld onm   in nam  Ate group.                                                           -ulati- of "datiy general init-o  nnappn".dofined ooprdical
publucatlon   eoe  rromettly to ro-odinSg nroro.Ini oInidactd
indnn of Pond Production rot capita (1969-71-100) - Irlna of per otPi,.wn-0.                 Cinem  Abo.n. Anto.dosc- per CopOto.per Pont - Notd on the towheeo
productioc of oil fond comolit-a          ooto  e-n ld_a sand and feed ord                    tickets sod dulolg cIt you. ico   log  dnunun   o drOe-n  lna
is. on-I,id- y..r baein.  Comditiwecoc-  priorY goodt (on9. sugac..                           and mob IIt uIto..
i_tnrad ofagu)wich won odibl olad  -cnis nutrients (n.R. ooffro and
teareesnludod).  Agra,gote prdution of noch out`ry to booed onABORd FOnCt
nainl poro   prdo-   pice mightn; 1961-61, 1970, and 1980 data.                   Toa.LbrPac.ctocdal - Etnonei-oly action  porsons, nidt
Poe aruc  suorly ofalorn  (por_eotf roquiremenca  - Canpotod tens                            -ro    noeadoepnn   u   nluding h...-ocra  -tdetto. eo...
etorgy eocao of ne  fond soppi le        iable in c..otr  pe P-cpitooeno  ppliof ccal agon.  Defot ticon n    In -aniot --ctieaor
pe  ay.  oat lablo oupplio cupnian domeoiti  proi oc   aoroluantco.patshin; 060I970 ad18   ua
q_atOiesoad in fond yr-betitg, and locono in liannibut.n.   Hqt-                              A.riSRul-u  (peren) -lbor fIco_t  foraot  rocotY,  unino cod
motwon   -t ntd bY FA0 bowe  cchyoilolgicol ...do for "It"a  anti-                     finhic0 00 percennto, of tota  labor forco; 1961. 1970 tod lNt  dota.
city and hea1lth c.otidnriogos-i-otnta.l  tsp1      anrbody neighto. oge                     indotry (ro-o-n)- aofrc  inmnn,  o-rcco.ncf-nnoiog
and on_ distribution nf populati-e  0511aimig 10 percet fornat  at                             and .citicty  actor and Saa a  yn naofo tota  labor forco;
In...bold lena];~ 1961405, 0970 ond 1977 dat.                                                  I1861, 1910 ao  l090  dota.
Per _actnodoorry of crotein (gono Par da) - Pro-cin --oto  of Per onpita                     Pm   rno   iaIpeet      oo,ml.  and fonalec- P-rtiipatin  or
,It spply of food Par day.  Nat tupp1y of fund in Intoned aa cht.   Ho.-                     aNtiit   ain  r  cl      ue  cctoal  sl, and tomb  labor f-re
quirom_noc for tl  coorI       - atbliahod by USDA procddofrnrmcproco                                      fttl   aec ffenau  popoottocof atIwo tu etct loly,
allon_onna of 60 grow  of total prutaIn Pot day cod 20 gnoeof so_le  ond                      1960, 197.ad I9MI data,   mea   ar  bacdocI'a urtptlsta
poise pentoi, of heti   -itn  should hr a-imelpoteIn,   Theat stand-                                 loettg0.-...t. ct. onf the  npltin,ad long time total.  A
urdr   towe  then tbha. of 75 gram of total ptotoin  nd 2u gnoeo                              few ra-nta  r  fin   aoclaune
a.oimI proteIn us    -c .g. fur the ncrld, plopt...d by PA0 to ZThthird                    Ocs-ic loprodency Ratio -  Itaut ofyplolnuder 11 aol 65 and ue
loed  on  foensy; 1961-65, 1910 sod 191.. t                                               to the total lehor forte.
Per pait  pro _tom sorpl  fln animal and poise -Protin supply of food In-
cited _ Irnsiale aod yo... In traas Per dap; 1961465, 1970 and 1917 datc.                INCOMEo DISTRItUTION
ChIld(ca 1-4) hct Rate(o   huad    ond                 ld....a Per-   ouadIn                 PIor..ntoon ofPicane Itnum% Ihh In noah ond kind) - tn-itnd hr rihtwo
ago grouE1-  ynro   to childron in this        S-goup, for mest decolop itcon                5 T-m.o  rinhest 20  ocnt poncrat 20 p-rrt, and p                   40eo  h  PencsI
trios dens derisned frnw life tables; 1960, 19 70 and 1991 dano.                             of ho..stholds.
HEAL,TH                                                                                      POPVETY TARGLt! GROUPS
Life 1 tnrnnc  atBirth  yer)- Avnrnge conker of yeurs of lifo combing                         Th. to1ll oslg esiaw    rtrcyoiaemau                       fpnrY leon..
at bOm;190   97   n  isn. Ioa,ad ahoold he Inre-pena1d, :4thosdnal  caution
Infant mortalitr Rain  per thounand) - no-un  d-hib  of iofa-csuodnr nor Yos                 Otmea  Abmiotoo P_nety income tewl (OtO Per  _arital -ubanco  rtl -
of aeper nhe..nnd Ice birtbs; 1960, 1970 and 1988 dana.                                      ao    -t-poety Incom  1-1w is Ithat inom  1-n1 bno  wih    tIn
kcnto  aenm ffrorenofrnloiu --.tutol. orban   n   otl-Nm                                    Iotcn ey adqeate dint plan . ntena  to-food rqiemnaIc so
her of peol'ttl   ro.ad enol )' with ossoeb..                ns  to cafe                       ffordsble.
water   -hn asthat from protected ba..ebolna, speinas, aod nnnr  mlla) at                     Surl  rltogporpIncom  in-e  i  cn-third of  -nstge Per onpita
par_nteg- of thel It rePentine popoletios.  to -e urban araspoblin                            persona  income of the cuartiy.  irban letl Is deriwed grow the rural
fou_tato or stadpost boa.ted non more than 296-l mo frsle.a hoan may be                       ine  wI,th  djna       fnr  lghoer coat of  rIn~Ig In orb.a.res
noos id.a-ea  b,nog w,iti  rona bahi  a-nen  of then h..ans. too al area                   tIi.o-oolto   elwOsl   Ponncrbom  rol   eron)    abo
-eoonble  -aesmld lqrly that the housewfe or meter  of the hesoheld                          so  oa      ecn   fpopulation  uhoadrrl   h   r  "s lte
do ou-bn  tosed a dis"pruportonne part of the day  to fething the                            p-or.
Aosa t  Mborneo D1iarsal fer to ofenpa'La'an  -  oa,ura,sd toe   -
Notl ofpepl  (lonta. uban, sod rura) send by es-rt. diwpcsal a
percentags. of their respetiLe pepoalati_.  Ratreta. diposim   intod.
the onlietias sa  dispenaL. w-th or witbant itntat, ef ban nerts
sod ei-wseby enterb-heo   eyst-  on the use of pit P,icies sad sle-
Powaarts ee  Thelaie -Pepalatmm   di"ided by w-bar of pectutag physi-                                                       Romdosd Sonial Dsta DinaIeon
din  q1sitiad f e   A mdoIo acl nwieaaisy inwe-  -                                                                         Oca_om. bAIlysia And Pointastpaeet-
PnmOst ion  -           P-arh  lre   - Pnpasiala  dieldd by nA-tee of pr...tislog                                                              Way 1962
Nis  and famel  geooas   ars   assntais.p-atical satin  sod
monig  tg iiici.



ANNh' I
Page 4 of 5
_ 28 -
Population: 39,331 (mid-1982, thousands)
GNP Per Capita:  US$1,679 (1982)
KOREA - ECO1OlMIC INDICATORS
Amount
(million USS at                            Annual growth rates (2) at constant prices
current prices)                                   Actual                                         Projected
Indicator                               1982 /a              1977       1978       1979        1980       1981        1982/a    1985       1990
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product /b             68,070               10.1       11.3        7.1        -3.5        7.1         5.5        7.5         7.5
Agriculture                         11,616                2.1       -4.0        6.7      -22.0        22.0         4.5        1.0         4.0
Industry /c                         21,831              15.8        20.8        8.4       -0.5         5.0         3.9        5.8       10.8
Services                            20,009               9.7        11.0        6.0       -4.2         4.0         6.8       16.8        6.0
Consumption                           51,497                7.1       11.0        7.4        -1.0        3.7         7.6        8.4         6.9
Gross investment                      1/,517               24.0       35.9       17.5       -24.4         5.0        4.1        4.2         7.5
Exports of GNFS                       26,575               25.7       17.5       -3.6         9.9       17.2         4.6        8.5         9.5
Imports of GNFS                       27,215              23.8        29.1        8.6        -7.7        B.5       -0.1         7.4         8.9
Gross national savings                14,531               17.3       14.1        3.7       -17.7         3.0       18.2        5.4         9.4
PRICES
GDP deflator (1975 - 100)                                135.8       164.6      197.4      246.7       286.2      309.1       332.0      444.2
Exchange rate (US$1 -)                                   484.0       484.0      484.0       607.6      681.0       731.1
Export price index (1975 - 100)                          120.2       137.2      161.2       169.7      173.7       167.7      185.0      247.6
Import price index (1975 - 100)                          103.9       108.4      137.3       175.2      182.1      173.2       198.0      265.3
Terms of trade index (1975 - 100)                        122.0       128.0      125.3       103.9      101.6       105.7      100.8      100.7
Share of GDP at market prices (X)                          Average annual increase (t)
(at current prices)                                     (at constant prices)
1960    1970         1975    1980   1985     190       1960-70    1970-75   1975-80   1980-85  1985-90
Gross domestic product              100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0               8.6         9.8        8.2        5.3.        7.5
Agriculture                        36.7    26.9    24.5    16.5    15.9         12.4          4.3        4.9        -1.2        3.7         3.4
Industry                          20.1    29.5    33.8    41.3    44.4    49.2               17.4       15.3        13.5        7.0        8.8
Services                           43.2    43.6    41.7    42.3    39.7    38.3               8.1        7.'7        7.6        4.2        9.2
Consumption                        85.3    83.0    80.1    76.4    65.7    58.1               6.7        7.8         7.1        3.8         6.8
Gross investment                   11.0     26.9    29.0    30.2    33.2    33.8             23.6       11.2        14.6        7.5         7.2
Exports of GNFS                     3.4    14.3    27.6    35.7    43.7    49.6              29.3       25.4        16.1        5.1         9.3
Imports of GNFS                    12.8    24.1    36.3    42.7    42.6    43.9              20.2       15.8        17.0        4.5        8.2
Gross national savings /d           8.0    19.5    20.6    21.7         -        -           17.2       14.6         9.0       12.7         9.2
As % of GDP
1960       1970       1975        1980         Labor Force in 1980            Millions      (X)
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                                  Agriculture                    4.7       32.2
Current revenues                            18.5       17.8       17.9        19.9            Industry                       3.9       27.1
Current expenditures                        14.3       13.1       15.4        15.6            Services                       5.1       35.5
Current surplus                              4.2        4.7         2.5        4.3            Unemployed                     0.7        5.2
Capital expenditure                          3.4        6.4        6.4         5.9
Foreign financing                            ...        1.0         1.3        1.0                Total Labor Force         14.5      100.0
1960-70           1970-75           1975-80           1980-85            1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
Annual GNP growth rate (X)                                    8.7               9.0                7.9               5.2               7.6
Annual GNP per capita growth rate (%)                         5.9               6.9                5.2               3.1               6.0
Annual energy consumption growth rate (X)                    14.2               9.6               12.3/e             7.7                .-
ICOR                                                          1.9               2.7                5.4               4.5               4.4
M5arginal savings rate                                        0.3               0.3                0.3               0.5               0.4
Import elasticity                                             2.2               1.6                2.0               1.0               1.1
/a  Preliminary.
/b  The sum of agriculture, industry and services (-53,456) do not add up to GDP at current prices because the former is shown at
current factor cost.
/c  "Industry" includes mining and manufacturing, construction, and electricity, gas and water.
/d  Including net transfers.
/e 1975-79.
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
May 1983



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
- 29 -
Population: 39,331 (mid-1982, thousands)
GNP Per Capita:  US$1,679 (1982)
KOREA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million US$ at current prices)
Indicator                                                      Actual                                           Pro;jected
1970    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    19821a    1985    1990
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of goods and services         1,379   9,467  13,059  17,124  19,523  22,577  27,269  28,500    40,213  85,531
Of which: merchandise f.o.b.          882   7,821  10,035  12,678  14,694  17,214  20,702  20,961    28,893  60,312
Imports of goods and services         2,180  10,119  13,272  18,651  24,115  28,347  32,416  31,500    42,728  85,143
Of which: merchandise f.o.b.        1,804   8,407  10,517  14,436  19,266  21,598  24,299  23,361    32,100  63,437
Net transfers                           118      345      222     467      439      449      500      473        500      500
Current account balance                -623    -307         8  -1,060  -4,153  -5,321  -4,615  -2,546    -2,015          888
(X of GNP)                            (-7-2)  (-1-1) (+0.02)  (-2.2)  (-7.1)  (-9.3)  (-7.4)  (-3.9)    (-2.1)  (+0-5)
Direct investment                        66       75       72       61      17       96       81      100        250     250
MLT loans (net)                         Z42   1,239   1,460   2,216   2,945   2,096   4,267   2,051            4,149  13,992
Official                              147      664     594      663      852      689   1,337      880      1,268      443
Private                                95      575     866   1,552   2,093   1,408   2,929   1,171          2,881  13,548
Other capital                           372      308    -167  -1,039   2,090   4,362  -5,240          314        -50      150
Change in reserves                      -57  -1,314  -1,372    -707    -898    -863    -320           -89    -2,334 -15,280
International reserves                  610   1,985   2,992   2,828   3,112   3,975   6,891   6,980    12,137  52,269
Reserves as months imports              3.4      2.4      2.7      1.8     1.5      1.7      1.6      2.6        3.4     7.4
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross disbursements
Official grants                         -        -        -       -        -        -        -       50
Concessional loans                    123      238      163     184      193      138      159     148
DAC                                 122     226      132      167      1       T21      T58      148
OPEC                                  -        -      21       13       20       17        1       -
IDA                                   1       10       9        3        -        -        -       -
Other                                 -        2        1       -        -        -        -       -
Non-concessional loans                317   1,518   2,040   3,729   4,448   3,655   4,779   3,937
Official export credits              18     132      262      219      341     606      844      532
IBRD                                  7     286      190      321      426     254      306      438
Other multilateral                    5       83      85       89       91      90      104      116
Private                             287   1,017   1,503   3,101   3,591   2,705   3,525   2,851
Medium- and Long-Term Debt
Debt outstanding and
disbursed                        1,797   6,817   8,593  11,937  14,553  16,274  19,964  22,006
Official                            613   3,359   4,121   5,016   5,667   6,498   7,702   8,572
Private                           1,185   3,458   4,472   6,921   8,886   9,776  12,263  13,433
Undisbursed                           902   3,459   4,793   6,294   5,337   7,072   5,996   5,324
Debt Service on MLT Loans
Total service payments                268      910   1,201   1,825   2,578   2,762   3,597  -4,199
Interest                            70     392      456      657     890   1,310   1,777  -2,164
Payments as % exports                19.4      9.6     9.2    10.7    13.2    12.2    13.0    14.5
Short-Term Debt
Debt outstanding and
disbursed                           ...   3,045   3,239   3,575   6,279  10,047  13,658  14,100
Interest payments                     ...      ...     152      236      377     907   1,810   1,528
Interest as X exports                 ...      ...     1.2      1.4      1.9     4.0      6.7    5.28
Average Interest Rate on New Loans (X)
Official                              4.5      7.1     7.9      7.4      7.6     7.5      8.4      8.0
Private                               7.1      8.3     8.3      9.7    11.4    14.0    13.6    13.7
Average Maturity of New Loans (years)
Official                             28.0    21.7    18.3    19.6    16.8    19.6    15.3    15.5
Private                              10.9      9.6     9.7    10.9    10.7    11.2    13.1         8.1
As % of debt outstanding
at end of most recent
year (1981)
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within  5 years                         45.0
Maturities due within 10 years                         77.0
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                          8.0
/1a   reliminary -
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
May 1983



ANNEX It
Page 1 of 12 pages
- 30 -
KOREA
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THiE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of February 28, 1983)
Loan or                                                                                 Amount ($ million)
Credit       Calendar                                                                  (less cancellations)
Number         Year          Borrower             Purpose                         Bank      TW    IDA   Undishursed
Thirty-six  loans and eight credits fully disbursed                             1,909.01  40.0  106.81
1319          1976    ADC                       Irrigation                         29.0                         5.42
1364          1977    ADC                       Irrigation                         95.0                        22.28
1401          1977    Republic of Korea         Ports II                           67.0                         9.35
1474          1977    Republic of Korea        Vocational Training                 '3.0                         0.57
1503          1978    ADC                       Agriculture/Irrigation             36.0                        18.56
1530          1978    Republic of Korea        Rural Infrastructure II             95.0                        14.46
1635*         1978    KLTCB                    Dev. Finance Co.                   100.0                         0.37
1640          1978    Republic of Korea        Highways IV                        143.0                        24.86
1666          1979    Republic of Korea        Chungju Multipurpose               125.0                        49.27
1676          1979    Republic of Korea        Electronics Technology              29.0                        10.95
1749          1979    SMIB III                 Dev. Finance Co.                    60.0                         0.53
1758          1979    Republic of Korea        Second Gwangju Regional             65.0                        45.06
1774          1979    Republic of Korea        Population I                       -30.0                        28.53
1788          1979    Korea Electric Co.    Power                                 115.0                        46.03
1800          1980    Republic of Korea        Education V                        100.0                        54.85
1829          1980    CNB I                     Dev. Finance Co.                   30.0-                        4.05
1836          1980    Republic of Korea        Railway VII                         94.0                        10.89
1851          1980    AFDC                     Agriculture II                      50.0                        20.82
1932          1981    KLTCB VIII               Div. Finance Co.                    90.0                        32.88
1933          1981    KDB IV                   Div. Finance Co.                   100.0                        12.14
1974          1981    Republic of Korea        Third Agriculture Credit            50.0                        23.57
1980          1981    Republic of Korea        Nat. Urban Land & Housing           90.0                        74.48
2004          1981    SMIB IV                  Dev. Finance Co.                    60.0                        47.71
2072          1982    Republic of Korea        Water Supply                        90.0                        80.48
2111          1982    Republic of Korea         Agricultural Marketing             50.0                        42.53
2112          1982    KTDC                      Technology Development             50.0                        43.79
2144          1982    CNB                      DFC                                 30.0                        30.00
2215**        1982    Republic of Korea        Machinery Industry                  70.0                        70.00
2216**        1982    Republic of Korea        Nat. Urban Land and Housing    100.0                           100.00
2228***       1982    Republic of Korea         Provincial and County Roads    125.0                          125.00
Total                                                            4,100.01  40.0  106.81   1,049.43
of which has been repaid                                         430.32   0.7    4.27
Total now outstanding                                            3,669.69  39.3  102.54
Amount sold                        8.83
of which has been repaid         8.83                               -      -       -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange adjustment)                                 3,669.69  39.3  102.54
Total undisbursed                                                 1,049.43   -        -       1,049.43
*   Fully disbursed as of 3/3/83.
**  Not yet effectiy6.
*** Declared effective on 3/30/83.



- 31 -                     ANNEX I I
Page 2 of 12 pages
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of February 23, 1983)
Fiscal                                                           Amount ($ million)
Year       Obligor                 Types of Business            Loan  Equity Total
1968    KDFC                        Development Financing          -      0.7    0.7
1969    Honam Silk Co.              Textiles                      1.4    0.3    1.7
1970    Atlas Paper                 Pulp and paper                4.5    0.5    5.0/a
1971    Korea Investment
Finance Corp.            Capital Market Development   -        0.7    0.7
1974    KDFC                        Development Financing          -      0.4    0.4
1974    Korea Investment
Finance Corp.            Capital Market Development   -        0.3    0.3
1975    Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products             16.0    1.3   17.3
1975    Korea Securities
Finance Corp.            Capital Market Development  5.0    0.6    5.6
1975    Tong Yang Nylon
Company, Ltd.            Synthetic Fibers              6.9    2.1    9.0
1975    Rae Un Dae Develop-
ment Company, Ltd.       Tourism                       2.8    0.7    3.5
1976    Korea Investment
Finance Corp.            Capital Market Development   -        0.4    0.4
1976    Chonjo Paper Mfg. Co.    Paper                            5.0    0.5    5.5
1976    Korea Zinc. Co., Ltd.    Zinc                            15.0    4.0   19.0
1976    KDFC                        Development Financing        17.8      -    17.8
1976    Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Pro(ducts            10.0    0.4   10.4
1977    Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products               -      0.2    0.2
1977    KDFC                        Development Ftnancing          -      0.3    0.3
1977    Korea Securtties
Finance Corp.            Capital Market                 -      0.5    0.5
1977    Korea Development
Leasing Corp.            Capital 'Market              15.0    0.4   15.4
1978    KDFC                       Development Financing           -      1.1    1.1
1979    Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products               -      1.7    1.7
1979    KIFC                        Capital Market                 -      0.6    0.6
1979    Korea Development
Leasing Corp.                                           -      0.2    0.2
1979    Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products               -      1.5    1.5
1980    Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Produicts              -      1.8    1.8
1980    Korea Investment
Finance Corp.            Capital Market                 -      0.6    O.6
1980/82 Korea Securities
Finance Corp.                                           -      1.1    1.1
1980    KDFC                        Development Financing          -      2.2    2.2
1981   Tathan Bulk Terminal        Grain Port Terminal            7.0    2.5    9.5
Co., Ltd.
1982   KIFC                         Capital Market                 -      0.6    0.6
1982   K-TAC (Korea Technology
Advancement Corp.)        Research & Development         -      0.7    0.7
Total gross commitment                                 106.4   28.9  135.3
less cancellations, terminations,
repayment and sales                                   80.3    4.0   84.3
Total commitments now held by IFC                       26.1   24.9   51.0
TOTAL undisbursed                                          -     0.7    0.7
/a Cancelled at the request of the Company.



- 32 -                  ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12 pages
C.  STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1 AS OF FEBRUARY 28, 1983
Agricultural Sector
Loan No. 1319    Miho Watershed Area Development Project; $29.0 Million Loan
of August 5, 1976; Effective Date: October 21, 1976;
Closing Date:  December 3L, 1984
The project comprises irrigation and land development on 10,350 ha
together with river channel improvements and village roads. The project area
has been reduced from 12,665 ha at appraisal as a result of deleting about
2,300 ha of land development which, because of the sharp escalation in
construction costs, have become uneconomic. The project has been divided
into eight subprojects, each to be constructed under a separate contract.
One of these subprojects has been completed, and four more will be completed
by mid-1984; loan disbursements will be lirmited to these five subprojects.
Because of inadequate budgetary allocations in the past, the project
continues to be behind schedule. The closing date was recently extended to
December 31, 1984.
Loan No. 1364    Yong San Gang Irrigation Plroject Stage II; $95.0 Million
Loan of February 11, 1977; Effective Date: April 22, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project will provide irrigation and land development on 20,700
ha in the lower reaches of the Yong San River. Project works inc:lude an
estuary darn on the Yong San river, sea dike, pumping plants, irrigation
canals, reclamation of 5,500 ha of tidal lands, conversion of 3,250 ha of
uplands for irrigation of paddy, land consolidation on 3,200 ha, and irriga-
tion of 1,050 ha of uplands. The main contract for the estuary dam construc-
tion is complete. Other parts of the project have fallen behind due to a
shortage of local budget. The Bank and the Government recently agreed that
loan disbursements would be limited to the ten subprojects under
implementation and the project is scheduled for completion in 1984.
Loan No. 1503    Ogseo Area Development Project - Stage I; $36.0 Million
Loan of January 4, 1978; Effective Date: M4arch 29, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project will provide irrigati.on and drainage improvements for
10,800 ha, including 5,800 ha of land consolidation and 1,800 ha of land use
/1  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12 pages
conversion from upland to paddy. The project has been divided into seven
subprojects, each to be constructed under a separate contract. Insufficient
budgetary allocations have delayed the project from its start in 1978, but
the Government has now approved a funding program which will allow completion
of five subprojects by 1984 and Bank disbursements will be limited to these
subprojects.
Loan No. 1530    Rural Infrastructure Project II; $95.0 Million Loan of
March 13, 1978; Effective Date: June 8, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
The project includes about 36 minor irrigation subprojects, con-
struction or improvement of 2,500 km of river levees or bank protection,
contruction or improvement of water systems for 7,400 villages, and telephone
line installation to provide new service for 2,700 villages and 76,000 addi-
tional lines to other villages. The river levee bank construction, rural
telephones and the water supply components are complete. The minor irriga-
tion component is scheduled for completion by the end of 1983; an extension
of the closing date is under consideration.
Loan No. 1851    Second Agricultural Products Processing Project;
$50.0 Million Loan of June 27, 1980; Effective Date:
September 3, 1980; Closing Date: September 30, 1984:
The project provides funds to the Agriculture and Fishery Develop-
ment Corporation (AFDC) for medium- and long-term loans to the private
sector for the construction and equipping of agroprocessing facilities, and
for technical assistance to AFDC. The project has been progressing satis-
factorily with lending being directed increasingly towards ensuring that the
project would finance a wide range of processing facilities and that medium
and small size processors would be the main recipients of the total project
funds. The project has been progressing satisfactorily. The rate of lend-
ing has, however, been slowing down due mainly to domestic and world-wide
economic recession. The closing date will need to be extended.
Loan No. 1974    Third Agricultural Credit Project;  $50.0 Million Loan of
May 13, 1981; Effective Date: August 11, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
The project would help increase (a) production of high-value
fruits and vegetables; (b) farm productivity; and (c) off-season employment.
Over the four-year period, the project would provide credit nationwide for
financing a wide range of activities, notably: greenhouses, sprinkler
irrigation, on-farm storage, chilled storage, spraying equipment, small-scale
agro-processing and backyard livestock. Project implementation is proceeding
rapidly with disbursements ahead of schedule.



-34 -                  ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12 pages
Loan No. 2111    Agricultural Wholesale 'Marketing Project; $50.0 Million
Loan of April 5, 1982; Effective Date: August 6, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project provides for construction and equipping of an agricul-
tural wholesale market at Garagdong in Seoul, the establishment of an author-
ity to run the market, training for wholesale and market officials and
carrying out a study of Korea-s agricultural marketing system and related
public policies. The main civil works contract for construction of the
market has been awarded and construction is underway.
Multipurpose
Loan No. 1666    Chungju Multipurpose Project; $125.0 Million Loan of
March 29, 1979; Effective Date: July 11, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985
The project would help meet the growing demand for municipal,
industrial and irrigating water in the Han Basin for about 20 years
following its completion in 1984, and would substantially reduce flood
damage, and generate an average of 770 million kilowatt hours annually for
Korea's power system. The principal features of the project are a 90 m high
concrete dam and a 450 MW power plant on the South Han River, a reregulating
dam about 20 km downstream of the main dam, relocation of roads and a rail-
way, and implementation of a resettlement program for some 9,300 families
affected by the project. The physical works of the project are proceeding
satisfactorily. Detailed planning is underway for the resettlement program.
Industrial Sector
Loan No. 1676    Electronics Technology Project; $29.0 Million Loan of
March 29, 1979; Effective Date:  June 28, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project comprises two components: (a) the development of
Korea Institute of Electronic Technology (KIET) which, through its service,
development and production activities, would stimulate and support the
Korean electronics industry-s drive into new areas; and (b) the establish-
ment of a program to promote and finance RD&E carried out by KIET for the
electronics industry. Project implementation is about 18 months behind
schedule due to delays in procurement and shortage of local funds. However,
the semiconductor facility, which is the main physical component of the                       A
project, is operational. KIET-s work program has been prepared with in put
from industry. The training and expert invitation program has been
implemented satisfactorily.



- 35 -                 ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1749    Third Small and Medium Industry Bank Project; $60.0 Million
Loan of July 23, 1979; Effective Date:  September 26, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Apart from direct imports, the proceeds of the loan would be
utilized by SMIB to finance the foreign exchange component of domestically
produced capital goods. To ensure that a reasonable proportion of the loan
is directed towards small, labor-intensive projects, an amount of $25 mil-
lion of the proceeds of the loan is earmarked to finance: (a) enterprises
with fixed assets not exceeding $300,000; or (b) projects generating
employment at a fixed investment cost per job not greater than $8,500. The
loan would assist SMIB in its efforts to support the Government's policy of
increasing the regional dispersal of employment opportunities and of
deepening the industrial structure, and also to continue SMIB support of
projects which would complement large-scale manufacturing enterprises.
About 98% of the loan has been committed and disbursement is nearly
complete.
Loan No. 1829    Citizens National Bank (CNB); $30.0 Million Loan of May 7,
1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The loan is being used to cover part of the foreign exchange
requirements of subprojects to be financed by the Citizens National Bank
(CNB) and would assist CNB in its efforts to support the Government's policy
of increasing regional dispersal of employment opportunities and deepening
the industrial structure. Apart from direct imports, the proceeds of the
loan are being utilized by CNB to finance the foreign exchange components of
domestically produced capital goods. The project would also enable the Bank
to help build up CNB's project appraisal capabilities. The project is
progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1932    Eighth Korea Long-Term Credit Bank Project; $90.0 Million
Loan of January 14, 1981; Effective Date: March 19, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The loan is being used to help cover the foreign exchange require-
ments of subprojects to be financed by KLTCB. In order to encourage
*      increased mobilization of medium-term foreign commercial borrowings by
KLTCB, the loan incorporates a special amortization feature, which would
permit the blending of Bank and commercial resources. The project
incorporates a package of financial sector policy measures which will be
implemented by the Government as a part of a comprehensive reform of the
financial system of Korea. The project is progressing well. Both
commitments and disbursements are on schedule.



- 36 -                 ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1933    Fourth Korea Development Bank Project; $100.0 Million Loan
of January 14, 1981; Effective Date: March 19, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The loan is being used to help cover the foreign exclhange require-
ments of subprojects to be financed by KDB. In order to encourage a reduc-
tion in KDB's reliance on long-term official borrowings, the loan incorpor-
ates a special amortization feature, which would permit the blending of Bank
and commercial resources. The project incorporates a package of financial
sector policy measures which will be impLemented by the Government, as a
part of a comprehensive reform of the financial system of Korea. The
project is progressing well. Commitments and disbursements are ahead of
schedule.
Loan No. 2004    Fourth Korea Small and Medium Industry Bank Loan;
$60.0 Million Loan of Jtuly 7, 1981; Effective Date:
September 1, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
The loan is being used to help cover the foreign exchange require-
ments of subprojects to be financed by SMIB. Apart from direct imports, the
proceeds of the loan are being utilized by SMIB to finance the foreign
exchange components of domestically produced capital goods (estimated at
60%). The loan assists SMIB in its efforts to support the Government's
policy of increasing the productivity of Korea's small- and medium-scale
industrial sector which plays a vital role in providing employment
opportunities and in assisting the country's export effort. It also
initiates an attempt to improve and expand extension services for the SMI
sector. Commitments and disbursement are slightly behind appraisal
estimates; however, SMIB expects full commitment and disbursement of the
loan ahead of schedule.
Loan No. 2112    Technology Development Project; $50.0 Million Loan of
April 5, 1982; Effective Date: June 10, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1986
The project is fostering the technological development of Korean
industry by supporting the development of the Korea Technology Development
Corporation (KTDC). Specifically, the loan will finance $1.0 million worth
of technical assistance and training of KTDC staff and provide a $49.0
million line of credit to finance industry RD&E. Subprojects are expected
to be approved by KTDC up to end-1984. The project is making excellent
operational progress.



- 37 -                 ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12 pages
Loan No. 2144    Citizens National Bank II; $30.0 Million Loan of May 24,
1982; Effective Date: August 24, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986
The project would assist CNB to move toward term transformation,
upgrade CNB's term lending capability at the branch level and encourage CNB
to diversify its sources of foreign currency. In line with the Bank's con-
tinued support of small-scale industries (SSI), at least $15.0 million of
the loan is earmarked for financing smaller SSIs employing no more than 50
workers.  In addition, at least $15.0 million of the Bank loan proceeds is
earmarked for projects outside the city limits of Seoul.
Loan No. 2215:   Small and Medium Machinery Industry Project; $70.0 Million
Loan of December 20, 1982; Effective Date: March 22, 1983;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
The project provides for improving the sectoral policies affect-
ing the machinery industry sector, support upgrading their technological
capabilities, and provides credit for financing productive investments in
the sector. The project is expected to become effective in May 1983.
Population Sector
Loan No. 1774    Population Project; $30.0 Million Loan of December 27, 1979;
Effective Date: March 21, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project provides for the construction, furnishing and equipping
of 91 Maternal and Child Health/Family Planning Centers in rural areas; 11
Family Planning Clinics in low-income urban areas, expanded information,
education and communication production and training facilities, and upgraded
health centers; providing and equipping 13 mobile family planning units;
provision of about 75 vehicles, and training and information, education and
communication equipment; production and distribution of information,
education and communication materials; fellowships; research and evaluation;
and information, education and administrative staff. Training of multipur-
pose midwives is progressing satisfactorily and 400 staff have been trained
to date and training of a further 1,120 multipurpose workers is being under-
taken. Construction of 14 maternal and child health family planning centers
are in the final stages of completion. Equipment procurement for these
centers has progressed satisfactorily.
Education Sector
Loan No. 1474    Vocational Training Project; $23.0 Million Loan of
July 22, 1977; Effective Date: October 25, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project includes the establishment of eight new Vocational
Training Institutes (VTIs), equipment for a National Central Vocational
Training Institute (NCVTI) and technical assistance to be provided by UNDP



- 38 -                 ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12 pages
and Germany.  The project is near completion.  All eight VTIs and the
central VTI are in full operation and performance is satisfactory. All
experts are in post and the fellowship program has been completed.
Loan No. 1800    Higher Technical Education; $100.0 Million Loan of
February 21, 1980; Effective Date: April 7, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is the Bank's first subsector loan in education.  It
finances public and private institutions in higher technical education and
is allocated approximately as follows: $60 million for engineering,
$36 million for technicians and $4 million for technical assistance. The
project includes about 10 national programs for staff and curriculum devel-
opment and 55 subprojects for equipment. The objectives of the project are:
(a) to alleviate manpower problems, (b) to improve quality and (c) to reduce
the investment gap between public and private institutions.  Initial imple-
mentation of the project is satisfactory with all 10 national programs and
55 subprojects already prepared. Management capability for implementation
has been strengthened with additional staff. Actual performance on teacher
recruitment is behind schedule but the anticipated 1980-84 target should be
reached as planned.
Urban Sector
Loan No. 1758    Second Gwangju Regional Project; $65.0 Million Loan of
September 27, 1979; Effective Date: February 15, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is a multicomponent regional development project con-
sisting of: housing - 3,950 residential plots in Gwangju, Mogpo and Yeosu;
industrial estates - 200 ha of serviced industrial land in Gwangju and Mogpo;
water supply - improvements to water supply systems in Mogpo, Yeosu and
Narodo; transportation - two bridges to link Dolsan and Jindo islands with
the mainland, improvements to a 1.9 km commercial road in Yeosu and ferry
service between Narodo and the mainland; fisheries - an aquaculture develop-
ment program and a shrimp storage facility at Imjado; and technical assist-
ance. The physical works have been divided into 15 subprojects. Contracts
have been awarded on 13 subprojects while 2 subprojects have been cancelled.
Four subprojects have been completed on schedule and are being transferred
to the cities and county concerned. Only limited construction was possible
on both Jindo and Dolsan Bridges during 1981 because of insufficient
Government budget allocations; however, construction is now proceeding as
originally programmed. A continuous budget has been established for Central
Government funded subprojects whereby annual allocations have been
determined for the life of the project.



- 39 -                 ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1980    National Urban Land Development and Housing Project;
$90.0 Million Loan of May 13, 1981; Effective Date:
August 11, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The objective of the project is to provide affordable housing for
low-income families and serviced land for middle-income families in 10
medium-sized cities. The four Phase I sites would provide 4,100 dwellings
(low income) and 1,200 serviced lots for middle-income houses. The six
Phase II sites would provide more than 6,000 housing lots including about
4,400 low-income dwellings. Overall project progress is satisfactory.
Contract work on nine of the original ten sites has been completed. The
tenth site has been ommitted due to the uncertainty of marketability of the
site. Further savings due to lower than estimated bids for land preparation
and timely implementation have been achieved. KLDC proposed to utilize
these savings to finance development of three supplementary sites (Seoul
Goduck, Busan Manduck and Gwangju Yeomgju). This has been agreed after
review of feasibility studies, and contracts awarded. A fourth supplemen-
tary site is under consideration for financing out of cost savings, subject
to mutual agreement by KLDC and KNHC and agreement on use and pricing of
low-income land.
Loan No. 2072    First Water Supply Project; $90.0 Million Loan of
December 22, 1981; Effective Date: April 1, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
The principal objective of the project is to improve access to safe
water supplies to the populations of the municipalities of Daegu and Gwangju
and for the Masan Region serving jointly the cities of Masan, Changwon and
Jinhae. The project would also support the Government-s efforts to improve
the organization and coordination of the sector as well as to increase
capability of institutions: at the national level where the Water Resources
Bureau of MOC would receive assistance and training in project planning and
implementation; at the regional level where three cities under this project
would jointly build and manage source works for more efficient water
utilization; and at the local level where individual city water bureaus would
receive technical assistance to improve their financial and management
capabilities. The project is progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 2216    Second National Urban Land Development and Housing Project;
$100.0 Million Loan of December 20, 1982; Effective Date:
March 22, 1983; Closing Date: September 30, 1986
The project will (a) assist in nationalizing and strengthening the
housing and land development institutions in the public sector; (b) support
the development of the National Housing Fund (NHF) as a viable financial
intermediary with capacity for project appraisal and supervision; and (c)
support improvements in the policies and programs for delivering housing to
lower income families by financing the development of land and housing by
KLDC and KHNC. The project is expected to become effective in May 1983.



- 40 -                 ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12 pages
Transportation Sector
Loan No. 1401    Second Ports Project; $67.0 Million Loan of April 28, 1977;
Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1983
The project provides mainly for continuation of the extension of
the Port of Busan started under the First Ports Project with special emphasis
on container handling facilities. The project comprises: (a) a 700 m exten-
sion of the container terminal including stacking areas, dredging, access
road, container freight station and equipnent and ancillary works and equip-
ment; (b) rehabilitation of 4 existing general cargo handling berths; and (c)
acquisition of two tugboats. The institutional component of the projects
provides for technical assistance and training to improve KMPA's capability
in port planning and operations and managerial and accounting procedures.
The feasibility study and detailed engineering for the proposed third ports
project have recently been added to the project and Schedule I of the Loan
Agreement amended accordingly. Project completion is expected for June 1983.
Loan No. 1640    Fourth Highway Project; $143.0 Million Loan of December 7,
1978; Effective Date: March 14, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
The project consists of: (a) construction and improvement,
including paving and supervision by consultants, of 36 sections of national
roads totaling about 950 km; (b) construction and improvement, including
paving and supervision by consultants, of 10 sections of provincial roads
totaling about 280 km; (c) procurement of additional road maintenance
equipment for maintaining national roads; (d) a study by consultants of the
institutions involved in the planning, design, maintenance, construction,
administration and financing of provincial and county (gun) roads, and the
preparation of a program for improving the organization and functions of
such institutions, upgrading provincial arid gun road maintenance and the
future development of the Gun road system, to be followed by detailed
engineering of about 2,000 km of gun roads; and (e) provision of fellowships
for training staff of the Ministry of Construction. An estimated 88% of
the civil works have been completed and final completion is expected by
June 30, 1983.  Maintenance equipment procurement is underway.  The study
reports of the Gun Road Development Program and of the Provincial and Gun
Road Maintenance Program have been finalized and detailed engineering for Gun
Roads have been completed.
Loan No. 1836    Seventh Railway Project; $94.0 Million Loan of May 21,
1980; Effective Date: August 29, 1980; Closing Date:
December 12, 1983
The project is the 1980-81 part of the railroad investment plan,
1977-81, and includes (a) capacity increases in lines and stations; (b) way
and structure renewals and improvements; (c) procurement and repowering/



- 41 -                 ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12 pages
repair of locomotives and rolling stock; (d) modernization and construction
of repair facilities; (e) improvement of telecommunications and power
supply facilities; (f) implementation of management improvements; and (g)
overseas training. The loan also finances training in transport planning
and coordination and technical assistance for transport feasibility and
urban transport studies. After a slow start, the project is now progressing
well. The Management Technical Assistance contract is under way. One of
the Transport Studies is about to start and terms of reference for another is
being finalized.
Loan No. 2228    Provincial and County Road Project; $125.0 Million Loan
of December 30, 1982; Effective Date: March 30, 1983;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1987
The project provides for improving economic efficiency by reducing
transport costs in rural areas through the development of the county or
tertiary road system and by improving the maintenance of the provincial and
county roads. The project also provides for promoting improved integration
of the road system through a review of investment plans to assure that county
road development is coordinated with the development of the national and
provincial road networks. In addition, it will promote the adoption of low
cost paving techniques, help Government improve road safety and improve
transport services in remote areas. The project became effective on March 30,
1983.
Power Sector
Loan No. 1788    Gojeong Power Project, $115.0 Million Loan of December 27,
1979; Effective Date: March 21, 1980: Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project provides for (a) a thermal power station with two
500 MW coal/oil-fired units and associated auxiliary equipment; (b) coal
handling and storage facilities, fuel-oil tanks, ash system and storage
area; (c) a fuel unloading dock; (d) a pumping station to transport fresh
water to the station; (e) a 160 km of double circuit, 345 KV transmission
line and related terminal substations and (f) consulting services for
management and organization study of KECO. Execution of works is slightly
behind schedule. Completion date of the first unit is estimated to be
December 1983/January 1984. Management and organization study was completed
and reviewed by the Bank in January 1982. There were substational delays in
the preparation of bidding documents, but all contracts have now been
placed.



- 42 -
ANNEX III
KOREA
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
a)   Time taken to prepare project:                     6 months
b)   Agency which prepared project:                    Republic of Korea
c)   Date of first Bank mission to
consider the project                            June 1982
d)   Departure of Appraisal mission                    November 1982
e)   Negotiations completed                            May 1983
f)   Planned date of effectiveness                     September 1983
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actj'on
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a)  Government to exchange views from time to time with the Bank on
the progress achieved in carrying out the financial sector reform
(para. 28).
(b) Signature of two separate subsidiary loan agreements between the
Government and KDB/KLB under terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed
loan (para 54).
(c) Signature of an agency agreement acceptable to the Bank
between KBI and the Government would be a condition of
disbursement of the proposed loan (para 51).
(d)  Approval by the Bank of a standard subsidiary loan agreement
between the Government and financial instititions participating
in the training component would be a condition of disburse-
ment of the proposed loan (para. 51).
(e) Signature of a revised contract, acceptable to the Bank, between
the Government and KAIST defining the activities and costs
covered by the computerization component, would be a condition
of disbursement of the proposed lo-an (para. 52).



ANNEX IV-A
Page 1
- 43 -
April 14, 1983
Mr. A.W. Clausen
President
The International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Dear Mr. Clausen,
1.        I am writing in connection with the proposed loan for the
Industrial Finance Project to inform the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development of the status of our financial policy reform
and the actions the Government has already taken or proposes to take to
reform Korea's financial system. The ultimate goal is to liberalize the
financial system which would promote the national economy by increasing
resource mobilization and allocating credit in a more efficient manner.
Central to these objectives would be allowing market forces to determine
interest rates, deregulating the activities of financial institutions and
reducing the role of Government in credit allocation.
2.        The reform is expected to (a) improve resource allocation by
decentralizing decision making so that both financial institutions and
entrepreneurs can respond more easily to market forces; and (b) enhance
efficiency in financial intermediation as banking institutions are subjected
to greater competition through freer entry and less legislated specializa-
tion. While the liberalization process must be effected gradually as too
precipitous action could have destabilizing effects for both the financial
system and the corporate sector, the Government remains firmly committed to
realizing the objectives of full financial liberalization as rapidly as
possible.
3.        In this letter, I will describe in more detail the Government s
objectives and planned course of action in five major areas of policy
reform:
(a) Interest Rates;
(          (b)  Liberalization of Commercial Banks;
(c) Bank Supervision;
(d) Directed Credit; and
(e)  Corporate Debt.
Interest Rates
4.        The Government's longer-term objective as outlined in the fifth
Five Year Plan (1982-86) is to allow market forces to determine the level



ANNEX IV-A
- 44 -                     Page 2
and structure of interest rates.  However, there are a number of constraints
which make it difficult to move immediately to full liberalization of
interest rates including the volatility of international interest: rates, the
heavy indebtedness of the corporate sector and the persistence of the gap
between administered and market rates of 7%. as measured by the differential
between bank desposit rates and the secondary market yields on bonds and
debentures. Consequently, the Government will pursue a pragmatic, step by
step approach which will involve incremental adjustments of selective rates
to bring them more closely in line with market rates as economic conditions
permit and will concentrate on creating the economic conditions which will
permit the eventual full liberalization of interest rates.
5.        In June 1982, the Government introduced a new interest rate
structure for banking institutions providing for a lending rate of 10% and a
deposit rate of 8%.  These rates are positive in real terms given the
current inflation rate of less than 5% and take into account the need to
stimulate economic growth and keep the debt: burden to the corporate sector
lower than in the past. The new rates greatly simplifed the previous
multiple rate structure by eliminating a number of specialized, subsidized
rates and provided a wider spread between the deposit and lending rates.
6.        The Government is committed to maintaining positive real rates
that provide for a deposit rate higher than the rate of inflation (as
measured by the consumer price index) and a spread between deposit and
lending rates sufficient to ensure the profitability of the commercial
banks. In setting interest rates, the Government will also take into
account trends in the domestic economy, the balance of payments position and
interest rate movements in international financial markets. The Government
will also seek to narrow the differential between the administered and
secondary market rates by making strong eff'orts to hold down the rate of
inflation and thus lower inflationary expectations. Once this has occurred,
the Government would be in a position to liberalize interest rates so that
they are determined by market forces.
7.        In the meantime, there are two issues which the Government will
address (a) differentiation of rates to take into account risk and maturity;
and (b) the possible means of avoiding the negative consequences for bank
profits of fixed rate deposit contracts and variable lending rates. With
respect to more differentiation in the rate structure, this would ideally be
achieved with the liberalization of interest rates which would allow market
forces to create an appropriate interest differential. However, the
Government is studying some possible interim options which include; (a)
changes in legislated interest rates which would allow the banks to mobilize
longer-term deposits and to charge higher rates for longer-term or high risk
loans; and (b) as a further step towards liberalization, the introduction of
new longer-term savings instruments by commercial banks which would allow
them to raise funds at higher rates with the understanding that these could
be lent with a positive spread or used to buy corporate bonds. Possible



ANNEX IV-A
Page 3
instruments might include large denomination, long-term negotiable certifi-
cates of deposit and bank debentures. In both cases, and in setting the
effective yields on primary issues on corporate bonds and finance deben-
tures, rates would be closely related to rates in the secondary markets.
8.        With respect to the negative effects on bank profitability of
variable lending rates and fixed deposit contracts, we recognize that the
present system can cause serious financial problems for the commercial banks
and will study this matter further to see whether adjustments in current
banking practice are desirable.
9.        I would be happy to inform the World Bank of the progress in our
study of the issues in paras. 7 and 8 by the end of 1983 and periodically
thereafter.
Liberalization of Commercial Banks
10.       The longer-term policy objective of the Government is to enhance
Koreas economic growth prospects by improving efficiency and competitive-
ness of the financial sector, and particularly of its most important compo-
nent, the commercial banking sector. These objectives will be achieved by
the privatization of bank's ownership, the licensing of new banks, greater
autonomy of management and a broadened scope of activities in order to
reduce specialization and increase competition.
11.       With respect to privatization of ownership, four of the five
nationwide commercial banks have already been denationalized. Government
ownership in the fifth one was sold in March 1983. In order to prevent
ownership control by a single interest group, restrictions were placed on
maximum equity holdings and voting rights. Two new joint venture banks have
been authorized and established in 1982 and the Government is committed to
encouraging further new entries to the commercial banking system. Competi-
tion in the financial sector will also be encouraged by the licensing of
43 new mutual savings and finance companies and 10 short-term finance
companies in 1982. In order to increase management efficiency and entre-
preneurship in the banking sector, the Government has greatly reduced its
controls over bank organization, budget and staffing. The Korea Bankers
Association agreement has also been revised to eliminate restrictions of
competition such as prescribed charges and service fees.
12.       To further strengthen their capital base, the commercial banks are
planning to increase their equity by 30% in 1983. To further strengthen the
earning potential of the banks and foster competition within the financial
system, the Government will authorize banks to undertake new activities
including trust activities, mutual savings deposits, short-term commercial
paper, credit cards, factoring and underwriting of government securities.
Additional measures will also be introduced to increase competition among
banks by permitting an expansion in the geographical coverage of regional



ANNEX IV-A
- 46-                           Page 4
banks and broadening the activities of the specialized banks.  The Financial
Review Committee, as a matter of priority, will during 1983 consider
possible adjustments in the role of specialized banks to give them greater
latitude in raising and lending resources. I will be happy to keep the
World Bank informed of developments, particularly since several of these
institutions are clients of the World Bank. With respect to the possible
future role of KDB, the Government recognizes that if KDB is authorized to
expand substantially its commercial activities, it will be essential to
segregate its funding and accounts as a commercial entity from those as a
Government agent and ensure that KDB in its commercial role does not compete
with the private sector relying on preferential treatment from the
Government.
13.       As noted earlier, the profitability of the commercial banks in
1982, was low. However, this is expected to be a temporary phenomenon as
the recent increase in the banks' interest spread to 2% is expected to
improve profits. the Government plans to ad just interest rates and spreads
to eliminate subsidies on the Central Bank rediscounts when the profitabil-
ity of banks has improved to a satisfactory level. Recognizing the need to
improve skills in the banking sector, the Government will play an active
role in assisting the banks to develop effective training programs for their
staff.
Bank Supervision
14.       The privatization and deregulation of the commercial banks has
brought with it the need to revise the system of bank supervision. The
Government is moving from a system of ex ante involvement in the operations
of commercial banks to a system of supervision involving ex post review of
performance based on standards established by the Government. This new
system will be put into effect during 1983. The Monetary Board and the
Superintendent of Banks are in the process of training staff to develop the
skills needed for effective bank supervision in the new system. The
Government is also considering the possibility of unifying supervisory
functions for banks and nonbank financial intermediaries as a response to
the decreasing specialization of financial institutions which is a central
feature of the financial sector reform.
Directed Credit
15.       The longer-term objective of the financial sector libera:Lization
is to ensure that efficient resource allocation is taking place on the basis
of market prices. The Government will thereEore gradually reduce the
proportion of directed credit in total domest'ic credit.
16.       Major steps have already been taken by the Government towards
reducing the importance of directed credit. The number of existing directed
credit programs has been reduced and the creation of new types of selective



ANNEX IV-A
- 47 -                      Page 5
lending will be discouraged. The interest rate subsidies associated with
the directed credit programs have been eliminated by bringing their lending
rate to the same level as the general lending rate of 10%. In addition, the
allocation of funds under the directed credit programs is now done on a
broad sectoral basis rather than enterprise by enterprise as a means of
increasing the autonomy of resource allocation by handling banks.
17.       In the future, the NIF program, which amounted to 9.4% of total
domestic credit to the private sector in 1981 and 9.3% in 1982 will be
gradually reduced. In line with this reduction, the Government will adjust
downward the contribution made by banks to NIF from their deposit resources.
In accordance with the policy of liberalizing the activities of the commer-
cial banks, responsibility for handling the NIF program will be fully
transferred to the specialized banks by the end of 1984. Moreover, it is
the Government's intention that directed credit programs, including NIF,
will continue to operate on a non-subsidized basis in the future.
Corporate Indebtedness
18.       The package of policy measures adopted by the Government in June
1982 to stimulate the economy has had a favorable impact on the profitabil-
ity of the corporate sector. The lower interest rates which reduced
borrowing costs and the reduction of the corporate tax rates have combined
to improve the financial position of firms. Efforts have also been made to
improve the incentive to retain earnings and improve the equity position of
enterprises through a tax exemption on reserves and alleviation of the tax
on assumed dividends for closed corporations.
19.       In the future, the Government will continue to help reduce the
debt burden of the corporate sector by maintaining optimum growth and
restraining inflation. The prime bank system will be strengthened so that
it can perform an increasing role in improving the financial management and
structure of enterprises. The prime banks will be encouraged to liquidate
outstanding loans to enterprises which are insolvent and unpromising. The
Government will also consider measures to foster the development of the
equity market by encouraging long-term contractual savers such as insurance
companies and pension funds to invest in stocks.
With best regards,
Sincerely yours,
(signed)
Kyong Shik Kang
Minister of Finance



-  48                                                                              ANNEX I
Table 4
KOREA
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE PROJECT
Key Aspects of Financial Sector Reform
Expected impact on                        Projected contribution
Measures taken to June 1983                 Measures planned for 1983-85                financial and corporate sector                   to economic development
Interest Rates
1.  Positive deposit and lending rates  1.  Market determination of level and   1.  Autonomy of financial institutions  1.  Greater efficiency in resource
in real terms.                              structure of rates for all insti-            in determining rates on saving and          mobilization and allocation.
tutions.                                    lending.  Improved profitability
2.  Wider spread (2t) between deposit                                                        without government subsidies.           2.  Higher levels of domestic finan-
(8%) and lending rates (10%).          2.  Study need for adjusting legisla-            Greater institutional efficiency             cial savings.  Reduction in for-
ted interest rates to differenti-           through more competitive environ-            eign savings dependence.
3.  Reduced segmentation of lending              ate rates in accordance with term           ment.
rates by adjusting all bank rates           and maturity (as interim measure                                                     3.  Autonomy and responsibility of
to 10%.                                     prior to 1 above).                      2.  Encouragement of longer-term  sav-            financial system.
ings and lending. Greater wil-
4.  Partial deregulation of rates for   3.  Study means of reducing risks                    lingness to take risks in lending.
nonbank intermediaries.                     associated with fixed deposit
rate system and variable lending        3.  Maintain interest spreads and pro-
rates (as interim measure prior             fitability at more stable level
to I above).                                over time.
4.  Study introduction of new savings   4.- Increased resource mobilization,
instruments such as commercial              particularly longer-term inotr-
bank debentures and long-term               mests.
negotiable certificates of depo-
sit.
Liberalization of Commercial Banks
1.  Sale to private investors of Gov-   1.  Authorization of new activities              1.  Increased diversification of sav-   1.  Decentralization of investment
ern=ent equity holdings.                    for banks, including trust invest-           ings and credit instruments.                and financing decisions.  Lesser
nent accounts, mutual savings               Greater competition between banks            role of Government in resource
2.  Licensing of two new nationwide              deposits, credit card and factor-           and nonbanks.  Improved financial            allocation.
joint venture banks.                        ing.                                         services for general public.
2.  Greter efficiency of resource
3.  Simplification of Government reg-   2.  Expanded branch network for reg-    2.  Decrease in specialization and                        al cat ion.
ulatory controls over banking,              ional banks.                                 segmentation of the financial
particularly on organization,                                                            system.  Specialization on the          3.  Elimination of Governsent subsi-
budget and staffing.                    3.  Broadened activites for special-             basis of comparative advantage              dies needed to maintain profits-
ized banks and for development              and efficiency.                              bility of financial syste..
4.  Authorization to deal in short-              banks such as KDB and KLB.
term commercial paper and govern-                                                   3.  Increased efficiency of financial
ment securities.                        4.  Adjustment of spreads as needed              system while improving profita-
to ensure financial autonomy.               bility and financial autonomy.
5. Licensing of 43 new mutual savings
finance companies and 10 new            5.  Strengthening of staff training.    4.  Fair competition in financial
short-term finance companies.                                                            system.
6. Passage of legislation for estab-
lishing a deposit insurance system
for NBEI.
Supervision of Financial Institutions
1.  Simplification of banking regula-   1.  Introduction of a new system of              1.  Increased autonomy of management
tions.                                      supervision based on em post                of financial institutions and
review of performance.                      reduction in the role of Govern-
ment.
2.  Training of staff in supervisory
agencies in new methods of finan-   2.  Improvement in skills of supervi-
cial supervision.                           sory agencies.  Change in focus.
3.  Study possibility of consolidating  3.  Encouragement of despecialization
supervisory activities of MOF and           of institutions and increased
BOK.                                        efficiency of supervision.
Directed Credit
1.  Removal of interest subsidies on    1.  Reduction of the share of NIF in    L.  Reduce distortions in credit allo-  1.  Reduce Government intervention is
directed credit programs.                   total private domestic credit                cations.                                    resource allocation.
2.  Allocation of NIF resources by                                                       2.  Reduction in Government interven-   2.  Resource allocation on the basis
*   Government on a sectoral basis          2.  Phase out handling of NIF by com-            tion in operation of private                of investment incentives in the
rather than enterprise by enter-            mercial banks by end-1984 and                banks.                                      real sector.
prise.                                      administration by specialized
and development banks only.             3.  Improvement in allocation of
long-term NIF credit through
3.  Reduction in commercial bank con-            better loan appraisal.
tributions to NIF from their
deposit resources.                      4.  Reduction in the seignorage exer-
cised by Government.
Corporate Finance
1.  Reduction in corporate income tam.  1.  Encouragement to retained earn-              '.  Incentive to retain earnings and    1.  Reduction in the debt/equity
ings by lowering the impact of              to increase equity by issuing                ratio of the corporate sector.
2.  Lowering borrowing cost of out-              double taxation for closed corpo-           shares in the stock market.                  More stable growth prospects.
standing borrowings.                        rations.
2. Incentives for investment of
long-term contractual savings in
the stock market.
3. Stricter requirements of maximum
indebtedness imposed by lenders
and greater recourse to foreclo-
sures against insolvent borrowers.



________________________________                                                                I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JBRD 1235 lit
'i  U.S3,R.                                 627'                      12[                       129                ,ABRD19W
,HIN   /              NORTH  KOREA  -
C H ! N A                                                                                     i
f'                                            mhwa~~~~-.' 
Sogcho
N KOREA                                        r
-' REP OF
KOREA   JAP                    Ponm     nL, 
I~~~~~~~~AA                 -3a                                                                                                       - ) GYS  /                hnno/       
,_ x                           G  GI                   N        E       kGongneung
21,.                     126, . 
WCf1 dA* . £.t t luorlt or     t,,   a  An ag heoi                                       eeongseon    
> =nygong Cu  
me coorn,9fls- of me neOws Of ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ooj
OS-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3'
t Cheongiua Adn 
0050. ~ ~ 5954 StSU OfB GS                                            d-
y                                         Jangh<                                                                            1~~~~~~an.9
~~~~~~~ 4N G,
35- t X {Su mc~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~heongj 
N   ) J .fldOffli OO
.Pohangq
30~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e
Jangh"             O   Aineu
-35.
a                                ~~~KOREA
Primory roods
09~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ j                     or  
- N.~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ 
35.
un he~~~~~~~~~Ralasune ostutO
mogpo~ ~ .                                                sAipot
L Rivers
Primar0      -           0rods
Jej    4                                            - . -  Internationol bosndories
,;;,Seogwipo~~~~~~~~~~~~~ovnca boundrie
175-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ i70                    027                         120    O      6 -8        1?01E       10    6



