Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 23757-NIR
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 18.2 MILLION(US$25.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
FOR A
THE MULTISECTORAL STI/HIV/AIDS SUPPORT PROJECT
March 18, 2003
Human Development H
Country Department 13
Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 2003)
Currency Unit = Franc CFA
650 FCFA = US$1.00
US$ = 100 FCFA
FISCAL YEAR
January -- December
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACT Africa   AIDS Campaign Team for Africa
AIDS         Acquired Immuno-Deficiency Syndrome
ARV          Anti-retroviral
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CBO          Community Based Organizations
CCC          Communication for Changing Behavior
CISLS        Coordination Intersectorielle de lutte contre les ISTNIH/SIDA (an Inter-sectoral
Program Coordination Unit)
CNLS         Comite national de lutte contre les ISTIVIH/SIDA (a National committee responsible
for overseeing the program)
CRLS/IST     Comites de chef-lieux de region de lutte contre le SIDA (Regional committees)
CSRLS/IST    Comites sous-regionaux de lutte contre le SIDA (Subregional committees)
FMI          Financial Management Initiative
GNP          Gross National Product
GON          Government of Niger
GPN          General Procurement Notice
IEC          Information, Education and Communications
IPAA         International Partnership Against AIDS in Africa
MAP          Multi-Country AIDS Program
M & E        Monitoring and Evaluation
MTCT         Mother-to-child transmission
NGO          Non Governmental Organization
PAD          Project Appraisal Document
PCU          Program Coordinating Unit
PLWHA        People living with HIV and AIDS
PMR          Project Management Report
PNLS         Programme National de Lutte contre le SIDA (National AIDS Program)
SOE          Statement of Expenditures
STI          Sexually Transmitted Infection
UNAIDS       Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS
UNICEF       United Nations Children's Fund
WHO          World Health Organization
Vice President:  Callisto Madavo
Country Manager/Director:  Antoinette M. Sayeh
Sector Manager/Director:  Alexandre Abrantes
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:  Denise Vaillancourt



NIGER
THE MULTISECTORAL STI/HIV/AIDS SUPPORT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                   Page
1. Project development objective                                                    2
2. Key performance indicators                                                       2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project   3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                       3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices               9
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                              11
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                   14
3. Benefits and target population                                                  14
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                   15
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                       19
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies   20
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                             22
4. Indications of recipient commitment and ownership                               23
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:                                    23
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                        24
2. Financial                                                                       24
3. Technical                                                                       24
4. Institutional                                                                   24
5. Environmental                                                                   25
6. Social                                                                          26
7. Safeguard Policies                                                              28
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                  28
2. Critical risks                                                                  29



3. Possible controversial aspects                                                   31
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                         31
2. Other                                                                            31
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                       31
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                      32
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                        33
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                 39
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                      44
Annex 4: Economic Analysis                                                            45
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary  46
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                    47
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                  62
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                63
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                64
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                         65
Annex 11: Institutional Analysis and Implementation Arrangements                       67
Annex 12: Monitoring and Evaluation                                                    82
Annex 13: Lessons learned and reflected in the Project Design                          97
Annex 14: Project Supervision Plan                                                    101
MAP(S)
IBRD 25043



NIGER
THE MULTISECTORAL STI/HIV/AIDS SUPPORT PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTH2
Date: March 18, 2003                             Team Leader: Deiiise A. Vaillancourt
Sector Manager/Director: Alexandre V. Abrantes   Sector(s): Health (50%), Other social services (50%)
Country Manager/Director: Antoinette M. Sayeh    Theme(s): Fighting communicable diseases (P), Civic
Project ID: P071612                              engagement, participation and community driven
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  development (S), Health system performance (S),
Population and reproductive health (S), Vulnerability
assessment and monitoring (S)
Project Financing Data
[ ] Loan    ( Credit     [Xl Grant    1 Guarantee      I ] Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): $25.0
Financing Plan (US$m):   Source                            Local         Foreign        Total
BORROWERIRECIPIENT                                            2.50           0.00          2.50
IDA GRANT FOR HIV/AIDS                                       19.50           5.50         25.00
FOREIGN SOURCES (UNIDENTIFIED)                                0.00           0.00          0.00
Total:                                                       22.00           5.50         27.50
Borrower/Recipient: GOVERNMENT OF NIGER
Responsible agency:
Coordination Intersectorielle de Lutte contre le SIDA
Address: B.P 1077
Contact Person: Dr. Abdoulaye Bagnou
Tel: (227) 735460          Fax: 227-732765           Email: cislsniger@yahoo.fr
Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FY      I  2003       2004-      2005      2006      2007
Annual      3.50      5.00      6.00       5.50      5.00
Cumulative     3.50      8.50      14.50     20.00      25.00
Project Implementation period: 5 years
Expected effectiveness date: 06/30/2003  Expected closing date: 06/30/2008



A. Project Development Objective
2. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
This project, which is being prepared in the context of the Multi-Country HIV/AlDS Program
(MAP II) for Africa, is designed to support the implementation of Niger's Strategic Framework for the
Fight against STIs/HIVIAIDS for the period 2002-2007, adopted by Government in May 2002, and
summarized in Annex 2. The development objective of both the National Program and this operation
are to: (a) slow the spread of HIV/AIDS in the general population; (b) mitigate the negative impact of
HIV/AIDS on individuals and corrmunities; and (c) strengthen capacity in Niger to formulate, manage,
implement, monitor and evaluate a viable, cost-effective HIV/AIDS program. These objectives would
be attained through a multisectoral approach that would draw on the comparative advantages and
partnerships of a wide range of both public and private actors.
3. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
During negotiations the Government and Bank teams discussed extensively the choice of
indicators and agreed fully on the need for prudence in the use and quantification of impact indicators.
The ultimate indicator of this fight against STIs/HIV/AIDS is HIV and STI prevalence, but progress
toward this goal will be monitored using a set of indicators that will enable assessment of project
performance vis-a-vis process/input, output and impact indicators. All of these indicators were refined,
consolidated and finalized during negotiations, drawing on updated baseline indicators. Selective
outcome and impact indicators are presented immediately below, but must be considered in the context
of the full set of performance indicators, which are reflected in Annex I and listed in Annex 12.
Outcome and Impact Indicators               Effectiveness       Mid Term     Closing Date
% of men aged 15-49 years who have utilized a  14 % (EDS 98)      20%            30%
condom during their most recent sexual encounter
outside of marriage.
% of women aged 15-24 years who have utilized a  < 2% (EDS 98)     8 %           20%
condom during their most recent sexual encounter
outside marriage.                                        .
HIV prevalence rate among adults aged 15-49 years  0.87           0.87           0.87
Containment of HIV prevalence rates among high
risk groups:
young girls (15 - 19) in rural areas       0,2%               0,2%          0,2%
young boys (15 - 19) in urban areas         0,4%               0,4%          0,4%
military/other uniformed personnel          3,8%               3,8%          3,8%
teachers                                    1,4%               1,4%          1,4%
drivers                                     1,7%               1,7%          1,7%
prisoners                                  2,8%                2,8%          2,8%
prostitutes                                25,4%              25,4%         25,4%
miners                                                                   ____v
migrant workers                            4,4%                4,4%          4,4%
% reduction in syphilis rates among high risk groups:
young girls (15 - 19)                       0%                 15%           30%
young boys (15 - 19)                        0%                 15%           30%
military/other uniformed personnel          0%                 20%           50%
teachers/miners                             0%                 10%           20%
drivers/prisoners/prostitutes               0%                 20%           50%
migrant workers                             0%                 15%           30%
-2-



* Baseline being established by survey commissioned by the CISLS.
The monitoring and evaluation system which was discussed. and agreed during appraisal is
presented in Annex 12.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 17114-NIR Date of latest CAS discussion: January 14, 2003
The new CAS, approved by the Board in January 2003, was conceived to support Niger's
economic transformation and poverty reduction strategy as spelled out in its PRSP, presented to the
Board on January 16, 2002. The result of a participatory process, this strategy rests on four key pillars
for achieving economic growth and poverty reduction: (i) a macroeconomic framework ensuring
economic and financial stability, while promoting sustainable and robust growth; (ii) the development of
productive sectors especially in rural areas, to mitigate vulnerability and stimulate income generation;
(iii) the improvement in the access for the poor to quality social services, including basic education,
primary health care, reproductive health, HIV/AIDS prevention, water and sanitation and adequate urban
habitat; and (iv) the strengthening of institutional and individual capacity within and outside
Government, at the central and local levels. In addition, three cross-cutting themes are identified as
guides to policy formulation in all sectors: (i) the effective inclusion of gender considerations; (ii) the
promotion of good governance; and (iii) the redefinition of stakeholders' roles in the implementation of
policies, starting with the State. The overall strategy and targets of the PRSP take into account the
challenges posed by the Millennium Development Goals to which Niger subscribes.
The proposed Support Project for the Multisectoral STI/HIV/AIDS Program is fully responsive
to the third and fourth pillars of Niger's PRSP (improved access to basic health and HIV/AIDS services,
encompassing prevention and care; and broad-based capacity building, encompassing public sector and
civil society) and to all three of its cross-cutting issues (gender, good govemance and stakeholder
participation). Its inclusion in the three-year lending program is a reflection of the high priority accorded
to this operation both by GON as well as by the Bank. This operation is also seen as one of several.
instruments (lending and non-lending) envisaged in the CAS to pursue more vigorously the issue of rapid
population growth, which poses a great threat to the development prospects of Niger at the family,
community and national levels.  Furthermore, because of the severely impoverishing impact of
HIV/AIDS on those afflicted with this disease, their families and their communities, this operation's
efforts to mitigate such impact would be an important contribution to the fundamental goal of the PRSP
and of the CAS - that of poverty alleviation. The purposes for which grants are being used in Niger
were discussed in the recent CAS (para. 39).
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
2.1    Main sector issues.
Poor social indicators:
Overall, the last twenty years have witnessed relative stagnation of Niger's indicators related to
well being and survival, with life expectancy of 49 years in 1999 compared to 47 in 1992, and infant
mortality of 114 per 1000 live births in 2001 compared to 123 in 1998. Only about 43 percent of
households have access to potable water. School enrollments were still as low as 41 percent at the end of
the 1990s compared to 28 in the 1980s. Girls' enrollment rates were 33 percent in 2001. Vaccination rates
for Polio3 were 41 in 2000, compared to 24% in 1998. Niger's human indicators compare very
3-



unfavorably with those of Sub-Saharan Africa as a whole and are among the worst in the world (second
worst according to UNDP statistics). Niger's high levels of morbidity and mortality, particularly among
children, are the result of poor nutritional status, inadequate hygiene and sanitation, low access to health
and social services, and high prevalence of infectious and parasitic infections. The leading diseases
continue to be malaria, acute respiratory infections, diarrhea, while Acquired Immune-Deficiency
Syndrome (AIDS) is emerging as a public health threat along with other sexually-transmitted infections
(STI).
Steady spread of HIVIAIDS:
In Niger, the first HIV case was diagnosed in March in 1987. By December 31, 2000, a total of
5598 cases had been reported to the World Health Organization (WHO). In 1997, WHO estimated the
number of adults and children infected by HIV at 165,000 out of about 10 million people and the number
of AIDS orphans at 20,000. The number of deaths due to AIDS appears to be underestimated, and yet
still alarmiing. Just in the first quarter of 2001, no less than 95 deaths were attributable to AIDS. HIV
infection disproportionately affects some specific groups. With regard to age, the most severely affected
group is the 20-49 year age group which contributes for more than 65 percent of recorded cases (66% of
the 1014 new cases recorded in 2000). As in much of Africa, young women suffer disproportionately
from HIV/AIDS. While the overall sex ratio men/women is 1.85, the 15-19 year age group shows a ratio
of 0.25, which means that for every boy infected in this age group four girls are infected. Regional
disparities (as measured by differentials in seroprevalence rates among pregnant women) are also
marked, with Tahoua having the highest rates, followed by Dosso, and Tillabery and Zinder.
Seroprevalence rates for pregnant women in Tahoua increased from 1.4% to 5% between 1992 and 1999,
while the increase was from 1.1% to 2% during the period 1992-2001 in Niamey and from 0.6% to 2%
between 1994 and 2001 in Zinder. Seroprevalence is higher in urban areas than in rural areas. In Tahoua
for instance, seroprevalence is particularly high (5.5%) in the district of Konni, which is on the border
with Nigeria. Prevalence rates of pregnant women are 2.5% in the urban commune of Dosso and 3.9% in
the district of Gaya (on the Benin border). A study of the Region of Agadez carried out in 1997 recorded
a prevalence rate among pregnant women of 4.7%. Prevalence rates are particularly worrisome among
commercial sex workers, truck drivers and other high risk workers. Studies have documented the
following rates among commercial sex workers: 28% in Dirkou, Agadez in 1995; 35% in Firji, Maradi in
2000; and 50% in Komabangou (gold mining site in Tillabery) in 2001. In 1993, a seroprevalence of
3,4% was found among truck drivers.
Until recently, available data on HIV prevalence were based on a few surveys in selected areas or
groups, preventing any real conclusion about the overall status of the HIV epidemic in Niger. In 2002,
the MOH carried out a comprehensive epidemiological study with technical assistance from
CARE-Intemational. The study, which was financed under the ongoing health operation, has revealed
that the overall prevalence rate of HIV/AIDS in Niger stood at 0.87 percent in 2002. This survey
confirmed higher prevalence rates in urban areas (2.08%) than in rural areas (0.64%), and revealed the
following prevalence rates among Niger's high risk groups: 1.4% of teachers; 3.8% of military personnel,
2.8%  of prisoners, 1.7%  of drivers, and 25.4%  of commercial sex workers.  Although HIV
seroprevalence is still under 1 percent, the Government believes that the risk of a rapid spread of the
infection remains very real given the high prevalence of STIs, high risk behaviors, and non performance
of the agencies in charge of responding to the HIV/AIDS epidemic.
-4 -



Figure 1: Epidemiological situation of AIDS cases in Niger from 1987 to 2000
5999
t                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4584 
3644
321 9'
4                              2300~~~~~1  6
609    L..,  S   .     I       I                          014 
5   00   49      46261           9
1 987-  1 992   1 993  1 994   1 995   1 996  1 997   1 996  1 999   2000
1 199 1
Nouveaux C.... Co   cumuli. |
Source: PNLS/IST Niger 2000
Figure 2: HIVseroprevalence among pregnant women in different sentinel sentinel sites in Niger in
2001
SArpoDryaIenon du YIN
Oiffa    E  1.0   1.9
-5-~~~~~~~~~~~.         .



High STI rates:
Various sources indicate that Niger has a high prevalence of STIs, including syphilis, herpes
genitalis and other ulcerative infections that are known to increase the risk of HIV transmission by 100 to
300 times, particularly from male to female.
High risk behaviors:
Niger's living conditions and norms force many people to adopt behaviors which favor the
spread of HIV and STIs. Poverty is pervasive in Niger, where more than 60 percent of the population
lives on less than USS1 a day. For the poorest 20 percent of households, even the most basic food needs
are not met. These needs are generally so pressing that they propel people to seek income generation
opportunities through high risk means, including prostitution, emigration or internal migration to high
risk areas, such as mining sites, border towns, bus/truck stops, markets/commercial zones and, migration
routes. Poverty also prevents a significant proportion of the population from accessing services that are
required to ensure early diagnosis and correct treatment of STIs and opportunistic infections. In Niger,
the spread of HIV is also fostered by sociocultural practices, such as excision, early marriage (50% of
girls are married by the age of 15), sexual taboos and by fundamental religious beliefs that oppose the use
of condoms, sex education for youth and other critical preventive strategies. Other deep-rooted traditional
practices constrain women's control over their sexuality and accentuate their greater physiological
vulnerability to HIV infection. Gender power imbalance results in women experiencing serious
difficulties in convincing their partners to use condoms or to get tested for HIV/AIDS. Stigma, fear and
denial also contribute to the spread of HIV as they hinder rational discussions regarding HIV related
issues. Since the Niger population has not yet seen the devastating impact of the HIV infection, the level
of social awareness and concern is low. A baseline beneficiary assessment undertaken during project
preparation has provided insightful baseline data on the perspectives and behaviors of high risk
populations (see Project File).
Inadequate AIDS control activities:
AIDS-control activities are severely constrained by: lack of a national policy and guidelines on
management of HIV/AIDS patients and on organization of AIDS-related laboratory services; great
difficulty on the part of health staff in informing patients of their HIV positive status; unreliable
availability of drugs required for the treatment of opportunistic infections; limited financial accessibility
to ARV drugs and limited capacity for provision of ARV therapy services; and absence of collaboration
between modem and traditional practitioners.
With regard to prevention, the country has not yet succeeded in carrying out effective
communication for behavior change and in targeting specific high-risk populations. Inadequately tailored
messages have been inconsequential in changing behavior. Condoms are in very short supply throughout
the country. Blood transfusion is available in the national and regional hospitals and in some district
hospitals, but ruptures in essential supplies occur too often. In addition, blood donors are not informed
about their serological status. Health workers are not provided with sufficient training or materials to
prevent exposure to HIV positive patients and there is a need to design and implement transmission
prevention in other workplaces, targeted to barbers and those who practice excision among others.
Availability of voluntary testing services is limited to Niamey. The country has not yet started activities
for the prevention of mother-to-child transmission of HIV, nor has it prepared guidelines or launched a
program for the integration of this activity into matemal and child health services. To date, access to
- 6-



treatment of STIs is limited, including for commercial sex workers, despite its critical role in the fight
against HIV/AIDS where prevalence rates are low. Voluntary counseling and testing is not available at
the community level.
With regard to treatment and care, HIV/AIDS patients are treated and cared for in a few health
facilities, including a Protestant missionary hospital (Galmi) and two Niamey-based centers. However,
the quality of these services suffer from inadequate supervision, shortage of trained staff, and high cost.
With regard to mitigation, communities and the confessional sector have mobilized to mitigate
the impact of HIV/AIDS on the well-being and economic welfare of victims, their families and affected
communities. However, their efforts to date are extremely modest in terms of both the range of
interventions and geographical coverage. Persons living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHAs) and affected
families continue to be put in very precarious situations, resulting from fear of HIV, stigmatization and
often isolation/rejection of the victim and surviving family members, inadequate protection of victims
and affected family members under the law, (further) impoverishment of families caring for PLWHAs.
The situation of orphans and widows has not been fully analyzed, but a dramatic rise in the demands for
social assistance in Tahoua and in certain other regions and a perceived increase in the number of street
children are two indicators of a growing problem.
Weak health sector performance in delivering on its health sector mandate and in coordinating a
multisectoral approach:
The health system bears significant responsibility for care and treatment, and plays a pivotal role
in many preventive activities. In addition, this sector endures the greatest impact on staff and operations.
The more widely the epidemic spreads, the more important and, at the same time, the more vulnerable the
health system becomes. The weaker the health system, the greater the prospects for continued spread of
HIV. As Government and civil society move ahead with an intensified and multisectoral approach to
HIV/AIDS, such efforts are likely to significantly increase demands on the health system for a full
spectrum of services, encompassing prevention, testing, treatment and surveillance. In addition, an
effective health system is also a comerstone for technology transfer. As new vaccines and therapies
emerge, the strength of the national health system is an important determinant of how quickly and widely
such tools can be made available to beneficiaries. In addition, until end-2000, the health sector was
responsible for Niger's national HIV/AIDS control program. It's weak management and coordination
capacity, combined with its placement in the overall hierarchical structure of Government, left it
ill-equipped to fulfill adequately its mandate for inter-sectoral coordination for a multisectoral,
multipartner approach. Consequently, a number of program components suffered from neglect,
particularly: the conception and implementation of mitigation activities, full partnerships with civil
society and with public sector agencies and technical Ministries. (See section 2.2 below for a fuller
analysis of weak institutional capacity.)
2.2    The country's response:
The Government of Niger started addressing the HIV/A1DS epidemic in 1987, shortly after the
discovery of the first cases. From 1987 to 1998, three plans were designed and implemented, covering,
respectively, the following periods: (i) 1987-89; (ii) 1990-92 (the first formal medium-term plan); and
(iii) 1994-98 (the second formal medium-term plan). However, most of these initial interventions have
had mixed results due to the following factors:
*   Lack of integration and cooperation across sectors. Up to 1998, planning exercises were limited
largely to the health sector, as main (if not sole) actor and leader. Contents of previous plans
-7 -



were thus very limited and overly medicalized in their approach. The lack of an analytical base
also prevented these plans from being sufficiently targeted to high-risk populations.
*   Weak institutional capacity. In 1987 Government created an AIDS Surveillance Committee,
under the responsibility of the Ministry of Health. In 1990, the Committee evolved into the
National AIDS Surveillance Committee. In 1991, the National AIDS Program was created under
the auspices of the Ministry of Health. The preparation and implementation of the series of AIDS
plans since 1987 were seriously undermined by weak capacity of the successive committees.
The Ministry of Health did not demonstrate capacity to carry out the coordination of actors and
activities outside its sector. Moreover, the Ministry performed poorly even with regard to its
technical mandate. Rather than mainstreaming its activities throughout the Ministry of Health
and through the service delivery system, the HIV/AIDS Program remained overly vertical and
centralized in its structure and organization. Program management and implementation also
suffered as successive Program Directors did not have the profile to lead, coordinate and manage
a program of this nature. This combined with rapid turnover of these directors severely
constrained the absorptive capacity of the program. The ongoing health operation (Health Sector
Development Program- Credit 2915-NIR) earmarked US$1 million for the HIV/AIDS Program.
The allocation became available as early as 1997, but was underutilized and poorly managed. In
October 2000, the Government moved the National HIV/AIDS Program out of the Ministry of
Health and attached it to the Office of the Head of State. The move was expected to both
demonstrate* high level commitmnent to the Program and improve Program coordination and
performance. An HIV/AIDS Adviser to the Head of State was named to keep the President
informed of Program perfornance. The intention was good and the need for improved
performance clearly justified. However, the result was less than satisfactory. Key technical staff
and technical functions - including epidemiological surveillance and procurement of drugs,
contraceptives and other medical/laboratory consumables - were moved out of Ministry of Health
and into the President's office. This left the Ministry of Health, a most important player in the
Program, incapacitated and demoralized. Roles and responsibilities were never clearly defined
or adequately discussed with the multiple stakeholders at all levels of Government and in civil
society. The location of the Program in the Office of the President did not give it the flexibility
required to be truly operational.
*   Insufficient coordination and monitoring: Because of the persistent poor performance of the
structure responsible for HIV/AIDS, external assistance has been increasingly channeled through
the NGO sector. This led to fragmentation and reinforced lack of coordination. Considerable
experience and some success have been accumulated, but have not been sufficiently monitored or
evaluated, with a view to improving the effectiveness or scaling up these initiatives. Furthermore,
interventions were for the most part conceived by the NGOs and not by the beneficiaries. Until
the recent initiation of the current strategic planning process, the role of communities, civil
society or local government was under-appreciated and under-utilized. The monitoring and
evaluation system has not been fully functional.
2.3    Government's New Strategy:
On May 24, 2002, the Government adopted a National Strategic Framework for the Fight Against
STIs/H[V/AIDS covering the period 2002-2006. Through a participatory and analytical process,
supported by UNAIDS, the World Bank, and other partners, Niger has prepared a sound strategic
framework. This has provided the basis for a broad-based planning exercise. The exercise is expected to
culminate (in May 2003) in the production of local and sectoral action plans that will be integrated into a
third medium-term plan for the period 2002-2006. Unlike previous exercises, the forthcoming plan will
be based on an analysis of the epidemiology, its underlying determiinants and the performance to date of
various initiatives. The Framework, which was adopted in May 2002, provides an overview of Niger's
- 8-



improved vision for the fight against HIV/AIDS and takes into account the necessity to transform its
efforts from a very narrow, primarily single-sector approach to one that is holistic, dynarnic and
multisectoral in nature. The new approach draws on the talents and potential of the public sector and of
civil society alike, most particularly those at decentralized/local levels.
Niger has articulated its above-mentioned National Strategic Framework around four strategic
orientations, which are perfectly coherent with the program themes recommended for MAP H, namely:
(a) scaling up of prevention activities; (b) scaling up of treatment and care activities; (c) scaling up
mitigation of the impact of H1V/AIDS on households and communities; and (d) building national
capacity for strategic management and implementation of a multisectoral program.
The main elements of each of these strategic orientations will be supported by the proposed
project and are thus presented in Annex 2 (Project Description) of this PAD.
Institutional/Organizational Framework for HIV/AIDS. Taking into account the lessons of
previous organizational set-ups for HIV/AIDS, both in Niger and elsewhere, Niger adopted on May 24,
2002, as a part of its strategic framework document, a new institutional framework for facilitating and
coordinating an effective, broad-based, multisectoral approach to the fight against HIV/AIDS. The key
organizational components of this new framework include: (a) a National AIDS Council/NAC (Comite
national de lutte contre les IST/VIHISIDA [CNLS]), responsible for overseeing the program; (b) an
Inter-sectoral Program Coordination Unit (Coordination Intersectorielle de la lutte contre les
IST/VIHISIDA [CISLS]), which serves as secretariat to the CNLS and is responsible for the day-to-day
coordination and facilitation of program planning and implementation; (c) a high-level Adviser to the
President of the Republic (ConseillerTechnique du President charge du programme SIDA), responsible
for sustaining and further enhancing and buttressing political commitment as well as for continued and
intensified advocacy work at the highest levels of Government; and (d) a technical consultative
committee or council (Comite Mixte de Suivi), composed of Niger's intemational partners supporting
HIV/AIDS activities, and key national actors from public and non-public sectors, responsible for aid
mobilization and coordination, both of a financial and a technical nature. Both the CNLS and the CISLS
have representation at the regional and local levels. More detail is provided in C.4. of the main text of
this document, and in Annex 11.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
3.1    Project strategic choices:
The project's strategic choices include the following:
o   Targeting: The project will make conscious efforts to target the most vulnerable high risk
groups and geographical sub-regions. High risk groups would include the following: the youth
(both in and out of school, with special attention to girls); women of reproductive age; children
bom to HIV positive mothers; at-risk workers (miners, drivers, commercial sex workers); and
mobile populations (migrant workers, herders, traders). At risk geographical areas include
Koumabongou (a mining town); Tahoua (with the highest levels of seasonal migration to Cote
dlvoire); Niger's border towns and migrant routes. Such targeting is crucial for enhancing the
efficiency and impact of support to the implementation of Niger's strategic framework. These
target groups are highlighted and analyzed in Niger's strategic orientations document adopted in
May 2000. During appraisal, the prioritization and targeting of activities was reviewed and
revised in light of the results of the national prevalence survey which was completed in
September 2002. This provided needed baseline information on the epidemiology of the disease
-9-



as well as on behavior and attitudes of high-risk populations. Details on the targeting
methodology, which was discussed and agreed during appraisal, are presented in Annex 12.
o   Adequate mix of interventions.  A right mix of interventions for implementation is very
important, especially in a setting such as Niger, with limited resources and implementation
capacity. The project will ensure an appropriate balance among prevention, treatment, care, and
mitigation. This will be based on specific data regarding the epidemiology of HIV/AIDS,
including the demographic characteristics of individuals at risk; stage of the epidemic; cost
effectiveness of interventions; level of available resources; implementation capacity; and extent
to which intervention is a 'public good". Since the country's prevalence is still low, the project
will give priority to EEC for behavior change; condom promotion; correct management of STIs;
blood safety; and voluntary counseling and testing. As acknowledged in the national HIV/AIDS
strategy, prevention activities will be a strategic priority: these activities are by far the most
cost-effective in light of current prevalence rates. Care, treatment, support and mother-to-child
transmission (MTCT) prevention will be supported as an important second-order priority. They
will be targeted to groups or sub-regions with the highest prevalence rates. During appraisal, the
first year action plan was reviewed in an effort to ensure that activities are prioritized and phased
in light of the Niger country context in an effort to enhance the potential impact of the proposed
operation.
O Multisectoral approach. The multi-sectoral approach endorsed by the 2000-2006 Framework
calls for close cooperation among a wide range of public and private implementing agencies.
3.2  Sector issues to be addressed by the project:
The Government of Niger (GoN) has requested access to IDA resources within the framework of
the Second Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program (MAP) for the Africa Region, approved by the Board of
Directors of the World Bank Group in January 2002. Niger is eligible for MAP II funding, as it has fully
satisfied the eligibility criteria for accessing support under the MAP. As detailed in Section 2.3 above,
the recently adopted National Strategic Framework for the fight against STIs/HIV/AIDS covering the
period 2002-2006:
o Provides satisfactory evidence of a strategic approach to HIV/AIDS;
o Establishes a high-level HIV/AIDS coordinating body, which is non-functional;
o Sets the stage for the use of exceptional implementation arrangements; and
o Promotes the use and funding of multiple implementation agencies in line with their comparative
advantages.
These exceptional implementation arrangements are further detailed in Annex 11 and in the
Implementation Manuals.
The above criteria engage Niger in a radically new way of carrying out development work.
Therefore, the real challenge of this proposed operation lies in Niger's capacity and sustained
conmnitment to adhere fully to these criteria in program implementation both to enhance process (full
harnessing of all existing capacity and full participation of all key actors) and to increase the
effectiveness and impact of HIV/AIDS activities. A strategic focus therefore of this operation will be on
underpinning Niger's efforts to sustain its adherence to these criteria. Activities to build capacity under
the proposed project will focus on a number of priority activities, including:
o Continued support to Niger in the translation of its strategic orientation for HIV/AIDS into a
viable, multisectoral action plan, made up of work plans of various Ministries and public sector
- 10 -



agencies as well as work program proposals emanating from civil society and communities,
including support to a participatory strategic planning exercise, tailored to culminate in the
production and implementation of regional and sub-regional action plans;
*   Capacity building in program coordination and facilitation, and strategic management;
*   Viable support and close monitoring of implementation arrangements and technical and financial
audits; and
* The building and nurturing of Government partnerships with the private sector and civil society,
and the building of capacity of the non-public sector
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Strategic Orientations.  The project will support Niger in its efforts to operationalize and
implement the four strategic orientations of its recently adopted Strategic Framework for the fight against
HIV/AIDS: (a) the scaling up, expansion and improvement of prevention activities in an effort to lower
the risks of transmission; (b) the scaling up of the treatment and care of PL WHA; (c) the scaling up of
activities to mitigate the impoverishing effects of HIVWAIDS on households and communities; and (d)
the strengthening of national capacity to formulate, manage, implement, monitor and evaluate a viable,
cost-effective, multisectoral HIV/AIDS program. It will do so through four components: '(1) Public
Sector Responses for Prevention, Care and Mitigation; (2) Civil Society Response and Community-Based
Initiatives for Prevention, Care and Mitigation; (3) Capacity Building; and (4) Project Coordination and
Facilitation. Because of Niger's low prevalence rate, a strong emphasis will be made on the prioritization
of preventive activities and on the importance of targeting interventions to high risk groups for enhanced
cost effectiveness. (See Annex 12 for note on targeting). A summary description of each component is
as follows:
(1) Public Sector Responses for Prevention, Care and Mitigation: This component will finance
the work plans of line Ministries and other public sector agencies in line with their roles and
comparative advantages. Several Ministries have already prepared work plans and budgets and will be
eligible for support under the project as of the first year. The strategic framework exercise includes a
matrix outlining the potential roles, domains and comparative advantages of public sector actors. Work
plans would aim at: the strengthening/development of a more proactive engagement among civil servants
to fight against HIV/AIDS; a change in risky behavior; improved environment for collaboration and a
multisectoral approach; the development and delivery of essential HIV/AIDS information and services.
This component is subdivided into health and non-health sector activities as follows:
(a) Health Sector Response: A strong health system is a foundation for success in the fight
against HIV/AIDS. Within the public sector, the health system bears primary responsibility for care and
treatment, plays a pivotal role in many preventive activities, and endures significant impact on its staff
and operations. Niger's strategic framework recognizes the special responsibilities of the Ministry of
Health for HIV/AIDS, STI and other opportunistic infections prevention and management. The TB
program will also deserve special attention and emphasis because it is a particularly effective way in
which the health sector can contribute to the HIV/AIDS program. In addition, in Niger, where basic
mother and child health indicators are among the worst in the world, the HIV/AIDS activities will need to
be provided in the context of a strengthened minimum package of services (with an emphasis on
reproductive health services) for the improvement and protection of maternal and child health. During
appraisal and negotiations, the mission reviewed a draft 3-year plan for the health sector's contribution to
the fight against HIV/AIDS, with the first year in considerable detail, including: baseline data, objectives,



targets, performance indicators and cost estimates. The project implementation plan covering the first
year of implementation has been finalized. Among the critical activities to be included in the work plan
and supported under the map are: scaling up of the national sentinel surveillance system, setting
standards of care, voluntary counseling and testing (VCT) protocols, as well as playing a significant role
in carrying out VCT activities and follow-up; implementation of syndrornic STI care; support to the TB
program; scaling-up of the national blood screening and supply program; strengthening of the basic
reproductive health and referral services for dealing with HIV/AIDS, STIs and other opportunistic
infections; scaling up of activities for HIV vulnerable groups in collaboration with other partners;
technical support and supervision of community-based care; services to prevent mother-to-child
transmission (MTCT) including counseling on breast-feeding, family planning and care for HIV positive
pregnant women and children; implementation of a medical waste plan, including training; and health
related research and surveys that enhance health sector response.
(b) Non-Health Public Sector Response. Public service agencies other than Ministry of Health
are important instruments for carrying out a wide range of preventive and mitigation activities, aimed
both at the staff of these entities, as well as their clients. The MAP will support three principle activities:
(i) provision to public sector staff and their families of HIV/AIDS and STI education, training, condoms,
improved access to treatment and other support; (ii) enhancement of the agencies' capacity to provide
clients and audiences with the means to provide effective prevention and ways to access health care; and
(iii) sector planning to prepare for, and mitigate, the impact of AIDS on the sector. Annual work plans
and budgets will be prepared by public sector agencies in line with guidelines and prototypes already
identified in the draft Implementation Manual, and agencies will also have access to supplemental
support through the capacity building component. Work plans will be reviewed and supported as they
become available throughout the life of the project. Ministries of Transport and Education are already
well advanced in the design and implementation of HIV/AIDS work programs. Ministry of Social
Development is preparing one currently with support under the Japanese Grant. This funding source is
also supporting exchanges between Niger's Ministry of Defense and that of Burkina Faso, whose
organization and achievements could facilitate those of the nascent program in Niger's Ministry of
Defense. The rural development sector has benefited from studies and pilot activities initiated as a part
of the preparation of the Community Assistance Program operation and is thus well placed to benefit
from the MAP support.
(2) Civil Society Response and Community-Based Initiatives for Prevention, Care and Mitigation:
Under this component, the project will support the intensification of prevention, care and social support
to meet the needs expressed by local level conmmunities and groups. Such groups will be encouraged,
where appropriate to reflect on and specify priority target groups, including, but.not limited to, PLWHA
and their families. It will ensure the continuity and expansion of successful HIV/AlDS mitigation
activities adapted to local conditions and managed by grassroots organizations and communities. This
component will also promote and encourage HIV/AIDS initiatives of private sector enterprises aimed at
developing and implementing prevention, care and support strategies designed for their employees and
their families. Thanks to the assistance of the Japanese PHRD Grant, considerable work has already
been undertaken to inventory, categorize and assess the capacity of the myriad NGOs currently
contributing to the fight against HIV/AIDS, as well as those with the potential and interest to do so.
The management of this component (both technical coordination and financial management) will
be contracted out to one or a few Implementing Agencies, which are well established and already located
and working in all of Niger's regions. Such Agencies could include a mix of well-established NGOs
already operating in Niger, as well as UN Agencies, such as UNICEF, UNFPA and UNDP. Selection of
the Implementing Agencies will be on a competitive basis, to be evaluated on the basis of both price and
-12 -



technical quality of the bid. Direct contracting with one or some UN Agencies could be permitted if
criteria for such procurement arrangements are satisfied. The Implementing Agencies for this component
will mobilize and procure the support necessary to enable the multiple local level executing agencies
eligible for financing under this component to: (i) submit and implement priority activities in line with
their specialization; (ii) develop relevant services itemized in the Strategic Framework; and (iii) deliver
such services to target populations. Funds will be channeled directly through grants to associations,
religious organizations and communities, private enterprises, NGOs and community-based organizations
to cover a wide range of activities, including: (i) prevention and sensitization activities targeted at
communities as well as specific groups at high risk and aimed at-building awareness, reducing the stigma
associated with HIV/AlDS and the adoption of safer behavior (comnmunity-based EEC, promotion of the
use of condoms at the community level); (ii) provision of home and community-based care for AIDS
patients; and (iii) social support to PLWHA, orphaned children, and households affected by HIV/AIDS,
through income generation activities and support to local caregivers. Draft TORs for the Implementing
Agencies that will assume responsibility for the management, financing and implementation oversight
responsibilities for this component are included in Annex 11. A short list of qualified Implementing
Agencies, satisfactory to IDA, has been established.
(3) Capacity Building: This component will support HIV/AIDS-related capacity building for the
various implementers of the project. It will support training and other capacity-building activities that
are necessary for the public sector and civil society agencies to be able to effectively and efficiently
implement HIV/AIDS prevention, care, and support activities in the country. For instance, administrative
and financial management capacities of civil society organizations as well as their technical capabilities
can benefit from this component. Decentralized levels of government and line Ministries and other
public sector agencies may use the funding, of this component to address specifically areas needing
strengthening within respective levels of Government and sectoral programs. Similarly, the various
entities of the institutional/organizational framework for HIV/AIDS in Niger, responsible for Program
coordination and facilitation, and strategic management will need significant capacity building which this
component would support. Under this component technical assistance will also be provided to the
Government on monitoring and evaluation and on the refinement/implementation of a national
communications strategy.
(4) Project Coordination and Facilitation: The CISLS, being responsible for overall Program
administration, coordination and facilitation, and strategic management, will assume responsibility for
the coordination and facilitation of the MAP. During appraisal, the capacity of the newly established
staff of the CIS/LS was assessed and agreement was reached to strengthen and supplement its capacity
so as to ensure sound management of the MAP within this framework in full respect of the Bank's
exigencies. The recruitment of the following contractual staff has been completed: intemal controller,
procurement specialist and chief accountant. The project will also recruit eight accountant administrators
for the eight regional coordination offices and technical assistance to advise and support the CISLS in the
launch of the program and in its implementation during the first year of operations. As noted above,
outsourced management of the Civil Society component will be specifically funded under this
component. The project will finance the operating costs (net of civil service salaries) of the CISLS and
supplemental contractual staff and the costs of contracting out deemed necessary to backstop and
strengthen the capacity and efficiency of this new entity as well as to fulfill all Bank requirements for
project management.  The CISLS will facilitate and coordinate project execution, while the
implementation of project activities will be the responsibility of line ministries, of the public sector
agencies, civil, society organizations, decentralized levels of Government and communities. An
organizational chart of Program/project management is attached in Annex 11.  TOR for suggested
contractual staff is also shown in Annex 11.
-13-



Indicative            Bank-     % of
Component                      Costs     % Of     flnancing  Bank-
(US$M)    Total     (US$M)   financing
Public Sector Responses for Prevention, Care and    12.75     46.4      11.50     46.0
Mitigation (Health Sector Response & Non-Health Sector
Response)
Civil Society Response and Community-Based Initiatives  8.00  29.1       8.00     32.0
for Prevention, Care and Mitigation
Capacity Building                                    3.65      13.3      2.90      11.6
Project Coordination and Facilitation                2.50      9.1       2.00      8.0
PPF                                                  0.60      2.2       0.60      2.4
Total Project Costs  27.50   100.0     25.00     100.0
Total Financing Required  27.50     100.0     25.00     100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
This project is a multisector operation that is not intended to address major long-term sector and
institutional reforms within any one sector, or to include conditions linked to macroeconomic or sector
policies. However, the project will strengthen the following key policy and institutional changes:
o Making the national HIV/AIDS program truly multisectoral by mainstreaming H1V/AIDS activities
into the action plan of every Govermment agency and by strengthening the capacity of CISLS for
national coordination; and
o Ensuring that the national HIV/AIDS program is truly participatory by encouraging private sector
(for-profit and not-for-profit) participation and empowering communities to be key players in
HIV/AIDS activities.
3. Beneflts and target population:
The proposed operation is expected to produce the following benefits. First, the population at
large will benefit directly from avoidance of HIV infection and AIDS, and from better access to care,
support, and mitigation activities supported by the program. Lower-income groups will benefit from
comrnunity-based assistance to households taking care of AIDS patients and orphans. Conmmunities will
be better able to plan and manage their own response to the epidemic. PLWHA will benefit from
reduced stigma and improvements in their human rights, from improved care at home, in their
communities and in health centers and hospitals, and, as a consequence, from prolonged and healthier
lives. Women and youth will benefit disproportionately from targeted interventions to improve their
awareness of the disease and empower them to protect themselves. C?ommercial sex workers, intravenous
drug users, and people in correctional institutions will similarly be able to better protect themselves, and
benefit from reduced stigma and improved human rights. Second, the MAP will reduce new infections,
especially among young people, and therefore have an impact on future suffering and premature deaths.
Third, in the long run, the containment of HIV/AIDS incidence will reduce the future costs of care,
treatment, mitigation and orphan care, thereby allowing governments to allocate the resulting budgetary
savings to other priorities. Both the liberated funds and larger labor force made possible by the fall in
AIDS-related deaths will increase total output. Because of these economic benefits, the prevention,
treatment, and care of HfV/AIDS in African countries constitute a highly productive investment.
- 14 -



4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
As described in Section B.2 of this PAD, by Decree No. 2002-113/PRN/MSP/LCE dated May 7,
2002, Niger adopted, as a part of its strategic framework document, a new institutional framework for
facilitating and coordinating an effective, broad-based multisectoral approach to the fight against
STIs/HIV/AIDS. The MAP will be implemented over a period of five years within this new institutional
framework. - The roles/functions of the main organs of policy and oversight, coordination and
implementation are described briefly below and presented in more detail in Annex 11.
The National AIDS Council/NAC (Comiti national de lutte contre les IST/VIHISIDA
[CNLSI) is chaired by the President of the Republic of Niger and is responsible for: approving policy
and strategic orientations and work plans; ensuring a truly multisectoral approach; ensuring proactive
mobilization and good coordination of technical and financial assistance of all partners (international and
national); and evaluating program performance and impact. The Inter-sectoral Program Coordination
Unit CISLS (described below) serves as secretariat to the CNLS.
The Inter-Sectoral Program Coordination Unit (Coordination Intersectorielle de la lutte
contre les IST/VIHISIDA [CISLSI) serves as secretariat to the CNLS. This structure, placed in the
office of the Prime Minister, is responsible for the coordination of the strategic planning and
implementation of the national STIs/HIV/AII)S program. Its key functions and staffing cover the
following domains: overall program coordination, administration and finance, communications and
public relations, technical support and liaison with public sector agencies of execution (both health sector
and non-health sector); liaison/outreach with civil society; monitoring and evaluation.
Regional and Subregional Committees (Comitis de chef-lieux de region de lutte contre le
SIDA (CRLS/ISTJ et Comitis sous-rigionaux de lutte contre le SIDA [CSRLS/STJ, chaired,
respectively, by the Prefect and Sub-Prefect, will carry out the above-mentioned functions of the CNLS at
the decentralized levels of Government.
An Advisor to, the President of the Republic is responsible for sustaining and further
enhancing political commitment as well as for continued and intensified advocacy work at the highest
levels of Government.
A Technical Consultative Committee (Comiti Mixte de Suivi) is made up of national and
intemational partners and is responsible for providing technical advice to the CNLS and to contribute to
the mobilization and coordination of technical and financial contributions of all partners to the fight
against STIs/HIV/AIDS.
Regional Coordinators will represent the CISLS in each of the regions.
Coordination within Sectors. Each sector Ministry has appointed a focal point and created a
sectoral committee responsible for the preparation of sector action plans in line with the adopted strategy
for HIV/AIDS. This institutional set-up is also responsible for mobilizing and coordinating human and
financial resources within line Ministries for program implementation and evaluation. Given the critical
role it has to play, the Ministry of Health created by Arrete No. 184/MSP/LCE of August 5, 2002, a
Health Sector Unit for the Fight Against HIV/AlDS (Unite de Lutte Sectorielle Sante contre les
IST/VIHISIDA), whose role it is to coordinate all activities within MOH and serve as secretariat to the
MOH coordinating committee.
15-



Executing Agencies complete the make-up of the institutional framework, composed of key
technical Ministries and other public sector agencies, decentralized levels of Government (regions,
departments, communes, cantons), and civil society (including private sector, NGOs, community-based
organizations, etc.).
Implementation Arrangements. An Implementation Manual to be adopted before grant
effectiveness has been prepared through an iterative process involving all key actors of both Government
and civil society. It defines institutional and implementation arrangements, the respective responsibilities
and mandates of each participating entity and the functional relationships between actors. It defines
procedures and eligibility criteria for review and approval of project proposals, and provides guidelines
for the preparation, implementation and supervision of project proposals. It includes the contractual
arrangements between the CISLS and implementing agencies and includes standard contracts for a broad
range of activities. It also contains procurement arrangements for community-level projects and defines
financial management requirements. During appraisal the Implementation Manual was discussed. It is
important to note Government's and Bank's acknowledgement that this Manual is a living document that
will be finetuned with the experience and perspectives of managers and implementors, acquired through
implementation. At the end of the first full year of implementation, on the occasion of the first annual
review, the Manual will be reviewed and revised with a view to improving implementation efficiency in
light of lessons learned.
The project will be implemented over a period of five years in an incremental manner starting
with those line ministries, public agencies, decentralized levels of government, NGOs and CBOs, which
already have HJV/AIDS work plans. Coverage will be extended to other sectors and organizations of
civil society as implementation capacity is strengthened and work programs prepared. The CISLS will
have overall responsibility for project management and coordination.
Implementation of Public Sector Work Plans. Public entities at the national and decentralized
levels would prepare work program proposals and submit them to the CISLS for approval by the CNLS
and subsequent funding. A formal, contractual work program agreement, including a work program and
budget with agreed input and output indicators, will define the respective roles and responsibilities of the
contract signatories and frame the relationship between the various executing agencies and the CISLS.
Contracts will be conceived around a performance-based management approach, whose primary focus is
around accountability for results. The first quarter disbursement will be made upon co-signature of the
work program agreements, with subsequent quarterly payments to be made on the basis of satisfactory
quarterly reports composed of: (a) report on performance/results in light of indicators specified in the
work program agreement; (b) report on the use and management of financial resources; and (c)
plan/budget for the subsequent quarter that would be coherent with the lessons and insights of the
previous two reports. Random technical and financial audits will validate such reporting. While
contracts will provide for termination in the event of nonperformance, supervision and audits will have
an important pedagogical component that will permit interventions to address and correct performance
problems attributable to a leaming process. Prototype contracts and terms of reference for audits are
presented in Annex 11.
Implementation of the Civil Society Component. The CISLS will subcontract the responsibility
for management of the Civil Society Component to several seasoned Implementing Agencies working in
subgroups of regions, most likely a combination of international NGOs and UN agencies already working
in Niger. This arrangement will ensure the autonomy, promotion and complementarity of civil society
activity. The cycle of project proposal writing, submission, review, approval, financing and evaluation is
described in detail in the Operations Manual. TOR for the Implementing Agencies are presented in
-16 -



Annex 11.
Project Monitoring, Supervision and Evaluation. A plan for monitoring and evaluation,
presented in Annex 12, was developed during the appraisal process and agreed during negotiations. This
plan includes a number of input/process, outcome and impact indicators that were drawn from
Government's Strategic Plan for the Fight against HIV/AIDS 2002-2006, and subsequently revised in
light of recently available baseline date from the first nationwide HIV prevalence survey, completed in
September 2002 and from the baseline beneficiary assessment. The proposed monitoring and evaluation
system aims to support and underpin efforts to ensure rigorous and ongoing oversight of program
implementation. It also aims to provide managers and policy makers with a tool that will permit ongoing
program evaluation thus allowing them to identify problems and constraints to effective program
performance and to introduce corrections to maximize program effectiveness. This proposed plan also
aims to develop and strengthen national capacity in monitoring and evaluation, as well as to support
relevant research.  For each indicator identified, the plan specifies: the type of data required,
source/responsible agency, frequency of availability/publication, population/target group included,
indicator/unit of measure, and its relation to program objectives. The plan also acknowledges and
support's Government's decision to assume responsibility for monitoring and evaluation (under the
specific responsibility of the CISLS) rather than to outsource this work. This will ensure that M&E is an
integral part of program management and implementation and will encourage and underpin the strong
ownership of the M&E function. The CISLS will be backstopped by technical assistance in the
monitoring and evaluation function during the first year of project support. It is significant to note that
this arrangement does not exclude the contracting out of certain M&E activities, as warranted, including
the occasional technical audits of implementors under both the public sector and civil society
components. The plan also is firmly grounded in the principle of integrating financial monitoring and
reporting with program performance monitoring and reporting. The plan as proposed in Annex 12 will
be finetuned during project implementation, as experience warrants.  Annual reviews of project
performance and annual planning exercises, combined with technical audits, all specified in the
Development Grant Agreement, will underpin an approach of ongoing review and improvement
throughout the life of the project. It is significant to note that such Annual reviews will involve all
donors contributing to the Program.
Given both the complexity and innovation inherent in this project, as well as the learning
approach that underpins this program, intensive supervision will be necessary throughout the life of the
project, and especially during its first year. A project supervision plan is attached at Annex 14.
Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements. The Administration and Finance
section of the CISLS will have overall responsibility for project financial management. The Director of
Administration and Finance, a civil servant, will be supported by contractual staff, including: an internal
controller, a chief accountant and a procurement specialist. Following an evaluation of public sector and
NGO capacity in financial management and control, as well as an assessment of relevant experience and
lessons (drawing primarily on the design and pilot phase of the IDA-financed Community Action
Program) the following arrangements for the management and control of IDA grant financing were
agreed with Govermment:
*   Two to five Implementing Agencies will assume the responsibility (in different regions/groups of
regions) for the management and implementation of the civil society component, including the
responsibility for financial management and control. They will open bank accounts, recruit the
requisite personnel (administrative/financial officer, accountant, internal controller, etc.) and ensure
adherence to simplified procedures for administrative and financial management.
-17 -



o Disbursements to public sector agencies (technical Ministries) will be made on the basis of
performance-based work program  agreements, the first disbursement made on the basis of
co-signature of a viable agreement, the subsequent disbursements made on the basis of quarterly
reports, including: reporting on performance vis-a-vis previously negotiated performance indicators,
reporting on utilization and management of financial resources, and presenting the detailed plan for
the  subsequent quarter taking  into  account technical and  financial performance  and
recommendations.
@ A procedures manual for Administration, Financial Management and Accounting will be
finalized in a manner satisfactory to IDA  and adopted as part of the overall Implementation
Manual as a condition ofgrant effectiveness.
e Simplified procedures will be utilized for NGO and community-based activities and are included in
the Implementation Manual of the Project.
o   Three accounts will be opened in a commercial bank in Niamey, to be managed by the CISLS:
Special Account A (for financing of public sector work program agreements, capacity building
activities, goods, training, services, small rehabilitation works and incremental operating costs);
Special Account B (for-financing of community-based projects under the Civil Society component);
and Special Account C (Project Account to accommodate project counterpart funding). Prior to
grant effectiveness, Government will provide proof of opening of a project account and the deposit
of 20 million CFA francs, an amount corresponding to the counterpart fund obligations,
excluding taxes, for thefirst year of implementation.
*   Two accounts will be opened in commercial banks for each of Niger's eight regions: one to receive
funds advanced from Special Account A, and the other to receive funds advanced from the Project
Account C.
* Software will be used to computerize and integrate multiple components of a consolidated and
coordinated approach to project/program management including the following dimensions:
administrative management, financial management and accounting, and oversight of program
implementation. Such software will be configurated to accommodate IDA's evolved rules for
integrated project and financial management.
o   Routine technical and fnancial audits of subprojects under the civil society component and of work
program agreements under the public sector response component will closely monitor and validate
the results of these initiatives as well as their transparency and efficiency.  Financial and
performance reporting will also be subject to the ex-post review of Bank supervision missions.
o   The Director of Administration and Finance, holding primary responsibility for financial
management and control within the CISLS, will receive basic training by IDA on financial
management and disbursements.
Q In order to ensure that IDA fiduciary requirements are fully satisfied, the following contractual staff
will be recruited on a competitive basis in line with specified TORs approved by IDA:
o   a chief accountant (CISLS)
o an internal controller (Prime Minister's Office)
o   accountant-administrator (for each of eight regional coordination offices).
The recruitment of the chief accountant and the internal controller has been completed.
o Accountants from each technical Ministry (or other public agency) preparing and intending to
implement work program agreements will be trained on expenditure management and disbursement
procedures.
Q A priori control of project finances at the level of the Regional Coordination Units will be assumed
by the Payment Approval Officer (Chef de sous ordonnancement)of the Prefect.
@   Prior to grant effectiveness, an external auditor will be recruited on the basis of a competitive
process, in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to IDA. The auditor will assure the
semi-annual verification of accounts and the semi-annual verification of expenditures of agencies and
technical Ministries.
-18 -



* Prior to grant effectiveness, a financial management system, incorporating all the features and
implementation arrangements cited above, will be established.
*   The CISLS will consolidate all project financial reports submitted by multiple implementation
agencies and prepare the project financial statements for auditing purposes. Audited project financial
statements and report thereon, inclusive of an auditor's opinion on the use of SOEs will be submitted
to IDA within six months following the end of the financial year.
Procurement procedures. Procurement arrangements based on those established for the MAP
operation were discussed and refined during appraisal, and firmly grounded in procurement capacity
assessments. Annex 6 provides details on procurement and disbursement arrangements discussed and
agreed during appraisal. IDA will finance goods, civil works, consultancies, training, and other local
activities necessary to implement the project. Procurement for all IDA-financed activities will be carried
out in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits
(January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999), in
particular, paragraph 3.15 on Community Participation in Procurement and using the Bank's Guidelines
for Simplified Procurement and Disbursement for Community-Based Investments (February 1998).
Consulting services by firms or individuals financed by IDA will be awarded in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997,
revised in September 1997 and January 1999).
All procurement actions will follow standard IDA procurement Guidelines and annual General
Procurement Notices (GPN) will be prepared for the project and published in United Nations
Development Business. During negotiations a draft project implementation plan (PIP) and a draft
procurement plan for the first year of project operations were discussed and revised. The PIP and
procurement plan covering the first year of implementation have subsequently been finalized in a manner
satisfactory to IDA. The procurement plans will be revised annually for IDA's review. Procurement
performance at all levels will be assessed on an annual basis through procurement/ physical external
audits. In addition to the formal annual audits, ad-hoc procurement reviews will be conducted
periodically.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Under the MAP for the Bank's Africa Region (Project Appraisal Document Report No. 20727,
page 26), sector investmnent operations for individual countries and a vertical adaptable program loan
(APL) for Africa, in combination with the horizontal APL proposed, were two alternatives considered
and rejected. The Niger Support Project for the Multisectoral STIIHIV/AIDS Program is a five-year
specific investment loan (SIL) under MAP. It focusses resources on a national multisectoral response to
the I{IV/AIDS epidemic.
Strategic Choices. Many countries in Africa, including Niger, have had -HV/AIDS programs which are
mainly led by the ministries of health. The HIV/AIDS epidemic in countries with only health-sector
related HIV/AIDS programs continues to spread despite these efforts. While the health sector has clearly
a major role to play, an effective response to curb such an epidemic requires preventive and mitigating
measures beyond the health sector. An inability to act across sectors or to deliver resources to the many
local actors, who would generate a broad-based response, have been the main obstacles to controlling the
spread of HIV/AIDS. The key strategic choice was therefore whether to invest in a program similar to
the traditional HIV/AIDS programs that target mainly the health sector, or to invest in a multisectoral
program that allows HIV/AIDS activities to be supported across sectors and involves communities, civil
-19 -



society, the private sector, and other stakeholders. The project is structured as a free-standing sector
investment credit, under the umbrella of the Multi-country HIV/AIDS Program for Africa because (a)
what is needed is a war-like effort to scale up HIV/AIDS response across sectors, and (b) it would
otherwise have been difficult to mainstream HIV/AlDS activities into national and municipal agencies,
civil society, the private sector and communities.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                    Project                (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Natural Resource Management      Natural Resource Management    HS           HS
Project (PGRN). 1967 - closing
Agriculture, Infrastructure      Small Rural Operations Project  S            S
(PPODR) Cr. 1890-closed
Agricultural Research           National Agricultural Research   S            U
Project Cr. 2122-closed
Agricultural Extension           Agricultural Services Project   S            U
(PRSAA) Cr. 2355 -closed
Agriculture, Irrigation          Pilot Private Irrigation Project  HS         S
(PPIP) Cr 2707 - active
Agriculture, Marketing           Agro-pastoral Export            S            S
Promotion Project (PPEAP) Cr.
3363 - not yet effective
Education                        Education III Cr. 1980 - closed  S           S
Health                           Health H - Cr. 1999 - active    S            S
Transport                        Transport Infrastructure        S            U
Rehabilitation Cr. 35608 -
active
Urban                            Urban Infrastructure            S             S
Rehabilitation Cr. 49691 -
active
Water                            Water Sector Project Cr. 3505 -  S            S
active
Rural Development/Poverty        Community Action Program
Alleviation                      (Board Presentation: March 20,
2003)
Other development agencies
FNUAP                            Prevention Component - 8
projects ongoing
FNUAP                            Condoms component - 8
project ongoing
FNUAP                            Studies & Research - 8 projects
ongoing
FNUAP                            Planning 2002-2003
OMS                              Budgetary support for PNLS
-20 -



activities
UNAIDS                           Preparation of PMT3
UNAIDS                            Promotion of less risky
behaviours and counselling on
voluntary and confidential
screening of youth in Niamey,
Dosso, Tahoua, Galmi and with
prostitutes in central Niamey
UNDP                              Institutional support to PNLS
UNICEF                            Special Project to fight against
HIV/AIDS
CANADA                            SIDA 3: Project to support the
fight against HIV/AIDS in
West Africa
CEE                               Safe Transfusion Project
FRANCE                            Support to Lafia Matassa -
NGO - Secondary level
students
FRANCE                            Support to MVS-NGO - Center
for anonymous and voluntary
screening
FRANCE                            Support to 4 districts - AIDS
component (EEC)
GTZ                               HIV/AIDS Prevention - Alafia
LUX                               AIDS Project-Niger NIG 007
AIDS Project -Niger NIG 012
LWR                               LWR support -HIV/AIDS
Project-Niger NIG 012
US Govt. - Departmnent of Defense  Support to army - Niger
US Govt. - Peace Corps            Peace Corps Support IEC +
Lux. Dev't (condoms
distribution in bars)
USAID                             Support through NGO PSI:
PSAMO
USAID                             Support through NGO AED
USAID                             Support through NGO FHI
USAID                             Support through NGO/John's
Hopkins
USAID                             Support through NGO for
provision of condoms in the JH
project zone
CARE                              SIDA en exode, ESPOIR
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
-21 -



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Lessons taken into account in the design of this project relied heavily on recommended public
health best practice as well as experience and perspectives gleaned from the design and implementation
of MAPs thus far in Africa. They are consolidated below into lessons of design, lessons of preparation
and lessons of implementation. The design of this operation also drew heavily on two other sets of
relevant experience: (a) the lessons of the IDA-financed Population Project, whose complexity and
nature are simnilar to those of the MAP; ---md(by the lessons of design and implementation of the
IDA-financed portfolio in Niger, all sectors combined, compiled by the Community Assistance Program
(CAP) team during the course of preparation. Both of these are contained in Annex 13.
Lessons of Design (Content):
* Prevent infection among those most likely to contract and spread HIV. Effective, low cost prevention
interventions for such groups at high risk already exist. However, such groups are often the most
marginalized and stigmatized and thus unable to compete for attention and resources themselves. To
identify groups at high risk, their social networks and then target them, sustained effective prevention
interventions should be the priority of a national HIV/AIDS program.
* Prioritize interventions by their proven effectiveness. Prioritizing interventions based on their
effectiveness can maximize the number of new HIV infections averted in the presence of resource and
capacity constraints. Budget allocation among different components of a national HIV/AIDS program
should reflect a strategic choice of effective interventions.
* Address gender inequality. There are more women getting infected than men in many developing
countries. Women now account for 55% of adults living with HlV/AIDS in Sub-Saharan Africa. Gender
inequality is a contributing factor to the epidemic and needs to be addressed in the long term through
measures such as improving education and labor force participation of women.
* Create an enabling policy environment. An enabling environment with regard to local, social and
gender policies is essential for the success of a national HIV/AIDS program, as it facilitates the
participation of key stakeholders and helps reduce risk-taking behaviors, stigma and discrimination.
* Ensure clarity of objectives. Program goals must be sufficiently clear and accepted by all key
stakeholders.
Lessons of Preparation (Process):
* Act Early. No country is insulated from the risk of HIV/AIDS. Govemments should intervene as soon
as possible because the more widely HIV/AIDS spreads, the more difficult and costly prevention, care
and treatment become.
* Employ more effort to understand underlying sociological factors. Analytical work can help to
improve the targeting and effectiveness of interventions.
Use a multisectoral approach with active involvement of all relevant stakeholders. This would
generate greater commitment, mobilize additional resources, and improve the sustainability of
interventions and their chance for success. Different sectors, such as education, transport, defense, etc.,
can play a role in the fight against HIV/AIDS. Local communities and NGOs are often capable of
understanding local cultural and social contexts, mobilizing people and reaching out to marginalized
high-risk groups. They therefore can successfully implement many HIV/AIDS interventions and need to
be provided with direct financial and technical support to act at the local level, where the public sector is
often less effective.
Use and strengthen all capacity to implement. Use all people and organizations with the ability to
implement the program effectively, especially to scale up existing programs and enable them to acquire
the necessary skills to deal with higher levels of activities.
- 22 -



* Focus more on readiness for implementation. Important elements of the program should be ready to
be implemented as soon as the funds are available. Pilot operations to test and refine implementation
arrangements are reconunended when possible.
Lessons of Project Implementation:
* Adoptflexibility and adaptation vs. blueprint approach. Continuous adjustment and reworking of the
program will allow it to respond more effectively to changing circumstances and to emerging lessons.
* Focus on the goals. The objectives should always be kept in mind when making decisions.
Actions/proposals should be assessed in light of how they will contribute to achievement of project goals.
* Establish a viable monitoring and evaluation system. In an experimental and leaming process, a good
M&E system is essential, as it will inform managers, decision-makers, and other stakeholders how well
the program is performing, where it is going and how it needs to be adjusted.
* Involve stakeholders. This is no less important in implementation than in the design. There must be
an openness to innovation and non-traditional partners.
* Ensure intensive supervision. The complexity, scope and learning approach of the MAP requires more
intensive supervision, both by countries and donors.
4. Indications of recipient commitment and ownership
The Government has committed itself to responding appropriately to the HIV/AIDS epidemic
and the President of the Republic of Niger, together with many high-level Government officials, has
repeatedly expressed a commitment to fight HIV/AIDS. The recent adoption by the Council of Ministers
of the Strategic Framework for the Fight Against HIV/AIDS, including the establishment of an
institutional framework (most notably the creation of the CISLS) is a concrete indication of Government
commitment. Ownership of this Strategic Framework is strong and broad-based, encompassing public
sector and civil society, thanks to an extensively participatory approach employed in its formulation.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
No single government or agency can overcome HIV/AIDS alone. A vast, concerted effort is
required both at national and international levels. That is the insight that guided the creation of
UNAIDS, the establishment of the IPAA, and the move towards a pluralistic, multisectoral approach.
Although agencies such as UNICEF and WHO will continue to set the overall technical parameters for
HIV/AIDS, IDA has a number of comparative advantages that are critical to the success of these
partnerships. First, no other external actor has the global knowledge and policy influence of IDA on the
overall development agenda. This influence has proven central in helping to elevate HIV/AIDS beyond
the health sector to a fundamental development issue, and to ensure the necessary visibility in discussion
of national planning, poverty reduction strategies, and debt-reduction programs. Second, IDA has
experience in virtually all sectors and can therefore work effectively in supporting a multisectoral
response. Assisting sectors to plan for the impact of AIDS will be one of the most important tasks of the
next few years. Third, IDA's long experience with implementation will be instrumental in helping to
balance speed and accountability. Fourth, IDA involvement is essential to bridging the resource gap.
Both through its own resources and through its convening and leveraging power, IDA can make a
significant contribution to filling this gap.
-23 -



E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
A detailed economic analysis on HIV/AIDS was carried out under the umbrella project (Annex 5
of the PAD for Multi-country HIV/AIDS program for the Africa Region-Report no. 20727-AFR). The
analysis includes an overall assessment of the impact of HIV/AIDS on economic development and
poverty and showed that a reduction in AIDS-related deaths would likely increase growth of GDP.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Not applicable.
Fiscal Impact:
The fiscal impact of the project is likely to be small. With the large amount of resources directed
at community and civil society interventions, reliance on NGOs and Commnunity Based Organizations
and the private sector, the pernanent recurrent costs of the program should be manageable. Works
(consisting primarily of works related to medical waste management), will be limited and therefore not
generate significant operating and maintenance costs. There will be, however, coverage of operating
expenses for CISLS operations and those of the line ministries. During PER or other similar exercises,
the effect on the budget will be reviewed.
3. Technical:
The project has incorporated the best internationally accepted practices for HIV/AIDS response
as defined in MAP and in countries where HIV/AIDS-related operations have been implemented (i.e.,
Burkina, Senegal). These international practices will be tailored to Niger-specific context. Project design
will also allow for flexibility as well as for the incorporation of new practices in the future provided that
they are recognized as effective and adequate to Niger's context.
4. Institutional:
The new institutional framework adopted by Niger on May 7, 2002, for a multisectoral,
multipartner approach to HIV/AIDS is appropriate and well poised to ensure good program management
and coordination. (See Section C.4 and Annex 11 for, respectively, summary and detailed descriptions
of the institutional framework, as well as for results of capacity assessments undertaken during
appraisal.)
4.1 Executing agencies:
In keeping with the MAP design, the project will be implemented by a multiplicity of executing
agencies, encompassing public sector agencies and civil society. During appraisal, an assessment of
public sector capacity was carried out and provided the basis for the design of the public sector response
component as well as for the capacity building component. Performance-based contracting will provide
both flexibility and rigor in the management, monitoring and implementation of public sector work
program agreements thus setting the stage for success and realism in planning and implementation of the
public sector response component. The capacity assessment, presented in Annex 11 highlights the
-24 -



importance of proactive communication and sharing of inforniation among all actors, and the need for
basic training of public sector agencies to work within the new and innovative institutional framework set
up for HIV/AIDS. The civil society response component will be implemented by a multiplicity of local
and international NGOs and community-based organizations. During project preparation an extensive
and participatory inventory of NGOs and CBOs was undertaken (available in project files), during which
these organizations were assessed for their existing and potential capacities and categorized in line with
their experiences and specialties. Subproject preparation and approval, as is the case for the public
sector, is designed around a performance-based approach; and the capacity building component will
address capacity weaknesses identified during the NGO/CBO inventory exercise, with the active input of
organizations, themselves. Capacity needs were centered around strategic management and financial
management skills. NGOs/CBOs will benefit from continued support/backstopping of reputable,
experienced Implementing Agencies to whom overall coordination of the civil society component will be
subcontracted in particular geographical regions.
4.2 Project management:
The CISLS is well equipped to manage the project, both in terms of its placement in the Prime
Minister's' office, and in terms of its staff, which are considered to be competent. Based on the capacity
assessment undertaken during project appraisal, this agency will be supported in two ways. First,
contractual staff have been recruited to supplement skills in CISLS to ensure that all fiduciary
requirements of IDA are fully adhered to, notably: financial controller, chief accountant, and
procurement specialist. In addition, 8 accountant-administrators for the coordination offices in each of
Niger's regions are being recruited. Second, to backstop and support the CISLS during the crucial time of
project launch and first year of implementation, a technical assistant will be recruited.
4.3 Procurement issues:
No procurement issues are anticipated. A contractual procurement specialist has been recruited
and will ensure that procurement will be undertaken in full coherence with IDA procedures. See Annex
6 for details on procurement arrangements.
4.4 Financial management issues:
Financial management arrangements are outlined in Section C.4 of this document. Performance-based
work program agreements (for the public sector response component) and contracts (for the civil society
response component) provide an opporaunity for innovation that will ensure both rigor and flexibility in
the channeling and management of financial resources under the project. Technical and financial audits,
combined with an extensive review of this approach at the project's mid-term, will facilitate a learning
process against which actions can be taken to correct arrangements and improve performance and
transparency, as need be.
5. Environmental:                Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
In light of the proposed project activities, a Medical Waste Management Plan has been prepared
to ensure that health care facilities dispose of their waste in an environmentally sound manner. The plan
includes: (i) an assessment of the national health care facilities, their waste management practices, public
knowledge of the implications of poor medical waste management, environmental and social impacts, an
evaluation of technologies designed to dispose of medical waste, and potential involvement of the private
sector in this field; and (ii) an implementation strategy which includes institutional arrangements and cost
estimates. At the moment a pilot plan is being prepared for the purpose of assessing which of the waste
disposal techniques would be most suitable for Niger.
-25 -



5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The pilot will test (i) incineration and (ii) burial of waste. This approach will ensure that the
appropriate technology has been tested prior to implementation of the Medical Waste Management at the
national level.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: 12/21/2001
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environrment management plan? Describe
mechanisms of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Stakeholders include technical services at the national, regional and local levels, public
health facilities at the national and regional levels as well as NGOs and development partners. A
representative sample of stakeholders was visited and meetings were held either with individuals
or groups.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
A monitoring plan has been developed outlining the activities to be monitored (i.e.
national seminar to launch the plan; preparation and evaluation of bidding documents; training;
environmental measures to be taken; evaluation of the plan and supervision) as well as
institutional responsibilities and a time horizon.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
H1V/AIDS is both a cause and a consequence of poverty. It has devastating socioeconomic
consequences on affected households and communities, which lose productive members and which must
provide care and compensate for lost income. Poverty also increases the vulnerability of high risk groups
as they seek income generation opportunities through seasonal migration, prostitution, mining, pastoral
occupations, and truck driving. A beneficiary assessment has provided critical baseline data on the
vulnerabilities, perspectives and coping mechanisms that will inform the setting of social development
targets and that will allow the design and improved targeting of prevention and social protection
interventions.
The project is designed to reach vulnerable groups, notably: young adolescents and adults, high
risk groups (sex workers and their clients, migrants, prisoners, etc. An intensive effort will be made to
target high risk geographical areas, such as Komabangou (gold mine), Tahoua (high migration rates),
Chirozerine, Arlit, Dirkou (military base), and Firdji and Matameye (border with Nigeria). Due to
traditional taboos, promotion/use of condoms among youth may raise cultural and religious sensitivities.
PLWHA and their families will benefit from sensitization efforts to dispel stigmatization as well as from
local level initiatives (subprojects) to mitigate the negative socio-economic impact of HIV/AIDS.
-26 -



6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
This project was prepared in the context of the National Strategic Planning Process for
HIV/AIDS, following an extensive consultation process with government agencies, civil society actors,
private sector, traditional healers, traditional and religions leaders and others. This participatory strategic
planning process has led to the development and approval of Niger's Strategic Framework Document for
fighting HIV/AIDS. During implementation broad-based participation will continue through
community-based monitoring and evaluation, based on performance-based contracts for local level
activities. Such a process should contribute to awareness raising and consensus building around project
activities, as well as ownership by communities.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Civil society and CBOs were consulted extensively during project preparation and will play a
significant role in implementing this project through the civil society response component, designed to
elicit and respond to the demands and initiatives of local level organizations and communities. The
preparation supported a major exercise during which NGOs prepared profiles of their experience and
expertise (actual and potential) for the fight against HIV/AIDS and undertook self assessments to identify
areas of capacity that could be strengthened under the project. Coordination and financial management of
the Civil Society and Community Response component will be subcontracted out to Implementing
Agencies knowledgeable about and already present in Niger's regions and which will provide
informnation, outreach, and technical and financial support to local civil society and community groups to
prepare, implement and evaluate such interventions. Civil society organizations will continue to be
consulted during project supervision missions, mid-term and final evaluations.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
In addition to subcontracting out the Civil Society and Community Response Component, the
institutional framework provides for a civil society liaison officer in the CISLS and, as well, for
representation of civil society in national and decentralized AIDS councils.
6:5 How will the project monitor performance in ternns of social development outcomes?
A baseline beneficiary assessment has helped establish baseline data on social issues and
behaviors that are guiding the articulation and monitoring of sound social development objectives. The
M&E system will also include a social development component. This same M&E system will integrate a
process to allow stakeholders working together at national, regional and subregional levels to evaluate
the project and make any corrective actions required. This participatory M&E method will be simple,
qualitative and quantitative to measure output and outcome and to provide for corrective action by
stakeholders themselves.
-27 -



7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Are any of the following safeguard policies triggered by the project?
Policy                                    Triggered
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)          * Yes i_ No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                 '_ Yes@ No
Forestry (OP 436, GP 4.36)                                    K) Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                       Yes    No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                 .9 Yes S No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                 <J Yes SNo
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                         9 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                             K) Yes S No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  K. Yes @ No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*       9 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
A Medical Waste Management Plan has been prepared by the Government to ensure that health
care facilities dispose of their waste in an environmentally sound manner.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project is designed to support the nationally-conceived and approved Strategic Framework
for HIV/AIDS, which enjoys strong Government and civil society ownership and which supports the
expansion of HIV/AIDS activities that involve communities, civil society organizations, and other
stakeholders. The project will scale up existing HIV/AIDS activities by mainstreaming activities into all
government sectors and civil society, and by tapping into community organization resources. The project
emphasizes institutional capacity building at national and local levels. All of these aspects would
improve chances for sustainability. With regard to financial sustainability, it is unlikely that Government
will be able to fully finance the program in the medium term, and realistic to expect that bilateral and
multilateral development agencies will continue to finance HIV/AIDS activities in the country beyond
the period of project implementation.
The overall project risk is substantial. While ownership is reasonably strong, and the CISLS
staffing includes some staff with experience and institutional memory, the unusually multisectoral
characteristics of the program and the very innovative nature of implementation and financing
arrangements, combined with the wide use of multiple actors with little experience of working
effectively together, all would add significantly to the project risks. The draft CAS underlines the fact
that Niger overall is a high risk country. During appraisal, the team discussed and refined with
Government the assessment of critical risks and the search for ways and means to mitigate such risks. It
is clear that project supervision will have to be much more intensive for this project than is the norm, and
that such supervision will have to include substantial technical support. To ensure the success in project
implementation, IDA will have to:
*   Provide adequate resources for supervision which are above the standard supervision coefficients;
*   Conduct supervision with teams that have specialists from various sectors and, in particular, have
specialists in key areas such as financial management, procurement and monitoring and evaluation;
* collaborate closely with internal/external partners and stakeholders. Donors will participate in
-28 -



Annual Reviews of Program performance and programming exercises.
Annex 14 presents a project supervision plan that takes these requirements into account.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating           Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
1. Central, regional and local            M        Participatory development of a comprehensive
governments, line ministries and                   national and local HIV/AIDS strategies and
community leaders may not honor their              action plans as well as access to funds to
commitment to participatory                        implement plans will create demand and
development and to the creation of an              commitment at all levels
enabling environment for local responses
to HIV/AIDS
2. Cultural, religious and other beliefs  S        Decentralized and participatory implementation
may limit the capacity of the country to           will help sustain the political commitment.
scale up action                                    Cultural, religious and opinion leaders will be
involved from the start in the project and
sub-project design, implementation, monitoring
and evaluation
3. Ineffective monitoring and evaluation  S        M&E system will be put in place at the start of
of targeted coverage                               the project to follow progress and for taking
necessary measures to address implementation
issues.
Ineffective IEC programs and poor         M        Clear criteria of selection of sub-projects, in
community involvement in the fight                 particular those related to IEC will be
against HIV/AIDS                                   established at project start up. Documentation
required for sub-projects implemented by
community organizations will be simplified and
standardized and information campaign will be
carried out to sensibilize all segments of the
population.
From Components to Outputs
1. Some decentralized government, civil   S        Documentation will be simplified and
society organizations and community                standardized. Information campaign on the
groups may lack the capacity to design             process will be carried out to sensibilize all
and manage their respective sub-projects.          segments of the population
Capacity building for local government,
community and civil society organizations will
be emphasized during project implementation
Simpler procurement and disbursement
procedures for community-based investments
will be used.
Small grants allocation will permit generalized
learning by doing. Performance based
management will provide mechanisms to
-29 -



minimize risks associated entities with poor
capacities and or intentions.
2. Limited financial management           S        Recruitment of a contractual accountant and
capacity; inadequate procurement                   other aspects of the fiduciary architecture will
capacities; and delays in evaluation and           ensure expediency and good financial
approval of sub-projects may hindered              management and accounting practices.
project implementation and related
disbursements                                      Procurement arrangements are designed around
capacity assessment and are appropriate to the
Niger context.
Decentralization of sub-projects evaluation and
approval process will be the practice
3. Lack of good coordination and          S        Coordination capacity will be strengthened at
collaboration between and within sectors           all levels of the system through capacity
(at all levels) may impact on coherence            building mechanisms where necessary; this will
and harmonization of actions for greater           also be linked to indicators of performance.
outcomes.
Meetings will take place on a regular basis
among entities involved at all levels of the
system
4. Weak implementation capacity at        S        Mitigation measures to be built into the project
national and sub-national levels may               are:
result in fiduciary problems, including            a) performance-based management mechanisms
misuse of funds.                                   for the release of funds assessed by extemal
financial and technical audits;
b) check and balance measures in the
evaluation and approval process of sub-projects
c) outsourcing of civil society component to
experienced Implementing Agencies;
d) random financial and technical audit
(including procurement) of all agencies
involved and mandatory publication of audit
results;
e) financial audits of all large scale
interventions;
f) design of simple financial accounting
mechanisms for communities
g) limit amount allocated and method of
procurement in relation to capacity assessment
of key entities (line ministries, communities,
etc.)
Overall Risk Rating
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
The MAP is an undertaking with substantial risk. For 20 years, AIDS has thrived on denial, stigma,
insufficient capacity and ineffective implementation.
-30 -



3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
*   Adoption of the Project Implementation Manual, which would include a Manual on Administration,
Financial Management and Accounting, satisfactory to IDA.
* Establishment of a financial management system.
* Appointment of an external auditor.
*   Opening of a project account and deposit of 20 million CFA francs, covering the approximate
amount of counterpart obligations, exclusive of taxes, for the first six months of the project.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
H. Readiness for Implementation
l 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
3 1. b) Not applicable.
7 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
G 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
3 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
-31 -



1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1  1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
Denise A. Vaillancourt       2   Alexandre V. Abrantes       j    Antoi    M. Sayeh
Team Leader                 \    Sector Manager/Director     e      Country Manager/Director
-32-



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
NIGER: THE MULTISECTORAL STI/HIV/AIDS SUPPORT PROJECT
Key Performance      Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives       Indicators -                                Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:  Sector Indicators:    Sector/ country reports:  (from Goal to Bank Mission)
-Reduced poverty through  -Incidence of poverty  -Poverty profile       -Increase in donor
improved access to basic  -Human development    - UNDP Human            assistance
social services, including  indicator           Development Reports     - Reliability/ sustainability
primary health care,    - Containment of HIV    -Annual Reviews of PRSP  of financial support for
reproductive health and  prevalence rate        implementation and      PRSP implementation,
HIV/AIDS prevention and                         progress                especially social sectors
mitigation                                      -Poverty studies        -Political and social
- Epidemiological surveys  stability
-Strong and sustained
Government commitment
to social sector
development, in general
and to the HIV/A1DS
multisectoral strategy in
particular
- National capacity to
conceive and implement
requisite sector strategies
Project Development     Outcome I Impact        Project reports:        (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:              Indicators:
- To slow the spread and  - At the end of the project, - Seroprevalence Survey  - Strong national program
mitigate the impact of the  HIV/AIDS prevalence                         able to curb down at risk
HIV/AIDS epidemic in    among adults ( 15 - 49                          sex behaviors in the general
Niger through:          years) has not increased                        population through large
scale, culturally acceptable
IEC activities, and able to
ensure nationwide condom
availability, so that
H1V/AIDS prevalence is
contained at present low
levels.
- At the end of the project,                    - Capacity of the public
HIV/AIDS prevalence                             sector and NGOs to have
among high risk groups                          efficient sensitization IEC
(youth, military, teachers,                     messages directed at high
trucks drivers, prisoners,                      risk groups, to develop
and sex workers) has not                        prevention activities, so
increased.                                      that HIV/AIDS prevalence
among high risk groups is
contained at present
relatively low levels
-33 -



-except for sex workers.
- At the end of the project, - STI Surveillance,  - Strong public health
HIV/AIDS prevalence    Ministry of Health      system able to efficiently
among pregnant women                           sensitize men and women
will not have increased                        to the dangers of at risk sex
behaviors, so that
HIV/AIDS prevalence
among pregnant women is
contained at present
relatively low levels.
- Scaling up, expansion and - At the end of the project, - DHS Surveys  - Preventive activities
improvement of prevention 30 per cent of men and of                   directed to the general
activities              15 per cent of women aged                     population lead to positive
1549 years will have used                      behavior changes and
a condom during their last                     major decrease of at risk
at risk sex act                                sex behaviors in the general
population
- At the end of the project, - DHS Surveys     - Preventive activities
40 per cent of young men                       directed specifically to the
and of 20 per cent of young                    youth lead to positive
women (aged 15-24 years)                       behavior changes and
will have used a condom                        major decrease of at risk
during their last at risk sex                  sex behaviors among young
act                                            people.
- At the end of the project, - STI surveillance  - EEC preventive activities
the prevalence of STIs  Ministry of Health     directed to the general
among pregnant women                           population lead to positive
will be reduced                                behavior changes, and to a
decrease in the prevalence
of STIs among pregnant
women.
Output from each       Output Indicators:      Project reports:       (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
- 1. Public Sector     - A strategic           - Program monitoring   - A fully defined strategic
Responses for HIV/AlDS  communication plan is  report                 communication plan is
Prevention and Care:   finalized by the CISLS                         adopted and the
(a) Multi-sector Response  during the first six months                corresponding critical
(health and non-health  of the project.                               communication activities
sectors)                                                              are launched.
- Line ministries
- Other public agencies
- Decentralized government
(regional, district integrated
action plans)
- Number of IEC activities  - Program monitoring  - Capacity of the public
undertaken during the  report.                 sector to implement the
project, according to the                      various activities contained
strategic communication                        in the strategic
-34 -



plan for the public sector                       communication plan.
component
- (b) Health Sector specific - Voluntary Counseling and - Program monitoring  - Commitment and capacity
Testing services will be  reports                of the concemed NGOs to
available in the eight                           establish Voluntary
regional capitals at the end                     Counseling and Testing
of the second year of the                        services and to carry out the
project                                          corresponding effective
LEC activities
- Safe Blood transfusion  - Ministry of Health   - Capacity of the Ministry
services will be available in Statistics         of Health to deliver
half of the 42 health                           services
districts by the end of the
project
- Number of pregnant    - STI surveillance       - Capacity of the Ministry
women tested HIV positive Ministry of Health     of Health to deliver
in the STI surveillance                         services and availability of
centers receiving a                              drugs and other essential
preventive treatment                             inputs at the service level.
against mother to child
transmission (MTCT) of
HIV
- Number of persons tested - Program monitoring and  - Capacity of the concemed
HIV positive in the     reports                  NGOs to deliver services
Voluntary Counseling and                         and availability of drugs
Testing Centers receiving a                      and other essential inputs at
preventive treatment                             the service level
against opportunistic
infections
-2. Civil Society Response - Voluntary Counseling and - Program monitoring and  - Conmmitment and capacity
Testing services will be  reports                of national, regional and
available in the eight                          local NGOs to establish
regional capitals at the end                     Voluntary Counseling and
of the second year of the                        Testing services and to
project                                          carry out effective LEC
activities.
- Number of PLWHA's     - Program monitoring and  -Sufficient capacity of
associations which have  reports                 concemed NGOs.
developed action plans to
support PLWHAs as well
their families and have
produced a report on their
activities during the past
year
- Number of sub-projects  - Program monitoring and  - CBOs and CSOs capacity
undertaken by CBOs and  reports                 to conceive and implement
CSOs, during the project                         successful sub-projects.
for specific target groups
-35 -



(Youth military teacher
trucks drivers, prisoners,
and sex workers, and
PLWHAs and their
families).
- Number of PLWHAs      - Program monitoring    - CBOs and CSOs capacity
benefiting each year from  reports             to conceive and implement
the sub-projects undertaken                     successful sub-projects.
by the CBOs and CSOs.
- Number of persons     - Program monitoring    - CBOs and CSOs capacity
affected by the impact of  reports             to conceive and implement
the HIV/AIDS epidemic                           successful sub-projects.
benefiting each year from
the sub-projects undertaken
by the CBOs and CSOs.
Number of orphans       Program monitoring     - CBOs and CSOs capacity
benefiting each year from  reports              o conceive and implement
the sub-projects undertaken                     successful sub-projects.
by the CBOs and CSOs.
Number of LEC activities  - Program monitoring and  - Capacity of the
undertaken during the   reports                 organizations operating on
roject, according to the                       behalf of the civil society to
strategic communication                         implement the various
plan for the civil society                      activities contained in the
component                                       strategic communication
Ian
3. Capacity building in  Eight regional workshops  Program monitoring and  Capacity of the Ministry of
research and surveillance,  of about 30 participants  reports (Ministry of Health) Health to organize the
policy formulation, program  ach, will be organized                     workshops and to prepare
management and          during the first two years of                   adequate IEC content and
coordination,           the project for medical and                     support documents, for these
implementation, monitoring  aramedical person- nel of                   workshops.
d evaluation          the districts the most
exposed to the epidemic, to
train them in STIs and
HIV/AIDS LEC, as well as in
counseling HIV infected
ersons in preventing
other to child
transmission.
Eight regional workshops - Program monitoring and  - Capacity of the Ministry of
f about 20 to 30        reports (Ministry of Health) Health to organize the
participants each, will be                      workshops and to prepare
)rganized during the first                      adequate LEC content and
two years of the project for                    support documents, taking
ditional healers of the                        nto consideration cultural,
districts the most exposed to                    eligious and other beliefs.
the epidemic, to train them
n STIs and HIV/AIDS LEC,
-36 -



as well as in care and
counseling to HIV infected
persons.
- Eight regional workshops - Program monitoring and - Capacity of the Ministry
of about 20 to 30        eports (Ministry of   of Health to organize the
participants each, will be  Health)            workshops and to prepare
organized during the first                     adequate IEC content and
two years of the project for                   support documents, taking
traditional matrons of the                     into consideration cultural,
istricts the more exposed to                   eligious and other beliefs.
the epidemic, to train them
in STIs and H1V/AIDS EEC,
as well as in counseling HIV
infected persons in
reventing the mother to
child transmission and in
care and counseling to HIV
infected persons.
- the CISLS makes a                             Capacity of the CISLS to
medium-term plan of    - Program monitoring and elabomrte rapidly a
/JS prevention and  reports (CISLS)        opeesv        eim
care before end-June 2003.                     term plan of HIV/AIDS
prevention and care
Every year, the CISLS                         - Ability / Capacity of the
develops a specific action  - Program monitoring and CISLS to produce in a
plan, consistent with the  orts (CISLS)        timely manner annual
medium-term plan of                             specific action plans,
H1V/AIDS prevention and                        consistent with the
care, containing various                         edium term plan of
priority preventive activities                 HIuAIDS prevention and
and other activities aimed at                   cAr   D treportion its
supporting PLWHAs and                           care, and to report on ItS
their families, and have                        activities.
roduced a report on its
activities during the past
year.
- Number of action plans
developed by the Ministries, Program monitoring and - Ability / Capacity of the
consistent with the    reports.(variousconcemed various Ministries to
medium-term plan of      eports (various concerned roduce in a timely
HIV/AIDS prevention and  Ministries)             anner annual specific
care, containing various                        action plans, consistent
riority preventive activities                    ion the mediuterm
d other activities aimed at                    lan of HiVmAtDS
supporting PLWHAs and
eir families, and number                      prevention and care, and
f activities reports                          to report on their
roduced by the Ministries                      activities.
-37 -



on their past year activities
- Every year, the 8 Regional
Conmittees develop specific roram   toRinan
action plans, consistent with Committees)  8     Ability / Capacity of the 8
the medium- term plan of                       Regional Committees to
HIV/AIDS prevention and                        timely produce annual
care, containing various                       specific action plans,
pnonty preventive activities,                   onsistent with the medium
and other activities aimed at                  term plan of HIV/AIDS
supporting PLWHAs and                          prevention and care, and to
their families, and produce                    report on their activities.
a report on their activities
during the past year.
Project Components /    Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:     (from Components to
Sub-components:         component)                                     Outputs)
- 1. Public Sector      - US$12.75 Million     - Reports to NAS        - Line Ministries will
Responses for Prevention,                      consolidated for the NAC meet to develop policies
Care and Mitigation                            and the Bank            and adopt strategies
- Health information    based on mutual
report                  agreement with CNLS
- Reports to the NAS
- 2. Civil Society Response - US$ 8.0 Million
and Community-Based
Initiatives for Prevention,
Care and Mitigation
- 3. Capacity Building in  - US$ 3.65 Million  - Project Supervision and  - Intensive World Bank
research and surveillance,                     activity reports        implementation support, as
policy formulation,                                                    well as regular monitoring
program and management                                                 and supervision activities
and coordination,                                                      carried out by the World
implementation, monitoring                                             Bank Niamey Office and
and evaluation.                                                        the HQ Staff.
- 4. Project Coordination  - US$ 2.50 Million  Annual Reviews and
and Facilitation                               regular project reporting;
technical and financial
audits; mid-term review
-38 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
NIGER: THE MULTISECTORAL STIIHIV/AIDS SUPPORT PROJECT
Strategic Orientations. The project will support Niger in its efforts to operationalize and
implement the four strategic orientations of its recently adopted Strategic Framework for the fight against
HIV/AIDS: (a) the scaling up, expansion and improvement of prevention activities in an effort to lower
the risks of transmission; (b) the scaling up of the treatment and care of PLWHA; (c) the scaling up of
activities to mitigate the impoverishing effects of HIV/AIDS on households and communities; and (d) the
strengthening of national capacity to formulate, manage, implement, monitor and evaluate a viable,
cost-effective, multisectoral HIV/AIDS program.  The main elements of each of these strategic
orientations are described irnmediately below, followed immediately by a presentation of the project
components and how they would support the articulation and implementation of multiple action plans
conceived along the lines of these orientations.
Prevention. Highest priority is accorded to prevention activities as these are recognized as being
the most urgent as well as the most cost-effective interventions for Niger, given the epidemiology of the
pandemic (very low levels of prevalence, and concentration of prevalence in particular populations), as
well as Niger's financial constraints. Under the prevention rubric, the critical interventions envisaged by
Niger include efforts to create and intensify understanding and commitment on the part of high-level
government officials, opinion leaders and decision-makers, and to create an overall enabling
environment, including an improved legal framework, for arresting the spread of HIV/AIDS. Targeted
interventions in favor of enhanced prevention include: communications for behavior change, with
messages especially tailored to reach effectively the various at-risk groups; the expansion and promotion
of voluntary counseling and testing services; the regular supply and promotion of condoms; improved
safety in the work place/protective material/protocols and training for health workers; safety of blood
supply; reduction of mother-to-child transmission (MTCT); intensification/improvement of screening and
early treatment of sexually transmitted infections (STIs). Reproductive health care will be an important
venue for prevention activities within the health system.
Treatment and Care. The National Strategy recognizes that an effective treatment and care
program can contribute to intensified and more effective prevention. Under this strategic orientation,
efforts are envisaged to improve and fully integrate into all levels of the existing health service delivery
system viable, quality care and counseling for STIs, HIV/AIDS. Treatment of opportunistic infections
affecting victims of HIV/AIDS is also envisaged to be extended through ambulatory care. A strategy for
voluntary and confidential testing and counseling and for improving access to anti-retroviral drug therapy
would also be developed. Support to the TB program would be one of a number of ways to identify and
treat PLWHA , as well as to prevent further transmission of HIV. Care and counseling would be
integrated into all programs and services through the adoption/promotion of the syndrome approach in
the care and counseling of people living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA); and the provision of services to
prevent and treat opportunistic infections would also be developed and expanded. Revision of the basic
training curricula in schools of public health and in the faculty of medicine would underpin and sustain
such improvements in treatment and care. In recognition of the important role of traditional practitioners,
this strategy also envisages their full implication in the fight against STIs/HIV/AIDS.
Mitigation. In an effort to reduce the impact of HIV/AIDS on PLWHA and their affected
families and communities, this strategic orientation envisages efforts to offer personalized,
community-based counseling services to those afflicted and affected. Outreach is envisaged to extend
right into the household, encompassing both care and treatment, as well as material/monetary support and
spiritual support. Promotion of the fuller implication of the non-governmental sector in the provision of
- 39 -



socioeconomic support will be another important element of this strategic orientation. Government also
intends to build the capacity of civil society to take on a lead role in the care of PLWHA, and of orphans,
widows and other family members affected by HIV/AIDS. Efforts will also be undertaken to reduce the
vulnerability of individuals, families and communities affected by the disease, including: the protection
of workers' rights and the protection from discrimination of those afflicted or affected; and the
integration of HIV/AIDS issues and measures into all sector development programs.
Capacity Building for Program Facilitation and Implementation. Under this strategic
orientation, national capacity will be built for effective program management, monitoring and evaluation
and implementation.  This would include the fine-tuning and strengthening of institutions and
organizations of multiple actors contributing to program coordination and implementation, as well as the
mobilization of new national partners to expand and deepen Niger's overall capacity to respond to the
challenge. An emphasis is placed on the importance of understanding and monitoring the dynamics of
the disease and its spread, as well as the underlying determinants of the spread of the disease and the
effectiveness/ impact of program interventions in this light. Strengthening of the surveillance of
STIs/HIV/AIDS and of underlying behaviors (second generation surveillance) and the monitoring of
innovative activities are thus given great importance, as is the strengthening of capacity to target high
priority/high risk groups.
Project Components. Support to the implementation of these strategic orientations will be
delivered through the following four project components: (a) Public Sector Responses for Prevention,
Care and Mitigation; (b) Civil Society Response and Community-Based Initiatives for Prevention, Care
and Mitigation; (c) Capacity Building; and (d) Project Coordination and Facilitation. A description of
each component follows:
By Component:
Project Component I - US$12.75 million
(1) Public Sector Responses for Prevention, Care and Mitigation: This component will finance
the work plans of multiple line Ministries and other public sector agencies in line with their roles and
comparative advantages. Several Ministries are already in the process of developing detailed work plans
and budgets and will be eligible for support under the project as of the first year, with the possibility
open for implementation of key work programs prior to project effectiveness through a PPF. The
strategic framework exercise includes a matrix outlining the potential roles, domains and comparative
advantages of public sector actors. Work plans would aim at: the strengthening/development of a more
proactive engagement among civil servants to fight against HIV/AIDS; a change in risky behavior;
improved environment for collaboration and a multi-sectoral approach; the development and delivery of
essential HIV/AEDS information and services. This component is subdivided into health and non-health
sector activities as follows:
(a) Health Sector Response: A strong health system is a foundation for success in the fight
against HIV/AIDS. Within the public sector, the health system bears primary responsibility for care
and treatment, plays a pivotal role in many preventive activities, and endures significant impact on its
staff and operations.  Niger's strategic framework recognizes the special responsibilities of the
Ministry of Health for HIV/AIDS, STI and other opportunistic infections prevention and
management. The TB program will also deserve special attention and emphasis because it is a
particularly effective way in which the health sector can contribute to the HIV/AJDS program. In
addition, in Niger, where basic mother and child health indicators are among the worst in the world,
the HIV/AIDS activities will need to be provided in the context of a strengthened minimum package
of services (including reproductive health services) for the improvement and protection of maternal
-40 -



and child health. During appraisal and negotiations, the mission reviewed a draft 3-year plan for the
health sector's contribution to the fight against HVI/AIDS, with the first year in considerable detail,
including: baseline data, objectives, targets, perfornance indicators and cost estimates. The project
implementation plan covering the first year of implementation has been finalized. Among the critical
activities to be included in the work plan and supported under the map are:
* scaling up of the national sentinel surveillance system, setting standards of care, voluntary
counseling and testing (VCT) protocols, as well as a significant role in carrying out VCT activities
and follow-up;
* implementation of syndromic STI care;
* carrying out an aggressive TB program;
scaling-up of the national blood screening and supply program;
*  strengthening of the basic reproductive health and referral services for dealing with HIV/AIDS,
STIs and other opportunistic infections;
* scaling up of activities for HIV vulnerable groups in collaboration with other partners;
* technical support and supervision of community-based care;
* services to prevent mother-to-child transmission (MTCT) including counseling on breast-feeding,
family planning, care for HIV positive pregnant women and children;
* implementation of a medical waste plan, including training;
* health related research and surveys that enhance health sector response.
(b) Non-Health Sector Response. Public service agencies other than Ministry of Health are
important instruments for carrying out a wide range of preventive and mitigation activities, aimed
both at the staff of these entities, as well as their clients. The MAP will support three principle
activities: (i) provision' to public sector staff and their families of HIV/AIDS and STI education,
training, condoms, and other support; (ii) enhancement of the agencies' capacity to provide clients
and audiences with the means to provide effective prevention and ways to access health care; and
(iii) sector planning to prepare for, and mitigate, the impact of AIDS on the sector. Annual work
plans and budgets will be prepared by public sector agencies in line with guidelines and prototypes
already identified in the draft Implementation Manual, and agencies will also have access to
supplemental support through the capacity building component. Work plans will be reviewed and
supported as and when they become available throughout the life of the project. Ministries of
Transport and Education are already well advanced in the design and implementation of HIV/AIDS
work programs. Ministry of Social Development is preparing one currently with support under the
Japanese Grant. This funding source is also supporting exchanges between Niger's Ministry of
Defense and that of Burkina Faso, whose organization and achievements could facilitate those of the
nascent program in Niger's Ministry of Defense. The rural development sector has benefited from
studies and pilot activities initiated as a part of the preparation of the Community Assistance
Program operation and is thus well placed to benefit from the MAP support.
Project Component 2 - US$8.00 million
(2) Civil Society Response and Community-Based Initiatives for Prevention, Care and
Mitigation: Under this component, the project will support the intensification of prevention, care and
social support to meet the needs of specific target groups, PLWHA and their families. It will ensure the
continuity and expansion of successful HIV/AIDS mitigation activities adapted to local conditions and
managed by grassroots organizations and communities.  This component will also promote and
encourage HIV/AIDS initiatives of private sector enterprises aimed at developing and implementing
prevention, care and support strategies designed for their employees and their families. Thanks to the
assistance of the Japanese PHRD Grant, considerable work has already been undertaken to inventory,
categorize and assess the capacity of the myriad NGOs currently contributing to the fight against
HIV/AIDS, as well as those with the potential and interest to do so.
-41 -



The management of this component (both technical coordination and financial management) will
be contracted out to one or a few Implementing Agencies, which are well established and already located
and working in all of Niger's regions. Agencies could include a mix of well-established international
NGOs as well as UN agencies such as UNICEF, UNFPA and UNDP. Selection of the Implementing
Agencies will be on a competitive basis, to be evaluated on the basis of both price and technical quality
of the bid. Direct contracting with UJN agencies could be permitted in cases where they fulfill all criteria
specified in the guidelines. The Implementing Agencies for this component will mobilize and procure
the support necessary so that the multiple actors at the local level, eligible to access subproject funds,
will be in a position to: (i) submit and implement priority activities in line with their specialization; (ii)
develop relevant services itemized in the Strategic Framework; and (iii) deliver such services to target
populations. Funds will be channeled directly through grants to associations, religious organizations and
communities, private enterprises, NGOs and community-based organizations to cover a wide range of
activities, including: (i) prevention and sensitization activities targeted at communities as well as
specific groups at high risk and aimed at building awareness, reducing the stigma associated with
HIV/AIDS and the adoption of safer behavior (community-based IEC, promotion of the use of condoms
at the community level...); (ii) provision of home and community-based care for AIDS patients; and (iii)
social support to PLWHA, orphaned children, and households affected by HIV/AIDS, through income
generation activities and support to local caregivers.  Draft TOR for the subcontracting of the
coordination and facilitation of this component are included in Annex 11. ' A short-list of qualified
agencies, satisfactory to IDA, has been established.
Project Component 3 - US$ 3.65 million
(3) Capacity Building: This component will support HIV/AIDS-related capacity building for
the various implementers of the project. It will support training and other capacity-building activities
that are necessary for the public sector and civil society agencies to be able to effectively and efficiently
implement HIV/AIDS prevention, care, and support activities in the country. For instance, administrative
and financial management capacities of civil society organizations as well as their technical capabilities
can benefit from this component. Decentralized levels of government and line Ministries and other
public sector agencies may use the funding of this component to address specifically areas needing
strengthening within respective levels of Government and sectoral programs. Similarly, the various
entities of the institutional/organizational framework for HIV/AIDS in Niger, responsibility for Program
coordination and facilitation, and strategic management will need significant capacity building which this
component would support. Under this component technical assistance will also be provided to the
government on monitoring and evaluation and on the refinement/implementation of a national
communications strategy.
Project Component 4 - US$2.50 million
(4) Project Coordination and Facilitation: The CISLS, being responsible for overall Program
admninistration, coordination and facilitation, will assume responsibility for the facilitation of the MAP.
During appraisal, the capacity of the newly established staff of the CISLS was assessed and agreement
was reached to strengthen and supplement its capacity so as to ensure sound facilitation of the MAP
within this framework in full respect of the Bank's exigencies. The recruitment of the following
contractual staff has been completed: internal controller, procurement specialist and chief accountant.
The project will also recruit eight accountant administrators for the eight regional coordination offices
and technical assistance to advise and support the CISLS in the launch of the program and in its
implementation during the first year of operations. As noted above, outsourced coordination of the Civil
Society component will be specifically funded under this component. The project will finance the
operating costs (net of civil service salaries) of the CISLS and supplemental contractual staff and the
costs of contracting out deemed necessary to backstop and strengthen the capacity and efficiency of this
-42 -



new entity as well as to fulfill all Bank requirements for project management. The CISLS will facilitate
and coordinate project execution, while the implementation of project activities will be the responsibility
of line ministries, other public sector agencies, civil society organizations, decentralized levels of
Government and commnunities. An organigramme of Program/project coordination is attached in Annex
11. TOR for suggested contractual staffis also shown in Annex 11.
-43 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
NIGER: THE MULTISECTORAL STI/HIV/AIDS SUPPORT PROJECT
Local       Foreign        Tobtal
Project Cost By Component                US $million  US $million   US $million
Public Sector Response                                     6.50         5.50         12.00
Civil Society Response                                     6.00         2.00          8.00
Capacity Building                                          2.00         1.00          3.00
Project Coordination & Facilitation                        1.67         0.14          1.81
PPF                                                        0.21         0.36          0.57
Total Baseline Cost                                       16.38         9.00         25.38
Physical Contingencies                                    0.85         0.35          1.20
Price Contingencies                                       0.60         0.32          0.92
Total Project Costs              17.83         9.67         27.50
Total Financing Required              17.83         9.67         27.50
Local        Foreign       Total
Project Cost By Category                US $million  US $million   US $million
Civil Works                                                 0.32           0.03         0.35
Equipment                                                   0.37           2.25         2.62
Drugs                                                       0.52           2.74         3.26
Training                                                     2.45          0.60         3.05
Consultant Services                                         2.00           0.53         2.53
Work Program Agreements                                     3.40           0.10         3.50
Community sub-projects                                      6.00           2.00         8.00
Operating costs                                              1.11          0.39         1.50
PPF                                                         0.21           0.36         0.57
Contingencies                                                1.45          0.67         2.12
Total Project Costs      17.83          9.67        27.50
Total Financing Required     17.83           9.67        27.50
Identifiable taxes and duties areO (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 27.5 (USSm). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 0 of
total project cost net of taxes.
-44 -



Annex 4 Economic Analysis
NIGER: THE MULTISECTORAL STI/HIV/AIDS SUPPORT PROJECT
The Economic Analysis of HIV/AIDS contained in the Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program for
the Africa Region (MAP) Project Appraisal Document (Report No. 20727 AFR, Annex 5) and the
Second Multi-Country H1V/A1DS Program (MAP2) (APL) for the Africa Region (Report No. P7497
AFR), provides the economic justification for the Niger HIV/AIDS Prevention and Care Project. As
it indicates, H1V/AIDS undermines the three major determinants of economic growth, namely:
physical, human, and social capital. Due to its long incubation period (7-10 years), the impact of the
HIV/AIDS epidemic is likely to be drawn over time with the rate of growth of physical and human
capital and the efficiency of social capital declining slowly in parallel with the maturing of the
HIV/AIDS epidemic. Over time, the behavior of GDP would reflect a similar downward reduction of
the rate of growth (or increased rate of contraction), rather than a sudden fall in GDP per capita.
With its weak economic performance, limited institutional capacity, and incomplete data, and
given what is known in neighboring countries and countries in similar circumstances, Niger
represents the classic case of a country in which the rapid spread of the virus is highly likely in the
absence of interventions the like of this project. Poverty, political insecurity, migrant populations,
change of social norns, high levels of sexually transmitted infections and opportunistic infections,
inequities, gender inequality, limited coverage of the health system are all factors in the transmission
of the disease. Once HIV levels reach around 5%, the infection spreads exponentially with the
potential for the prevalence rate to increase by 50% every year. If left unchecked, the epidemic will
prevent an increasing share of the population from participating in the economy, resulting in
reduction of economic growth and an increase in poverty, thereby accelerating a vicious cycle.
The appraisal mission carefully reviewed proposed interventions in light of their cost
effectiveness, especially given the results of the nationwide prevalence survey, which shows a lower
prevalence than originally estimated and thus calls for stronger emphasis on prevention and targetting
of high risk groups. In addition, action plans prepared by multiple actors, encompassing public and
private sectors and civil society and communities, will be assessed in light of cost-effectiveness and
targeting criteria, among others.
-45 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
NIGER: THE MULTISECTORAL STIIHIV/AIDS SUPPORT PROJECT
Years Ending
IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD           :7-
Ytar a       Year 2 PYear 3 3    Year 4 6   Year 5   Year6     Year 7
Total Finaning Required
Project Costs 
Investment Costs          3.5       5.1       6.1       5.5       5.1       0.0       0.0
RecurrentCosts            0.4        0.4       0.5       0.5       0.4       0.0      0.0
Total Project Costs         3.9       5.5       6.6       6.0       5.5       0.0       0.0
Total Financing             3.9       5.5       6.6       6.0       5.5       0.0       0.0
Financing* 
IBRD/IDA,                 3.5       5.0       6.0       5.5       5.0      0.0       0.0
Govemment                 0.4       0.5       0.6       0.5       0.5      0.0        0.0
Central               0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Provincial            0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Co-financiers             0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries     0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Other                       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing    3.9       5.5       6.6       6.0       5.5       0.0       0.0
Main assumptions:
-46 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
NIGER: THE MULTISECTORAL STI/HIV/AIDS SUPPORT PROJECT
Procurement
General
1.     A Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) for Niger was carried out in 1998, which found that
in general national procedures for the procurement of works, goods and services are acceptable to IDA subject to
a few amendments. So far the findings of the CPAR remain valid. A new procurement code has. recently been
adopted with the assistance of the Bank (IDF Grant) and will be implemented in 2003. No special exceptions,
permits, or licenses need to be specified in the Credit documents for International Competitive Bidding (ICB),
since Niger's procurement practices allow IDA procedures to take precedence over any contrary provisions in
local regulations. National Competitive Bidding (NCB), advertised locally, will be carried out in accordance with
Niger's procurement laws and regulations acceptable to IDA, provided that they assure economy, efficiency,
transparency, and broad consistency with key objectives of the Bank Guidelines.
2.     Under NCB, the procedures should ensure that: (i) methods used in evaluation of bids and the award of
contracts are made known to all bidders and not be applied arbitrarily; (ii) any bidder is given adequate response
time (four weeks) for preparation and submission of bids; (iii) bid evaluation and bidder qualification are clearly
specified in bidding documents; (iv) no preference margin is granted to domestic manufacturers; (v) eligible
firms are not precluded from participation; (vi) award will be made to the lowest evaluated bidder in accordance
with predetermined and transparent methods; (vii) bid evaluation reports will clearly state the reasons to reject
any non-responsive bid. Prior to issuing the first call for bids, draft standard bidding documents will be included
in the the Administrative, Financial and Accounting Manual to be adopted as a condition of effectiveness. The
Manual will serve as a practical guide describing procedures agreed upon in the Grant Agreement. It will include:
(i) procedures for calling for bids, selecting consultants, and awarding contracts; (ii) internal organization for
supervision and control, including operational guidelines defining the role of the executing agency and reporting
requirements and, (iii) disbursement procedures.
Guidelines
3.     All civil works and goods financed by IDA shall-be procured in accordance with Bank's Guidelines:
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995 revised in January and August 1996, September
1997 and January 1999) (The Guidelines). The Bank Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) and Standard
Evaluation Report will be used for ICB. National Competitive Bidding (NCB) will be carried out using the
Bank's SBD with appropriate modifications in relation to provisions relating to "advertising and notification",
"currencies of bid and payment", "settlement of disputes", and deletion of the domestic preference provision, etc.
4.     Consultant services contracts financed by IDA credit will be procured in accordance with Bank's
Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997 revised in
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002). The Bank's Standard Request for Proposals and model form for
the evaluation of consultant's proposals will be used for appointment of Consultants. Simplified contracts will be
used for short-term assignmnents - simple mission of standard nature (i.e., those not exceeding six months) -
carried out by individual consultants or firms.
5.     Small works, goods and services for commnunity sub-projects shall be governed in accordance with
paragraph 3.15 of the Guidelines (Community Participation in Procurement) and with the Bank's Guidelines for
Simplified Procurement and Disbursement for Community-Based Investments (February 1998).  These
-47 -



procedures will be described in the Project Implementation Manual to be adopted as a condition of effectivenes.
6.     During negotiations, the Government reviewed and agreed with IDA on standard bidding documents to
be used under NCB procedures for goods and works. The Government also gave assurance that it will: (i) use the
Project Implementation Manual and the Administrative, Financial and Accounting Manual; (ii) use the Bank's
Standard Bidding Documents for ICB, the Standard Request for Proposals for the selection of consultants, and
the Standard Bid Evaluation Reports; (iii) apply the procurement procedures and arrangements outlined below;
(iv) update the procurement plan on a regular basis during annual reviews with IDA and other donors, to compare
target times and actual completion, and transmit it to IDA, during implementation, with all procurement-related
documents; and (v) carry out, during annual reviews, an assessment of the effectiveness of bidding procedures
and performance, as they relate to the project's procurement experience, and propose for IDA and other donors'
consideration any modification to the current procedures to the extent that it would accelerate procurement, while
still maintaining compliance with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines and adequate control over contract awards
and payments.
Advertising
7.     A General Procurement Notice (GPN) has been published in the United Nations Development Business
and in a national newspaper to advertise for International Competitive Bidding (ICB) and major consulting
assignments. Publication of a GPN in the national press is also required for NCB. The GPN will be updated on a
yearly basis and will show all outstanding ICB for goods contracts and all International Consulting Services.
Specific Procurement Notices for goods to be procured under ICB and Expressions of Interest for consultant
services estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 and above will also be published in the Development
Business as well as in the national press.
Procurement Capacity Assessment
8.    A formal procurement capacity assessment of the Intersectoral Coordination Committee (Coordination
Intersectorielle de Lutte contre les IST- VIHISIDA, (CISLS), and of the Financial Administrative Affairs
Directorates of key technical ministries (Direction des Affaires Administratives et Financieres, DAAF) was
carried out during appraisal in accordance with the Revised Instruction for Carrying out Assessment of Agency's
Capacity Assessment to implement Procurement from Procurement Policy and Services Group (OPCPR) dated
July 15, 2002. The assessment, available in the project files, outlines the main issues and recommendations.
Based on these recommendations, an action plan has been prepared and agreed upon with the Borrower and focus
on: (a) for the CISLS: (i) establishing procurement capacity through the recruitment of a procurement specialist,
adequate training and guidance from IDA and external technical audits specific to procurement (models of terms
of reference for the procurement specialist and technical auditors have been shared with the Borrower during
appraisal); (ii) logistics support for proper filing of procurement documentation; (b) for line ministries: (i)
training of key staff currently responsible for procurement under national budget on shopping and filing
procedures according to the Bank's guidelines and good filing practices; (ii) provision of key support materials
(i.e., computer, filing supplies) where needed and if there is no other source of funding (i.e., IDA ongoing
operations); (iii) annual external technical audits specific to procurement and of pedagogical nature.
9.     An action plan will also be developed and agreed upon for decentralized structures responsible for
activities undertaken at the regional level, including community-based sub-projects. The strengthening measures
could include: (i) the hiring of additional project procurement specialists for the regional coordination units
(CCRs), (ii) training sessions in procurement, contract management, and filing system as necessary, (iii) a
procurement planning and contract management system integrated in the computerized Financial management
system to be installed at the central CISLS. A detailed chapter on procurement in the Administrative, Financial
-48 -



and Accounting Manual will be prepared and finalized before effectiveness.
10.   Procurement will be coordinated by the CISLS and the CCRs and will include procurement specialists
who could be supported by consultants as necessary to carry out specific tasks. The recruitment of key positions
in the CISLS and the CCRs should be completed and acceptable to IDA prior to RVP's Approval.
11.   For community sub-projects, the communities, through their representative committees and recruited
intermediaries (NGOs/Associations), will be responsible for the procurement process using simplified
procurement procedures as described in the Project Implementation Manual. Sub-project proposals from
communities will indicate how procurement will be organized including any support that will be necessary from
the regions through the CCRs and International NGOs responsible for the coordination of sub-projects
implementation.
12.   In order to ensure that participating agencies (line ministries, regions, communities) are familiar with
Bank procurement guidelines in general and the procurement procedures of this project in particular, the CISLS
with the assistance of IDA, will provide a series of workshops, with the first workshop being organized prior to
effectiveness. The subsequent workshops will be organized so as to coincide with IDA supervision missions
when the Procurement Specialist will conduct the workshops as part of the supervision mission. The costs of
these workshops will be included in the project. These workshops will also act as forums to review procurement
problems experienced during project implementation with a view to identify measures that will address these
problems. The CISLS as well as annual external technical audits will also play a critical role in providing
assistance to line ministries and other participating agencies in carrying out their activities in accordance with the
Project Implementation Manual.
Procurement Planning
13.   Draft procurement plans have been prepared during appraisal for all procurement to be carried out at the
national level for the first year activities. The final plans were finalized during negotiations. The exact mix of
procurement will be determined on an annual basis during the annual joint reviews between the CISLS, line
ministries, IDA, and other partners, where a draft procurement plan for the following financial year will be
presented and agreed upon. The detailed procurement plans for subsequent years will be developed and
submitted to IDA for review and approval. The plan will include relevant information on goods and consulting
services under the project as well as the timing of each milestone in the procurement process. These plans will
be reviewed by IDA supervision missions and by the external technical audits. This being a multi-sector project,
the respective annual plans will also need to be closely coordinated with other operations in the various sectors
such as the Basic Education Program (recently appraised) and the Community Action Program (recently
negotiated). To this end, one of the key responsibility of the focal point for the fight against HIV/AIDS named in
each of the line ministry will be to ensure that risks of overlapping and uncoordinated efforts are minimized as
much as possible by keeping track of activities financed under ongoing IDA operations and or other sources of
financing in the area of HIV/AIDS.
Procurement Implementation Arrangements
14.   The overall coordination of the program implementation will be carried out by the CISLS, with each line
ministry, CCRs, and community responsible for implementation of their relevant work programs or sub-projects.
Procurement will be done at three levels: national (CISLS, line ministries), regional (CCRs), and community. The
procurement implementation arrangements are as described below.
15.   At the national level, the CISLS will be responsible for procuring all the large ticket items under ICB and
NCB procedures and all consulting services. Procurement by the line ministries and CCRs will be limited to
-49-



expenditures in support of their respective approved work program at an estimated cost of less than 15 million
CFA Francs per contract (EEC materials, workshops, training, and operations). Procurement for community
sub-projects will be carried out by the communities themselves with the assistance of an intermediary
(NGOs/Associations) and may include: minor repair works, purchase of drugs and supplies in small quantities,
care and support for AIDS patients and orphans, AIDS prevention activities. Assessment and approval of
community sub-projects will be based on applications received from the respective committees and communities
against a standard menu of activities. The implementation of sub-projects will be contracting out to International
NGOs following a competitive process. The Project Implementation Manual will include a chapter specific to
sub-project procedures.
Procurement Methods
Works
16.   There will not be any major civil works contract under the project. There will be only very small works
to be carried out at the central level for small rehabilitation, estimated at $10,000 per contract. Because they are
geographically dispersed, they will not lend themselves to grouping and therefore will not attract foreign bidders.
Therefore, works estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $0.3
million will be procured under lump-sum. fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from
three qualified domestic contractors invited in writing to bid. The invitation shall, among other things, include a
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, relevant drawings and bill of quantities where
applicable, the required completion date and a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank. A sufficient bid
submission period will be allowed and bids will be opened in public. The award will be made to the lowest
evaluated responsive bidder who has appropriate experience and resources to successfully complete the contract.
Before the first two bidding packages are solicited, the draft solicitation letters and other relevant documents to
be used will be reviewed and cleared by the Bank. With regard to community-based sub-project, given their size,
amount and demand-driven nature, these contracts will be govemed when applicable by the Guidelines for
Simplified Procurement and Disbursement for Community-Based Investments (February 1998) and the Project
Implementation Manual (P1M).
Goods
17.   The total cost of goods including drugs is estimated at US$2.7 million equivalent for the project, not
including contracts for goods under the community sub-projects. The items will include: office funiture and
materials, audio-visual and laboratory equipment; vehicles; pharmaceutical products (e.g. reagents), condoms;
diagnostic kits; pharmaceuticals for the clinical management of HIV/AIDS and opportunistic infections,
including TB; LEC materials, and other project related supplies. Procurement of goods will be bulked where
feasible into packages valued at US$100,000 equivalent or more per package and will be procured through ICB.
Preference for domestically manufactured goods will apply in accordance with the World Bank Guidelines.
a) Goods estimated to cost less than US$100,000 up to an aggregate amount of US$1 million equivalent will be
procured through national competitive bidding (NCB). The Bank's standard bidding document for the
procurement of goods suitably modified will be submitted to IDA by the CISLS for prior review. The approved
document will form the basis of all national competitive bidding procurements under this project.
(b) Goods that are estimated to cost less than US$20,000 equivalent per contract may be procured by line
ministries and CCRs (as part of approved work program agreements, and up to an aggregate of $0.5 million
equivalent) through National Shopping procedures. In the case when a contract for goods costs the equivalent or
more than $30,000, the CISLS will carry out such procurement on behalf of these entities. The CISLS may
procure goods to cost less than US$30,000 per contract through National Shopping procedures (for goods
-50-



available locally) and/or through International Shopping procedures (for those goods not available on the
national market) up to an aggregate of US$0.5 million equivalent,ih accordance to Bank Guidelines. Other
equipment, vehicles, drugs, reagents and medical supplies estimated to cost less than US$200,000 can be
procured from the United Nations Agencies (IAPSO, UNICEF, UNFPA, WHO), up to an aggregate of US$2.0
million equivalent, in accordance with the Bank Guidelines. The Borrower will award the contract, on the basis
of written solicitation issued to at least three qualified suppliers, following evaluation of bids received in writing
from such qualified suppliers. The award will be made to the supplier with the lowest price quotation for the
required goods, provided he/she still has the experience and resources to execute the contract successfully.
(c) Annual line ministries work program agreements will be limited to a maximum of $100,000, with the
exception of the Ministry of Health ($300,000). All line ministries work program agreements will be subject to
prior review by IDA. Line ministries will follow Bank standard procurement procedures for implementation of
their annual work program agreements. Procurement of goods for line ministries is expected to be small and to
include equipment and supplies easily available in the local market through local shopping. For the larger line
ministries work programs, should procurement of goods exceed $30,000, NCB procedures will be followed and
managed by CISLS.
(d) Procurement of reagents for HIV/AIDS considered as proprietary items costing less than US$50,000
equivalent per contract up to an aggregate of US$0.3 million equivalent, may be procured directly from
manufacturers and authorized local distributors in view of the requirements of existing laboratory/testing
equipment.
(e) The procedures followed and the total aggregate amount for all shopping methods under the project will be
reviewed after six months of project implementation. Depending on performance and the results of the review,
the total aggregate amount may be adjusted where necessary. Standard request forms and establishment of
guidelines for conducting the shopping methods were discussed during negotiations as per the Bank's
memorandum of June 8, 2000 on "Guidance Procurement Note on Handling Procurement under Shopping
Method" and will be included in the project Implementation Manual.
18.  Grants for community sub-projects. The project will finance community sub-projects related to HIV/AIDS
activities (total is estimated at $8 million equivalent), such as IEC-related activities and materials, minor repairs
or works, purchase of generic drugs, care and support for AIDS patients and orphans, awareness campaigns,
income generating activities for persons living with HIV/AIDS and their dependents. Funding for these activities
will be in the form of grants. Communities will be required to contribute 5 percent of the total budget in kind or
in cash.
19.  Financing will depend on applications received from communities and NGOs and private organizations
against a positive list of activities. It is not possible to detennine the exact mix of goods, small works, and
services to be procured under these activities due to their demand-driven nature. Therefore, the types of activities
to be financed and their procurement details will depend on the needs identified by the communities.
Procurement of items for the implementation of sub-projects will be carried out in accordance with simplified
procurement procedures referred to in Section 3.15 of the Guidelines and in accordance with the Project
Implementation Manual. The manual will contain a special chapter describing the procedures and tools in
accordance with those found in the Bank's Guidelines for Simplified Procurement and Disbursement for
Community-Based Investments (February 1998). The CISLS will be responsible for ensuring compliance with
these guidelines. Ex-post reviews of random sub-projects will be conducted periodically by the Bank and
independent technical audits.
-51 -



20.    Aggregate amounts are limitative; therefore, the CISLS responsible for procurement will maintain a
tracking system to ensure that they are not exceeding the specified amounts, and that IDA is advised in a timely
fashion when it is likely to happen.
Consulting Services, Studies, and Training
21.    The consultant services, studies and training financed by IDA will be for the following types of activities:
studies and surveys related to the monitoring and evaluation activities, trainers, community development
specialists, public relations firms (IEC campaigns), procurement, financial management, monitoring and
evaluation, audit, and accounting specialists. The CISLS will ensure that procurement notices are widely
publicized to get candidacies from consultants (firms and individuals). Based on agreed upon criteria, the CISLS
will maintain and update a list of consultants which will be used to establish short-lists. The following selection
procedures will be used:
(a) Qualitv-and-Cost-based Selection: All consulting service contracts for firms will be awarded through Quality
and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) method. To ensure that priority is given to the identification of suitable and
qualified national consultants, short-lists for contracts estimated at or less than US$100,000 equivalent may be
comprised entirely of national consultants (in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2,7 of the Consultant
Guidelines), provided that a sufficient number of qualified individual or firms (at least three) are available.
However, if foreign fnrms have expressed interest, they will not be excluded from consideration.
(b) Consultant's Oualification Selection may be used for consulting services for research, and targeted
interventions for which organizations with specialized expertise, strong capacities to work with vulnerable groups
and proven track records will be recruited. The amount of the contract is estimated to cost less than US$50,000.
This method may also be used for the selection of training institutions when training cost exceeds US$50,000
equivalent per contract.
(c) Single-source Selection may be used for services procured for (i) consulting assignments such as those
provided by NGOs or other organizations to assist regions and community sub-projects costing less than $5,000
per contract up to an aggregate of US$0.2 million equivalent; and (ii) beneficiary assessments and surveys in
view of the specific nature and requirements of the methodology.
(d) Consultants for services meeting the requirements of Section V of the Consultant Guidelines will be selected
under the provisions for the Selection of Individual Consultants method. Individual Consultants (IC) will be
selected through comparison of curriculum vitae against job description requirements of those expressing interest
in the assignment, or those having been identified directly by the Borrower. Consultants hired under the project
cannot be civil servants.
Training, Workshops, and Conferences. The total cost of these activities is estimated at US$2.5 million
equivalent for the project. Training, workshops, conference attendance and study tours will be carried out on the
basis of approved annual programs that will identify the general framework of training and similar activities for
the year, including the nature of training/study tours/workshops, the number of participants, and cost estimates.
Prior Review
22.    Table B provides the prior review thresholds. All ICB, the first three NCB contracts, and direct
contracting for works and goods will be subject to IDA prior review as per paragraph 2 Appendix I of the
Guidelines. All other contracts will be subject to post review in accordance with paragraph 4 Appendix I of the
Guidelines. All annual line ministries work programs will be subject to IDA prior review. All consulting
contracts costing US$100,000 equivalent or more for firms will be subject to IDA prior review. With respect to
-52 -



each contract for employment of individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more,
the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished
to IDA for its prior review. Any amendments to existing contracts raising their values to levels equivalent or
above the prior review thresholds are subject to IDA review.
23.    All terms of reference and all single-source selection of consultants will be subject to IDA prior review.
Other procurement subject to IDA review will include: annual training plans for local and overseas training and
workshops, including terms of reference and estimated budgets. All out of country training will be subject to IDA
approval.
Post Review
24.    Monitoring and evaluation of procurement performance at all levels (national, regional, and community)
will be carried out for procurement under the prior review thresholds during IDA supervision missions and
through annual ex-post procurement audits. At a minimum, 1 out of 10 contracts managed by the CISLS and I
out of 3 contracts managed by line ministries for goods will be subject to post review. Post-reviews of in-country
training will be conducted from time to time to review the selection of institutions/course contents/trainees and
justifications thereof, and costs incurred. Annual independent technical audits (ex-post procurement audits) will:
(a) verify that the procurement and contracting procedures and processes followed for the projects were in
accordance with the IDA Grant Agreement (DGA); (b) verify technical compliance, physical completion and
price competitiveness of each contract in the selected representative sample; (c) review and comment on contract
administration and management issues as dealt with by participating agencies; (d) review capacity of
participating agencies in handling procurement efficiently; and (e) identify improvements in the procurement
process in the light of any identified deficiencies. The Borrower and IDA will review all thresholds stated in this
section on an annual basis. Amendments may be agreed upon based on performance and actual values of
procurement implemented. Amendments to the IDA Grant Agreement may be proposed accordingly.
-53 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method'
Expenditure Category   ICB      NCB     Other"     N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                 0.00     0.00     0.39       0.00      0.39
(0.00)   (0.00)   (0.31)    (0.00)     (0.31)
2. Goods                  1.42    0.90      0.30      0.00      2.62
(1.42)   (0.72)   (0.24)    (0.00)     (2.38)
3. Drugs                 2.26     0.70      0.30      0.00      3.26
(2.26)   (0.53)   (0.24)    (0.00)     (3.03)
4. Training              0.00     0.00      3.50      0.00      3.50
(0.00)   (0.00)   (3.05)    (0.00)     (3.05)
5. Consultant Services   0.00     0.00     3.50       0.00      3.50
(0.00)   (0.00)   (2.89)    (0.00)     (2.89)
6. Work Programs         0.00     0.00      3.50      0.00      3.50
(0.00)   (0.00)   (3.50)    (0.00)     (3.50)
7. Sub-Projects          0.00     0.00      8.00      0.00      8.00
(0.00)   (0.00)   (8.00)    (0.00)     (8.00)
8. Recurrent Costs       0.00     0.00      2.16      0.00      2.16
(0.00)   (0.00)   (1.27)    (0.00)     (1.27)
9. PPF                   0.00     0.00      0.57      0.00      0.57
(0.00)   (0.00)   (0.57)     (0.00)    (0.57)
3.68     1.60     22.22     0.00      27.50
Total          (3.68)   (1.25)   (20.07) _  (0.00)    (25.00)
'Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant. All costs include contingencies
i Includes civil works (small rehabilitations) and goods to be procured through Un Agencies, national
shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff of the project coordination office, training,
technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i) managing the cost, and (ii) re-
lending project funds to local government units.
-54 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Selection Metiod:
Consultant Services
EOpenditure Category  QCBS - QBS     SFB     LCS      CQ     Other   N.B.F. Total Cost
A. Firms              1.80    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.30    0.40    0.00     2.50
(1.53)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.20)  (0.27)  (0.00)   (2.00)
B. Individuals        0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     1.00   0.00      1.00
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.89)  (0.00)   (0.89)
Total  1.80    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.30     1.40   0.00     3.50
(1.53)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.20)  (1.16)  (0.00)   (2.89)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Commercial
Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant.
-55 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Contract Value                              Contracts Subject to
Threshold             Procurement             Prior Review
Expenditure Category    (US$ thousands)             Method              (US$ rnillions)
1. Works                  Less than $30,000        Small Works             Post review
2. Goods                  Above $100,000               ICB                All Contracts
Above $30,000              NCB                First 3 contracts
Less than $30,000          Shopping              Post review
3. Services
Firms                     Above $100,000              QCBS                All contracts
Less than $50,000         QCBS/CQ                Post review
Individuals                Above $50,000              3 CVs               All contracts
Less than $50,000           3 CVs                Post review
4. Work Programs                NA
5. Sub-Projects                NA
Operating costs                 NA
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  4.8 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
-56 -



Disbursement
Allocation of grant proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds
Expenditure Category        Amount in US$million        Financing Percentage
Civil Works                               0.30            100% of foreign expenditures and
-_______________________________ .____________________  80%   of  local  expenditures
Goods and vehicles                        1.80            100% of foreign expenditures and
80% of local expenditures
Drugs                                     3.00                        100%
Training                                  2.00                        100%
Consultants' Services                     2.00                     85% foreign
_80% local
Work-Program Agreements (incl. misc.      3.50                        100%
services, small goods, small
rehabilitation, training, workshops, and
incremental operating costs)
Sub-Projects                              8.00                        100%
Operating Costs                           1.00                        90%
PPF                                       0.60
Unallocated                               2.80
Total Project Costs                       25.00
Total                                     25.00
25.    The project is expected to be completed over a five-year period according to the
categories shown in Table C above. Government counterpart funds needed for each fiscal year to
cover the share of recurrent costs not financed by IDA will be deposited by the Government in a
Project Account managed by the FAU on a semi-annual basis. Financing of the Work Program
Agreement category has been approved at 100%, as an exception to OPIBP 12.00 to facilitate
fund flows to Sector Ministries.
Statement of Expenditures (SOEs)
26.    Disbursements for all expenditures will be made against full documentation, except for
items of expenditures for: (a) contracts for consulting firms in an amount inferior to $100,000
equivalent, (b) contracts for individual consultants in an amount inferior to $50,000 equivalent,
(c) contracts for works and goods, in an amount inferior to $100,000, and (d) community
sub-projects, work programs, training and operating costs, which will be claimed on the basis of
Statement of Expenditures (SOEs). All supporting documentation for SOEs will be retained at a
suitable location at the level of the community, CCR, line Ministry and FAU and readily
accessible for review by periodic IDA supervision missions and external auditors.
Special Account
27.    To facilitate project implementation and reduce the volume of withdrawal applications,
- 57 -



the FAU will open two Special Accounts in FCFA in a commercial bank on terms and conditions
acceptable to IDA. Special Account B will finance the community subprojects while Special
Account A will finance all other project expenditures including Work Program Agreements for
the line Ministries and the CCRs. The authorized allocation will be FCFA 560 million for
Special Account B and FCFA 950 million for Special Account A and will cover about six
months of expenditures. Upon effectiveness, IDA will deposit the amount of FCFA 280 million
in Special Account A and FCFA 475 million in Special Account B representing fifty percent of
the authorized allocations.
28.   The remaining balance will be made available when the aggregate amount of
withdrawals from the credit account plus the total amount of all outstanding special
comnitments entered into by the Association shall be equal or exceed the equivalent of SDR 2
million for Special Account B and SDR 4 million for Special Account A. Replenishment
applications will be submitted monthly. Further deposits by IDA into the Special Account will
be made against withdrawal applications supported by appropriate documents. The Special
Account will be audited annually by external auditors acceptable to IDA.
Counterpart Funds
29.    Total counterpart funds are estimated at about US$2.5 million equivalent, including all
taxes. As a condition of grant effectiveness, the Government will open a Project Account and
deposit an initial amount of 20 million CFA francs which represents the first six months of
counterpart expenditures for the Project, excluding taxes.
Financial Management Arrangements
30.   The design of the financial management system for the Niger operation draws heavily on
basic principles of sound financial management under the MAP (Box 6). Particular attention was
given to adopting elements of best practice from the basic financial management systems of other
IDA-funded projects (e.g., Burkina Health and Nutrition Development Project-PDSN, now
closed). The PDSN operation had successfully decentralized financial management to health
districts, relying on a performance-based contractual approach for financing annual work
programs.
31.   The procedures for channeling funds from the FAU to the line ministries under the Line
Ministry Work Program Component will be broadly similar to those used in the PDSN, including
annual work programs based on clearly specified deliverables and delegation of financial
management responsibilities to each line ministry. This will involve drawing up Memorandum
of Understanding between the line ministries and the CISLS.
32.   With regard to the Community Sub-Projects, the specific mechanism to be incorporated
into the financial management system for this sub-component will draw from the Niger
Community Action Program (recently appraised) and from the partnership component of the
ongoing Niger Health Sector Development Program.
- 58 -



33.    Roles and Responsibilities. At the central level, the FAU  will have overall
responsibility for financial management. The FAU oversight role will include, inter alia,
management of the special accounts, preparation of consolidated financial statements,
contracting of random audits, standard financial reporting functions, and coordination with the
CISLS and other stakeholders on the technical aspects of the project.
34.    The FAU will include, at a minimum, a financial manager, a procurement specialist and
several accounting staff (e.g. chief accountant, a couple of assistant accountants). In addition, an
intemal auditor will be recruited to ensure that the intemal control procedures are adequately
applied. At the regional level, the responsibility for financial management aspects will be
delegated to the contractual accountant-administrator to be recruited under the project. The
Payment Approval Officer (Chef de sous ordonnancement) of the Prefect's office will assume a
priori control of project finances at the level of the Regional Coordination.
35.    The MAP operation will increase substantially the activities to be managed and
monitored by the FAU. Backstopping from the FAU and capacity building in managing basic
financial records at the community level will be provided through collaborating civil society and
community based organizations with expertise in these areas, as deemed necessary. At the line
ministry level, the respective Direction de l'Administration et des Finances) with the support of a
contractual qualified accountant will be responsible for managing funds allocated to carry out its
agreed annual work program agreement. For the Civil Society component the subcontracted
Implementing Agencies, responsible for coordination and oversight of this component in one or
several regions, will have similar responsibilities.
36.    Key Features. The FAU will put in place an appropriate administrative, financial and
accounting system for the project, including a comprehensive Manual of Administrative,
Financial and Accounting Procedures and an adequate accounting software. The Manual will
outline the main activities to be carried out and their timing, to ensure the readiness of the system
before effectiveness.  The Manual will include a description of the internal control and
accounting system, management and flow of funds, documentation and reporting requirements,
budgetary procedures, and procurement guidelines and procedures to be used by all stakeholders.
Key activities to be carried out include: (i) defining the organizational structure for the operation,
and the roles and responsibilities of all stakeholders; (ii) preparing an accounting manual and
designing the accounting system, (iii) defining the main accounting principles to be applied, and
the frequency of the various financial reports, and (iv) elaborating appropriate internal control
procedures. The Manual of Administrative, Financial and Accounting Procedures satisfactory to
IDA will be adopted before effectiveness.
37.    For the purpose of monitoring, thefi'nancial statements will include but not be limited to
the following:
(a) Summary Sources and Uses of Funds, showing IDA and counterpart funds separately;
(b) Annual Work Programs with respect to line Ministries. For subsequent semesters, financial
statements and performance based progress reports;
(c) Special account reconciliation along with the bank statements showing deposits and
replenishments received and payments effected for carrying out activities; and
-59-



(d) Uses of Funds by Credit Activity, summarizing credit expenditures by line item, consistent
with the objectives and activities supported under this operation.
38.    Flow of Funds. IDA funds will be managed by the FAU and will flow from two
separate Special Accounts opened by the Project in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA. Funds
deposited in Special Account B will be dedicated to ensure timely payments for community
sub-projects. Funds deposited in Special Account A will be used for all other payments (i.e., line
ministries, CCRs, and FAU).
39.    Funds will be transferred directly from Special Account B to the Implementing Agency,
as a part of its contract, for disbursement to village or urban community accounts. Two
payments only will be made under each sub-project. The first payment will be triggered by an
approved sub-project submitted to the FAU, while the second payment will occur once the
village/urban community has submitted a satisfactory certificate of progress issued by the CCR,
and as described in the project implementation manual. Sub-project documentation will be held
by the village/urban community and will be audited by the project's external auditors on a
sample basis and routinely by CCR
40.    Funds deposited in Special Account A will be used by the FAU to effect payments to:
(a) Line ministries and CCRs on the basis of annual Work Program Agreements, approved by
the CISLS. Transfers from Special Account A to line ministries will be triggered by a six-month
cash forecast under the Work Program Agreement for the first advance and submission of
adequate financial and technical progress reports (FMRs), including a bank statement and related
reconciliation statement for all subsequent payments. The Coordination Unit will submit
quarterly a consolidated FMR to IDA for the replenishment of Special Account A for expenses
incurred by line Ministries during the preceding quarter;
(b) NGOs and Associations to carry out targeted interventions. They will be selected based on
the consultant's qualifications method in accordance with the criteria and processes, which will
be described in the implementation manual. A standard model contract will be used to that end;
(c) All training costs and consultants contracts will be managed by the FAU. The unit will also
manage large contracts under the project for goods, services, training, approved at the different
levels.
41.    FMR-based Disbursement. An assessment of the FAU's financial management systems
has been carried out by a Bank FMS and an action plan designed to put in place the systems
(enabling the production of FMRs at effectiveness) has been agreed upon at appraisal. The
format and the content of the FMRs have been discussed and agreed upon during negotiations.
These documents are kept in the project files.
42.    Audit. The FAU through its Financial Manager, assisted by a cadre of competent and
experienced accountants and administrative support staff, will establish and maintain, to the
satisfaction of IDA and the Government, the accounts and records to be used exclusively for the
MAP operation. The accounts will be maintained in accordance with sound and internationally
accepted accounting principles and Government of Niger financial reporting requirements. The
financial and accounting staff will produce the semi-annual financial statements to be audited by
-60 -



an independent auditing firm with experience acceptable to IDA. It is also expected that the
Financial Controller of the Ministry of Economy and Finances and/or the Controle General
d'Etat of the Government which have acquired substantial experience in auditing public funds
will be responsible for carrying out monthly financial reviews to ensure that the funds are duly
received by the communities and spent for their intended purposes. This arrangement is justified
considering the large number of disbursements to be effected and the multiple recipients, and the
generally weak capacity of community organizations.
43.     Each line ministry will submit quarterly fnancial reports to the FAU. The unit will
consolidate all project financial reports and prepare the project financial statements for auditing
purposes. Annual financial audits, to be carried out in compliance with internationally accepted
audit standards, will cover Bank requirements for audit of the project accounts and review of
internal control systems, when implemented, as well as review of the SOEs. Audit reports on
project financial statements will include, in addition to the auditors' short form report and
opinion, separate audit opinions on the Special Accounts and SOE, as well as a Management
Letter. Community sub-projects will also be audited on a sample basis. All necessary
documentation supporting the MAP-related disbursements and financial transactions will be
maintained at the respective level for inspection by IDA supervision missions, Government, and
the independent auditors.
Box 6: Key Principlesfor Financial Management under the MAP
o   Appraisal and approval of projects on a decentralized basis (e.g., a tiered approach with small projects
approved at the local level, larger projects approved at the provincial or district level, and the largest
projects approved at the national level).
o   Inclusion of in-kind contributions from participating local and community organizations.
o   Direct flow of funds, as feasible, from the central coordination unit to implementing entities based on an
agreed-upon tranche schedule.
o   Facilitation, monitoring, coordination, and capacity building at the local and community level by
intermediary organizations (both NGOs and private sector firms).
o   Integrated reporting on physical progress and financial results.
o   Review and approval of integrated reports prior to disbursement of the next tranche and/or approval of
additional sub-projects.
o   Annual independent external audits of community and local implementing entities on a random sample
basis.
o   Transparency and accountability to final beneficiaries at the local level, including publication in local
language of the project-funded activities (e.g. name of the implementing entity, amount of the grant,
description of the activities, reports on the progress of activities, and audit reports).
-61 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
NIGER: THE MULTISECTORAL STIIHIV/AIDS SUPPORT PROJECT
Project Schedule                                 Planned                    Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)     12                          24
First Bank mission (identification)            12/04/2000                  12/04/2000
Appraisal mission departure                    10/07/2001                  11/01/2002
Negotiations                                   01/27/2003                  02/03/2003
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  04/30/2003                  04/30/2003
Prepared by:
Denise Vaillancourt, TTL and team (see list below)
Preparation assistance:
Project preparation greatly benefited from the support of a PHRD Japanese grant, which financed
technical and analytical work that assisted and underpinned the elaboration, and ultimately the approval
of Niger's Strategic Framework for the fight against HIV/AIDS covering the period 2002-2006. Annex 8
(Section C) itemizes the products of this assistance. With the assistance of Christopher Walker, HDNHE,
a Quality Enhancement Review, chaired by Dan Ritchie, Consultant, was carried out after preappraisal
and its findings reviewed and discussed at the Appraisal Decision Meeting. Anne Maryse Pierre-Louis,
AFTH2's Lead Health Specialist in charge of quality assurance in the unit, participated in the appraisal
mission. Peer review support was received from: Michelle Lioy and Jean-Pierre Manshande.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                   Speciality
Denise Vaillancourt              TTL, Senior Health Management Specialist
Hada Goga                        Rural Development & HIV/AIDS Specialist
Djibrilla Karamoko               Senior Health Specialist
Bertrand de Chazal               Senior Financial Management Specialist
Mamadou Yaro                      Financial Management Specialist
Hans Wabnitz                      Lawyer
Renee Desclaux                   Disbursement Officer
Magaye Gaye                      Financial Management Specialist
Abdoul-Wahab Seyni               Community Development Specialist
Yao Wottor                       Procurement Analyst
Luc Lapointe                     Procurement Specialist
Anne Maryse Pierre-Louis          Lead HNP Specialist
Malonga Miatudila                 Senior Public Health Specialist
Daniele Jaekel                   Operations Analyst
Elizabeth Lule                   Reproductive Health Adviser
Bachir Souhlal                   Lead Operations Specialist (Peer Reviewer)
Kamla Pariadhaven                Program Assistant (HQ)
Oumou Hainikoye                  Program Assistant (Country Office, Niamey)
-62 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
NIGER: THE MULTISECTORAL STI/HIVIAIDS SUPPORT PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
Draft Operational Manual (in preparation)
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Aide Memoire of Identification Mission   - December 2000
Aide Memoire of Preparation Mission      - May 2001
Aide Memoire of Preappraisal Mission     - January 2002
Quality Enhancement Review - Panel Report  - February 2002
Aide Memoire of Technical Mission        - June 2002
Aide Memoire of Appraisal Mission        - November 2002
C. Other
*   Enquete sur la diffusion de l'Epidemie du VIH au Niger (OCCGE - Janvier 2001)
*   Rapport de Mission de Suivi des Etudes VIWSIDA du PAC (Hada Goga, Consultant - Juillet 2001)
* Propositions concretes d'actions pour ameliorer les conditions de vie des populations et lutter contre
la pandemie du VIH/SIDA (Groupe "Population-VIH/SIDA" - Aouit 2001)
*   Rapport de l'Etude sur l'Ampleur de la situation et de la reponse communautaire du VIWSIDA
(ONG-Eleveurs sans frontieres, Dr. Hassane Boubacar - Aout 2001)
*   Guide de formation pratique des operateurs sur les Techniques d'information, de communication et
de mobilisation sociale et matiere de prevention et de lutte contre le VIH/SIDA (Septembre 2001)
* Etude portant sur l'Analyse de la situation et la riposte communautaire entrant dans le cadre de
l'integration de la Dimension VIH/SIDA au PAC (CNESS Bozari - Septembre 2001)
* Manuel d'Execution des Actions de Prevention et de lutte (Septembre 2001)
o Analyse de la situation - Rapport de Synthese (Pr. Severin Anagounou - Novembre 2001)
* Analyse de la reponse - Rapport de Synthese (Pr. S6verin Anagounou - Decembre 2001)
* Proposition de cadre strategique (Chalare Abdoulaye, Aboubacar Garba - Janvier 2002)
*   Elaboration d'un Plan de Communication Strategique pour le VWHSIDA (E. de Guzrnan - Sept.2001)
* Elaboration du Cadre institutionnel et le demarrage du Plan sectoriel sante (Dr. M.Boucar - Jan.2002)
* Elaboration du Cadre institutionnel (F. Piotte - Janvier 2002)
*   R61e de la medecine traditionnelle dans la lutte contre le VIHSIDA (J.D.H. Lambert - Nov.2001)
*   Etude de recensement des ONGs Associations par consultation locale (M. Voyer - Janvier 2002)
*   Analyse de la situation et Appui au Ministere du Developpement Social de la Population, de la
Promotion de la Femnme et de la Protection de l'Enfant (M.F. Adrien - Nov. 2001).
* Etude comparative avec le financement du PMT 3 (G. Schmets - Decembre 2001)
* Strategie Nationale de gestion des d6chets biomedicaux (M. Mbengue Faye - Decembre 2001)
* Evaluation participative appliquee au SIDA (Cabinet CNESS Bozari - Janvier 2002)
* Appui pour les syntheses d'analyse de la situation et de la reponse et le cadre strategique (Abdoulaye
Chalare et Aboubacar Garba - Janvier 2002)
*   Inventaire des Organismes Sante et SIDA au Niger (Abdoulaye Seidou - Janvier 2002
* Approfondissement appui au MDS (Adriana de Leva - June 2002)
* Elaboration du manuel d'execution du Projet (Michel Voyer - Novembre 2002)
* Elaboration du plan sectoriel du Ministere du Developpement Social (B. Mahamane - Nov. 2002)
* Enquete aupres des Beneficiaires (Bozari - 2002).
*Including electronic files
-63 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
NIGER: THE MULTISECTORAL STI/HIV/AIDS SUPPORT PROJECT
06-Feb-2003
DNfference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in USS Uillions                            disbusements
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                     IBRD        IDA                         Cancel.   Undisb.      Orig   Frn Rev d
P072996       2002 NigerPrivatea Iiation Promotton                  0.00     38.72                          0.00      41.49      8.74      0.00
P061550       2001 WATER SECTOR PROJECT                             0.00     40.00                          0.00      48.89      7.60      0.00
Posa730       2000 Agm-pastral Expot Pmtion Prtect                  0.00     10.35                          0.00       7.07     -3.24      0.00
P051272       1999 PRIVATIZJREG.REFORM                              0.00     18.60                          0.00      10.14      9.82      3.14
P035608       1998 NE TRANSP. INFRA. REHAB                          0.00     28.00                          0.00       3.57      Z92       0.00
P049691       1997 URBANINFRAS.REHAB.                               0.00     20.00                          0.00       1.29      1.78      1.78
P001999       1997 HEALTHII                                         0.00     40.00                          0.00       5.72      8.45      4.13
Total:       0.00     203.87                          0.00     118618     3a.05       9.03
NIGER
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jun 30 - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                                  Disbursed
IFC                                       IFC
FY Approval              Company                                Loan     Equity      Quasi      Partic     Loan     Equity      Quasi      PaTtic
Total Portfolio:                0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval              Company                                    Loan       Equity       Quasi        PaTtic
Total Pending Commitment:                   0.00        0.00         0.00         0.00
-64 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
NIGER: THE MULTISECTORAL STI/HIV/AIDS SUPPORT PROJECT
Sub.
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          Saharan     Low-
Niger     Africa  Income      Development diamond
2001
Population, mid-year (millions)                      11.2       674     2.511                 Lie expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                    180       470       430
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                      2.0       317     1,069
Average annual growth, 199501
Population (%)                                        3.4       2.5       1.9      GN
Labor force()                                         3.3       2.6       2.3     GNI                             Gross
per                            primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1995-01)                             capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% of population below nastionalpoverty line)
Urban populaton (% of total population)                21        32        31
Ufe expectancy at birth (years)                        46        47        59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)              114        91        76
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)             40                   ,,         Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of population)   59        55        76
Illiteracy (% ofpopulation age 15+)                    84        37        37    1
Gross primary enrollment (%of school-age population)   31        78        96    |       Niger       Low-income group
Male                                                 38        85       103
Female                                               24        72        88
KEY ECONOMIC RATiOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS                         -
1981     1991      2000      2001
Economic ratioe
GDP (US$ billions)                           2.2      2.7        1.8      1.9
Gross domestic investment/GOP               20.3      7.8      10.6      12.6
Exports of goods and serviceslGDP           24.2     11.9      15.5      14.4                    Trade
Gross domestic savingslGDP                   8.2      3.8       2.9       2.8
Gross national savingslGDP                            31        2.9       3.6
Current account balance/GDP                           -4 6      -7.4     -75      Domestic 
Interest paymentslGDP           -3.1                  0.8       0.5       1.4  Dmsavic nvestmn
Total debtVGDP                              47.1     54.4      89.8
Total debt servicelexports                  31.6     31.5       9.4
Present value of debt/GDP              ,         ,             57.1
Present value of debt/exports                                 345.1
Indebtedrness
1981-91  199141      2000      2001   200145
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 0.0      3.0     -1.4       7.6       42
GDP per capita                     -3.1     -0.4     -4.6       4.1       1 0       -Niger           Low-income group
Exports of goods and services      -4.6      7.1
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1981     1991      2000      2001      Growth oa Investment and GDP (%)
(9 of GDP)
Agriculture                                 45.7     33.2      38.8      38.7
Industry                                    19.2     15.0      17.7      17.6
Manufacturing                              3.9      5.3        6.8      6.8 
Services                                    35.2     51.9      43.5      43.7            9g    97   ea    99   00    01
Private consumption                         80.8     83.1      84.4      84.4    -60
General govemment consumption               10.9     13.1      12.7      12.8
Imports of goods and services               36.2     15.9      23.2      24.2 G2
1981-91  199141       2000      2001     Growth olexports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                  2.4      3.2                         30
Industry                                    -1.7      2.6                         1 -
Manufacturing                              -1.8      3.3
Services                                    -2.6      2.5                        -15     9     97   99         9     91
Private consumption                         -0.8      3.8
General govemment consumption                6.2     -0.8                         3
Gross domesUc investment                    -3.4      60 .0xports                                        O    mports
Imports of goods and services               -5.7     -1.2 
Note: 2001 data are prelirninary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) companred vAth its income-group average. Hf data are frissing, the diamond svill be incompete.
- 65-



Niger
PRICES and GOVERNMEWr FINANCE
1981     1991      2000     2001     rlnflathn (%)
tmed pzrkesInlto
(36 change)                                                                      20T
Consumer prices                                      -1.9       2.9      4.0     10
Implicit GDP deflator                       10.6     14.6       4.5      4.0      o
Govenment financs                                                                       99   97    s      s    oo    o
(% of GDP. includes current grants)                                             .10
Current revenue                                       7.8       8.6      9.2    -20
Curent budget balance                                -1.5      -2.6     -1.8              -GDP deflator     !  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                              -6.5      -7.6     -7.4
TRADE
(USSrnillions)                             1981     1991      2000      2001      Export and Import levels (USS mIlL)
Total exports (lob)                                  270       283       283     eo
Uranium                                             199        90       85
Uvestock products                                    40        49       49     400
Nbnufactures                                          ._
Total imports (cif)                            .     356       324       347
Food                                                 31        20       26
Fuel and energy                                      19        38       37
rCapilal goods                                      102        67       84       oMlM _
Exxort price index (1995=1 00)                                 105       107          95   s3   97   98   99   oo   o
Importpriceindex (1995=100)                    .               139       137                 ElExports     lirrmors
Temms of trade (1995=100)                                       75        78
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS -71ions)                              1981     1991      2000      2001     Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exportsofgoodsandaerslces                   524      327       313       312      0
Imports of goods and services               786      436       448       473
Resource balance                           -261      -109     -135      -161
Net income                                             1        -17      -15         I              II"
Net current transfers                        109      -20        17       30
Current account balance                              -128      -135     -146     10
Financing items (net)                                128        164      154
Changes In net reserves                                0        -29       -8    .11
Memo:.
Reserves induding gold (USS rnllions)         ..      -5        78        94
Coners3ion rate (DEC, IocaeUS$)            271.7    2821      712.0    733.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1981     1991      2000     2001
(USS millions)                                                                   Composition of 2000 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       1,022    1.494     1.638
IBRD                                        0        0         0                              G:93
IDA                                        79      479       723                        F: 68
Total debt service                           173     107        28
IBRD                                        0        0         0                                U
IDA                                         1        5        14                  E: 447 .B M
Composition of net resource flows
Offidal grants                                       .          .                               5
Offival creditors                          135      23        54-
PrOiate creditors                         188       235       -2         .
Foreign direct investment                  -6       15        15
Portfoli equity                             0        0         0                         D: 243    C: 74
World Bank program
Commitments                                 0       19        45       130     A - IBRD                   E - Bilatral
Disbursements                               13      17        68         .     B-IDA     D-OthermuLtdlateaml  F-Private
Principal repayments                        0        2         8               C -IMF                     G - Short-term
Netflows                                    12      16        60
Interest payments                           1        4         6
Net transfers                              12       12        54
uevetopment toonomrcs
- 66 -



Additional Annex 11: Institutional Analysis and Implementation Arrangements
NIGER: THE MULTISECTORAL STIIHIV/AIDS SUPPORT PROJECT
As described in Section B.2 of this PAD, Niger adopted on May 24, 2002, as a part of its
strategic framework document, a new institutional framework for facilitating and coordinating an
effective,, broad-based multisectoral approach to the fight against STIs/HIV/AIDS. The MAP will be
implemented over a period of four years within this new institutional framework. The roles/functions of
the main organs of policy and oversight, coordination and implementation are described briefly below
and presented in more detail in the Implementation Manual.
The National AIDS Council/NAC (Comite national de lutte contre les IST/VIHISIDA
JCNLSJ) is chaired by the President of the Republic of Niger and is responsible for: approving policy
and strategic orientations and work plans; ensuring a truly multisectoral approach; ensuring proactive
mobilization and good coordination of technical and financial assistance of all partners (international and
national); and evaluating program performance and impact. The Inter-sectoral Program Coordination
Unit CISLS (described below) serves as secretariat to the CNLS.
The Inter-Sectoral Program Coordination Unit (Coordination Intersectorielle de la lutte
contre les IST/VIHISIDA [CISLSI) serves as secretariat to the CNLS .. This structure, placed in the
office of the Prime Minister is  responsible for the coordination of the strategic planning and
implementation of the national STIs/HIV/AIDS program. Its key functions and staffing cover the
following domains: overall program coordination, administration and finance, communications and
public relations, technical support and liaison with public sector agencies of execution (both health sector
and non-health sector); liaison/outreach with civil society; monitoring and evaluation.
Regional and Subregional Committees (Comites de chef-lieux de region de lutte contre le
SIDA [CRLSIISTJ et Comites sous-regionaux de lutte contre le SIDA (CSRLS/IS77, chaired,
respectively, by the Prefect and Sub-Prefect, will carry out the above-mentioned functions of the CNLS at
the decentralized levels of Government.
An Advisor to the President of the Republic is responsible for sustaining and further
enhancing political commitment as well as for continued and intensified advocacy work at the highest
levels of Govenmment.
A Technical Consultative Committee (Comite Mixte de Suivi) is made up of national and
intemational partners and is responsible for providing technical advice to the CNLS and to contribute to
the mobilization and coordination of technical and financial contributions of all partners to the fight
against STIs/H1V/AIDS.
Regional Coordinators will represent the CISLS in each of the regions.
Coordination within Sectors. Each sector Ministry has appointed a focal point and created a
sectoral committee responsible for the preparation of sector action plans in line with the adopted strategy
for HIV/AIDS. This institutional set-up is also responsible for mobilizing and coordinating human and
financial resources within line Ministries for program implementation and evaluation. Given the critical
role it has to play, the Ministry of Health created by Arrete No. 184/MSP/LCE of August 5, 2002, a
Health Sector Unit for the Fight Against HIV/AIDS (Unite de Lutte Sectorielle Sante contre les
IST/VIHISIDA) whose role it is to coordinate all activities within MOH and serve as secretariat to the
MOH coordinating committee.
-67 -



Executing Agencies complete the make-up of the institutional framework, composed of a myriad
of technical Ministries and other public sector agencies, decentralized levels of Government (regions,
departments, communes, cantons), and civil society (including private sector, NGOs, community-based
organizations, etc.).
Implementation Arrangements. An Implementation Manual to be adopted before grant
effectiveness has been prepared through an iterative process involving all key actors of both Government
and civil society. It defines institutional and implementation arrangements, the respective responsibilities
and mandates of each participating entity and the functional relationships between actors. It defines
procedures and eligibility criteria for review and approval of project proposals, and provides guidelines
for the preparation implementation and supervision of project proposals. It includes the contractual
arrangements between the CISLS and implementing agencies and includes standard contracts for a broad
range of activities. It also contains procurement arrangements for community-level projects and defines
financial management requirements. It is important to note Government's and Bank's acknowledgement
that this Manual is a living document that will be finetuned with the experience and perspectives of
managers and implementors, acquired through implementation. At the end of the first full year of
implementation, on the occasion of the first annual review, the Manuel will be reviewed and revised with
a view to improving implementation efficiency in light of lessons learned.
The project will be implemented over a period of five years in an incremental manner starting
with those line ministries, public agencies, decentralized levels of government, NGOs and CBOs, which
already have HIV/AIDS work plans. Coverage will be extended to other sectors and organizations of
civil society as implementation capacity is strengthened and work programs prepared. The CISLS will
have overall responsibility for project management and coordination.
Implementation of Public Sector Work Plans. Public entities at the national and decentralized
levels would prepare work program proposals and submit them to the CISLS for approval by the CNLS
and subsequent funding. A formal, contractual work program agreement, including a work program and
budget with agreed input and output indicators, will define the respective roles and responsibilities of the
contract signatories and frame the relationship between the various executing agencies and the CISLS.
Contracts will be conceived around a performance-based management approach, whose primary focus is
around accountability for results. The first quarter disbursement will be made upon co-signature of the
work program agreements, with subsequent quarterly payments to be made on the basis of satisfactory
quarterly reports composed of: (a) report on performance/results in light of indicators specified in the
work program agreement; (b) report on the use and management of financial resources; and (c)
plan/budget for the subsequent quarter that would be coherent with the lessons and insights of the
previous two reports. Random technical and financial audits will validate such reporting. Prototype
contracts and terms of reference for audits are presented later on in this Annex.
Implementation of the Civil Society Component. The CISLS will subcontract the responsibility
for management of the Civil Society Component to several seasoned Implementing Agencies working in
subgroups of regions, most likely a combination of international NGOs and UN agencies already working
in Niger. This arrangement will ensure the autonomy, promotion and complementarity of civil society
activity. The cycle of project proposal writing, submission, review, approval, financing and evaluation is
described in detail in the Operations Manual. TOR for the Implementing Agencies are presented later on
in this Annex.
-68-



ORGANES ET STRUCTURES DE LUTTE CONTRE LES IST/VIII/SIDA
SELON LES NIVEAUX ET LES FONCTIONS
Fonctions par niveaux
Descriptif      D6cisionlOnien                    Cordntin             Coordination       Appul i la mise en
Descriptif____ b.iati      _abon/  _Conseil      i mntersectorielle     sectorielle       oeuvre du PMfT f           Mise en oeuvre du PMT I1
Plibque 
Niveau national
Comite                                                                          *    Institutions et organisations
*    Types        National de      mixte                                Comites                                         nationales
d'organes/    LuN  ontre les   (Nationaux    CISILS                ministeriels de     Sevces et P             *    Projets et reseaux nationaux
structuTerutecnr les*tlteSriese                                                                       rgaue             Confessions
ISTNIH/SIDA      et                                  lutte               nationaux du MSP/LCE
partenaires)  .                                         Et                      .    Priv6
*    Presidence   President        la presidence  Directeur             Secretaire general  CIS/LS                  Directeurs/responsables
*    localisation  Pr6sidence       Presidence    PrimatuTe             Ministeres                                  Ministeres de tutelle
____ ____ ___   ____ ____   ___ ____ ____ ___ concem 6s_      _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _
Niveau reional
Comite                                               Directions                                  *    Institutions et organisations
*    Types        Regional de                                           regionales des     Services et Programmes       regionales/prive
d'organes/    Lutte contre les      -        Coordonnateur         ministeres         nationaux et regionaux   .    Projets et reseaux regionaux
dtrurtu aes       ISTNIH/SIDA                    regional              concernes/Points   du MSPILCE               *    ONG et Associations
ou Equivalent                                        focaux regionaux    Et                      *    Confessions
operationneD                                                             CIS/LS et
*    Prcsidence   Prefet                 -                              Directeurs         coordonnateur r6gional   Responsables
i gionaux          ISTNIH/SIDA
.    localisation PrefecturePefecture                                   Directions                                 Ministeres de tutelle
* localisation  Pre- fecture                    P f ct r             r4gonales           _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _    _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _
Niveau sous-regional (Departements/Communes/Villages)
Comite sous-
.    Types        regional de                          Direction        Directions locales  Services et Programmes      Organisations locales
LAutte contre les      -        delpartementale de la  diise s IPoinProjgonau duocaux
d'organes/    ISTNIH/SIDA                    dmist6res/Points                         Tegionaux du MSPILCE     *    ONG et OBC/Confessions
structures        ou Equivalent                          sante          focaux             Et            regional   *   PriV
______________   op~ra Ion e   _ _ _ _  _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _                      CoordonnSIat u   resgionale
*    Presidence   Sous-per fet       .     .                            Directeurs locaux  ISTNIH/SIDA            I Responsables
*    L.ocalisation  Sous-Prefecture                 Sous-prefecture     Directions locales                          Ministeres de tutelle
-69-



Organigramme du Programme National de Lutte contre les ISTNIHISIDA du Niger
ORGANE NATIONAL DE DECISIONET D'ORIENTATION
Presidence               Conseil National de Lutte contre le SIDA
-         g                 (CNLS)
ORGANE DE COORDINATION ED 'APPUI A LA MISE EN OEUVRE
Organe de onseil
Coordination
Primature                     intersectorielle de la lutte
contre les                /  Comit Mixte     \
IST/VIWSIDA(CISLS)        .           deSuivi
(CMS)7
ORGANES D 'EXECUTIONETDE MISE EN OEUVRE
Ministeres                                                     7
4~~~~,_               _4                              ..... .... 4,__
i   rl      7             Ministere de l'Interieur        Autres Ministeres
(Comite Sectoriel et      (Comite Sectoriel)           (Comites Sectoriels)
Services)     -
Comiti lRgional de
Region                             Lufte contre He SIDA
CoMMit Sous
~jRegional de Lutte
Sous rkeion/commune urbaine           contre de lSIDA
cntre le SIDA
Comite Cantonall de
Lutte contre le SID
Canton/commune rurale
VILLAGE/TRIBUS                     Comite Villageois de
Lufte contre le SIDAL
Liens fonctionnels
Liens hi6rarchiques
- 70 -



Schema organisationnel de la Coordination intersectorielle de la lutte contre les ISTMH/SIDA - CISILS
I COORDONNATEUR NATIONAL j
|Assistants Techniques
NIVEAU NATIONAL
____D~~~EC                     __          _       ___                    4.
DIIRECT LONS TECHNIQUES                        sttrf 
Communication/                            Suivi des
Suivi et      Administration     Documentation          Suivi du          Secteurs         Suivi de la
Evaluation       et Finances         Relations         Secteur Sante       ministeriels    Societe civiJe
publiques   J                         Non Sante
NIVEAU REGIONAL
I  COORDONNATEURS RtGION AUX
-71-



Termes de References de I'Agence d'execution pour Ia Composante Societe Civile du Prog,ramme
Multisectoriel de Lutte contre le VIHtSIDA
1.     Contexte et justification
Le Gouvemement de la Republique du Niger a sollicite de l'Association Intemationale de
Developpement (IDA) un Don pour venir en appui au Programme de lutte contre les IST/VIH/SIDA. Le
gouvemement du Niger vient d'adopter le Cadre strategique National de Lutte contre les IST et le
VIWSIDA qui constitue le cadre reference de la mise en ceuvre du programme.
Le Programme multisectoriel et participatif de lutte contre les IST/VIWSIDA vise particulierement
l'atteinte des objectifs suivants: (i) la baisse sensible de la propagation de l'infection au VIH/SIDA par
la reduction de la transmission, (ii) la reduction de l'impact sur la sante des seropositifs et des sideens par
le renforcement et la qualit6 des services de prise en charge des personnes vivant avec le VIH/SIDA
(soins, traitement, assistance psychosociale ) ; (iii) la reduction de l'impact socio-economique du
VEHVSIDA par une plus grande disponibilite de services generateurs de revenus aux PVVIH/SIDA et a
leurs familles, ainsi que par une protection sociale accrue dans les communautes affectees; et (iv) une
capacite accrue du Niger dans la gestion en rnatiere de lutte contre le VIH/SIDA.
Les principales composantes du programme de lutte contre le VIH/SIDA sont:
* L'organisation de la lutte
* La prevention
* Les soins conseil aux PVVIH
* Le soutien socio-economique aux PVVIH, orphelins, veuves et familles et communautes affectees.
La mise en ceuvre du programme sera realisee A travers quatre volets:
* L'appui secteur public
* L'appui aux organisations de la Societe civile.
* Le renforcement des capacites qui s'adresse a tout le prograrmnme
* La coordination et facilitation du programme
La coordination de la mise en oeuvre du programme est confi6e a la Coordination intersectorielle de lutte
contre les IST/VIH/SIDA (CIS/LS).
Dans le but de s'assurer de l'implication significative de la Societe civile dans la lutte contre le
VIH/SIDA et de pouvoir compter sur une gestion de proximite efficace et efficiente des ressources mises
a la disposition de la composante Societe civile, la CIS/LS se propose de sous-traiter la coordination et
la mise en ceuvre du volet appui a la Societe Civile, ainsi que le renforcement des capacites necessaires a
la mise en euvre de ce volet a une ou des agences d'execution.
2.     Le volet appui aux organisations de la Societe civile du programme de lutte contre les IST/
VIH/SIDA
Le Cadre strategique national affirme que la participation effective de la societe civile est un facteur
d6terminant du succes de la lutte contre les IST/VIHI/SIDA. Ainsi, les organisations de la societ civile
sont considerees comme des partenaires a part entiere du programme de lutte contre le VIH/SIDA.
Dans cette perspective, les communautes de base et les organisations de la societe civile, y compris les
entreprises privees, sont invitees a s'associer a la conception, la realisation et l'evaluation de projets
qui repondre a leurs besoins specifiques dans le cadre de la lutte contre le VWHSIDA
-72 -



Les organisations de la societe civile sont classees en 2 categories:
Les Organ isations d base communautaire (OB C) appartiennent a la communaute villageoise (ou au
quartier) et sont lies par un interet collectif commun;
Les Organisations de la societ civile (ti but lucratif et non-lucratif) (OSC): Ce sont des organismes de
la societe civile qui agissent au nom et en association avec les populations.
Le volet a l'intention de la societe civile permettra l'acces aux ressources financieres et humaines
necessaires a la prevention et a la prise en charge des personnes vivant avec le VIH (PVVIH) et leurs
familles. Les projets seront identifies, prepares, mis en ceuvre et geres par les populations ou les
organisations a base communautaire et les organismes de la societe civile mandates par ces populations.
Les communautes a la base peuvent etre appuyees par des OBC et des OSC pour la conception la
realisation et l'evaluation de leurs projets
Les actions proposees par les OBC et OSC devront s'inscrire dans les axes strategiques de prevention, de
prise en charge, de protection sociale et de renforcement des capacites tel que decrit dans le Cadre
strategique national.
3.     Mandat de l'agence d'execution.
Le mandat de l'agence d'execution comprend deux composantes majeures:
* La coordination de toutes les activites emanant de la societe civile, y compris la gestion financiere et le
contr6le inteme des projets
* Le renforcement des capacites des OBC et des OSC de maniere a leur perrnettre d'elaborer, de mettre
en aeuvre et d'effectuer le suivi et l'evaluation de leurs projets.
En matiere de coordination, I'agence doit:
1) Faire la promotion du volet l'Appui aux initiatives des communautes et de la societe civile et le
maintien de relations avec les partenaires operant dans la region.
2) Examiner et analyser des dossiers, les presenter assortis de ses recommandations au Comite
d'approbation regionale ou sous-regionale.
3) Evaluer les capacites de gestion financiere des promoteurs.
4) Assurer le financement des projets approuves par les autorites competentes i meme des fonds mis a la
disposition de l'agence d'execution dans un compte special.
5) Gerer le financement des projets selon le manuel de procedures.
6) Superviser l'application par les promoteurs des procedures simplifiees de passation de marche pour
les projets.
7) Effectuer le suivi/supervision de la mise en oeuvre des projets finances;
8) Assurer la gestion administrative et financiere du contrat de sous-traitance a intervenir avec le
CIS/LS, a travers: (i) la tenue d'un compte bancaire recevant les fonds IDA; (ii) la tenue de la
comptabilite du Programme; et (iii) la preparation de rapports trimestriels de suivi technique et financier.
En matiere de renforcement institutionnel l'agence d'execution doit:
9) Repondre aux besoins de formation et d'assistance technique des organisations de la societecivile
afm de leur perrnettre de formuler, planifier, soumettre, realiser, suivre et evaluer leurs projets.
10) Appuyer les OBC et OSC dans le domaine de la coordination strategique des projets notamment en
accompagnant tout le processus de l'elaboration, au suivi et a l'evaluation des projets.
11) Assurer la formation en gestion financiere des responsables des projets pour assurer une saine
- 73 -



gestion de ces derniers.
Dans l'execution de son mandat, I'agence devra respecter les orientations et les prescriptions du Cadre
strategique National de Lutte contre les IST/VIH/SIDA et les procedures du Manuel d'execution du
Projet.
L'agence d'execution etablira des relations avec la societ civile en utilisant les ressources et structures
existantes notanunent, les communautes rurales, les unites d'interventions, les cantons ou tout autre
forme de regroupement de villages qui peut exister dans les regions.
De plus, I'agence d'execution doit tenir compte des clienteles cibles et des problemes majeurs que pose
la pandemie dans la population de la region. Un texte sur le ciblage se trouve a l'annexe 2.
4.     Financement et budget
Le financement de l'agence d'execution sera partage a part egale par le budget du renforcement des
capacites et par celui de la coordination du projet.
L'agence d'execution et la CIS/LS sont les parties contractantes. C'est la CIS/LS qui est l'interlocutrice
officielle de l'agence d'execution. A ce niveau, I'agence transige avec la coordonnatrice chargee de
l'appui et du suivi a la societe civile. Cependant, I'agence d'execution devra aussi entretenir des relations
fonctionnelles avec le coordonnateur regional du programme de lutte contre les IST/VIH/SIDA.
Le budget de la composante Appui a la societe civile du programme de lutte contre les IST/VIH/SIDA est
de 8 000 000 $ US pour l'ensemble du Niger sur un horizon de cinq ans. Cette sornme est consacree a la
mise en oeuvre des projets proposes par les organisations de la societe civile. Le budget disponible dans
chacune des regions tiendra compte de la population et du ciblage strategique. La proposition de
l'agence d'execution portera sur deux ans. Le contrat pourra etre reconduit sur la base de la performance.
5.     Methodologie
L'agence d'execution doit decrire la methodologie qu'elle entend utiliser pour assumer les
responsabilites reliees a l'execution du mandat. Cette demiere doit manifester une bonne comprehension
du mandat et des enjeux et contenir une description et une explication  des services orientes vers
l'atteinte de resultats, ainsi que des indicateurs de performance. Le budget doit etre ventile par
composante et categories de depenses.
En matiere de renforcement l'agence est invitee a proceder a une analyse rigoureuse des besoins
veritables et a considerer la formation dans l'action, le transfert de savoir-faire dans le cadre de
l'execution des projets. Une partie des cofuts du renforcement des capacites des OBC OSC doit etre
prevue dans les projets. L'agence quant a elle doit prevoir dans son budget les couits relies a
l'elaboration des projets et l'accompagnement technique et financier des OBC et des OSC qui assurera
l'atteinte des resultats.
6.     Production des rapports
L'agence devra produire les rapports suivants:
12) Rapports de suivi technique et financier (RSF) trimestriels, incluant les nombres des propositions
prevues et examinees, les montants des propositions prevues et examinees, les ecarts en quantites et en
valeurs et les fonds residuels;
Rapports trimestriels (i) consolides des paiements et des comptes, et les appels de fonds pour le
-74-



prochain trimestre, (ii) techniques sur les activites rnenees (nombre de propositions finance's et
le montant total des payements effectue par zone geographique( region, departement, localit6,
village), par type de promoteur (OSC, OBC), par categories de depenses (biens, prestations de
services, travail collectif, honoraires, ou autres depenses recurrentes), et par axe strategique de
la lutte (Prevention, Prise en charge et soutien socioeconomique, Renforcement des capacites,
etc.) et (iii) de suivi comment6s sur les resultats des evaluations et auto-evaluations menees
pendant la periode.
Chaque rapport trimestriel devra comprendre en plus des 6tats de suivi financier et de marche, le
compte rendu des performances realisees par l'agence par rapport aux criteres arretes au Manuel et
une evaluation des performances des differents promoteurs;
L'agence participera aux reunions de coordination suivi-evaluation au niveau regional.
7.     Indicateurs de performance
L'agence d'execution a une obligation de resultats. Sa proposition doit contenir des indicateurs de
performance. Les deux parties conviendront des criteres de performance qui serviront a evaluer l'agence
d'execution. Ces demiers sont de quatre ordres: les extrants, les indicateurs de processus, les resultats
intermediaires et les effets.
Les extrants sont des resultats de premier niveau, ils comprennent:
Le nombre de projets analys6s
Le nombre de projets approuves
Le nombre de villages qui ont beneficie des projets
* Le nombre de personnes touchees par les projets
Le nombre de personnes formees
Les indicateurs de processus sont associes aux services
* L'accessibilite des services
* La disponibilite de l'agence
* L'appui fournit Aux OBC/OSC
* La qualite des rapports produits
* Le respect des echeanciers
Les resultats intermediaires
* La satisfaction par rapport a l'appui requ
* La qualit6 des projets presentes
* La pertinence des projets par rapport aux clienteles cibles et aux priorites
* Les alliances entre villages pour proposer et executer des projets
Effets Les changements de comportements observes en relation avec les projets realises
* Meilleure pratique sexuelle exprim6e
* Mesures de preventions appliquees
* Acceptation des PVVIH dans le milieu
8.     Qualification de l'agence d'execution
L'agence  d'execution  doit posseder une bonne experience dans le domaine de la lutte contre le
VIH/SIDA. Elle doit demontrer une solide capacite en gestion financiere et en contr6le interne et elle
-75 -



doit ceuvrer dans le developpement communautaire depuis au moins cinq ans. La feuille de route de
l'agence d'execution demontrera son expertise en conception et en coordination de projets impliquant
la societe civile, ainsi que son aptitude a collaborer avec les OSC/OBC. L'agence devra demontrer
qu'elle possede des mecanismes de gestion et de suivi evaluation interne eprouves, et qu'elle est
capable de mettre en place une structure operationnelle dans la ou les regions oil elle entend
soumissionner.
L'agence d'execution doit posseder une equipe pluridisciplinaire dont les membres peuvent assurer la
coordination et le support financiers et le renforcement des capacites des OBC et des OSC. Le chef de
mission doit demontrer un leadership favorisant la mobilisation, la participation et suscitant l'adhesion. n1
doit pouvoir maintenir des relations d'association avec les organisations de la societe civile.
L'agence   a l'entiere responsabilite de l'identification et du recrutement du personnel local ou
international necessaire a la realisation du mandat qui lui est confie par la CIS/LS. Elle doit proposer
dans le cadre de sa soumission le personnel qualifie et competent qui est necessaire a la realisation de ce
mandat. L'evaluation des propositions portera largement sur la qualification de l'equipe proposee par
rapport aux exigences du mandat.
9.     References pour preparer les offres de services
LA CIS\LS mettra a la disposition des organisations interessees a soumissionner:
* Le Cadre strategique et le manuel d'execution du programme de lutte contre les ISTIVIIH/SIDA
* Une liste des tiches a realiser et des rapports a produire,
* Les crit6res qui seront utilises, a intervalles reguliers, pour evaluer la performance de l'agence.
- 76-



LISTE INDICATIVE DES TICHES DE L'AGENCE D'EXECUTION
Pour les aspects de coordination technique et operationnelle:
13) La coordination technique, administrative et financiere generale des composantes mentionnees, le
suivi/supervision de l'execution et des programmes ou sous projets finances;
Le respect des prescriptions du Cadre strategique et du Manuel d'execution;
La promotion et de la diffusion des activites feront partie de son mandat aupres de la societe
civile, des bureaux prives, des agences de developpement et des ministeres concernes. En
ce sens, elle procede a toutes les operations de diffusion d'infornations necessaires
campagne publicitaire, correspondance et assemblees d'information, etc.;
14) Les appuis techniques necessaires afin que les differentes categories d'organisations de la soci&e
civile puissent (i) soumettre et realiser des activites prioritaires dans leur domaine de sp6cialisation;
(ii) developper des services appropri6s dans le cadre des composantes strategiques ; (iii) fournir aux
populations les services dont elles ont besoin en matiere d'IST;
Les taches specifiquement reliees A la preparation et a la rnalisation des sous projets soit:
la promotion et l'animation des populations selon une approche participative,
les appuis necessaires a la formulation et au montage du dossier de soumission,
1'examen des dossiers (conformit6 technique et financiere avec les criteres) et la pr6sentation au
Comite d'approbation pour financement ; I'agence se porte garant de la conformite (aux
nonnes techniques) des dossiers soumis pour approbation. Elle fait au Comite
d'approbation les remarques et recommandations qui s'imposent
l'evaluation des capacites de gestion financiere des promoteurs qui ont soumis des propositions
excedant 5 000 US$, si cela est necessaire, leur assurer une formation en gestion financiere,
le contr6le de toutes les demandes de paiement des promoteurs la v6rification de leur regularite
et conformit6 avant un d6caissement,
I'appui a la passation des marches lies a la realisation des activites et la mobilisation des
ressources humaines et materielles de la communaute,
1'ensemble des operations de suivi et la preparation de l'auto evaluation (OBC/OSC et
ben6ficiaires);
la preparation, avec les beneficiaires de la perennisation des services, en collaboration avec les
Comites regionaux et sous-regionaux de lutte contre le SIDA;
La gestion et I'attribution des fmancements (i) de sous-projets et programmes et (ii) de
renforcement des capacites, puis le suivi de la realisation des activit6s subventionn6es. Les
paiements se feront apres approbation d'un sous-projet par le Comite. L'agence
d'execution de la Composante confiera la rbalisation des actions aux OSC et OBC;
La coordination et la supervision des sous-projets exbcutbs par les OBC et OSC ainsi que
l'blaboration et la signature des differents protocoles d'accord et/ou de financement
desdits projets;
La formation dans I'application des proc6dures simplifibes (preparation, ex6cution rapports,
6valuation des sous-projets et programmes);
L'blaboration et la signature en collaboration avec le CIS/LS des termes de r6f6rence, contrats et
protocoles d'accord de sous-traitance ou de recrutement de consultants locaux jug6s
nbcessaires A la realisation des activites ou requis par les specifications du Manuel.
Lorsqu'il aura recours a la sous-traitance, I'agence conservera les responsabilit6s suivantes
(i) examen et aval technique des sous-projets proposbs, (ii) I'approbation du programme
d'activites, des comptes previsionnels de fonctionnement et de l'apprbciation du personnel
contractuel proposbs par le sous-traitant, (iii) 1'examen et l'adoption des rapports d'activit6s
- 77-



et des comptes semestriels soumis par le sous-traitant, (iv) la disponibilite des fonds dans
des delais acceptables, (v) le suivi de 1'execution et verification de la conformite de
l'utilisation des fonds.
La supervision de l'application par les promoteurs des procedures simplifiees de passation de
marche et de gestion financiere developpees pour les sous projets;
Le renforcement des capacites consiste A assurer en collaboration avec les Comites regionaux et
sous-regionaux de lutte contre le SIDA (i) la definition avec les beneficiaires des activites
de renforcement necessaires, (ii) la realisation ou la sous-traitance des activites de
renforcement; (iii) la supervision de l'execution et l'evaluation des activites de
renforcement destinees a la societe civile et aux OBC;
Le maintien des relations avec les partenaires operant dans la region;
Pour les aspects administratifs, financiers et comptables
La preparation du plan d'action et du budget annuel de l'Agence (cadre de la contractualisation
avec la CIL/SL);
La gestion courante de l'agence et de l'introduction des mecanismes de contr6le appropries,
pour tout les mandais, objets du contrat, qui lui sont confies;
Le compte rendu A la CIL/LS des activites et des etats budgetaires de l'Agence; ceci comprend
des rapports trimestriels detailles sur l1ensemble des activites menees aussi bien aux
niveaux technique, operationnel que financier (sous forme de Rapport de Suivi Financier);
L'ouverture et le suivi de comptes bancaires separes pour recevoir les fonds lies aux
sous-projets, la verification des rapports de reconciliation mensuelle, et la preparation des
rapports trimestriels des payements et des credits;
La signature des autorisations de decaissement de fonds et le reapprovisionnement en temps
opportun;
La mise en cruvre de procedures consignees dans un Manuel de gestion financiere,
administrative et comptable (relatives A la Composante Societe Civile) et la mise en place
d'un systeme approprie pour 1'execution et le suivi. Dans ce cadre, I'agence devra mettre
en place un systeme informatise de gestion financiere comportant (i) un plan de comptes de
la comptabilite generale, (ii) une codification analytique et budgetaire, (iii) des principes
comptables repondant aux normes intemationales avec les principaux schemas de
comptabilisation des operations, format du projet, modeles des documents de synthese des
operations tels que les etats financiers, les journaux (banque, caisse, engagements, etc.),
(iv) un systeme d'archivage des pieces justificatives et autres documents A produire lors des
audits intemes et extemes qui seront effectues periodiquement pendant l1ex6cution du
Programme, (v) un systeme de suivi des realisations, etc.
L'application d'un systeme informatise de suivi-evaluation technique des operations (en accord
avec la CIS/LS): Le systeme devra faire ressortir les decaissements par promoteur, zone
geographique (region, departement, localite, village ), par groupe cible (nombre de
personnes touchees), par categorie de promoteur, par categories de depenses, et par axe
strategique de la lutte (Prevention, Prise en charge et soutien socioeconomique,
Renforcement des capacites, etc. ) et activites;
L'assurance que tous les documents comptables sont conformes aux dispositifs institutionnels de
la Coordination intersectorielle et de l'IDA;
La preparation et l'appui aux missions de contr6le exteme (ex.: auditeurs independants,
missions de supervision de la Banque mondiale, inspection generale des finances et
inspection generale d'Etat
L'application des differentes recommandations des missions de controle externe.
- 78 -



ACCORD DE MISE EN OEUVRE D'UN PLAN D'ACTION D'UN MINISTERE
TECHNIQUE/AGENCE D'EXECUTION PUBLIQUE POUR LA LUTrE CONTRE LES
ISTMVIH/SIDA
ACCORD NO.:
Le present Accord conclu entre le Conseil National de Lutte contre les IST/VIH/SIDA (CNLS)
ci-apres designe <CNLS>) represente par le president du comite d'approbation des sous projets, d'une
part, et le Ministere Technique/l'Agence d'execution Publique pour la Lutte Contre les IST/VIH/SIDA
de                    (ci-apres designe <1 Agence>), d'autre part fixe les modalites d'allocation et de
gestion des fonds pour la mise en oeuvre d'un plan d'action de la Ministere Technique /Agence
d'execution publique selon les conditions ci-apres determinees.
1.     NATURE ET OBJET DE L'ACCORD
Le President du Comite d'approbation autorise la Coordination Intersectorielle de Lutte Contre
les ISTMVH/SIDA (CIS/LS) a mettre des fonds IDA pour le Projet d'Appui au Programme Multisectoriel
de Lutte contre le VIH/SIDA (MAP) a la disposition de I Agence de                 le
montant de __Francs CFA couvrant la periode de _                            a
afin de lui permettre de financer ses activites inscrites dans son plan d'action approuv6 et
presentees en annexe.
Le montant decaisse sera depense conformement au Manuel de procedures de gestion
decentralisee des fonds du MAP.
II.    OBLIGATION du Ministere Technique /Agence d'execution Publique pour la Lutte Contre les
IST/VIHSIDA.
Execution des activites
* Executer ses activites conformement a son plan d'action de maniere diligente et efficace selon les
normes et politiques en vigueur et conformement au Manuel de procedures de gestion decentralis&e
des fonds du MAP.
* Tenir une comptabilite de toutes les depenses faites pendant l'execution des activites et conserver les
factures et autres pieces justificatives bien classees dans un dossier pendant une periode de dix (10)
ans;
*   Soumettre au visa du DAF du Ministere Technique /Agence d'execution Publique pour la Lutte
Contre les IST/VIH/SIDA les pieces justificatives des depenses eligibles dans le cadre du present
accord;
*   Utiliser les biens et les services financ6s par les fonds octroyes exclusivement dans le cadre des
activites pour lesquels ils ont e  acquis;
* Foumir a la CISLS et joindre aux demandes de paiement des rapports financiers et des rapports
d'activites trimestriels dans lesquels il fera ressortir les resultats atteints.
III.   MODALITES DE PAIEMENTS AU COMPTE du Ministere Technique /Agence d'execution
Publique pour la Lutte Contre les IST/VII/SIDA
Le compte de l'Agence sera alimente par les ressources provenant uniquement des fonds du
projet.
Le paiement initial du compte de l'Agence se fait sur la base des activites prevues pour une
-79 -



periode de quatre mois et un budget annuel de I'Agence adopt6 par le Comite d'approbation. Une copie de
l'Accord  approuve pour l'Agence sera presentee a la CIS/LS pour obtenir le premier paiement.
Les paiements suivants seront effectues sur presentation a la CIS/LS des documents ci-apres:
a) la demande de fonds signee par le Ministre (ou chef) de I'Agence;
b) I'etat certifie des depenses;
c) 1'etat de rapprochement du compte d'avance;
d) le dernier releve bancaire annote;
e) les Etats financiers couvrant une periode de trois mois;
f) le rapport d'activites;
g) I'Etat previsionnel des depenses pour le trimestre suivant et le prograrmme d'activite
budgetis&.
Le premier paiement couvrira les besoins de quatre (4) mois de depenses et les paiements
suivants seront effectues sur la base de previsions trimestrielles.
Les fonds verses par la CIS/LS sur un compte restant inactif pendant une periode de trois mois
devront etre reverses integralement au compte de la CIS/LS.
IV.    LA COMPTTABILITI
Le comptable de l'Agence tient une comptabilite de toutes les depenses.
11 conserve les originaux de toutes les pieces justificatives et transmet l'Ftat certifie des depenses
au DAF de l'Agence pour visa.
V.     AUDIT
L'Agence autorise a tout moment la CIS/LS et/ou les Cabinets d'audits independants recrutes par
la CIS/LS, l'Inspection Generale des finances, le Ministere de l'Economie et des Finances et/ou toute
autre mission chargee d'une mission de verification, a consulter les livres comptables et documents
concemant les operations financees, a verifier le materiel achet6 ou les resultats des activites realisees et
a communiquer tous les renseignements necessaires.
VI.    ANNULATION DE L'ACCORD
Sur proposition de La CISLS, le Comite d'approbation peut annuler l'Accord pour les raisons suivantes:
a) quand le Ministre Technique/ I'Agence ne remplit pas ses obligations conformement au present
accord;
b) quand les fonds sont detournes ou utilises a d'autres fins que celles contenues dans le plan
d'action du Ministere Technique /Agence d'execution Publique pour la Lutte Contre les
-80 -



IST/VIH/SIDA;
Le remboursement des fonds detournes ou utilises pour des depenses ineligibles sera effectue
conformement a la loi applicable au Niger.
c) quand le Comite d'approbation d&cide d'annuler l'Accord, son President en informe par ecrit du
Ministere Technique /Agence d'execution Publique pour la Lutte Contre les IST/VIH/SIDAdes
raisons de cette annulation qui prend effet inmmediatement apres reception de la notification.
VII. ENTREE EN VIGUEUR
Le present Accord prend effet et a valeur obligatoire des sa signature par les deux parties.
Date _
Pour I'Agence   Pour le CNLS/ Le president du Comite d'approbation
Signature:
Nom:
Titre:
-81 -



Additional Annex 12: Monitoring and Evaluation
NIGER: THE MULTISECTORAL STI/HIV/AIDS SUPPORT PROJECT
Le suivi et l'evaluation des projets dans le domaine de la sante et de la lutte contre le SIDA ont
et generalement assures dans le passe au travers des divers rapports d'activit6 des projets et de leurs
diverses composantes, des audits effectues et des rapports de differentes missions d'evaluation.
L'experience acquise, et le souci d'une evaluation allant au dela de la simple verification de la
realisation des activites programmees (verification necessaire mais de portee limitee) ont conduit A
inclure desormais de maniere systematique dans tous les projets, une dimension propre << Suivi et
Evaluation >>.
Les objectifs vises par la mise en place d'un plan specifique << Suivi et Evaluation >> sont de deux
types. n1 s'agit tout d'abord d'assurer le suivi en continu des activites. Ensuite, il s'agit de doter les
decideurs des outils leur permettant, au delA du suivi, d'assurer une evaluation permanente du
programme, afm qu'ils puissent en cas de besoin (de retard, de dysfonctionnements ou d'evenements
imprevus), d'introduire les corrections necessaires a la poursuite de maniere satisfaisante de la mise en
ceuvre du projet et a sa bonne marche. Ce plan est donc A la fois, un instrument permettant de mesurer la
performance du projet et un outil de gestion pour les decideurs. Un autre objectif rajeur vise par ce plan
est le renforcement des capacites du Gouvemement du Niger en matiere de suivi et d'6valuation et de
recherches.
Le plan << Suivi et Evaluation >> ne doit donc etre considere comme une activite parallele sans lien
operationnel reelle avec 1'execution du projet. II doit etre considere au contraire comme partie integrante
du projet et de son execution. L'utilisation des indicateurs au sein de ce plan de suivi et d'evaluation
pour guider l'allocation des ressources est un element important qu'il convient de mentionner ici,
particulierement que la CIS/LS aura a developper des conventions avec les principaux acteurs impliques
dans la gestion et la mise en euvre du projet et du programme. 11 faut souligner ici cependant qu'un
performance sub-optimale ne signifiera pas necessairement l'arret des appuis au volet concern6,
particulierement si la faible performance n'est pas liee A des raisons sous le controle de l'agence ou
organisme de mise en euvre.
Le premier projet de plan << Suivi et Evaluation >> presente ci dessous a e  elabore A partir des
discussions qui ont lieu a Niamey lors de la mission de la Banque mondiale au Niger du ler au 15
novembre 2002. Ce projet est aussi le resultat des differents contacts et de plusieurs reunions
preparatoires qui se sont tenues a Niamey au Niger en septembre et en octobre 2002, avec divers acteurs
locaux, en particulier avec le personnel de la Banque en poste a Niamey, et avec les membres du
personnel du CIS/LS (Coordination Intersectorielle de Lutte contre les IST/VIHSIDA. L'elaboration de
ce premier projet de plan de << Suivi et Evaluation )> s'appuie egalement sur l'examen de plusieurs
documents, en particulier: le Manuel Operationnel Suivi et Evaluation (7ieme edition du 7 novembre
2001), le << Project Appraisal Document >> (version de fm octobre 2002), les resultats disponibles de
l'enquete nationale sur la sero prevalence au Niger; realisee en 2002 par CARE, et largement financ6e
par la Banque.
Ce rapport inclut les parties suivantes:
-      la liste des indicateurs retenus au stade actuel
-      les mecanismes de suivi et evaluation
-      une definition de la nature des indicateurs et du role des principaux acteurs impliquees dans la
gestion et la mise en ceuvre du projet et du programme
-      une identification des couts que supposent la mise en euvre de ce plan.
-82 -



une breve liste des actions a entreprendre d'ici a fin decembre 2002.
Le projet qui fait l'objet du plan < Suivi et Evaluation >> ci dessous, est finance par la Banque Mondiale.
11 s'inscrit cependant dans le cadre plus general du Programme National de Lutte de Lutte contre les
ISTMIVHSID du Niger. Ce programme national est pilote par un Conseil National, appuye par une
coordination intersectorielle (CIS/LS) (voir figure 8, page 45 du Cadre Strategique National de Lutte
contre les IST/VIH/SIDA, 2002-2006, Niamey mai 2002). Cette coordination joue le r6le de secretariat
pour le Conseil National.
Le Conseil National comprend une quarantaine de membres. II se reunit deux fois par an sous la
presidence du President de la Republique (annexe 3 du Cadre Strategique National). La CIS/LS est
placee sous l'autorite du Premier Ministre. Elle est dirigee par un coordonnateur, et comprend
actuellement six directions techniques dont une direction < Suivi et Evaluation )>. Le Conseil National est
represente au niveau des regions (actuelles prefectures) par un comite regional preside par le Prefet, et au
niveau de chaque sous- region (actuelles sous-prefectures) par un comite sous- regional preside par le
sous-prefet.
Le Conseil national definit les grandes orientations d'ensemble du programme national, et la
CIS/LS est chargee de la coordination et de la gestion du programme et du projet (annexe 3 du Cadre
Strategique National).
Les activites prevues dans le cadre du programme et du projet seront realisees a differents niveaux
geographiques: regions (actuels departements), sous-regions (actuels arrondissements), cantons, et
villages. Elles seront realisees par diverses structures du secteur public et de la societe civile
(Organisations de la Societe Civile : OSC, Organisations a Base Communautaire : OBC, Structures du
secteur prive, etc.). Les groupes vises sont la population generale et les groupes a risques particuliers
(jeunes, militaires, enseignants, conducteurs, prisonniers, professionnels du sexe), les personnes vivant
avec le VIWSIDA (PVVIH), et les personnes subissant l'impact de l'epidemie (famille des sero- positifs
et des PVVIH).
Les mecanismes de suivi et d'evaluation presentes ci-dessous se referent d'abord au projet
2002-2006 finance par la Banque Mondiale. Cependant ce projet constituant un appui au programme
national, plus large, de lutte contre les IST et le VWSIDA, ces mecanismes sont concus de facon a
permettre la gestion et le suivi de l'ensemble du programme national, a moyen et a long terme, une fois
que le plan national i moyen terne aura e defini (PMT3).
Les indicateurs retenus
Les indicateurs retenus sont decrits ci-dessous. Ils ont et arretes apres un examen attentif des
propositions faites a ce sujet dans:
1)    le Cadre strategique national de lutte contre les IST/VIH/SIDA;
2)    le << Project Appraisal Document > (version de fin octobre 2002);
3)    le Manuel Op6rationnel Suivi et Evaluation (7ieme edition du 7 novembre 2001)/
Ces indicateurs ont ete selectionnes apres discussions a Niamey les 5-6 et 7 novembre, entre divers
representants de la mission de la Banque mondiale et du bureau de la Banque a Niamey, ceux du
Gouvemement nigerien ( Commissaire au suivi et a l'evaluation au Ministere de la Sante, les responsable
du suivi et de l'evaluation a la CIS/LS), et plusieurs consultants. La selection de ces indicateurs a e
faite, apres un examen attentif de leur signification par rapport aux objectifs du projet (objectif general et
-83 -



sous- populations particulieres concernees), et des possibilites de collecte des donnees necessaires a leur
calcul. Par exemple il n'est pas trop difficile de collecter des donnees deja fournies par le projet ou par
d'autres services sur une base reguliere, mais il peut etre necessaire d'organiser des operations de
collecte. Dans tous les cas il faut determiner l'organisme ou le service charg6 de la collecte et estimer les
cofit et les possibilites de financement de la collecte. 11 faut egalement tenir compte de la periodicite et ia
disponibilite des donnees, etc. II est important que le suivi de ces indicateurs soit concu de maniere
simple et pragmatique. Ce plan d'evaluation et de suivi fera l'objet de concertations avec les principaux
acteurs impliques dans la gestion et la mise en ouvre du progranme , tant au niveau central que regional,
au cours d'ateliers de travail qui se tiendront au mois de decembre 2002 (voir page 9 du document).
II est utile de rappeler ici que les deux objectifs principaux du projet sont de prevenir l'extension
des IST et de l'6pidemie du VIH/SIDA au Niger par diverses actions d'EEC, de sensibilisation et de
plaidoyer, et d'apporter diverses formes d'appui ou de soutien aux personnes vivant avec le VIH/SIDA et
aux personnes subissant les consequences de l'epidemie.
Ces indicateurs ont ete classes en: a) indicateurs de performance, b) indicateurs de processus, et c)
indicateurs d'impact, comme les trois documents principaux utilises (voir ci-dessus). Ces indicateurs
concernent les diverses composantes du projet: i) appui au secteur public (notamment aux Ministeres
Chefs de File, ii) appui a la societe civile au travers notamment l'appui aux organisations
communautaires de base, et aux organisations de la societe civile, iii) le renforcement des capacites
institutionnelles, et iv) la gestion du projet..
n va de soi que le o Suivi et Evaluation >> du projet, et les indicateurs qui lui sont associes, sont
indissociables du projet lui-meme, et de son bon fonctionnement. A ce sujet, il faut souligner
I'importance pour la collecte en continu des donnres necessaires a la construction des indicateurs des
reunions periodiques du Conseil National, et de celles de la Coordination Intersectorielle (CIS/LS) sur
lesquelles devrait s'appuyer en partie les mecanismes de mise en ceuvre du plan < Suivi et Evaluation >.
La mise en place des nouvelles regions et sous regions n'est pas achev6e , mais ceci ne constitue
pas un probleme pour la mise en place et le fonctionnement des comite regionaux et sous -regionaux
puisque les nouvelles regions et sous regions correspondent au decoupage actuel en prefectures et
sous-prefectures. In faut cependant souligner que les activites du Ministere de la Sante Publique sont
organisees a partir de 42 districts sanitaires (et que certains de ces districts ne sont pas entierement
fonctionnels). II faut donc garder a l'esprit que des adaptations seront probablement necessaires au cours
du projet en fonction de l'evolution du fonctionnement des nouvelles regions et sous-regions et des mises
a niveau eventuelles qui pourraient s'averer necessaires dans certains districts sanitaires.
Au total, I'objet du plan de suivi et evaluation decrit ci-dessous, n'est pas de se substituer aux
etudes et recherches sur l'efficacite des actions entreprises dans le cadre du projet,. ni de completer
l'evaluation courante des activites et des programmes realises par les differentes composantes du projet.
L'objectif de ce plan est en fait de fournir une liste limitee d'indicateurs de performance, de processus et
d'impact, permettant d'avoir de maniere quasi continue pour les deux premiers types d'indicateurs, une
image d'ensemble de l'execution et de l'etat d'avancement des diverses activites programmees. Pour les
indicateurs d'impact, qui requierent generalement des enquetes specifiques, la disponibilite de ceux-ci est
fonction de la frequence de ces enquetes.
-84 -



Plan ((Suivi et Evaluation ) Liste des indicateurs au 20 janvier 2003, par Jean-Pierre GUENGANT
A - Indicateurs d'impact
1. A la date d'achevement du Projet, respectivement 30 pour cent des hommes et 15 pour
cent des femmes de 15 A 49 ans, auront utilise un preservatif au cours de leur plus recent
rapport sexuel A risque.
2. A la date d'achevement du Projet, respectivement 40 pour cent des hommes et 20 pour
cent des femmes de 15 A 24 ans, auront utilise un preservatif au cours de leur plus recent
rapport sexuel A risque.
3. A la date d'achevement du Projet, la prevalence du VIH/SIDA chez les adultes de 15 a 49
ans n'aura pas augmente.
4. A la date d'achevement du Projet, la prevalence du VIH/SIDA parmi les groupes A risques
n'aura pas augmente, jeunes, militaires, enseignants, conducteurs, prisonniers, professionnels
du sexe.
5. Reduction de la prevalence de la syphilis parmi les groupes a risques: jeunes, militaires,
enseignants, conducteurs, prisonniers, professionnels du sexe.
6. Reduction de la prevalence des IST chez les femmes enceintes, A la date d'achevement du
Projet.
7. A la date d'achevement du Projet, la prevalence du VIH/SIDA chez les femmes enceintes
n'aura pas augmente.
B - Indicateurs de resultat
8. Des services de conseil et de depistage volontaire (CDV) seront disponibles dans les huit
capitales regionales A la fin.de la deuxieme annee du projet.
9. Des services de depistage pour la securite transfusionnelle seront disponibles dans la
moitie des 42 districts sanitaires d'ici la fin du projet.
10. Nombre de personnes vivant avec le VIH/SIDA (PVVIH) beneficiant chaque annee des
sous projets mis en oeuvre par les OBC et les OSC
11. Nombre de personnes subissant l'impact de l'epidemie beneficiant chaque annee de sous
projets mis en ruvre par les OBC et les OSC.
12. Nombre d'orphelins beneficiant chaque annee de sous projets mis en ceuvre par les OBC
et les OSC.
13. Nombre de femmes enceintes testees positives dans les sites sentinelles recevant un
traitement de prevention de transmission mere enfant.
14. Nombre de personnes testees positives dans les services de depistage recevant un
traitement de prevention des infections opportunistes.
15. Nombre de personnes qui ont utilise les services de depistage et de conseil pendant
I'annee pr6c6dente.
C - Indicateurs de Processus/Intrants
16. Un plan de communication strategique est elabore par le CISLS dans les six premiers
mois du projet.
17. Nombre d'actions d'IEC entreprises pendant la duree du projet, conformement au plan de
communication strategique pour la composante publique.
18. Nombre d'actions d'IEC entreprises pendant la dur6e du projet, conformement au plan de
communication strategique pour la composante societe civile.
19. La CISLS a elabore le plan A moyen terme de Lutte contre les IST et le VIH/SIDA, avant
la fin juin 2003.
20. Chaque ann6e, la CISLS developpe un plan d'actions tire du plan A moyen terme et
-85 -



comprenant diverses activites prioritaires de ptrvention et de support aux PVVS ainsi qu'A
leurs familles, et rendent compte des activites qu'elles a realisees I'ann6e precedente.
21. Nombre de plans d'actions developpes chaque annee par les Ministeres sectoriels tires du
plan a moyen terme et comprenant diverses activites prioritaires de prevention et de support
aux PVVIH et A leurs familles, et nombre de comptes rendus produits par les Ministeres des
activites realisees l'annee precedente.
22. Chaque annee, les 8 Comites Regionaux de Lutte contre les IST et le VEH/SIDA
developpent un plan d'actions tire du plan a moyen terme, et comprenant les activites
prioritaires de prevention et de support aux PVVIH ainsi qu'A leurs familles, et rendent
compte des activites qu'ils ont realisees l'annee precedente.
23. Nombre d'associations de personnes vivant avec le VEH/SIDA ayant developpe un plan
d'actions de support aux PVVIH ainsi qu'A leurs familles, et ayant rendu compte des activites
qu'ils ont realisees l'annee precedente.
24. Huit seminaires regionaux, regroupant chacun une trentaine de participants seront
organises les deux premieres annees A l'intention des personnels medicaux et para m6dicaux
des districts sanitaires les plus exposes, pour les former en EEC relatives aux IST et au
VIWSIDA, ainsi qu'en conseil en prevention de la transmission mere enfant, et en soins -
conseils A l'intention des personnes atteintes du VWIHSIDA.
25. Huit seminaires regionaux, regroupant chacun de 20 A 30 participants seront organises les
deux premieres annees A l'intention des tradipraticiens des districts sanitaires les plus
exposes, pour les former en IEC relatives aux IST et au VIWSIDA, et en soins - conseils A
l'intention des personnes atteintes du VIHISIDA.
26. Huit seminaires regionaux, regroupant chacun de 20 A 30 participantes seront organises
les deux premieres annees A l'intention des matrones des districts sanitaires les plus exposes,
pour les former en EEC relatives aux IST et au VIWSIDA, ainsi qu en conseil en prevention
de la transmission mere enfant, et en soins - conseils A l'intention des personnes atteintes du
VIWSIDA.
27. Nombre de sous-projets mis en oeuvre parles OBC d'une part, et par les OSC d'autre part,
pendant la duree du projet par groupes cibles retenus: jeunes, militaires, enseignants,
conducteurs, prisonniers, professionnels du sexe, personnes vivant avec le VIWSIDA
(PVVIH) et personnes subissant l'impact de l'epidemie.
28. Taux de consonumation des enveloppes allouees au programmes de travail pour le secteur
publique (categorie de decaissement #6) et pour la societe civile (categorie de decaissement
#7)
29. Prealables pour la mise en place des services ARV remplies.
Les mecanismes de suivi et evaluation
Compte tenu de l'existence et de la structuration du CISLS, il n'est pas envisage d'avoir recours a
un cabinet prive exteme qui serait responsable A la fois de la gestion financiere et du suivi et
evaluation du projet. En fait, a l'interieur de la CISLS, la Direction des Affaires Financieres sera
chargee de la gestion financiere, et la Direction Suivi et Evaluation, devrait etre capable de
coordonner l'ensemble des activites correspondantes et de centraliser les donnees necessaires aux
calcul des indicateurs, collectes A un niveau << decentralise )> (au niveau des regions et des
composantes du projet). 11 va de soi cependant que les deux fonctions: gestion financiere et suivi et
evaluation doivent etre exercees en synergie, et il faut mentionner A ce sujet l'existence sur le marche
de logiciels permettant l'integration de ces deux fonctions.
- 86 -



11 faut souligner a nouveau l'importance pour la collecte en continu des donnees necessaires a la
construction des indicateurs des reunions periodiques du Conseil National, et de celles de la
Coordination Intersectorielle sur lesquelles devraient s'appuyer en partie les mecanismes de mise en
ceuvre du plan o Suivi et Evaluation >>. Pour realiser le plan < suivi et Evaluation >> propose, il est
recommande d'utiliser au mieux les ressources du projet (ressources financieres, mais aussi structure
et capacit6s d'organisation du projet, et ressources humaines). Concemant l'organisation, plut6t que
de mettre sur pied un groupe de travail specifique << Suivi et Evaluation >>, il est propose de s'appuyer
sur les reunions periodiques (tous les trois mois ?) de la Coordination Intersectorielle organisees
avec l'ensemble des composantes du projet.
Lors des reunions trimestrielles de la Coordination Intersectorielle, il est propose qu'un point de
leur ordre du jour soit systematiquement consacre au << Suivi et Evaluation >. Sous ce point de l'ordre
de jour, on devra faire le point des activites de collecte, de preparation, et de fmalisation et de
diffusion du rapport (< Suivi et Evaluation >> qu'il est propose de publier tous les 6 mois, en meme
temps que les rapports semestriels ( ?) d'activites du projet. Un chronograrnme detaille de mise en
ceuvre et d'organisation du suivi et de l'evaluation sera elabore avant le demarrage effectif du projet.
Le fait d'appuyer la mise en oeuvre du << Suivi et Evaluation >> sur les reunions de la Coordination
Intersectorielle presente plusicurs avantages. Le premier de ces avantages est de ne pas dissocier
l'exercice de suivi et evaluation de son objet principal, qui reste le controle de la bonne marche du
projet. L'association a l'ordre du jour de ces reunions de sujets relevant du suivi et de l'evaluation,
devrait garantir une bonne participation et la sensibilisation de tous a ces sujets. En evitant la
multiplication des reunions, cette association est une source de gains en temps, energie et frais de
deplacement. Ceci dit, en cas de besoin, en particulier lorsque que par manque de temps, les
problemes << Suivi et Evaluation > n'auront pas e  abordes en profondeur, il conviendra d'organiser
une reunion ad hoc sur le sujet. D'autres reunions ad hoc pourront d'ailleurs etre organisees pour
discuter de certains aspects techniques lies au suivi et a l'evaluation en tant que de besoins. A ce
sujet, le responsable << Suivi et Evaluation >> de la CISLS devra etablir des contacts individuels avec
tous les services, organisations, et personnes concernees, et pouvoir prendre l'initiative d'organiser
des reunions au niveau central avec les principaux intervenants, beneficiaires et fournisseurs de
donnees du projet n6cessaires a l'etablissement des indicateurs. 11 reste que toutes les activites suivi
et l'evaluation doivent etre organisees et realisees sous l'autorite du Coordonnateur du projet. n1 en va
de meme concemant la preparation, la redaction et la diffusion du Rapport << Suivi et Evaluation >>
qu'il est propose de publier tous les 6 mois, en meme temps que les rapports semestriels d'activites
du projet (par exemple en Annexe).
Contenu
Les 26 indicateurs proposes (voir ci-dessous) sont coherents avec les indicateurs de suivi
couranunent utilises par les secteurs concernes (Ministere de la Sante en particulier) et les definitions
acceptees et utilisees au niveau international (entre autres, avec les Indicateurs de prevention
developpes par ONUSIDA, et les definitions utilisees dans les enquetes de demographie et de sante
ou EDS).
Publication et diffusion
Tel qu'indique precedemment, il est recommande que le rapport << Suivi et Evaluation >> soit
prepare et publi6 en meme temps que le rapport semestriel du projet. Ainsi deux rapports <( Suivi et
Evaluation >> seraient publies par an, le premier debut 2004 (si le projet demarre effectivement mi
2003) le second mi 2004, etc.
-87 -



La publication d'un rapport semestriel << Suivi et Evaluation >> sous forme d'une annexe au
rapport annuel du projet presente plusieurs avantages. Tout d'abord, les destinataires de ce rapport
sont les memes que ceux (nombreux et representatifs des divers Ministeres, services, et autres
institutions interesses par le projet) qui retoivent les rapports semestriels d'activites du projet. Ainsi,
ce mode de diffusion a l'avantage de faciliter la comprehension des elements << Suivi et Evaluation >>,
en les repla9ant de maniere transparente dans le cadre d'ensemble du projet.
Ces rapports semestriels pourraient comprendre les elements distincts suivants:
I) une breve introduction presentant le rapport;
2) le tableau des indicateurs retenus avec leurs valeurs pour le semestre considere, (ou la derniere
valeur connue, avec indication de la periode de reference pour les indicateurs pour lesquels on ne
dispose pas de nouvelles donnees);
3) des le second rapport, un tableau rappelant les valeurs publiees pour les semestres precedents et le
cumul des valeurs connues, ceci evidemment pour les indicateurs pour lesquels un cumul est possible
(a noter que certains indicateurs ne seront etablis que pour le debut et la fin du projet ainsi que, si
possible, en milieu de projet);
4) une partie < commentaires ~> s'appuyant sur les remarques faites lors des reunions ou mieux sur les
compte-rendus des reunions de la CISLS avec les composantes (on s'attachera en particulier aux
commentaires sur les resultats observes par rapport aux resultats attendus, aux remarques sur les
obstacles rencontres dans l'execution des activites programmees, et sur les recommandations faites et
les mesures identifiees susceptibles d'aider a la solution des problemes rencontres) ; et
5) un rappel des definitions exactes des indicateurs retenus.
In est enfin recommande qu'un rapport final couvrant l'ensemble de la periode du projet, soit
etabli. Ce rapport devra constituer un bilan complet et objectif de r6alisations de l'ensemble des
activites prevues et de leur impact, en integrant tous les elements pertinents a cette evaluation
d'ensemble.
Tel qu 'indique plus haut, un chronogramme detaille de mise en euvre et d'organisation du suivi
et de l'evaluation sera elabore avant le demarrage effectif du projet..
Definition de la nature des indicateurs et du r6le des principaux acteurs impliouees
Les principales caracteristiques des indicateurs et les r6les respectifs des principales instances
impliquees dans la gestion et la rnise en ceuvre du projet et du programme sont precisees dans le
tableau suivant .
Identification des cofits que supposent la mise en ceuvre de ce plan.
Les couts specifiques ( c'est a dire hors des activites prevues dans le cadre du projet) a prevoir
dans le cadre du << Suivi et de l'Evaluation >> concement
1) le financement d'une enquete de type DHS ou autres (IPP) sous contrat a negocier et a preparer
par le CISLS ; les couits de cette enquete etant substantiels, il conviendra de discuter de ce point
specifique au cours des ateliers de decembre). A ce sujet, DHS est en train de d6velopper un module
specifique pour le suivi et I evaluation des programmes de VIHWSIDA. Si ce module est disponible
d'ici la fin du projet, il sera l'instrument privilegie.
2) le financement d'une enquete de sero prevalence identique a celle realisee en 2002 par CARE;
3) et vraisemblablement un appui aux activites des sites sentinelles (qui relevent du Ministere de la
- 88-



Sante, comme appui du projet au Ministere pour l'implantation des nouveaux sites et operationnels).
4) 'Des en4uetes type analyse aupres des beneficiaires, seront conduites A la'mi-parcours et A la fin
du projet. 7ela n'exclut pas la possibilite de petites enquetes ponctuelles de ce genre dans certaines
regions pourinesurer le dynamisme des activites mises en euvre.
5) La recherche operationnelle aura egalement une place importante dans la mise en oeuvre des
activites du projet.
6) Des ateliers de formations de cadre en matiere de suivi et d'evaluation.
Les financements des activites au niveau des regions et sous regions devraient inclure les cofits
correspondant aux activites des comites regionaux et sous regionaux. En general, il est prevu qu'une
enveloppe d'environ 8 A 10% de 1'ensemble des cofits du projet devrait suffire a la mise en place
d'un programine solide d'evaluation et de suivi.
Liste des actions A entreprendre au ler semestre 2003.
II convient tout d'abord de prevoir et organiser un ou deux ateliers ( un A Niamey plus un en
prefecture: Tillaberi ou A Tahoua) de travail avec les principales instances concemres par la gestion
et la mise en aeuvre des principales composantes du projets, au niveau central et regional afin de
revoir dans le detail la pertinence des indicateurs proposees et la pertinence des mecanismes de suivi
et evaluation A tous les niveaux impliques dans la mise en ceuvre du projet et du programme.
A ce sujet, le responsable suivi et evaluation de la CISLS devra rapidement:
a) Bien definir l'objectif de I'atelier et son contenu
b) Etablir la liste des participants
c) Fixer le lieu de l'atelier
d) Finaliser le programme: nombre de jours, liste des intervenants, temps des interventions et temps
lasse A a discussion
e) Etablir un budget pour ces ateliers
f) Finaliser un premier projet de manuel operationnel de suivi et evaluation (premier semestre
2003).
-89-



Caracteristiques des indicateurs retenus
Indicateurs        Type de donnees       Service          Periodicite      Population/     Type indice      Cible/
Responsable /       publication        univers         /unite        Objectif
Source
A. Indicateurs de
performance
Des services de conseil et Administratives  Ministere de la  Trimestriel (dans  Sites de CDV   % cumule de     Couverture de
de depistage volontaire  (collectees en   Sante Publique     rapports d'activites  par region  regions         toutes les
(CDV) seront disponibles  continu)        (SNIS /Dir.Plani   du MSP)                           couvertes       regions
dans les huit capitales                  fication)
regionales a la fin de la
deuxieme annee du projet.
Des services de depistage  Administratives  Ministere de la  Trimestriel (dans  Formations     % cumule de      Couverture
pour la securite         (collectees en   Sante Publique     rapports d'activites  Sanitaires dans districts ou des  d'au moins
transfusionnelle seront  continu)         (SNIS /Dir.Plani   du MSP)             les Districts  services sont   50% des
disponibles dans la moitie                fication)                              sanitaires     disponibles     districts
des 42 districts sanitaires                                                                                     sanitaires
d'ici la fin du projet.
*    Huit seminaires     Administratives  Ministere de la    Trimestriel (dans  Nombre de      Nombre cumule    8 semi-naires
regionaux, regroupant    (disponibles en  Sante Publique     rapports d'activites  seminaires   de seminaires   organises et
chacun de 20 a 30        fonction des                        du MSP)             organises et de  organises et de  de 160 a 240
participants seront      activites)                                              personnes      personnes       personnes
organises les deux                                                               formees        formees         formees
premieres annees a
l'intention des de
tradi-praticiens des
districts sanitaires les plus
exposes pour les former
en IEC relatifs aux IST et
au VIH/SIDA, et en soins
- conseils a l'intention des
personnes atteintes du
VIHISIDA
*    Huit seminaires     Administratives  Ministere de la    Trimestriei (dans  Nombre de       Nombre cumuMi   8 semi-naires
regionaux, regroupant    (disponibles en  Sante Publique     rapports d'activites  seminaires   de seminaires   organises et
chacun de 20 a 30        fonction des                        du MSP)             organises et de  organises et de  de 160 a 240
participantes seront     activites)                                              personnes      personnes       personnes
organis.s les deux                                                               formees        formees         formees
premieres annees a
I'intention des matrones
des districts sanitaires
les plus exposes pour
les former en IEC
relatifs aux IST et au
VIH/SIDA ainsi qu'en
conseil en prevention
de la transmission mere
enfant, et en soins -
conseils a l'intention
des personnes atteintes
du VIHISIDA.            .
X sous projets ont et    Administratives  CISLS              Trimestriel (dans   Nombre de      Nombre cumule   Nombre de
mis en ecuvre par les                                        rapports d'activites  projets mnis en  de projets mis  projets mis en
OBC et Y projets ont                                         du CISLS)          acuvre par type  en auvre par   cruvre par
e  mis en <auvre par                                                             de             type de         type de
les OSC, pour chacun                                                             beneficiaires  ben6ficiaires   beneficiaires
des groupes cibles                                                                                              conformemen
- 90-



retenus: jeunes,                                                                                           t au PMT3
militaires, enseignants,
conducteurs,
prisonniers,
professionnels du sexe,-
personnes vivant avec
le VIH/SIDA
(PVVIH), et personnes
subissant l'impact de
I'epidemie.                                               .
Nombre de personnes    Administratives  CISLS             Trimestriel (dans  Personnes     Nombre de       Couvrir le
vivant avec le VIH/SIDA                                   rapports d'activites  vivant avec le  PVVIH benefi  plus grand
(PVVIH) beneficiant                                       du CISLS)          VIH/SIDA      ciaires des    nombre de
chaque annee des sous                                                                      projets mis en  PVVIH
projets mis en ceuvre par                                                                  oeuvre          beneficiaires
les OBC et les OSC                                                                                         des projets
mis en ceuvre
Nombre de personnes     Administratives CISLS             Trimestriel (dans  Personnes     Nombre de       Couvrir le
subissant l'impact de                                     rapports d'activites  subissant  beneficiaires des plus grand
l'epidemie beneficiant                                    du CISLS)          l'impact de   projets mis en  nombre de
chaque annee des sous                                                        1'epidemie    ctuvre subissant personnes
projets mis en cwuvre                                                                      l'impact de     beneficiaires
par les OBC et les OSC                                                                     I'epidemie      des projets
mis en cruvre
Nombre d'orphelins      Administratives CISLS             Trimestriel (dans  Orphelins de  Nombre          Couvrir le
beneficiant chaque                                        rapports d'activit6s  personnes  d'orphelins     plus grand
annee des sous projets                                    du CISLS)          deced6es du   beneficiaires des nombre
mis en ceuvre par les                                                        VIH/SIDA      projets mis en  d'orphelins
OBC et les OSC                                                    .cuvre                                   de personnes
decedees du
VIH/SIDA
Le nombre de           Administratives  Programme de      Trimestriel (dans  Preservatifs  Nombre cumule   Progression
preservatifs rendus    (collectees en  marketing social   rapports du        vendus a      de preservatifs  annuelle de
disponibles dans le pays continu)                         programme de       travers le    distribues et %  X%, et vente
par le programme de                                       marketing social)  programme de  d'augmentation  de X millions
marketing social                                                             marketing     sur 12 mois     de
maugicentera d'au moinssocial                                                                              preservaiifs
augmentera d'au moins                                                                                      pendant la
pour cent par an et                                                                                    duree du
atteindra( ... ) millions                                                                                  projet
par an la derniere ann6e
du projet.
Date d'achevement du
Projet.
B. Indicateurs de
processus
Un plan de              Administratives CISLS             Trimestriel (dans  Plan de       Existence d'un  R6alisation
communication                                             rapports d'activites  communicatio  lan de      d'un plan de
strategique est elabore                                   du CISLS)         n strategique  communication communicati
par le CISLS dans les                                                                      strategique     on
six premiers mois du                                                                               .       trategique
projet.
X actions d'IEC sont    dministratives  CISLS             Trimestriel (dans  Actions d'lEC  Nombre          eali
entreprises pendant la  (collectees en                    rapports d'activites entreprises  Cumule        sation
duree du projet,       continu)                           du CISLS)                        d'actions d'IEC des
conformement au plan                                                                       entreprises    action
de communication                                                                                          s
strategique pour la                                                                                       d'IEC
-91 -



composante publique et                                                                                    prevu
societe civile.                                                                                           es
dlans
le
*          ~~~Ian
.                     .            ~~~~~~~~~~de
com
munic
ation
strate
gique
La CISLS a elabore le  Administratives  CISLS             Trimestriel (dans  Plan a moyen  Existence d'un  Mali
plan a moyen terme de   collectees en                     rapports d'activites  terme     plan a moyen    sation
Lutte contre les IST et le continu)                       du CISLS)                       terme           d'un
VIH/SIDA, avant le 31                                                                                     plan a
mars 2003.                                                                                                moye
n
Chaque annee, la        Administratives  CISLS            Trimestriel (dans  Ensemble des  Existence ou    Preparation
CISLS developpe un      (collectees en                    rapports d'activites  services <  non: preparation d'un plan et
plan d'actions tire du  continu)                          du CISLS)         techniques > de de plan et d'un  de CR
plan a moyen terme et                                                        la CISLS      Compte Rendu    d'activites par
comprenant diverses                                                                        (CR) d'activites annee pour
..tivit6s prioritairs de                             .par service                                      les services
activites prioritaires de                                                                                  de la CISLS
prevention et de
support aux PVVS ainsi
qu'a leurs families, et
rendent compte des
activites qu'elle a
realisees l'ann6e
precedente
Chaque annee, les X     Administratives  Ministeres Chefs de Trimestriel (dans  Ensemble des  Existence ou  Preparation
Ministeres Chefs de     (disponibles en  File et leurs points  rapports d'activites  Ministeres .  non: preparation d'un plan et
File developpent un    fonction des     focaux             des Ministeres    Chefs de File  de plan et d'un  de CR
plan d'actions tire du  activites)                                           et leurs points  Compte Rendu  d'activites par
plan a moyen termne et                                                       focaux.       (CR) d'activites annee pour
mplanaont tiversese                                                                        par Mlinist6re  tous les
comprenant diverses                                                                                        Minist&e
activit6s prioritaires de                                                                                  chefs de file
prevention et de
support aux PVVS et a
leurs familles et rendent
compte des activites
qu'ils ont realisees
I'annee precedente.
Chaque annee, les 8     Administratives  CR/LS (Ministere  Trimestriel (dans  Ensemble des  Existence ou   Preparation,
Comites Regionaux       (disponibles en  de l'Interieur ?)  rapports d'activites  8 regions et  non: preparation plan et CR
de Lutte contre les    fonction des                       des CRILS          Prefectures   plan et Compte  d'activit6s par
IST et le VIH/SIDA      activites)                        (Ministere de      correspondante Rendu (CR)     annee pour
developpent un plan                                       I'lnterieur ?)     s             d'activites par  les 8 CR/LS
d'actions tire du plan                                                                     CR/LS
a moyen terme et
comprenant les
activites prioritaires
de prevention et de
92 -



support aux PVVS
ainsi qu'A.leurs
familles et rendent
compte des activites
qu'ils ont realisees
I'annee precedente.
Nombre                 Administratives  CISLS            Trimestriel (dans  Ensemble des  Existence ou  Preparation
d'associations de      (disponibles en                  rapports d'activites  associations  non: preparation d'un plan et
personnes vivant       fonction des                      de la CISLS       de personnes  de plan et d'un  de CR
avec le VIWSIDA        activites)                                          vivant avec le Compte Rendu  d'activites par
ayant developpe un                                                         VIH/SIDA.     (CR) d'activites annee pour
par association  toutes les
plan d'actions de                                                                                       associations
support aux PVWVS'
ainsi qu'a leurs
familles et ayant
rendu compte des
activit6s qu'ils ont
realisees I'ann6e
precedente.
Nombre de femmes       Administratives Ministere de la   Trimestriel (dans  Nombre de    Nombre cumule Traitement et
enceintes testees                      Sant6 Publique   rapports d'activites  femrnes    de femrnes     suivi de
positives dans les sites                                 du MSP)           enceintes     enceintes     1'ensemble
sentinelles recevant un                                                   testees        positives traitees des femmes
traitement de                                                              positives                   tensctes
prevention de                                                                                           positives
transmission mere
enfant ?
Nombre de personnes    Administratives Ministere de la   Trimestriel (dans  Nombre de    Nombre cumule  Traitement et
testees positives dans                 Sante Publique   rapports d'activites  personnes  de personnes   suivi de
les services de                                          du MSP)           testees       testees        1'ensemble de
depistage recevant un                                                      positives     positives      personnes
traitement de                                                                            traitees       testees
pr6vintion des                                                                                          positives
infections opportunistes
C. Indicateurs d'impact
A la date d'achevement Enquete         DHS- MACRO ou     Selon enquetes:   Population    % d'hommes /   Utilisation du
du Projet, 3 pour cent  nationale (de type Institut de   2004 ? ct 2006- mi  masculine /  de femmes     preservatif
des hommes de 15 a 49  DHS ou CACP)    Statistique ou autre  lieu et fin de projet? f6minine de  utilisant un  par 50% des
ans et 15 pourcent des                                                     15 A 49 ans   preservatif lors  adultes lors
femmes de 15 a 49 ans,                                                                   du demier rap  du demier
auront utilise un                                                                        port a risquse  rapport A
preservatif lors de leur                                                                                nsques
dernier contact sexuel
hors union dans les 12
derniers mois
A la date d'achevement Enquete         DHS- MACRO ou     Selon enquetes:   Jeunes        % d'utilisation  Utilisation du
du Projet, 40 pour cent  nationale (de type Institut de  2004 ? et 2006- mi  hommes/     preservatif lors  preservatif
des hommes, ages de 15 DHS ou CACP)    Statistique ou autre  lieu et fin de projet? femmes de 15  du denier rap  par 50% des
a 24 ans, et 20 pourcent                                                   A 24 ans ayant  port A risque  jeunes lors
des femmes auront                                                          des rapports a  chez jeunes de  du denier
aes~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iqe remmesn ruppntt.
utilise un preservatif                                                     rqsques       15 a 24 ans     apuepst a
lors de leur dernier
contact sexuel hors
-93 -



union dans les 12
derniers mois.
A la date d'achevement Suivi par sites  Ministere de la    Annuel ou          Femmes        Prevalence du   Reduction de
du Projet, la prevalence  sentinelles (en  Sante Publique  Semestriel         enceintes de 15 SIDA chez fem  25% de la
du VIHSIDA chez les     continu)                                              A 24 ans      mes enceintes   preva lence
femmes enceintes, ag6es                                                                     de 15 a 24 ans  du SIDA chez
de 15 a 24 ans, aura                                                                        en consultation  les femmes
dirninu.                                                                                    prenatale       enceintes de
______      _                  1 A5 a 24 ans
Reduction de la         Suivi par sites  Ministere de la   Annuel ou          Fenmmes       Prevalence des  Reduction de
pr6valence des IST chez sentinelles (en  Sante Publique    Semnestriel        enceintes     IST chez fem    la prevalence
les femmes enceintes, a  continu)                                                           mes enceintes   des IST chez
la date d'achevement du                                                                     en consultation  les femmes
Projet                                                                                      prenatale       enceintes
Reduction de la         Suivi par sites  Ministere de la   Annuel ou          Femmes         Prevalence des  Reduction de
prevalence des IST chez sentinelles (en  Sante Publique    Semestriel         enceintes de 15 IST chez fem  la preva lence
les femmes enceintes    continu)                                              A 24 ans      mes enceintes   des IST chez
aigees de 15 a 24 ans, a                                            .de 15 a 24 ans                         fem mes
la date d'achevement du                                                                     en consultation  enceintes de
Projet.                                                                                     prenatale       15 A 24 ans
Reduction de la         Suivi par sites  Ministere de la   Annuel ou          Femmes         Prevalence des  Reduction de
prevalence des IST      sentinelles (en  Sante Publique    Semestriel         enceintes     IST chez fem    la prevalence
chez les femmes         continu)                                                             mes enceintes  des IST chez
enceintes, a la date                                                                         en consultation  les femmes
d'achevement du                                                                              prenatale      enceintes
Projet
Reduction de la         Suivi par sites  Ministere de la   Annuel ou          Fenunes        Prevalence des  Reduction de
prevalence des IST      sentinelles (en  Sante Publique     Semestriel        enceintes de 15 IST chez fem  la preva lence
chez les femmes         continu)                                              A 24 ans       mes enceintes  des IST chez
enceintes agees de                                                                           de 15 a 24 ans  fem mes
15 a 24 ans a la                                                                            en consultation  enceintes de
15t d2achs, ala                                                                              prenatale       15 A 24 ans
date d'achevemnent
du Projet.
Reduction de la         Enquetes de      CISLS or          Selon enquete: 2002 Ensernble des  Prevalence des  Reduction de
prevalence des MST,     seroprevalence   organisme         dejA faite) et en  groupes A      MST chez les    la prevalence
de la syphilis et du    (type enquete    contracte         2006 en fin de     risques        groupes A       des MST, de
VIWSIDA parmi les       CARE de 2002)                      projet?                           risques        la syphilis et
groupes A risques:                                                                                           du SIDA chez
jeunes, ninlitaires,                                                                                         les groupes A
enseignants,                                                                                                risques
conducteurs,
prisonniers,
professionnels du
sexe.
-94 -



Ciblage strategique
1.     Le ciblage des interventions sera strategique. II s'appuiera sur les enquetes et etudes recentes
realisees au Niger, a partir desquelles ont e  tires un ensemble d'indications prioritaires qui serviront de
fil directeur dans la planification et la selection des activites financees, toutes composantes confondues.
ni s'agira de maintenir une concordance maximale entre les efforts consentis par le Programme et les
problemes majeurs identifies, tout en respectant les processus de reponse a la demande. Les principes
directeurs sont les suivants:
(i)    La couverture g6ographique restera nationale.
a.     Les initiatives du secteur public et des OSC/OBC pourront provenir de l'ensemble des regions;
b.     Les actions a portee nationale seront de type preventif (par exemple activites d'IEC, distribution
de condoms). Les taux actuels de prevalence indiquent en effet que la prevention de la contamination
epidemiologique jouera un r6le determinant. Les messages vehicules devront tenir compte des acquis en
matiere de connaissance du SIDA dans les populations et poursuivre des objectifs precis. Ils permettront
une actualisation des perceptions et la diffusion d'informations concretes, par exemple en matiere de
mesures preventives ou de services disponibles;
(ii)   n y aura concentration des appuis dans les sites ofi les groupes a risque et vulnerables sont
surtout actifs. Les taux de seropositivite releves dans les enquetes recentes menees au Niger permettent
d'identifier des foyers de contamination certains, auxquels le Programme entend consacrer des ressources
specifiques en matiere de prevention mais aussi de soutien aux personnes infectees et affectees. II y aura
correlation directe entre les zones prioritaires identifiees et le ciblage de groupes a seropositivite elevee.
Les priorites seront les suivantes:
c.     Les centres urbains: des chefs lieux, notamment les plus grandes agglomerations, seront
pre-identifies sur la base des profils de seroprevalence. Les travailleuses du sexe et les autres groupes
transversaux parmi lesquels il faut rapidement circonvenir la propagation epidemiologique y feront
l'objet d'interventions prioritaires;
d.     En milieu rural, les foyers d'activite ofi se concentrent les travailleuses du sexe et autres groupes
a risque eleve de propagation (par exemple les jeunes des zones minieres). II s'agira notamment de
Maradi, Tahoua, Komabangou;
e.     Les corridors routiers, incluant les postes frontaliers et les agglomerations agissant courne relais
ou plaques tournantes du transport. Les routiers et les travailleurs associes susceptibles de contribuer a la
propagation seront immediatement vises ici. Les axes pre-identifies sont les suivants: (i) Niamey,
Torodi, vers le Burkina, (ii) Tahoua, Niamey, vers Abidjan, (iii) Niamey, Maradi, Zinder, Diffa, (iv)
Niamey, Tahoua, Agadez, vers la Libye, (iv) les sites de transit vers le Nigeria.
f.     Les centres d'incarceration pour leurs populations carcerales et entourage, en fonction de leur
importance numerique et de leur taux de seropositivite.
(iii)  Sur la base des resultats des enquetes les plus recentes, les groupes de seropositifs qui
appartiennent a un corps professionnel rattache a la fonction publique ou au personnel etatique feront
l'objet de mesures sectorielles. Celles-ci seront proposees pour appui par l'institution ou le ministere
concerne;
(iv)   La repartition des financements tiendra compte des principes directeurs cites plus haut au
moment de l'analyse des propositions faites tant par la societe civile que le secteur public. L'importance
des appuis accordes par le Progranume sera en correlation directe avec l'ampleur du taux et des risques
immediats. La repartition.proportionnelle prendra en compte l'importance de: (i) programmes envers les
travailleuses du sexe, (ii) programmes envers les jeunes filles mineures et les jeunes hommes actifs sur
les sites auriferes, (iii) programmes envers les transporteurs, (iv) programmes envers les populations
carcerales. Dans ce cadre, la CISLS tiendra a jour un profil des financements accordes dans les regions et
envers les differents groupes cibles. Tous les plans d'actions et sous-projets soumis pour financement
seront examines en fonction (i) du respect de ces principes directeurs, (ii) de la concordance des
interventions avec les autres priorites transversales susceptibles de contribuer rapidement a la limitation
-95 -



de 1'epidemie et de ses impacts, soit:
a.     L'accroissement du depistage volontaire et anonyme,
b.     La securite transfusionnelle,
c.     L'emergence et l'operation de regroupements de PVVIH;
d.     La provision de services medicaux et socio-economiques aux personnes infectees et affectees.
-96-



Additional Annex 13: Lessons learned and reflected in Project Design
NIGER: THE MULTISECTORAL STI/HIV/AIDS SUPPORT PROJECT
In addition to lessons of MAP design and implementation, presented in section D.3 of this PAD,
two other sets of lessons were reviewed during project preparation and reflected in project design. They
include the lessons gleaned from the final evaluation of the IDA-financed Niger Population Project,
which closed in 1997, and the lessons compiled during the course of preparation of the Community
Assistance Program (CAP) that encompass projects in IDA's portfolio, as well as other decentralized,
community-driven projects financed by other donors.. They are presented below.
Le,ons tirees de la conception et de l'elaboration du projet:
Evaluation finale
-   Les objectifs du projet devraient etre suffisanument modestes pour etre realisables dans les delais de
vie du projet. [Is devraient etre bases, autant que possible, sur une bonne connaissance de la situation,
d'oii l'importance de donn6es de base fiables.
- Les objectifs et les indicateurs doivent etre clairement dMfinis des le depart.
-    Des projets complexes executes par divers ministeres necessitent des systemes de suivi et de
supervision ayant la capacite de traiter et de resoudre les contraintes pour assurer une execution efficace
dans les delais impartis. De tels systemes devraient aussi continuellement examiner les strategies,
modifier ou reviser les objectifs, reorienter les priorites afin de repondre A un environnement changeant.
-    Les acteurs-cles y compris les beneficiaires, les prestataires de services, les autorites locales, les
ONG et les principaux partenaires au developpement actifs dans le secteur devraient etre identifies des le
depart et impliques dans toutes les etapes de la conception et de l'elaboration du projet : evaluation des
besoins, conception, choix des buts et des indicateurs, execution, gestion et evaluation.
-  Une approche A moindre colat devrait etre suivie lors de la conception et le calcul des couits du projet,
en insistant sur une totale prise en charge et une minimisation des implications des couts recurrents sur
les investissements du projet/programme.
-  Une evaluation plus globale et rigoureuse des capacites institutionnelles aurait modifie la conception
du projet et introduit des interventions pour alleger et renforcer ses capacites.
- L'objectif d'atteinte de la perennite des investissements du projet aurait dui etre la ligne de conduite
du projet, depuis sa conception et tout au long de sa mise en oeuvre, plutot qu'une crise emergeant lors
de la cloture du projet.
Lecons tirees de 1'execution du projet
-   La gestion inadequate et la capacite institutionnelle du MDS s'est averee etre une contrainte plus
importante A la bonne performance du secteur que la disponibilite des ressources. Afin d'ameliorer
l'efficacite du Gouvernement dans ses efforts pour resoudre les problemes de population, plus d'efforts
doivent etre consentis au developpement de cette capacite: dans la coordination d'activites, dans la
gestion des ressources, dans la gestion strategique decentralisee du secteur, et dans une execution
decentralisee.
-   La centralisation excessive de l'execution du projet a empeche de saisir les opportunites de profiter
pleinement de l'expertise et des perspectives des autorites locales, des executeurs locaux et des autres
acteurs au niveau local. De futurs appuis A des initiatives relatives au developpement social devraient
-97 -



informer et impliquer les acteurs locaux. La conception meme du projet devrait etre lancee au niveau
local et la responsabilite primaire de son execution devrait egalement etre deleguee au niveau local. Cela
servira a realiser des interventions correspondant mieux aux priorites et aux besoins locaux. Cela
permettra aussi une meilleure appropriation des objectifs et des objectifs et des activites du projet, et
developpera de fagon significatives ses chances de perennite.
-   Une plus grande adherence au processus annuel de progranumation et d'evaluation, tel qu'envisage
dans la conception du projet, aurait permis a la fois plus de rigueur et de flexibilite au cours de
1'execution du projet, afin de prendre en compte et de gerer les opportunit6s et les contraintes emergeant
au cours de 1'execution.
-   Les opportunites auraient du etre mieux exploitees afin de s'attaquer et de resoudre rapidement les
problemes rencontres au cours de 1'execution du projet. La revue a mi-parcours aurait pu etre mieux
utilisee a cet effet. Des rapports frequents (trimestriels ou semestriels) sur 1'execution auraient pu aider a
identifier et resoudre les problemes de facon efficace et efficiente.
-     La date de cl6ture originelle du projet (30 juin 1997) negociee et acceptee a Washington et
clairement mentionnee dans l'Accord de Credit de Developpement co-signe par le Gouvemement et
l'IDA, n'aurait pas dui surprendre les executeurs et les beneficiaires du projet. Elle aurait di etre
anticip6e et incorporee dans la planification du projet des le depart afin que les activites du projet
puissent etre planifiees et executees en consequence et que les questions de perennisation et
d'autosuffisance puissent etre resolues bien avant la date originelle (et bien sfir celle prorogee) de
cloture. A la fois la Banque et le Gouvemement auraient dui se concentrer sur ces questions tout au long
de la vie du projet, et plus particulierement au cours de la revue a mi-parcours.
-    Les investissements concernant l'amelioration de la qualite des services n'ont pas ete totalement
exploites ou consolides a cause d'un manque d'appui technique et de suivi qui aurait du etre fourni par la
mise en oeuvre d'un programme de supervision bien con9u.
-   De plus, un manque de suivi et d'evaluation des formations financees a laisse le MSP et le MDS
incapables d'assurer une utilisation optimale des connaissances acquise et d'evaluer l'utilite des
formations pour guider de futurs investissements dans le developpement des ressources humaines.
- Un accent particulier sur la supervision et l'evaluation des formations aurait contribu6 a ameliorer la
qualite des services.
-   Les mecanismes de coordination des activites du projet, pour la claire identification et delegation des
r6les et responsabilites parmi les divers responsables et executeurs, doivent etre ameliores.
-. Le cadre institutionnel pour l'execution du projet aurait dfi etre revu et revise pendant la vie du projet
pour corriger la tendance de l'UCP a assumer plus de pouvoir, d'autonomie, d'executer au lieu de
coordonner, et de consommer plus de ressources du projet que prevues initialement - a la fois en terme
reel et en proportion du couit total du projet.
- II aurait fallu insister sur les aspects preventifs de la sante reproductive et sur les questions de qualite
de services. L'adoption du PDS en 1994, incluant une claire definition de toute la garume des services de
sant6 reproductive dans le contexte du paquet minimum d'activites (PMA), aurait dui servir de tremplin
au projet: pour verifier que le paquet de services de sante reproductive est complet et correspond bien
aux besoins et aux exigences des clients, et pour consolider et renforcer les efforts pour repondre
pleinement a ces questions. Cela aurait et l'occasion de revoir la qualite des soins dans les domaines de
planification familiale et de sante reproductive, en mettant l'accent sur la prevention et l'information, sur
l'amelioration de la qualite au niveau de soins de sante primaire, sur une attention adequate aux
problemes de MST/SIDA, de sante reproductive chez les adolescents, sur la sterilite et sur la
-98 -



sous-fecondite.
- Le projet n'a pas reussi a renforcer de facon significative les capacites du MDS. L'appui a de futures
activites qui seraient executees par ce ministere devraient etre etablies sur la base d'un mandat revise, et
sur une strategie et un programme de ce ministere qui exploiterait son avantage comparatif vis-a-vis des
autres ministeres en matiere de population et de statut de la femme, et qui 6liminerait toute duplication ou
competition avec d'autres ministeres.
-    Les r6les et responsabilites des diverses institutions gouvernementales pour la coordination et
l'execution d'activites liees a la population ne sont pas clairement definis et ont prouve leur inefficacite
tout au long de la vie du projet. Le recent decret placant CONAPO dans le bureau du Premier Ministre
est un pas positif dans l'importance accrue des questions de population et dans la facilitation de son
mandat de coordonner les activites reparties dans les differentes ministeres. Cependant, des efforts
encore plus considerables doivent etre faits pour clarifier les roles et responsabilites visant a definir et
executer un programme de population au Niger qui serait en accord avec les avantages comparatifs des
diverses institutions presentes dans le pays.
Lessons from projects compiled during the Course of the CAP Preparation:
Sustainability of operations is hindered by the project mentality of many government officials and
communities, whereby each project is expected to be followed by another.
Although public administration can be an effective catalyst in fostering private entrepreneurial
development and participatory grassroots income-generating initiatives, it is generally less effective than
a private self-interested association of the beneficiaries. However, Government lacks a clear framework,
action plan, or time path for decentralizing services or getting beneficiaries to take charge of activities.
While the government's long-term objective is desengagement, this is not reflected either in the structure
or the function of the administrative services with respect to communities.
Institution building takes time. Capacity built as the result of a project may not become evident for ten
to fifteen years. Operations designed to develop local capacity and a participatory culture require a longer
learning curve and therefore long-term commitment before development impacts are evident.
Monitoring and evaluation systems have been poor or nonexistent. It is essential to define and phase
project objectives by stating clearly at appraisal the short, medium, and long-term objectives of the
project and related performance indicators. Such systems must be properly staffed and be allocated
timely and adequate resources for operation and training.
Decentralized financial management at the local community level is central to successful
implementation of bottom-up approaches to development and for promoting a culture of financial
discipline in managing community funds. PGRN has demonstrated that communities are successful in
procurement and decentralized financial management. Training in farm management skills such as
entrepreneurship and risk management promotes financial sustainability. Simplified operating
procedures, legal protection, and clarity with respect to benefits of the established financial mechanisms
are central to establishing ownership and credibility of such mechanisms. Provided with basic training,
communities are quite capable of carrying out their own procurement, and in ensuring that services
providers are accountable to them.
Even when community-development funds are earmarked for specific purposes (i.e. PPODR and PGRNs'
focus on economic activities and natural resources management, respectively), communities nevertheless
request those investments that meet their priority basic needs. Once these basic needs are fulfilled,
-99 -



longer term interest such as the maintenance of the natural resources come into view. Also, the
management of cultivated areas tend to receive earlier and more attention than the natural rangelands and
water resources.
Decentralized management of natural resources and conservation of biodiversity must be entrusted to
the local people if practical results are to be achieved. Local people are prepared to actively protect
natural resources if and when they are recognized with having ownership of these resources and are
empowered to do so. This means that there must be some official measure taken by the government to
relinquish at least part of its formal authority over the use and management of these resources. When
empowered, the local populations usually have a rather clear notion of what is to be done to effectively
protect the resources if not to manage them in a truly sustainable way.
The role of stakeholders in the conservation of biodiversity and the management of natural
resources must be clarified from the start. Partnership between the stakeholders is necessary since
expertise and human resources are scarce and must be used efficiently. These partnerships must be
spelled out early and clearly. The role of government is essential, but must be limited to the "regalian"
tasks (defining policies, overseeing their implementation, and enforcing the laws and regulations), which
can not be delegated. All other tasks (conservation of biodiversity, management of natural resources)
seem to be much better implemented by other stakeholders, whether local communities, NGOs or
commercial operators, with technical support from various sources (including if necessary technical
specialists from the government, or scientists from universities).
Existing and known technologies in biodiversity conservation and natural resources management
are effective, and there is not much need for research in new technologies for . What is needed is the
thorough implementation of proven existing techniques. People need to be trained (often) and motivated
(always). The best motivation is ownership of the benefits of the action taken, and doesn't necessarily
entail a financial cost.
Based on these lessons, the approach of the CAP will (a) be long-term, (b) cover multiple sectors, (c)
ensure active participation of all segments of communities, (d) rely on decentralized financial
management, (e) place strong emphasis on monitoring and evaluation, (f) provide financial mechanisms
to satisfy the basic needs while actively promoting activities that will ensure long-term viability of
ecosystems and natural resources; and (g) propose concrete steps for transferring the role of central
government to local government or the private sector in local service provision.
Lessons from pilot activities:
Pilots were an important part of the preparation process because they helped provide lessons on which to
design the implementation phase. In addition, they served to forge institutional linkages with NGOs and
donors who are expected to play a key role in facilitating and collaborating with the CAP by providing
animation and capacity-building to communities.
-100-



Additional Annex 14: Project Supervision Plan
NIGER: THE MULTISECTORAL STI/HIV/AIDS SUPPORT PROJECT
The project will require intensive supervision given its innovative approach, the large span of
activities from the community to the national level, its blend of public, private and civil society
implementation agencies, whose experience with HIV/AIDS programs varies considerably, and its
multisectoral nature. The range of activities in prevention, care, treatment and mitigation is complex and
will be implemented by many entities, whose capacity will need strengthening. The Bank's supervision
effort in the first year will focus on the following strategic areas.
Comprehensive Approach to HIV/AIDS. Funding and executing a broad range of
HIV/AIDS activities across many sectors by multiple implementation agencies at the national and local
levels, with a particular emphasis on scaling up existing programs and building capacity, will require
consistent and sustained support and coordination, including learning from other MAP and HIV/AIDS
programs from around the world.
Ownership and Stakeholders. Experience has shown that the commitment and enthusiasm
shown by stakeholders during project preparation needs to be maintained during early project
implementation by accelerating funding of projects in both the public sector and civil society. While the
Implementation Manual has been prepared in Niger with involvement of some stakeholders, this needs to
be expanded, and supervision should focus on constantly adjusting the Implementation Manual to local
realities.
New Institutions. The CISLS in Niger is designed to facilitate and coordinate rather than to
control and implement. Any new institution, however, implements its mission through actions.
Supervision will focus, in particular, on assisting the CISLS to: (a) contract out key services and
functions; and (b) empower the implementing agencies in the public sector and civil society by allowing
them to make decisions on program activities and to participate in adjusting project processes based on
early lessons of implementation.
Fiduciary Architecture. Financial management, procurement, monitoring and evaluation, and
implementation channels represent the core fiduciary responsibilities that need to be assessed and
enhanced during supervision. The principle that program monitoring and evaluation is part of the
fiduciary framework of the MAP approach is new for Niger and for the Bank and will require special
attention during implementation.
Objectives and Schedule of Supervision Missions
During the first 12 months of implementation, the project will have three formal supervision
missions in addition to ad-hoc visits by Bank staff in the Niger Country Office (on financial management
and procurement) and from the UNAIDS/World Bank evaluation support unit in Washington (on
monitoring and evaluation). The members of the UNAIDS Thematic Group in Niger may also assist with
supervision on an ad-hoc basis in addition to: (a) assisting government ministries and civil society
organizations to enhance project preparation to access MAP funding; and (b) improving the efficiency
and effectiveness of HIV/AIDS programs through specialized technical expertise.
The first supervision mission will be scheduled shortly after the Board approval to review the
new staffng of the CISLS, to review arrangements for contracting out of the civil society component,
and to participate in a formal project launch aimed at accelerating the preparation and funding of
- 101 -



first-year programs by public sector institutions and the submission of project proposals by civil society
organizations.
The second supervision mission will focus on providing assistance to ensure that: (a) the
Implementation Manual has been adapted to early implementation experience; (b) existing programs are
being scaled up and funded, especially in core public sector ministries and civil society organizations
already working on HIV/AIDS; (c) capacity building has started for agencies that require it; and (d) the
CISLS is operating effectively.
The third supervision mission will focus on assisting Niger to hold an annual partnership
review of the project that would involve donors, the UNAIDS Thematic Group and stakeholders in Niger.
The review would (a) assess the performance of the project during the first year of implementation and
make any necessary design adjustmnents; (b) preview the program of activities for the second year; and (c)
ensure that appropriate funding is available from the international community and from local resources.
The Bank's Supervision Effort
The joint UNAIDS/World Bank progress review of MAP I in mid-2001 concluded that MAP
projects require intensive supervision using multi-sectoral teams that can provide implementation
assistance in a variety of sectors. The extensive Bank preparation team will be carried over into the first
year of supervision, enhanced by: (a) increased reliance on the Niger Country Office for periodic visits
between formal supervision missions; and (b) the possibility of support from the members of the Niger
UNAIDS Thematic Group as it adds capacity. It is expected that the supervision budget for the first 12
months will exceed the Bank norm.
Each mission is expected to last for two weeks or more and comprise between four and six
members. About 25-30 total staff weeks will be required for the first three supervision missions, in
addition to approximately eight non-mission staff weeks. Technical skills required by a mission will
depend on relevant implementation issues each time. The necessary specialists are likely to include:
First supervision mission:  TTL, procurement, financial, M&E, health, civil society expert
Second supervision mission:  TTL, civil society expert, education, institutional capacity expert
Third supervision mission:  TTL, health, social, financial, procurement
Financial management, procurement, and civil society support from the Bank's Niger Country Office will
be on an ad-hoc basis in addition to scheduled missions.
Indicative cost of supervision for the first 12 months of the project is estimated at US$140,000 and
has been incorporated into the CD's budget for FY04.
-102-



LIBYA            I*                                     2I1
ALGERIA  ,LBYA
This mnop hos been prepored by
The World Eonk's stoff e-dusively
MAU     I              ~ ~~~~~~~~~for the con-enience of reder
NIGER                 ond is e.cl.sisely for the
CHAD      internol use of The World Bonk
Niomey     CHAD       ~~~~~Gro.p.The deno.in.ticn,s -sedALGER         A
Ni omcy        tond the boondories shown                        A L G E R I A
BUM                     ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~on this m`op do not ireplyo  the
NXIGERA                 port of The World Bosh Grop,
, z Z                        o f   , rJny j.dyene.t on the boleg
fi1, NIGERA  J      _        stotus o ony territory or any 
endorement or ocepto-ceor
|s,h boundories.
AFIRCAM
20'2
NIGER
AGADEZ
PAVED ROADS                    Arit
EARTH ROADS                                                                                                  o =
RIVERS
o      SELECTED TOWNS
(O      DEPARTMENT CAPITALS
*       NATIONAL CAPITAL
-1-   ISOHYETS IN MM.
DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES                        In Gall                                                 \
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
\ j&- [~~~~~~~AHOUA Xl2O 
ZINDER >  e\  DER\                       /CHAD
TodiKiindi NAM                                                                               JC                                               EROON
c BURKiNA                                 BOO         NIGER           A                                 WJLES  5              0     150 r                       2
FASO            BOD/ BENIN      >     * 48'                                                                         12'                                      IS'1- 
'0~~~~~~~~~~
5,3~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u.






I



Report No.:        23757   NIR
Type:     PAD



