Report No. PID10505
Project Name             NIGER-HIV/AIDS PREVENTION AND CARE (@)
PROJECT
Region                   Africa Regional Office
Sector                   Health (100%)
Project ID               P071612
Borrower(s)              GOVERNMENT OF NIGER
Implementing Agency
Direction du Programme National de
Lutte contre le SIDA
Address: B.P. 10077
Contact Person: Medecin-Lieutenant
Colonel Kadri Mounkaila
Tel: (227) 73 54 60
Email: pnlsist@intnet.ne
Environment Category     B
Date PID Prepared        October 17, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date      November 1, 2002
Bank Approval Date       February 27, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
HIV/AIDS Situation. An epidemiological survey on HIV/AIDS in Niger,
currently being carried out by Care International/Niger with financing
under the ongoing Health operation, is expected to provide much needed
reliable data on the prevalence and rate of infection of HIV in Niger, on
the number of AIDS cases, and on vulnerabilities and at risk behaviors.
In the meantime, Health Ministry and HIV/AIDS Program data show that from
the first notification in 1987 until 2000, health facilities recorded
5,598 cases of HIV. In contrast, the WHO estimated the number of adults
and children infected by HIV at 165,000, and the number of AIDS orphans at
20,000, as early as 1997. The most severely affected age groups are 19-24
years and 29-45 years. Sixty-six percent of recorded cases affected the
20-49 age group. While the overall sex ratio men/women is 1.85, the ratio
for the 15-19 year age group shows an alarming trend: a ratio of 0.25,
which means that for every boy infected in this age group four girls are
infected. According to the United Nations AIDS office, the infection rate
in Niger stood at 1.4 percent at the end of 1999. The real rate is
estimated to be even higher, at close to 4 percent. Deaths from AIDS are
surely underestimated, and yet still alarming: just in the first quarter
of 2001, 95 deaths were attributable to AIDS.
Figure    : Situation epidemiologique des cas de SIDA au Niger de 1987 a
2000
Source: PNLS/IST Niger 2000
Epidemiological surveillance data provide added insight on the extent and



dynamics of the spread of this disease. Seroprevalence rates for pregnant
women in Niamey increased from 1.1% to 29 during the period 1992-2001,
while those in Tahoua increased from 1.49 to 5% between 1992 and 1999, and
those for Zinder increased from 0.6% to 2% between 1994 and 2001.
Seroprevalence in Tahoua is particularly high, including a rate of 4.25M
in the urban commune of Tahoua and 5.5% in the district of Konni, which is
on the border with Nigeria. Prevalence rates of pregnant women are 2.5% in
the urban commune of Dosso and 3.9% in the district of Gaya (on the Benin
border). A study of the Region of Agadez carried out in 1997 recorded a
prevalence rate among pregnant women of 4.68%.
Prevalence rates are significantly high among high risk groups. Rates for
prostitutes have been estimated at 27.909 in Dirkou (Agadez) in 1995, 359
in Firji (Maradi) in 2000 and 50% in Komabangou (gold mining site in
Tillabery) in 2001. Other studies have documented the following rates
among high risk groups: 3.4% for truck drivers in 1993; and 7.1%, 11.6%
and 22.49, respectively for tuberculosis patients in Niamey (1991), Diffa
(1994) and Tahoua (2001). Regional disparities (as measured by
differentials in prevalence rates among pregnant women) are also marked,
with Tahoua having the highest rates, followed by Dosso, and Tillabery and
Zinder.(see table below).
Figure 3 : Cartographie de la seroprevalence du VIH chez les femmes
enceintes dans les differents sites sentinelles au Niger en 2001
Determinants of the Spread of HIV/AIDS. The rapid spread of the HIV
epidemic is overtly linked to high-risk behavior and to the acute
vulnerability of particular population groups, most notably: youth,
mobile populations, children and women. In addition, ignorance and
sociocultural norms and pressures undermine considerably the organization
and implementation of preventive activities. Determinants of the spread
of HIV/AIDS can be categorized as follows:
n Poverty, which propels people to seek income generation opportunities
that put them at high risk, including: internal and external migration,
transportation services and prostitution
fn Geographical/environmental factors, including: residence in high risk
areas, such as mines, border towns, bus/truck stops, markets/commercial
zones, migration routes.
n Cultural/religious factors, including : low status of women, risky
sociocultural practices, such as excision, early marriage, sexual taboos,
fundamental religious beliefs that resist critical preventive strategies,
such as the use of condoms and sex education for youth .
n High risk behaviors, such as multiple sex partners, unprotected sex, and
widespread prostitution, encompassing professionals as well as
informal/occasional prostitution.
n Non-performance of the public sector and civil society in effectively
responding to this pandemic. (See "Issues" Section immediately below.)
Issues. Niger's response to date to the HIV/AIDS pandemic has been slow,
weak, uncoordinated and, at best, only marginally effective. One of the
critical reasons for such poor performance has been (up until very
recently) the lack of a viable, multisectoral strategic framework for the
fight against HIV/AIDS. Starting in 1987 Niger has established and
- 2 -



attempted to implement HIV/AIDS plans: (i) a short-term plan covering
1987-89, (ii) the first medium-term plan covering the period 1990-92, and
(iii) the second medium-term plan covering the period 1994-98. Despite
its efforts, Niger has not yet prepared a follow-on medium-term strategic
plan. Since 1998 Niger has, instead, prepared and implemented annual
action plans. Recently Niger has made a significant breakthrough in its
efforts to prepare a third medium-term strategic plan. Through a
participatory and analytical process, supported by UN/AIDS, the World
Bank, and other partners, Niger has prepared a sound strategic framework
that is providing the basis for a broad-based planning exercise that will
culminate in the production of local level plans and sectoral action plans
that will be integrated into a third medium-term plan. Unlike this recent
exercise, previous plans were not based on an analysis of the
epidemiology, its underlying determinants and the performance to date of
various initiatives. Nor were previous planning exercises inclusive of
all key stakeholders attempts encompassing of the actions and potentials
of all development sectors and actions. Rather they were limited largely
to the health sector, as main (if not sole actor) and leader. Contents of
previous plans were thus very limited and overly medicalized in their
approach. Because of the lack of an analytical base, plans were not
sufficiently cognizant of, and therefore targeted to high-risk populations.
Another issue which has severely constrained the effectiveness of Niger's
fight against HIV/AIDS is weak institutional capacity. In 1987 Government
created an AIDS Surveillance Committee, under the responsibility of the
Ministry of Health. In 1990 this Committee evolved into the National AIDS
Surveillance Committee; and in 1991 the National AIDS Program was created,
still under the auspices of the Ministry of Health. The preparation and
implementation of the series of AIDS plans since 1987 were seriously
undermined by weak capacity of these entities. First of all, Ministry of
Health did not demonstrate capacity to carry out the coordination of
actors and activities outside of its sector. In addition, even for MOH's
important technical/executive mandate its performance was very poor.
Rather than mainstreaming HIV/AIDS activities throughout Ministry of
Health and through the service delivery system, this program remained
overly vertical and centralized in its structure and organization.
Program management and implementation also suffered due to the appointment
of Program Directors who did not have the profile to lead, coordinate and
manage a program of this nature, and due as well to rapid turnover of
Program Directors. This situation severely constrained the absorptive
capacity of the program to utilize effectively the external resources
available to them.    The ongoing health operation (Health Sector
Development Program- Credit 2915-NIR) earmarked $1 million for HIV/AIDS
Program, which was available as early as 1997, but which has been
underspent and poorly managed and utilized.
In October 2000, Government moved the National HIV/AIDS Program out of
Ministry of Health and attached it to the Office of the Head of State,
both to demonstrate high level commitment to the Program as well as to
improve Program coordination and performance. And an HIV/AIDS Adviser to
the Head of State was named to keep the President apprised of Program
performance. While the intention was good, and the need for improved
performance clearly justified, the result was less than satisfying. Key
technical staff and technical functions were moved out of Ministry of
Health and into the President's office, which would have been better left
-3 -



in a technical Ministry (e.g., epidemiological surveillance, procurement
of drugs, contraceptives and other medical/laboratory consumables). This
left Ministry of Health, a most important player in the Program,
incapacitated and demoralized. Roles and responsibilities were never
clearly defined or adequately discussed with the multiple stakeholders at
all levels of Government and in civil society; and the location of the
Program in the Office of the President did not give it the needed
flexibility to carry out an effective coordination function and to be
truly operational.
Because of the persistent poor performance of the structure responsible
for HIV/AIDS, external assistance has been increasingly channeled through
the NGO sector, and has remained fragmented and uncoordinated.
Considerable experience and some success have been accumulated, but have
not been sufficiently monitored or evaluated, with a view to improving the
effectiveness or scaling up these initiatives. Furthermore, interventions
are for the most part conceived by the NGOs and not by the beneficiaries.
Until the recently initiated strategic planning process was initiated, the
role of communities, civil society or local government was
under-appreciated and underutilized.
All of the above-mentioned weaknesses have resulted in poor program
performance to date. In summary, epidemiological surveillance is limited
and not integrated into the health information system.
With regard to prevention, communication for behavior change has not been
adequately designed and targeted to specific, high-risk populations.
Inadequately tailored messages, where they do reach people, have been
inconsequential in changing behavior. Condoms are in very short supply
throughout the country. Blood transfusion is the national and regional
hospitals and in some district hospitals, but ruptures in essential
supplies occur and donors are not informed if they test positive for HIV.
Health workers are not provided with sufficient training or materials to
prevent their exposure to HIV positive patients and there is a need to
design and implement transmission prevention in other workplaces, such as
barbers and those that practice excision. Availability of voluntary
testing services is limited to Niamey.    There is as yet no activity to
prevent mother-to-child transmission and there is an urgent need to
prepare guidelines and a program for the integration of this activity into
maternal and child health services.
With regard to treatment and care, HIV/AIDS patients are, in fact, treated
and cared for in the public health facilities, in a Protestant missionary
hospital (Galmi), and as well by some private enterprises and by two
Niamey-based NGO facilities. However, the quality of these services
suffer from a number of factors, including: inadequate supervision and
training of staff, high cost of care and treatment, lack of a national
policy on care and treatment of HIV/AIDS patients and on related
laboratory services, great difficulty on the part of health staff in
informing patients of their HIV positive status, unreliable availability
of drugs to treat opportunistic infections and of ARV, and absence of
collaboration between the health service delivery system and traditional
practitioners.
With regard to mitigation efforts, PLWHA and affected communities are put
- 4 -



in very precarious situations, resulting from a fear of the disease,
stigmatization and oftentimes isolation/rejection of the victim and
surviving family members, inadequate protection of victims and affected
family members under the law, (further) impoverishment of families caring
for victims and compensating for loss of income earned. The number of
orphans, widows and widowers has not been analyzed, but increased demands
for social assistance in certain regions, most particularly Tahoua Region,
and a perceived increase in the number of street children are two
indicators of a growing problem. While communities and the confessional
sector have mobilized to mitigate the impact of HIV/AIDS on the wellbeing
and economic welfare of victims, their families and affected communities,
efforts to date are extremely modest, both in terms of the range of
interventions and in terms of geographical coverage, and must be
intensified and expanded. There is a need to develop a national strategy
for community mitigation efforts, as well as to develop community-level
capacity to implement activities. PLWHA have a critical role to play in
these activities, but to date their involvement is minimal. The same can
be said of traditional practitioners. Voluntary counseling and testing is
not available at the community level and needs to be extended to all.
Health Systems Development and the Fight Against HIV/AIDS. A strong
health system is the foundation for sustained success against HIV/AIDS.
The health system bears significant responsibility for care and treatment,
plays the pivotal role in many preventive activities, and endures the
greatest impact of any sector on its staff and operations. The more
widely the epidemic spreads, the more important and, at the same time, the
more vulnerable the health system becomes. The weaker the health system,
the greater the prospects for continued spread of HIV. As Government and
civil society move ahead with an intensified and multisectoral approach to
HIV/AIDS, such efforts are likely to generate significantly increased
demands on the health system for a full spectrum of services, encompassing
prevention, testing, treatment and care. In addition, an effective health
system is also a cornerstone for technology transfer. As new vaccines and
therapies emerge, the strength of the national health system is the
principal determinant of how quickly and widely such tools can be made
available.   It is clear that attending to HIV/AIDS without simultaneous
health system strengthening cannot succeed.
Government Strategy. On May 24, 2002, the Council of Ministers adopted
Niger's National Strategic Framework for the Fight Against STIs/HIV/AIDS
covering the period 2002 - 2006. The product of a highly participatory
process and of in-depth analysis of the pandemic and of the country's
response to date, this Strategic Framework provides an overview of
Niger's new, improved vision for the fight against HIV/AIDS that has taken
into account the necessity to transform its efforts from a very narrow,
primarily single-sector approach to a more holistic and dynamic approach
that is multisectoral in nature and that draws on the talents and
potential of the public sector and of civil society alike, most
particularly those at decentralized/local levels. This Framework is
articulated around four strategic orientations, which are perfectly
coherent with the program themes recommended for MAP II (a) scaling up of
prevention activities; (b) scaling up of treatment and care activities;
(c) scaling up mitigation of the impact of HIV/AIDS on households and
communities; and (d) building national capacity for strategic management
and implementation of a multisectoral program. The main elements of each
- 5-



of these strategic orientations will be supported by the proposed MAP and
are thus presented in the Project Description Summary (Section C.) of this
PAD.
Institutional/Organizational Framework for HIV/AIDS. Taking into account
the lessons of previous organizational set-ups for HIV/AIDS, both in Niger
and elsewhere, Niger adopted on May 24, 2002, as a part of its strategic
framework document, a new institutional framework for facilitating and
coordinating an effective, broad-based, multisectoral approach to the
fight against HIV/AIDS.   The key organizational components of this new
framework include: (a) a National AIDS Council/NAC (Comite national de
lutte contre les IST/VIH/SIDA [CNLSI), responsible for overseeing the
program; (b) an Inter-sectoral Program Coordination Unit (Coordination
Intersectorielle de la lutte contre les IST/VIH/SIDA [CIS/LS]), which
serves as secretariat to the CNLS and is responsible for the day-to-day
coordination and management of program planning and implementation; (c) a
high-level Adviser to the President of the Republic (Ministre Conseiller
VIH/SIDA), responsible for sustaining and further enhancing and
buttressing political commitment as well as for continued and intensified
advocacy work at the highest levels of Government; and (d) a technical
consultative committee or council (Comite Mixte de Suivi), composed of
Niger's international partners supporting HIV/AIDS activities, and key
national actors from public and non-public sectors, responsible for aid
mobilization and coordination, both of a financial and of a technical
nature. Both the CNLS and the CIS/LS would have representation at the
regional and local levels. More detail is provided in C.4. of the main
text of this document, and in Annex 11.
2. Objectives
This project is being prepared in the context of the Multi-Country
HIV/AIDS Program (MAP II) for Africa, approved by the Board of Executive
Directors on February 7, 2002 in the amount of US$500 million equivalent,
whose overall development objective is to increase dramatically access to
HIV/AIDS prevention, treatment, care and support programs, with emphasis
on vulnerable groups (such as youth, women of childbearing age and other
groups at high risk). The overarching objective of this country operation
is to support the Government of Niger in the implementation of its
Strategic Framework for the Fight against STIs/HIV/AIDS for the period
2002-2006, adopted in May 7, 2002. The specific objectives of this
operation are thus those articulated in Government's Strategic Framework:
(a) to scale up, expand and improve prevention activities in an effort to
lower the risks of transmission; (b) to mitigate the negative impact of
the disease through improvements to the availability and quality of
services for people living with HIV/AIDS and affected family members and
communities, encompassing care, treatment, counseling, and social
protection; and (c) to strengthen capacity in Niger to formulate, manage,
implement, monitor and evaluate a viable, cost-effective HIV/AIDS program
that would be multisectoral in its approach and that would draw on the
comparative advantages and partnerships of a multiplicity of actors.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
No single government or agency can overcome HIV/AIDS alone. A vast,
concerted effort is required both at national and international levels.
That is the insight that guided the creation of UNAIDS, the establishment
of the IPAA, and the move towards a pluralistic, multisectoral approach.
- 6 -



Although agencies such as UNICEF and WHO will continue to set the overall
technical parameters for HIV/AIDS, IDA has a number of comparative
advantages that are critical to the success of these partnerships. First,
no other external actor has the global knowledge and policy influence of
IDA on the overall development agenda. This influence has proven central
in helping to elevate HIV/AIDS beyond the health sector to a fundamental
development issue, and to ensure the necessary visibility in discussion of
national planning, poverty reduction strategies, and debt-reduction
programs. Second, IDA has experience in virtually all sectors and can
therefore work effectively in supporting a multisectoral response.
Assisting sectors to plan for the impact of AIDS will be one of the most
important tasks of the next few years. Third, IDA's long experience with
implementation will be instrumental in helping to balance speed and
accountability. Fourth, IDA involvement is essential to bridging the
resource gap. Both through its own resources and its convening and
leveraging power, IDA can make a significant contribution to filling this
gap.
4. Description
Strategic Orientations. The project will support Niger in its efforts to
operationalize and implement the four strategic orientations of its
recently adopted Strategic Framework for the fight against HIV/AIDS: (a)
the scaling up, expansion and improvement of prevention activities in an
effort to lower the risks of transmission; (b) the scaling up of the
treatment and care of PLWHA; (c) the scaling up of activities to mitigate
the impoverishing effects of HIV/AIDS on households and communities; and
(d) the strengthening of national capacity to formulate, manage,
implement, monitor and evaluate a viable, cost-effective, multisectoral
HIV/AIDS program. The main elements of each of these strategic
orientations are described immediately below, followed immediately by a
presentation of the project components and how they would support the
articulation and implementation of multiple action plans conceived along
the lines of these orientations.
n Prevention. Highest priority is accorded to prevention activities as
these are recognized as being the most urgent as well as the most
cost-effective interventions for Niger, given the epidemiology of the
pandemic (relatively low levels of prevalence, and concentration of
prevalence in particular populations), as well as Niger's financial
constraints. Under the prevention rubric, the critical interventions
envisaged by Niger include efforts to create and intensify understanding
and commitment on the part of high-level government officials, opinion
leaders and decision-makers, and to create an overall enabling
environment, including an improved legal framework, for arresting the
spread of HIV/AIDS.    Interventions targeted at the general public and at
high risk groups and geographical regions in favor of enhanced prevention
include: communications for behavior change, with messages especially
tailored to reach effectively the various at-risk groups; the expansion
and promotion of voluntary counseling and testing services; the regular
supply and promotion of condoms; improved safety in the work
place/protective material/protocols and training for health workers;
reduction of mother-to-child transmission (MTCT);
intensification/improvement of screening and early treatment of sexually
transmitted infections (STIs).
n Treatment and Care. The National Strategy recognizes that an effective
-7 -



treatment and care program can contribute to intensified and more
effective prevention. Under this strategic orientation, efforts are
envisaged to improve and fully integrate into all levels of the existing
health service delivery system viable, quality care and counseling for
STIs, HIV/AIDS. Treatment of victims of HIV/AIDS is also envisaged to be
extended through ambulatory care. A strategy for voluntary and
confidential testing and counseling and for improving access to
antiretroviral drug therapy would also be developed. Care and counseling
would be integrated into all programs and services through the
adoption/promotion of the syndrome approach in the care and counseling of
people living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA); and the provision of services to
prevent and treat opportunistic infections would also be developed and
expanded. Revision of the basic training curricula in schools of public
health and in the faculty of medicine would underpin and sustain such
improvements in treatment and care. In recognition of the important role
of traditional practitioners, this strategy also envisages their full
implication in the fight against STIs/HIV/AIDS.
n Mitigation. In an effort to reduce the impact of HIV/AIDS on PLWHA and
their affected families and communities, this strategic orientation
envisages efforts to offer personalized, community-based counseling
services to those afflicted and affected. Outreach is envisaged to extend
right into the household, encompassing both care and treatment, as well as
material/monetary support and spiritual support. Promotion of the fuller
implication of the non-governmental sector in the provision of
socio-economic support will be another important element of this strategic
orientation. Government also intends to build the capacity of civil
society to take on a lead role in the care of PLWHA, and of orphans,
widows and other family members affected by HIV/AIDS. Efforts will also
be undertaken to reduce the vulnerability of individuals, families and
communities affected by the disease, including: the protection of workers'
rights and the protection from discrimination of those afflicted or
affected; and the integration of HIV/AIDS issues and measures into all
sector development programs.
n Capacity Building for Program Management and Implementation. Under this
strategic orientation, national capacity will be built for effective
program management, monitoring and evaluation and implementation. This
would include the finetuning and strengthening of institutions and
organizations of multiple actors contributing to program management and
implementation, as well as the mobilization of new national partners to
expand and deepen Niger's overall capacity to respond to the challenge.
An emphasis is placed on the importance of understanding and monitoring
the dynamics of the disease and its spread, as well as the underlying
determinants of the spread of the disease and the effectiveness/impact of
program interventions in this light. Strengthening of the surveillance of
STIs/HIV/AIDS and of underlying behaviors (second generation surveillance)
and the monitoring of innovative activities are thus given great
importance.
Project Components. Support to the implementation of these strategic
orientations will be delivered through the following three project
components: (a) Public Sector Responses for Prevention, Care and
Mitigation; (b) Civil Society Response and Community-Based Initiatives for
Prevention, Care and Mitigation; and (c) Capacity Building. A fourth
component, Project Coordination and Management, will support the costs of
efficient management and utilization of IDA grant resources. A summary
- 8 -



description of each component is as follows:
(1) Public Sector Responses for Prevention, Care and Mitigation:     This
component will finance the work plans of multiple line Ministries and
other public sector agencies in line with their roles and comparative
advantages. Several Ministries are already in the process of developing
detailed work plans and budgets and will be eligible for support under the
project as of the first year, with the possibility open for implementation
of key work programs prior to project effectiveness through a PPF. The
strategic framework exercise includes a matrix outlining the potential
roles, domains and comparative advantages of public sector actors. Work
plans would aim at: the strengthening/development of a more proactive
engagement among civil servants to fight against HIV/AIDS; a change in
risky behavior; improved environment for collaboration and a multisectoral
approach; the development and delivery of essential HIV/AIDS information
and services.   This component is subdivided into health and non-health
sector activities as follows:
(a) Health Sector Response: A strong health system is a foundation for
success in the fight against HIV/AIDS. Within the public sector, the
health system bears primary responsibility for care and treatment, plays a
pivotal role in many preventive activities, and endures significant impact
on its staff and operations.    Niger's strategic framework recognizes the
special responsibilities of the Ministry of health for HIV/AIDS, STI and
other opportunistic infections prevention and management. TB will also
deserve special attention and emphasis because it is a particularly
effective way in which the health sector can contribute to the HIV/AIDS
program. In addition, in Niger, where basic mother and child health
indicators are among the worst in the world, the HIV/AIDS activities will
need to provided in the context of a strengthened minimum package of
services (including reproductive health services) for the improvement and
protection of maternal and child health.    During appraisal, the mission
will review a draft 3-year plan for the health sector's contribution to
the fight against HIV/AIDS, with the first year in considerable detail,
including: baseline data, objectives, targets, performance indicators and
cost estimates.Among the critical activities to be included in the work
plan and supported under the map are:
n scaling up of the national sentinel surveillance system, setting
standards of care, voluntary counseling and testing (VCT) protocols, as
well as a significant role in carrying out VCT activities and follow-up;
n implementation of syndromic STI care;
n carrying out an aggressive TB program;
n scaling-up of the national blood screening and supply program;
n strengthening of the basic health and referral services for dealing with
HIV/AIDS, STIs and other opportunistic infections, especially TB;
n coordination of condom procurement and distribution;
n scaling up of activities for HIV vulnerable or "core" groups in
collaboration with other partners,
n establishment and/or support to others of the primary level of a care
(and possibly treatment) program for people infected and affected by
HIV/AIDS, including community-based care programs;
n services to prevent mother-to-child transmission (MTCT) including
counseling on breast-feeding, family planning, maternal support and drug
therapy when combined with VCT, care for HIV positive pregnant women and
-9-



children;
n implementation of a medical waste plan, including training;
n health related research and surveys that enhance health sector
response.
(b) Non-Health Sector Response. Public service agencies other than
Ministry of Health are important instruments for carrying out a wide range
of preventive and mitigation activities, aimed both at the staff of these
entities, as well as their clients. The MAP will support three principle
activities: (i) provision to public sector staff and their families of
HIV/AIDS and STI education, training, condoms, treatment and other
support; (ii) enhancement of the agencies' capacity to provide clients and
audiences with the means to provide effective prevention and ways to
access health care facilities and care; and (iii) sector planning to
prepare for, and mitigate, the impact of AIDS on the sector.     Annual work
plans and budgets will be prepared by public sector agencies in line with
guidelines and prototypes already identified in the draft Implementation
Manual, and agencies will also have access to supplemental support through
the capacity building component. Work plans will be reviewed and
supported as and when they become available throughout the life of the
project. Ministries of Transport and Education are already well advanced
in the design and implementation of HIV/AIDS work programs. Ministry of
Social Development is preparing one currently with support under the
Japanese Grant. This funding source is also supporting exchanges between
Niger's Ministry of Defense and that of Burkina Faso, whose organization
and achievements could facilitate those of the nascent program in Niger's
Ministry of Defense.    The rural development sector has benefited from
studies and pilot activities initiated as a part of the preparation of the
Community Assistance Program operation and is thus well placed to benefit
from the MAP support.
(2)   Civil Society Response and Community-Based Initiatives for
Prevention, Care and Mitigation: Under this component, the project will
support the intensification of prevention, care and social support to meet
the needs of specific target groups, PLWHA and their families. It will
ensure the continuity and expansion of successful HIV?AIDS mitigation
activities adapted to local conditions and managed by grassroots
organizations and communities. This component will also promote and
encourage HIV/AIDS initiatives of private sector enterprises aimed at
developing and implementing prevention, care and support strategies
designed for their employees and their families.     Thanks to the
assistance of the Japanese PHRD Grant, considerable work has already been
undertaken to inventory, categorize and assess the capacity of the myriad
NGOs currently contributing to the fight against HIV/AIDS, as well as
those with the potential and interest to do so.
The management of this component (both technical coordination and
financial management) will be contracted out to one or a few NGOs, which
are well established and already located and working in all of Niger's
regions. Selection of the NGO(s) will be on a competitive basis, to be
evaluated on the basis of both price and technical quality of the bid.
The manager of this component will be to mobilize and procure the support
necessary so that the multiple executing agencies falling under this
component will be in a position to: (i) submit and implement priority
activities in line with their specialization; (ii) develop relevant
- 10 -



services itemized in the Strategic Framework; and (iii) deliver such
services to target populations. Funds will be channeled directly through
grants to associations, religious organizations and communities, private
enterprises, NGOs and community-based organizations to cover a wide range
of activities, including: (i) prevention and sensitization activities
targeted at communities as well as specific groups at high risk and aimed
at building awareness, reducing the stigma associated with HIV/AIDS and
the adoption of safer behavior (community-based IEC, promotion of the use
of condoms at the community level); (ii) provision of home and
community-based care for AIDS patients; and (iii) social support to PLWHA,
orphaned children, and households affected by HIV/AIDS, through income
generation activities and support to local caregivers.
(3) Capacity Building: This component will support HIV/AIDS-related
capacity building for the
various implementers of the project. It will support training and other
capacity-building activities that are
necessary for the public sector and civil society agencies to be able to
effectively and efficiently implement HIV/AIDS prevention, care, and
support activities in the country. For instance, administrative and
financial management capacities of civil society organizations as well as
their technical capabilities can benefit from this component.
Decentralized levels of government and line Ministries and other public
sector agencies may use the funding of this component to specifically
address areas needing strengthening within respective levels of Government
and sectoral programs. Similarly, the various
entities of the institutional/organizational framework for HIV/AIDS in
Niger, responsibility for Program coordination and strategic
management will need significant capacity building which this component
would support.
(4) Project Coordination and Management: The CIS/LS , being
responsible for overall Program administration, coordination and strategic
management, will assume responsibility for the management of the MAP..
During appraisal, the capacity of the newly established staff of the
CIS/LS will be assessed and agreements will be reached to strengthen
and/or supplement capacity to ensure sound management of the MAP within
this framework in full respect of the Bank's exigencies. Contractual
staff will most likely include: a procurement specialist, a project
accountant, a technical assistant to the Coordinator and possibly support
staff. In addition, as noted above, management of the Civil Society
component will be specifically funded under this component. Prior to
negotiations, the Government will recruit supplemental, contractual staff
to ensure sound management of this operation. Prior to approval by the
RVP, prequalification and short-lists for all subcontracts of project
management functions will be completed. The project will finance the
operating costs (net of civil service salaries) of the CIS/LS and
supplemental contractual staff and contracting out deemed necessary to
backstop and strengthen the capacity and efficiency of this new entity as
well as to fulfill all Bank requirements for project management. The
CIL/LS will facilitate and coordinate project execution, while the
implementation of project activities will be the responsibility of line
ministries, public sector agencies, civil society organizations,
decentralized levels of Government and communities. An organigramme of
Program/project management is attached in Annex 11.     TOR for suggested
- 11 -



contractual staff is also shown in Annex 11. The nomination of regional
coordinators is a condition of negotiation.
Public Sector Responses for Prevention, Care and Mitigation: (a) Health
Sector Response; (b) Non-Health Sector Response
Civil Society Response and Community-Based Initiatives for Prevention,
Care and Mitigation
Capacity Building
Project Coordination and Management
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER $2.00
IBRD
IDA
IDA GRANT FOR HIV/AIDS $20.00
FOREIGN SOURCES (UNIDENTIFIED) $0.00
Total Project Cost $22.00
6. Implementation
As described in Section B.2 of this PAD (para ), Niger adopted on May 24,
2002, as a part of its strategic framework document, a new institutional
framework for facilitating and coordinating an effective, broad-based
multisectoral approach to the fight against HIV/AIDS.
The MAP will be implemented over a period of four years within this new
institutional framework. The roles/functions of the main organs of
policy and oversight, coordination and implementation are described
briefly below and presented in more detail in Annex 3. During appraisal,
the mission will review and discuss with Government the results of a
capacity assessment of this new institutional set-up, which is currently
underway.
The National AIDS Council/NAC (Comite national de lutte contre les
IST/VIH/SIDA [CNLS]) is chaired by the President of the Republic of Niger
and is responsible for: approving policy and strategic orientations and
work plans; ensuring a truly multisectoral approach; ensuring proactive
mobilization and good coordination of technical and financial assistance
of all partners (international and national); and evaluating program
performance and impact. The Inter-sectoral Program Coordination Unit -
CIS/LS (described below) serves as secretariat to the CNLS.
Regional and Subregional Committees (Comites de chef-lieux de region de
lutte contre le SIDA [CRLS/IST] et Comites sous-regionaux de lutte contre
le SIDA [CSRLS/ISTI, chaired, respectively, by the Prefect and
Sub-Prefect, will carry out the above-mentioned functions of the CNLS at
the decentralized levels of Government.
A Minister/Advisor to the President of the Republic is responsible for
sustaining and further enhancing political commitment as well as for
continued and intensified advocacy work at the highest levels of
Government.
A Technical Consultative Committee (Comite Mixte de Suivi) is made up of
national and international partners and is responsible for providing
technical advice to the CNLS and to contribute to the mobilization and
coordination of technical and financial contributions of all partners to
- 12 -



the fight against HIV/AIDS.
The Inter-Sectoral Program Coordination Unit (Coordination
Intersectorielle de la lutte contre les IST/VIH/SIDA [CIS/LS]) serves as
secretariat to the CNLS . Created by Arrote No. 0078 -PM, this structure,
placed in the office of the Prime Minister is responsible for the
coordination of the strategic planning and implementation of the national
HIV/AIDS program. Its key functions and staffing covering the following
domains: overall program coordination, administration and finance,
communications and public relations, technical support and liaison with
public sector agencies of execution (both health sector and non-health
sector); liaison/outreach with civil society; monitoring and evaluation.
Regional Coordinators will represent the CIS/LS in each of the regions.
Nomination of regional coordinators is a
condition of negotiations.
Coordination within Sectors. Each sector Ministry has appointed a focal
point and created a sectoral committee responsible
for the preparation of sector action plans in line with the adopted
strategy for HIV/AIDS. This institutional set-up is also responsible
for mobilizing and coordinating human and financial resources within line
Ministries for program implementation and evaluation.
Given the critical role it has to play, the Ministry of Health created by
Arrote No. 184/MSP/LCE of August 5, 2002, a Health
Sector Unit for the Fight Against HIV/AIDS (Unite de Lutte Sectorielle
Sante contre les IST/VIH/SIDA) whose role it is to
coordinate all activities within MOH, serve as secretariat to the MOH
coordinating committee.
Executing Agencies complete the make-up of the institutional framework,
composed of key of technical Ministries and other public sector agencies,
decentralized levels of Government (regions, departments, communes,
cantons), and civil society (including private sector, NGOs,
community-based organizations, etc.).
Implementation Arrangements. An Implementation Manual is in an advanced
draft form and has been prepared through an iterative process involving
all key actors of both Government and civil society. It defines
institutional and implementation arrangements, the respective
responsibilities and mandates of each participating entity and the
functional relationships between actors. It defines procedures and
eligibility criteria for review and approval of project proposals, and
provides guidelines for the preparation implementation and supervision of
project proposals. It includes the contractual arrangements between the
CIS/LS and implementing agencies and includes standard contracts for a
broad range of activities. It also contains procurement arrangements and
defines financial management requirements. The Table of Contents of the
Implementation Manual, including a list of Annexes, is presented in Annex
3, as a reference and to illustrate how advanced implementation
arrangements are at this stage. During appraisal the Implementation Manual
will be discussed and reviewed so that all implementation arrangements are
agreed. By the time of negotiations a final draft version of the Manual
will be submitted to IDA, to be finalized during negotiations.
- 13 -



The project will be implemented over a period of four years in an
incremental manner starting with those line ministries, public agencies,
decentralized levels of government, NGOs and CBOs, which already have
HIV/AIDS work plans. Coverage will be extended to other sectors and
organizations of civil society as implementation capacity is strengthened
and work programs prepared. The CIS/LS will have overall responsibility
for project management and coordination.
Implementation of Public Sector Work Plans. Public entities at the
national and decentralized levels would prepare project proposals and
submit them to the CIS/LS for approval and subsequent funding. A formal
contract, including a work program and budget with agreed input and output
indicators, will define the respective roles and responsibilities of the
contract signatories and frame the relationship between the various
executing agencies and the CIS/LS. Contracts will be conceived around a
performance-based management approach, whose primary focus is around
accountability for results.
Implementation of the Civil Society Component. The CIS/LS will
subcontract the responsibility for management of the Civil Society
Component to several seasoned NGOs working in subgroups of regions. This
arrangement will ensure the autonomy, promotion and complementarity of
civil society activity. The cycle of project proposal writing,
submission, review, approval, financing and evaluation is described in
detail in the Operations Manual and summarized in Annex
Project Monitoring, Supervision and Evaluation
This project will support Niger in adopting the principles of "second
generation" HIV surveillance recently developed by WHO and UNAIDS. This
approach tailors the use of data to the specifics of the country and
combines biomedical and behavioral surveillance, drawing on data from a
wide variety of local sources. Program M&E envisaged under this operation
will be unique in a number of respects:
n The three-year program will provide more information on inputs, process
and outputs than on outcomes and impacts, which are longer term;
fn Early indicators on program effectiveness and beneficiary receptivity
will be needed in real time to improve service delivery;
n The emphasis on multisectoral approaches and multiple implementation
channels will require more monitoring and evaluation at the micro level;
n The commitment to beneficiary and stakeholder involvement and changing
behavior of different groups will be enhanced if the M&E systems are
complemented by a permanent process of social impact monitoring;
The M&E system will be organized as a management tool for all concerned
stakeholders and established on a network basis for broader sharing of
lessons learned. Annex 12 presents the state of work thus far in the
development of a M&E system, notably: anticipated program results by
strategic orientation; M&E needs of different actors; role of the CIS/LS
in monitoring and evaluation, and M&E responsibilities of the Management
of the civil society component.
Details on monitoring, supervision and evaluation mechanisms (day-to-day,
reviews, workshops, mid-term and final reviews) will be refined during
- 14 -



project appraisal, at which time a draft proposal for a monitoring and
evaluation system, including performance indicators drawn from baseline
data, will be presented to the mission for its review. By the time of
negotiations a draft final version of the M&E plan will be submitted to
IDA, and will be finalized during negotiations.
Financing Arrangements
The national HIV/AIDS program will have to be able to finance any of the
sub-programs or sub-projects of these different classes of executing
agencies. The following key principles the MAP will observe are drawn
from successful experience in social funds and community-driven
development programs and will be discussed and refined during appraisal:
n Appraisal and approval of projects on a decentralized basis;
n Inclusion of in-kind contributions from participating local and
community organizations;
n Direct flow of funds from the project coordination unit to the
implementing entities based on an agreed-upon tranche schedule;
n Facilitation, monitoring, coordination and capacity building at the
local and community level by intermediary organizations
n Regular, integrated reporting on physical progress and financial
results;
n Review and approval of integrated reports prior to disbursement of the
next tranche and/or approval of additional sub-projects;
n Annual independent external audits of community and local implementing
entities on a random sample basis;
n Annual independent external technical and process audits of community
and local implementing entities on a random sample basis; and
n Transparency and accountability to final beneficiaries at the local
level.
Nevertheless, the project will have a viable financial management and
accounting system, including a comprehensive Manual of Financial
Procedures, Chart of Accounts and fully integrated project financial and
accounting system, using appropriate accounting software. The capacity of
the recently created Financial Management and Administration Directorate
of the CIS/LS will be assessed during appraisal and the need for
incremental/contractual staff reviewed with a view to ensuring that IDA
grant resources are managed in a manner satisfactory to IDA. The
appraisal mission will also review the financial management arrangements
proposed in the draft Implementation Manual.
Before negotiations, Government will: (a) submit to IDA a draft
procedures manual for Administration, Financial Management and Accounting;
(b) recruit supplemental, contractual staff deemed necessary for sound
financial management (most likely project accountant). Before approval by
the RVP, Government will have finalized the procedures manual for
Administration, Financial Management and Accounting.
Disbursement
A special account and a project account will be opened and maintained in a
reputable commercial bank.     Assessment on the need to open additional
bank accounts will be made in accordance with the institutional and
- 15 -



implementation arrangements that will be agreed upon at appraisal.
Before negotiations, Government should provide IDA with proof of opening
of a project account and of the deposit of an amount corresponding to the
counterpart fund obligations for the first year of implementation.
Disbursement of the project proceeds will initially assume the traditional
mechanisms for IDA assisted projects. However, the project will be
expected to convert to Project Management Report (PMR)-based disbursements
mechanism under the Financial Management Initiative (FMI) framework in a
period not exceeding 18 months. To that effect, the action plan mentioned
above will include measures that will need to take place to lead to a
PMR-based disbursements framework. The project will mainly use Statement
of Expenditures (SOEs) through the special account to access credit funds,
while direct payments and special commitments will be used for bulk
procurement of goods and services.
All disbursements against expenditures for contracts with civil society
organizations and the private sector will be made against SOEs and be
subject to random ex-post financial, physical, and technical review by IDA
missions and be audited by financial and technical consultants employed
under the project. All procurement contracts not subject to IDA prior
review will be disbursed against SOEs and documentation will be retained
by the Project Coordination Unit and made available for review by IDA and
the project auditor. All disbursements against expenditures under the
community-based subprojects will be subject to ex-post review by IDA
missions and the project auditor on a sample basis.
The project will be audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA and
recruited by effectiveness. Each implementing agency will submit
quarterly financial reports to the PCU, which in turn will consolidate all
project financial reports submitted by these agencies and prepare the
project financial statements for auditing purposes. Audited project
financial statements and report thereon, inclusive of an auditor's opinion
on the use of SOEs will be submitted to IDA within six months following
the end of the financial year.
Procurement procedures
Procurement arrangements based on those established for the MAP operation
will be discussed and refined during appraisal, and firmly grounded in
procurement capacity assessments. IDA will finance goods, civil works,
consultancies, training, and other local activities necessary to implement
the project. Procurement for all IDA-financed activities will be carried
out in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995 and revised in January and August
1996, September 1997, and January 1999), in particular, paragraph 3.15 on
Community Participation in Procurement and using the Bank's Guidelines
for Simplified Procurement and Disbursement for Community-Based
Investments (February 1998). Consulting services by firms or individuals
financed by IDA will be awarded in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines:
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January
1997, revised in September 1997 and January 1999).
All procurement actions will follow standard IDA procurement Guidelines
and annual General Procurement Notices (GPN) will be prepared for the
- 16 -



project and published in United Nations Development Business. During
appraisal a draft PIP and a draft procurement plan for the first year of
project operations will be prepared. Prior to approval by the RVP (a) the
PIP and first year procurement plan will be finalized.     The procurement
plans will be revised annually for IDA's review. Procurement performance
at all levels will be assessed on an annual basis through
procurement/physical external audits. In addition to the formal annual
audits, ad-hoc procurement reviews will be conducted periodically.
7. Sustainability
The project is designed to support the nationally-conceived and approved
Strategic Framework for HIV/AIDS, which enjoys strong Government and civil
society ownership and which supports the expansion of HIV/AIDS activities
that involve communities, civil society organizations, and other
stakeholders. The project will scale up existing HIV/AIDS activities by
mainstreaming activities into all government sectors and civil society,
and by tapping into community organization resources. The project
emphasizes institutional capacity building at national and local levels.
All of these aspects would improve chances for sustainability. With
regard to financial sustainability, it is unlikely that Government will be
able to fully finance the program in the medium term, and realistic to
expect that bilateral and multilateral development agencies will continue
to finance HIV/AIDS activities in the country beyond the period of project
implementation.
The overall project risk is substantial. While ownership is reasonably
strong, and the CIS/LS staffing includes some staff with experience and
institutional memory, the unusually multisectoral characteristics of the
program and the very innovative nature of implementation and financing
arrangements, combined with the wide use of multiple actors with little
experience of working effectively together , all would add significantly
to the project risks. The draft CAS underlining the fact that Niger
overall is a high risk country. During appraisal, the team will discuss
and refine with Government the assessment of critical risks and the search
for ways and means to mitigate such risks. In the meantime, it is clear
that project supervision will have to be much more intensive for this
project than is the norm, and that such supervision will have to include
substantial technical support. To ensure the success in project
implementation, IDA will have to:
n Provide adequate resources for supervision which are above the standard
supervision coefficients;
n Conduct supervision with teams that have specialists from various
sectors and, in particular, have specialists in key areas such as
financial management, procurement, monitoring and evaluation;
Collaborate closely with internal/external partners and stakeholders.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Lessons taken into account in the design of this project relied heavily on
recommended public health best practice as well as experience and
perspectives gleaned from the design and implementation of MAPs thus far
in Africa. The are consolidated below into lessons of design and lessons
of implementation. The design of this operation also drew heavily on two
other sets of relevant lessons: (a) the lessons of the IDA-financed
Population Project, whose complexity and nature are similar to those of
the MAP; and (b) the lessons of design and implementation of the
- 17 -



IDA-financed portfolio in Niger, all sectors combined, compiled by the
Community Assistance Program (CAP) team during the course of preparation.
Both of these are contained in Annex 13.
Lessons of Design (Content):
n Prevent infection among those most likely to contract and spread HIV.
Effective, low cost prevention interventions for such groups at high risk
already exist. However, such groups are often the most marginalized and
stigmatized and thus unable to compete for attention and resources
themselves. To identify groups at high risk, their social networks and
then target them with sustained, effective prevention interventions should
be the priority of a national HIV/AIDS program.
n Prioritize interventions by their proven effectiveness. Prioritizing
interventions based on their effectiveness can maximize the number of new
HIV infections averted in the presence of resource and capacity
constraints. Budget allocation among different components of a national
HIV/AIDS program should reflect a strategic choice of effective
interventions.
n Address gender inequality. There are more women getting infected than
men in many developing countries. Women now account for 55t of adults
living with HIV/AIDS in Sub-Saharan Africa. Gender inequality is a
contributing factor to the epidemic and needs to be addressed in the long
term through measures such as improving education and labor force
participation of women.
n Create an enabling policy environment. An enabling environment with
regard to local, social and gender policies is essential for the success
of a national HIV/AIDS program, as it facilitates the participation of key
stakeholders and helps reduce risk-taking behaviors, stigma and
discrimination.
n Ensure clarity of objectives. Program goals must be sufficiently clear
and accepted by all key stakeholders.
Lessons of Preparation (Process):
n   Act Early.  No country is insulated from the risk of HIV/AIDS.
Governments should intervene as soon as possible because the more widely
HIV/AIDS spreads, the more difficult and costly prevention, care and
treatment become.
n   Employ more effort to understand underlying sociological factors.
Analytical work can help to improve the targeting and effectiveness of
interventions.
n Use a multisectoral approach with active involvement of all relevant
stakeholders. This would generate greater commitment, mobilize additional
resources, and improve the sustainability of interventions and their
chance for success. Different sectors, such as education, transport,
defense, etc., can play a role in the fight against HIV/AIDS. Local
communities and NGOs are often capable of understanding local cultural and
social contexts, mobilizing people and reaching out to marginalized
high-risk groups. They therefore can successfully implement many HIV/AIDS
interventions and need to be provided with direct financial and technical
support to act at the local level, where the public sector is often less
effective.
n Use and strengthen all capacity to implement. Use all people and
organizations with the ability to implement the program effectively,
- 18 -



especially to scale up existing programs and enable them to acquire the
necessary skills to deal with higher levels of activities.
n   Focus more on readiness for implementation.    Important elements of the
program should be ready to be implemented as soon as the funds are
available. Pilot operations to test and refine implementation
arrangements are recommended when possible.
Lessons of Project Implementation:
n   Adopt flexibility and adaptation vs. blueprint approach.    Continuous
adjustment and reworking of the program will allow it to respond more
effectively to changing circumstances and to emerging lessons.
n   Focus on the goals.   The objectives should always be kept in mind when
making decisions. Actions/proposals should be assessed in light of how
they will contribute to achievement of project goals.
n   Establish a viable monitoring and evaluation system.    In an
experimental and learning process, a good M&E system is essential. A good
M&E system is essential to inform how well the program is performing,
where it is going and how it needs to be adjusted.
n   Involve stakeholders.   This is no less important in implementation
than in the design. There must be an openness to innovation and
non-traditional partners.
n   Ensure intensive supervision.   The complexity, scope and learning
approach of the MAP requires more intensive supervision, both by countries
and donors.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        The project is not expected to generate adverse
environmental effects. Possible environmental risks include inappropriate
handling and disposal of medical waste and inadequate management of the
respective disposal sites in urban or peri-urban areas, where domestics
and medical waste may be mixed. Details on proper handling and disposal
of medical waste and adequate management of the respective disposal sites
will form a chapter of the Project Operations Manual. The project will
finance training of health care providers, TBAs, traditional healers, and
community workers delivering testing and care to HIV/AIDS patients. This
training will include instruction on appropriate separation, transport and
disposal of hazardous medical waste.
10. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Denise A. Vaillancourt
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
- 19 -



Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
October 25, 2002.
- 20 -



