Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
Update 
Report No.:  AB3128 
Project Name 
Multi-Sector STI/HIV/AIDS Support Project 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Health (40%);Other social services (35%);Central government 
administration (20%);Sub-national government administration 
(5%) 
Project ID 
P071612 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF NIGER 
Implementing Agency 
Coordination Intersectorielle de Lutte contre le SIDA (CISLS) 
Tel: (227) 20735460/20732801/20732809 
Fax: (227) 
20735859/20722158 
Contact Person: Dr. Bagnou Abdoulaye 
Email:cislsner@intnet.ne 
BP 893 
–
Niamey NIGER 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
October 17, 2002 
Date PID Updated 
May 14, 2007 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
November 4, 2002 
Date of Board Approval 
April 4, 2003 
This is an update of the original PID dated October 2002 following a request by Government to 
restructure the project, including changes in the Project Development Objectives (PDOs).  The project has 
been implemented over a five-year period, since October 10, 2003, and has had a thorough mid-term 
review in July 2006, and is currently being restructured based on recommendations of the mid-term 
review. 
 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
Niger is one of the world’s poorest countries. It has an annual gross national income 
(GNI) per capita of only US$180, and an average life expectancy of only 47 years. With a 
population of 10,790 million (2001), 80% of whom live in rural areas, and a total fertility ratio of 
7.5 children per woman, Niger has one of the highest population growth rates in the world 
(3.1%). According to UN projections in 2002, under optimistic assumptions (3.5 children per 
woman in 2050), Niger’s population will reach 53 million and will become the second highest 
populated West African country after Nigeria. As a Heavily Indebted Poor Country (HIPC), 
Niger must rapidly fulfill several human development targets set out in the 2002 Poverty 
Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) to remain on track for the debt initiative, and make measurable 
progress toward achieving the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). 
 
With the exception of HIV/AIDS affecting less than 1% of the population (2006), Niger’s 
health outcomes are modest compared to other Sub-Saharan African (SSA) countries: child 
mortality is 198 per 1,000, one of the highest rates in the region; child malnutrition rates reach 
Page  2
43%; and maternal mortality averages 648 per 100,000 live births. The gaps between rural and 
urban areas as well as between socio-economic groups are significant. The results of the last 
Demographic Health Survey (DHS) carried out in 2006 showed a modern contraceptive 
prevalence rate of only 3% in rural areas as opposed to 18% in urban areas. The main reasons for 
such poor performance include:  (a) the poor institutional capacity of the Ministry of Health 
(MoH); (b) insufficient funding of the sector; and (c) the uncertainty and lack of coordination of 
donor funding. Over the next two decades, sustained efforts both from the government and 
donors will be necessary for the country to move towards reaching the MDGs. 
 
Government Strategy: On May 24, 2002, the Council of Ministers adopted Niger's National 
Strategic Framework for the Fight against STIs/HIV/AIDS covering the period 2002 - 2006. The product 
of a highly participatory process and of in-depth analysis of the pandemic and of the country's response to 
date, this Strategic Framework provides an overview of Niger's new, improved vision for the fight against 
HIV/AIDS that has taken into account the necessity to transform its efforts from a very narrow, primarily 
single-sector approach to a more holistic and dynamic approach that is multisectoral in nature and that 
draws on the talents and potential of the public sector and of civil society alike, most particularly those at 
decentralized/local levels. This Framework is articulated around four strategic orientations, which are 
perfectly coherent with the program themes recommended for MAP II (a) scaling up of prevention 
activities; (b) scaling up of treatment and care activities; (c) scaling up mitigation of the impact of 
HIV/AIDS on households and communities; and (d) building national capacity for strategic management 
and implementation of a multisectoral program. The main elements of each of these strategic orientations 
have been supported by the MAP.  
 
2. Objectives 
 
This project is being prepared in the context of the Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program (MAP II) 
for Africa, approved by the Board of Executive Directors on February 7, 2002 in the amount of US$500 
million equivalent, whose overall development objective is to increase dramatically access to HIV/AIDS 
prevention, treatment, care and support programs, with emphasis on vulnerable groups (such as youth, 
women of childbearing age and other groups at high risk). The overarching objective of this country 
operation is to support the Government of Niger in the implementation of its Strategic Framework for the 
Fight against STI/HIV/AIDS for the period 2002-2006, adopted in May 7, 2002.  This objective, 
however, was found to be unrealistic and it is currently being proposed that it be revised, as explained in 
section 3 below. The project supports the implementation of the National Plan against HIV/AIDS and 
promotes civil society and community initiatives for prevention and care
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
No single Government or agency can overcome HIV/AIDS alone. A vast, concerted effort is required 
both at national and international levels. That is the insight that guided the creation of UNAIDS, and the 
move towards a pluralistic, multisectoral approach. Although agencies such as, UNICEF and WHO will 
continue to set the overall technical parameters for HIV/AIDS. IDA has a number of comparative 
advantages that are critical to the success of these partnerships. First, no other external actor has the 
global knowledge and policy influence of IDA on the overall development agenda. This influence has 
proven central in helping to elevate HIV/AIDS beyond the health sector to a fundamental development 
issue, and to ensure the necessary visibility in discussion of national planning, poverty reduction 
strategies, and debt-reduction programs. Second, IDA has experience in virtually all sectors and can 
Page  3
therefore work effectively in supporting a multisectoral response.  Assisting sectors to plan for the impact 
of AIDS will be one of the most important tasks of the next few years. Third, IDA's long experience with 
implementation will be instrumental in helping to balance speed and accountability. Fourth, IDA 
involvement is essential to bridging the resource gap. Both through its own resources and its convening 
and leveraging power, IDA can make a significant contribution to filling this gap. 
 
IDA has played a pivotal role in supporting the National HIV/AIDS Strategy.  The IDA-funded 
Multi-Sectoral HIV/AIDS Project
 
(US$25 million Grant) has been the main source of funding for the 
implementation of this strategy, followed by the Global Fund with US$12 million for three years.  The 
Bank’s strategy in the field of HIV/AIDS aims at supporting the country’s efforts to stem and reverse 
current rising HIV/AIDS cases and provide effective care and treatment to infected and affected persons 
and communities as spelled out in the National HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan. To this end, the objective of the 
Project was to assist the Recipient in implementing its STI/HIV/AIDS National Strategic Framework, in 
order to (a) slow the spread of HIV/AIDS in the general population; (b) mitigate the impact of the 
STI/HIV/AIDS epidemic on individuals and communities; and (c) strengthen the country capacity to 
formulate, manage, implement, monitor, and evaluate a viable cost-effective HIV/AIDS Program. The 
specific objectives of this operation are : (a) to scale up, expand and improve prevention activities in an 
effort to lower the risks of transmission; (b) to mitigate the negative impact of the disease through 
improvements to the availability and quality of services for people living with HIV/AIDS and affected 
family members and communities, encompassing care, treatment, counseling, and social protection; and 
(c) to strengthen capacity in Niger to formulate, manage, implement, monitor and evaluate a viable, cost-
effective HIV/AIDS program that would be multisectoral in its approach and that would draw on the 
comparative advantages and partnerships of a multiplicity of actors. 
 
Based on the experience and lessons learned from the implementation of project activities in the 
last 3 years, acknowledging that measuring HIV incidence is currently beyond the country’s capacity, and 
because it is not possible to determine if the Project interventions would be solely responsible for having 
an impact on the incidence, the Government has requested the Bank to change the PDO to make it more 
realistic and achievable. However, the project description will remain the same.  
 
The revised PDO is: “Improvement in (a) the coverage and utilization of HIV prevention, care, 
treatment and mitigation services; and (b) the STI/HIV/AIDS prevention knowledge of the general 
population”. 
 
4. Description 
 
The project supports the implementation of Niger's strategic plan through a wide variety of public 
sector agencies, non-governmental organizations, and community-based organizations.  It is being 
implemented over a five-year period, since October 10, 2003, and is expected to close on June 30, 2008.  
A
one more year has been also requested by the Government, which will allow the implementation of the 
project to June 30, 2009. The project includes four major components as follows: 
 
Component 1: Public Sector Responses for Prevention, Care and Mitigation:
 This 
component finance the work plans of multiple line Ministries and other public sector agencies in line with 
their roles and comparative advantages. The project supports annual action plan prepared by several 
Ministries. The strategic framework exercise includes a matrix outlining the potential roles, domains and 
comparative advantages of public sector actors. Work plans would aim at: the strengthening/development 
of a more proactive engagement among civil servants to fight against HIV/AIDS; a change in risky 
behavior; improved environment for collaboration and a multisectoral approach; the development and 
Page  4
delivery of essential HIV/AIDS information and services. This component is subdivided into health and 
non-health sector activities as follows: 
 
(a) Health Sector Response
:
A
strong health system is a foundation for success in the fight against 
HIV/AIDS. Within the public sector, the health system bears primary responsibility for care and 
treatment, plays a pivotal role in many preventive activities, and endures significant impact on its staff 
and operations. Niger's strategic framework recognizes the special responsibilities of the Ministry of 
health for HIV/AIDS, STI and other opportunistic infections prevention and management. TB will also 
deserve special attention and emphasis because it is a particularly effective way in which the health sector 
can contribute to the HIV/AIDS program. In addition, in Niger, where basic mother and child health 
indicators are among the worst in the world, the HIV/AIDS activities will need to provided in the context 
of a strengthened minimum package of services (including reproductive health services) for the 
improvement and protection of maternal and child health.  Among the critical activities included in the 
work plan and supported under the project are: (1) scaling up of the national sentinel surveillance system, 
setting standards of care, voluntary counseling and testing (VCT) protocols, as well as a significant role in 
carrying out VCT activities and follow-up; (2) implementation of syndromic STI care; (3) carrying out an 
aggressive TB program; (4) scaling-up of the national blood screening and supply program; (5) 
strengthening of the basic health and referral services for dealing with HIV/AIDS, STIs and other 
opportunistic infections, especially TB; (6) coordination of condom procurement and distribution; (7) 
scaling up of activities for HIV vulnerable or "core" groups in collaboration with other partners; (8) 
establishment and/or support to others of the primary level of a care (and possibly treatment) program for 
people infected and affected by HIV/AIDS, including community-based care programs; (9) services to 
prevent mother-to-child transmission (MTCT) including counseling on breast-feeding, family planning, 
maternal support and drug therapy when combined with VCT, care for HIV positive pregnant women and 
children; (10) implementation of a medical waste plan, including training; (11) health related research and 
surveys that enhance health sector response. 
 
(b) Non-Health Sector Response
.
Public service agencies other than Ministry of Health are 
important instruments for carrying out a wide range of preventive and mitigation activities, aimed both at 
the staff of these entities, as well as their clients. The MAP will support three principle activities: (i) 
provision to public sector staff and their families of HIV/AIDS and STI education, training, condoms, 
treatment and other support; (ii) enhancement of the agencies' capacity to provide clients and audiences 
with the means to provide effective prevention and ways to access health care facilities and care; and (iii) 
sector planning to prepare for, and mitigate, the impact of AIDS on the sector. Annual work plans and 
budgets will be prepared by public sector agencies in line with guidelines and prototypes already 
identified in the draft Implementation Manual, and agencies will also have access to supplemental support 
through the capacity building component. Work plans will be reviewed and supported as and when they 
become available throughout the life of the project.  
 
Component 2: Civil Society Response and Community-Based Initiatives for Prevention, 
Care and Mitigation
:
Under this component, the project will support the intensification of prevention, 
care and social support to meet the needs of specific target groups, PLWHA and their families. It will 
ensure the continuity and expansion of successful HIV/AIDS mitigation activities adapted to local 
conditions and managed by grassroots organizations and communities. This component will also promote 
and encourage HIV/AIDS initiatives of private sector enterprises aimed at developing and implementing 
prevention, care and support strategies designed for their employees and their families. The management 
of this component (both technical coordination and financial management) will be contracted out to one 
or a few NGOs, which are well established and already located and working in all of Niger's regions. 
Selection of the NGO(s) will be on a competitive basis, to be evaluated on the basis of both price and 
technical quality of the bid. The manager of this component will be to mobilize and procure the support 
necessary so that the multiple executing agencies falling under this component will be in a position to: (i) 
Page  5
submit and implement priority activities in line with their specialization; (ii) develop relevant services 
itemized in the Strategic Framework; and (iii) deliver such services to target populations. Funds will be 
channeled directly through grants to associations, religious organizations and communities, private 
enterprises, NGOs and community-based organizations to cover a wide range of activities, including: (i) 
prevention and sensitization activities targeted at communities as well as specific groups at high risk and 
aimed at building awareness, reducing the stigma associated with HIV/AIDS and the adoption of safer 
behavior (community-based IEC, promotion of the use of condoms at the community level); (ii) provision 
of home and community-based care for AIDS patients; and (iii) social support to PLWHA, orphaned 
children, and households affected by HIV/AIDS, through income generation activities and support to 
local caregivers.  
 
Component 3: Capacity Building
:
This component will support HIV/AIDS-related capacity 
building for the various implementers of the project. It will support training and other capacity-building 
activities that are necessary for the public sector and civil society agencies to be able to effectively and 
efficiently implement HIV/AIDS prevention, care, and support activities in the country. For instance, 
administrative and financial management capacities of civil society organizations as well as their 
technical capabilities can benefit from this component. Decentralized levels of government and line 
Ministries and other public sector agencies may use the funding of this component to specifically address 
areas needing strengthening within respective levels of Government and sectoral programs. Similarly, the 
various entities of the institutional/organizational framework for HIV/AIDS in Niger, responsibility for 
Program coordination and strategic management will need significant capacity building which this 
component would support. 
 
Component 4: Project Coordination and Management
:
The CIS/LS, being responsible for 
overall Program administration, coordination and strategic management, will assume responsibility for 
the management of the MAP. Contractual staff will most likely include: a procurement specialist, a 
project accountant, a technical assistant to the Coordinator and possibly support staff. In addition, as 
noted above, management of the Civil Society component will be specifically funded under this 
component. The project will finance the operating costs (net of civil service salaries) of the CIS/LS and 
supplemental contractual staff and contracting out deemed necessary to backstop and strengthen the 
capacity and efficiency of this new entity as well as to fulfill all Bank requirements for project 
management. The CIL/LS will facilitate and coordinate project execution, while the implementation of 
project activities will be the responsibility of line ministries, public sector agencies, civil society 
organizations, decentralized levels of Government and communities.
 
5. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 2 
IDA GRANT FOR HIV/AIDS 
25 
FOREIGN SOURCES (UNIDENTIFIED) 
0 
 Total 
27 
 
6. Implementation 
 
Niger adopted on May 24, 2002, as a part of its strategic framework document, a new institutional 
framework for facilitating and coordinating an effective, broad-based multisectoral approach to the fight 
against HIV/AIDS. The MAP will be implemented over a period of five years within this new 
institutional framework. The roles/functions of the main organs of policy and oversight, coordination and 
implementation are described briefly below. 
 
Page  6
The National AIDS Council/NAC (Comite national de lutte contre les IST/VIH/SIDA [CNLS]) is 
chaired by the President of the Republic of Niger and is responsible for: approving policy and strategic 
orientations and work plans; ensuring a truly multisectoral approach; ensuring proactive mobilization and 
good coordination of technical and financial assistance of all partners (international and national); and 
evaluating program performance and impact. The Inter-sectoral Program Coordination Unit - CIS/LS 
(described below) serves as secretariat to the CNLS.  
 
Regional and Subregional Committees (Comites de chef-lieux de region de lutte contre le SIDA 
[CRLS/IST] et Comites sous-regionaux de lutte contre le SIDA [CSRLS/ISTI, chaired, respectively, by 
the Prefect and Sub-Prefect, will carry out the above-mentioned functions of the CNLS at the 
decentralized levels of Government. 
 
An Advisor to the President of the Republic is responsible for sustaining and further enhancing 
political commitment as well as for continued and intensified advocacy work at the highest levels of 
Government. 
 
A
Technical Consultative Committee (Comite Mixte de Suivi) is made up of national and 
international partners and is responsible for providing technical advice to the CNLS and to contribute to 
the mobilization and coordination of technical and financial contributions of all partners to the fight 
against HIV/AIDS. 
 
The Inter-Sectoral Program Coordination Unit (Coordination Intersectorielle de la lutte contre les 
IST/VIH/SIDA [CIS/LS]) serves as secretariat to the CNLS. Created by Arrete No. 0078 -PM, this 
structure, placed in the office of the Prime Minister is responsible for the coordination of the strategic 
planning and implementation of the national HIV/AIDS program. Its key functions and staffing covering 
the following domains: overall program coordination, administration and finance, communications and 
public relations, technical support and liaison with public sector agencies of execution (both health sector 
and non-health sector); liaison/outreach with civil society; monitoring and evaluation.  
 
Regional Coordinators will represent the CIS/LS in each of the regions. Nomination of regional 
coordinators is a condition of negotiations.  
 
Coordination within Sectors. Each sector Ministry has appointed a focal point and created a 
sectoral committee responsible for the preparation of sector action plans in line with the adopted strategy 
for HIV/AIDS. This institutional set-up is also responsible for mobilizing and coordinating human and 
financial resources within line Ministries for program implementation and evaluation. 
 
Given the critical role it has to play, the Ministry of Health created by Arrote No. 184/MSP/LCE 
of August 5, 2002, a Health Sector Unit for the Fight Against HIV/AIDS (Unite de Lutte Sectorielle Sante 
contre les IST/VIH/SIDA) whose role it is to coordinate all activities within MOH, serve as secretariat to 
the MOH coordinating committee. 
 
Executing Agencies complete the make-up of the institutional framework, composed of key of 
technical Ministries and other public sector agencies, decentralized levels of Government (regions, 
departments, communes, cantons), and civil society (including private sector, NGOs, community-based 
organizations, etc.).  
 
An Implementation Manual has been prepared through an iterative process involving all key 
actors of both Government and civil society. It defines institutional and implementation arrangements, the 
respective responsibilities and mandates of each participating entity and the functional relationships 
between actors. It defines procedures and eligibility criteria for review and approval of project proposals, 
Page  7
and provides guidelines for the preparation implementation and supervision of project proposals. It 
includes the contractual arrangements between the CIS/LS and implementing agencies and includes 
standard contracts for a broad range of activities. It also contains procurement arrangements and defines 
financial management requirements. 
 
7. Sustainability 
 
The project is designed to support the nationally-conceived and approved Strategic Framework for 
HIV/AIDS, which enjoys strong Government and civil society ownership and which supports the 
expansion of HIV/AIDS activities that involve communities, civil society organizations, and other 
stakeholders. The project will scale up existing HIV/AIDS activities by mainstreaming activities into all 
government sectors and civil society, and by tapping into community organization resources. The project 
emphasizes institutional capacity building at national and local levels. All of these aspects would improve 
chances for sustainability. With regard to financial sustainability, it is unlikely that Government will be 
able to fully finance the program in the medium term, and realistic to expect that bilateral and multilateral 
development agencies will continue to finance HIV/AIDS activities in the country beyond the period of 
project implementation. 
 
The overall project risk is substantial. While ownership is reasonably strong, and the CIS/LS 
staffing includes some staff with experience and institutional memory, the unusually multisectoral 
characteristics of the program and the very innovative nature of implementation and financing 
arrangements, combined with the wide use of multiple actors with little experience of working effectively 
together, all would add significantly to the project risks. The CAS underlining the fact that Niger overall 
is a high risk country. During appraisal, the team has discussed and refines with Government the 
assessment of critical risks and the search for ways and means to mitigate such risks. In the meantime, it 
is clear that project supervision will have to be much more intensive for this project than is the norm and 
that such supervision will have to include substantial technical support. To ensure the success in project 
implementation, IDA will have to (i) provide adequate resources for supervision which are above the 
standard supervision coefficients; (ii) conduct supervision with teams that have specialists from various 
sectors and, in particular, have specialists in key areas such as financial management, procurement, 
monitoring and evaluation; 
 
8.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
Lessons taken into account in the design of this project relied heavily on recommended public health best 
practice as well as experience and perspectives gleaned from the design and implementation of MAPs 
thus far in Africa. They are consolidated below into lessons of design and lessons of implementation. The 
design of this operation also drew heavily on two other sets of relevant lessons: (a) the lessons of the 
IDA-financed Population Project, whose complexity and nature are similar to those of the MAP; and (b) 
the lessons of design and implementation of the IDA-financed portfolio in Niger, all sectors combined, 
compiled by the Community Assistance Program (CAP) team during the course of preparation.  
 
Lessons of Design (Content): (1) Prevent infection among those most likely to contract and 
spread HIV. (2) Effective, low cost prevention interventions for such groups at high risk already exist. 
However, such groups are often the most marginalized and stigmatized and thus unable to compete for 
attention and resources themselves. To identify groups at high risk, their social networks and then target 
those with sustained, effective prevention interventions should be the priority of a national HIV/AIDS 
program. (3) Prioritize interventions by their proven effectiveness. Prioritizing interventions based on 
Page  8
their effectiveness can maximize the number of new HIV infections averted in the presence of resource 
and capacity constraints. Budget allocation among different components of a national HIV/AIDS program 
should reflect a strategic choice of effective interventions. (4) Address gender inequality. There are more 
women getting infected than men in many developing countries. Women now account for 55t of adults 
living with HIV/AIDS in Sub-Saharan Africa. Gender inequality is a contributing factor to the epidemic 
and needs to be addressed in the long term through measures such as improving education and labor force 
participation of women. (5) Create an enabling policy environment. An enabling environment with regard 
to local, social and gender policies is essential for the success of a national HIV/AIDS program, as it 
facilitates the participation of key stakeholders and helps reduce risk-taking behaviors, stigma and 
discrimination. (6) Ensure clarity of objectives. Program goals must be sufficiently clear and accepted by 
all key stakeholders. 
 
Lessons of Preparation (Process): (1) Act Early. No country is insulated from the risk of 
HIV/AIDS. (2) Governments should intervene as soon as possible because the more widely HIV/AIDS 
spreads, the more difficult and costly prevention, care and treatment become. (3) Employ more effort to 
understand underlying sociological factors. Analytical work can help to improve the targeting and 
effectiveness of interventions. (4) Use a multisectoral approach with active involvement of all relevant 
stakeholders. This would generate greater commitment, mobilize additional resources, and improve the 
sustainability of interventions and their chance for success. Different sectors, such as education, transport, 
defense, etc., can play a role in the fight against HIV/AIDS. Local communities and NGOs are often 
capable of understanding local cultural and social contexts, mobilizing people and reaching out to 
marginalized high-risk groups. They therefore can successfully implement many HIV/AIDS interventions 
and need to be provided with direct financial and technical support to act at the local level, where the 
public sector is often less effective. (5) Use and strengthen all capacity to implement. Use all people and 
organizations with the ability to implement the program effectively, especially to scale up existing 
programs and enable them to acquire the necessary skills to deal with higher levels of activities. (6) Focus 
more on readiness for implementation. Important elements of the program should be ready to be 
implemented as soon as the funds are available. Pilot operations to test and refine implementation 
arrangements are recommended when possible. 
 
Lessons of Project Implementation: (1) Adopt flexibility and adaptation vs. blueprint approach. 
Continuous adjustment and reworking of the program will allow it to respond more effectively to 
changing circumstances and to emerging lessons. (2) Focus on the goals. The objectives should always be 
kept in mind when making decisions. Actions/proposals should be assessed in light of how they will 
contribute to achievement of project goals.  (3) Establish a viable monitoring and evaluation system. In an 
experimental and learning process, a good M&E system is essential. A good M&E system is essential to 
inform how well the program is performing, where it is going and how it needs to be adjusted. (4) Involve 
stakeholders. This is no less important in implementation than in the design. There must be openness to 
innovation and non-traditional partners. (5) Ensure intensive supervision. The complexity, scope and 
learning approach of the MAP requires more intensive supervision, both by countries and donors
 
9.  Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
Issues: The project is not expected to generate adverse environmental effects. Possible environmental 
risks include inappropriate handling and disposal of medical waste and inadequate management of the 
respective disposal sites in urban or peri-urban areas, where domestics and medical waste may be mixed. 
Details on proper handling and disposal of medical waste and adequate management of the respective 
disposal sites will form a chapter of the Project Operations Manual. The project will finance training of 
health care providers, TBAs, traditional healers, and community workers delivering testing and care to 
Page  9
HIV/AIDS patients. This training will include instruction on appropriate separation, transport and 
disposal of hazardous medical waste. 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project
 
Yes
 
No
 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
/
GP
4.01) 
[ X] 
[ ] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04)
 
[
]
[X ] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[
X] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
,
being revised as OP 4.11)
 
[
]
[
X] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12)
 
[
]
[
X] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
,
being revised as OP 4.10)
 
[
]
[
X] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36)
 
[
]
[
X] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37)
 
[
]
[
X] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.60)
*
[
]
[X] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.50)
 
[
]
[
X] 
10. Contact point 
Contact: Djibrilla Karamoko 
Title: Sr Health Spec. 
Tel: 5350+3205 
Fax: 227 73 55 06 
Email: dkaramoko@worldbank.org 
Location: Niamey, Niger (IBRD) 
 
11. For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  10
