Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 18754
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOLIVIA
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2134-BO)
December 28, 1998
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Sector Management Unit
Country Management Unit for Bolivia, Paraguay and Peru
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



ii
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Boliviano
US $1.00 = 5.64
(as of December 23, 1998)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DCD       Development Credit Department
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
IDA       International Development Association
IDB       Inter-American Development Bank
IFC       International Finance Corporation
NAFIBO Nacional Financiera Boliviana S.A.M
(National Bolivian Finance S.A.M.)
NGO       Non-governmental Organization
PFI       Participating Financial Intermediaries
PPF       Private Financial Fund
SAR       Staff Appraisal Report
SAT       Servicio de Asistencia Tecnica
(Technical Assistance Service)
SIRESE   Sistema de Regulacion Sectorial
(Sectoral System of Regulation)
SMEs    Small and Medium Enterprises
SDR       Special Drawing Rights
TA        Technical Assistance
TAF       Technical Assistance Fund
Vice President: Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director: Isabel Guerrero
Sector Manager: Danny Leipziger
Task Team Leader: Jyoti Shukla



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
iii
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY .................................................i
PART 1. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ..........................................1
A. Background ..................................................1
B. Project Objectives and Design .................................................2
C. Achievement of Objectives ..................................................3
D. Major Factors Affecting the Project .................................................8
E. Project Sustainability ................................................9
F. Bank Performance ................................................ 10
G. Borrower Performance ..................................................11
H. Assessment of Outcome ................................................. 1 1
I. Future Operation ................................................                                                           12
J. Key Lessons Learned ................................................                                                        13
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES .................................................                                                  14
Table 1: Summary of Assessments ................................................                                               14
Table 2: Related IDA  Credits ................................................ 15
Table 3: Project Timetable ................................................. 16
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .................................. 16
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation ................................................                             17
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation ................................................                                 18
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project ................................................ 18
Table 8A: Project Costs ................................................                                                       19
Table 8B: Project Financing .................................................. 19
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits .................................................                                         19
Table  10:  Status of Legal Covenants ................................................ 20
Table  1 1: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ............................................. 21
Table  12: Bank Resources:  Staff Inputs ................................................. 22
Table  13: Bank Resources: Missions ................................................. 23
Appendix A:              Borrower's Contribution .................................................                               24
English Translation of Borrower's Contribution .............................. 33
Appendix B:              Additional Tables ................................................                                     38
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perfornance of their official duties. Its contents may not, otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOLIVIA
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT 2134-BO
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Private Enterprise
Development Project in Bolivia, for which Credit 21 34-BO in the amount of
SDR 12.5 million (US$16.1 million equivalent) was approved on May 17, 1990 and made
effective on June 14, 1991.
On July 25, 1995, the Executive Directors approved an amendment to the Credit and
Project Agreements which introduced a privatization component. The Credit was closed on
June 30,1998, three years after the original closing date. Final disbursements took place on
November 6, 1998, at which time the credit was fully disbursed.
The ICR was prepared by Lisette Price (Consultant) and reviewed by Jyoti Shukla
(Task Manager, LCSFP), Susan Goldmark (Sector Leader, LCC6C), Maria Victoria Lister
(Quality Assurance Officer, LCSFP) and Jose Luis Guasch (Lead Specialist, LCSFP).
Preparation of the report began during IDA's final supervision mission in June/July 1998. It
is based on material in the project file and interviews with project implementing units,
beneficiaries and government officials in Bolivia. The Borrower contributed by providing
comments on the draft, which have been incorporated into the final document.  The
Borrower's own evaluation of the project's execution is included as Appendix A of the ICR.



i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOLIVIA
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2134-BO)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.  Introduction.  When preparation of the Private Enterprise Development Project (the
Project hereafter) began in 1988, the Bolivian program of stabilization and economic
liberalization had been underway for almost three years. However, real GDP growth had
remained stagnant, and the main objective of IDA assistance at the time was to accelerate
recovery by encouraging private investment, which, in 1988, amounted to only 4 percent of
GDP.
2.   Objectives. The Project's overall goal was private enterprise development. Specific
objectives were to: (i) strengthen the private industrial sector; (ii) broaden the client base and
range of financial instruments available from the banking sector; (iii) improve the
effectivenes. of public and private institutions providing services to industry; (iv) minimize
bureaucratic impediments to industrial development; (v) improve managerial, accounting and
marketing skills among manufacturers; and (vi) promote entrepreneurial development. The
Project also aimed for the full liberalization of interest rates.
3.   To achieve these objectives, the Project provided a US$14 million credit facility
(SDR 10.9 million) loosely targeted at small and medium enterprises (SMEs), US$2 million
of technical assistance funds (SDR 1.4 million) mainly for business development services,
and the ability to reallocate one third of remaining resources at any time across components in
response to the demand conditions. At the time of project preparation, privatization of the
large state-owned sector was discussed with the incumbent Governnent but did not find a
favorable response. However, project design evolved over time as a new Government in 1993
made large-scale privatization the linchpin of its economic strategy. In 1995, following a
major amendment approved by IDA's Board, about a quarter of the Credit (SDR 2.9 million)
was re-allocated from the credit line to new components on privatization and regulation with
the objectives of: (i) assisting the privatization andlor capitalization of state-owned
enterprises; and (ii) strengthening the capacity of SIRESE, the new regulatory agency.
4.   Achievement of Objectives. Project outcome is rated partially satisfactory. Despite
several amendments, implementation delays and extensions totalling to three years beyond the
original Closing Date, the overall objectives of private sector development are considered to
be substantially achieved. Broken down by components, the credit line component, technical
assistance and regulation components are rated partially satisfactory and the privatization
component is rated highly satisfactory.



ii
5.    Credit Component. This component is rated partially satisfactory. The policy and
institutional achievements of this component were very significant and laudable. This
component was initially managed by the Central Bank, but in April 1997 a new apex
institution, NAFIBO, took over implementation at which point, the focus of the credit line
was changed to micro-credit.   The component's allocation was gradually reduced to
SDR 3.3 million (27% of the Credit), due to continuing slow disbursements and the needs of
other components. By Project end, the component had financed more than 2,200 sub-loans, to
SMEs (US$3.4 million) and to micro-enterprises (US$2.7 million) with the PFIs showing no
arrears. Though individual sub-loans contributed in a tangible way to the goal of broadening
access to credit, the main achievement of the component was the establishment of an
appropriate policy and institutional framework for lending to small and micro-enterprises. In
keeping with Project objectives, interest rates on development credit were liberalized in
November 1990. A new Central Bank law approved in 1995 removed the development credit
function from the Bank, properly making monetary policy its primary function. NAFIBO, a
joint public-private venture, channelled funds only through regulated commercial institutions,
reinforcing local initiatives for the commercialization of micro-finance in Bolivia.
Commercial banks that initially used NAFIBO's micro-credit window to on-lend to non-
traditional clients such as micro-finance NGOs, are now using their own funds for this type of
lending. This will contribute to the long-term viability of the sector by diversifying NGOs'
funding sources and reducing their reliance on subsidized funds. The transformation of
micro-finance NGOs into Private Financial Funds (PFFs), regulated entities, also bodes well
for the sectc 's sustainability. Despite these impressive achievements, outcome is rated less
than fully satisfactory because implementation on this component was particularly difficult
and time consuming, the overall component size was reduced significantly and NAFIBO's
institutional development is still on-going. In particular, NAFIBO is still in the process of
improving its monitoring and evaluation system.
6.   Technical Assistance.  This component is rated partially satisfactory. The initial
allocation of SDR 1.4 million for this component was gradually increased to SDR 5.5 million
(44% of the Credit). Its main achievement has been the establishment and development of the
Technical Assistance Service (SAT) as an independent agency under the Industry and
Commerce Ministry and with a majority private sector Board. The SAT has established itself
as a reputed second-tier provider of TA services. A mid-term review found that it was
substantially achieving the objective of promoting entrepreneurial development. Specifically,
the study concluded that assistance aimed at technological improvements, such as the
introduction of cost-cutting production processes, quality control, and development of new
product lines, had been especially strong. There had also been notable successes with export
promotion, though training in general management subjects appeared to be less effective. The
review also noted that the SAT's monitoring and evaluation systems were weak. This was the
major shortcoming in the design and implementation of this component and the corresponding
lack of data makes it impossible to be precise about the SAT's impact on productivity, exports
or employment. It is clear, however, that the SAT's clients value its services. This was
confirmed by the review, by successive visits of supervision missions to SAT projects and by
co-payments made by project beneficiaries. Over the lifetime of the Project, these came to 26
percent of Project costs (the requirement was 20 percent), although some programs were able
to command as much as 33 percent. In the future, SAT should aim to increase its ratio of cost
recovery. Some best practice cases in the developing world have managed to raise this ratio



iii
closer to 50 percent. Overall outcome is rated only partially satisfactory because of the lack
of a robust monitoring and evaluation system, absence of adequate data on its employment
and productivity impact and a fully defined strategy for defining eligibility criteria for
beneficiaries. These issues become particularly important for this component because of its
reliance on public funds rather than full cost recovery.
7.   Privatization/Capitalization. This component is rated highly satisfactory. In 1993,
the Government embarked on a large-scale privatization/capitalization program. The Project
was quick to respond when financing gaps for this program emerged in 1995, and SDRs
3.0 million (24% of the Credit) were reallocated to finance consultants and publications
needed for the transactions. These activities ended in July 1997, having supported the
privatization of more than fifty small and medium public enterprises, which raised just over
$100 million.  The component also financed advisory services for some of the larger
transactions including the capitalization of the hydro-carbons company, YPFB, and supported
the privatization of the La Paz/El Alto municipal water company, which through a 30-year
concession awarded to Lyonnaise des Eaux, is expected to increase investment in the sector
and so improve water and sewerage services in these cities.
8.   Regulatory Strengthening. Component outcome is rated partially satisfactory. This
small component (5% of the Credit) aimed to strengthen the General, Water and Transport
Superintendencies of SIRESE. Project funds were timely and helped the sectoral agencies
with their es 'blishment when other funds were scarce, as fees were not yet being levied from
the regulated companies. It permitted the hiring of consultants, small purchases of equipment
and training of some staff. For the General Superintendency, which was receiving support
from another IDA project, this component was used to finance several useful studies on
developing procedures and methodology to monitor and evaluate the effectiveness of
regulation. The technical assistance provided to SIRESE through this Project, however, was a
small, limited intervention which could not have provided comprehensive support to its
institutional needs. A change in Government in 1997 also led to a turnover of staff and some
uncertainty about the overall independence of the nascent regulatory structure, both of which
slowed SIRESE's institutional development. Though this Project provided only limited
support to SIRESE, IDA has, however, programmed continuing support for SIRESE, through
ongoing technical assistance and adjustment operations.
9.   Major Factors Affecting The Project.  Project implementation coincided with a
period of major reform in Bolivia. As the country's development strategy changed, there was
considerable reworking of institutions. These changes delayed implementation as the Project
was adapted to new priorities and structures. Seven amendments were required, one of them
needing Board approval. The Project eventually closed three years later than scheduled,
having suffered long delays as institutional arrangements were finalizedl. By the end of the
Project, four governments had participated in the project cycle. However, though these
changes complicated and delayed implementation, they led to a better development impact -
as in the transfer of the credit line and technical assistance fund from the Central Bank to
1 For example, it took almost a year for NAFIBO to become operational and a total of eighteen months to
effect the handover of the line from the Central Bank. Similarly, when the Government decided to make the
SAT independent, disbursements were held up for most of 1993 until the Central Bank was satisfied with the
new arrangements. The Government then took another nine months to make the necessary amendment effective.



iv
specialized entities (NAFIBO and SAT), privatization of several state-owned companies and
the establishment of an independent regulatory system. Though its very long implementation
period and the extension of the Closing Date do correctly indicate significant problems in
implementation, closing the Project any earlier would actually have left project development
objectives unachieved. In June 1997, when the final decision to extend the Project was made,
NAFIBO had just become operational in April 1997 and would not have been able to establish
a track record of disbursements that has subsequently enabled it to mobilize additional funds
from the IDB and other sources. IDA's dialogue with the regulatory system would also have
been less robust during the critical time of a change in Government and policy uncertainty
about the continuation of existing SIRESE structure.
10.  Sustainability and Future Operation. Sustainability of the Project's achievements is
likely.  In the micro-finance sector, the improvements in the policy and institutional
framework represent important progress. In micro-finance, the trend towards commercial
operations augurs well for the long term. Future IDA and, possibly, IFC operations will help
to deepen the reforms2.  The Government attaches great priority to micro-enterprise
development, and appears to be planning sensible interventions, with a new Property and
Popular Credit Law to promote micro-finance institutions. Finally, NAFIBO has been
successful in mobilizing additional resources through other bilateral and multilateral sources
and is putting in place a medium term strategy to raise private resources in the future. ln the
technical assistance area, the establishment of the SAT marked the first step towards creating
a demand-d. 'en system of business development services. The involvement of the private
sector, both on the SAT's board, and as service providers is a strength. The issue of financial
sustainability, however, remains. Though the need for continued public subsidies is typical
for providers of non-financial services around the world, a medium-term strategy for SAT
should include increase in the cost recovery ratio, identifying the best providers and greater
focus on identifying and operationalizing criteria for beneficiary selection for maximum
impact. A follow-up IDB project, now approved, is supporting some of these issues,
specifically, with the introduction of a pilot voucher program for technical assistance that has
been shown to be successful in some other countries of the Region.  As regards
privatization/capitalization, the advances in private sector development are also not likely to
be reversed. The Government is in fact planning to continue the sales of public enterprises.
With regard to the regulatory system, SIRESE is still very young and its stability and
independence was tested early on by a new Government in August 1997. It has so far
survived the test and there have been heartening changes in the Government's public stance
which has largely maintained the original SIRESE structure.  Some sectoral regulatory
agencies, e.g. electricity, have also started collecting fees to finance their operational costs,
though some legal issues still need to be resolved for the levy of such charges in the transport
and water sectors. IDA has a continuing program of support for SIRESE with complementary
technical assistance and adjustment operations.
11.  The Project's implementing agencies, especially NAFIBO and SIRESE, are relatively
new and must continue to develop their capacity and strengthen their public image. With
regard to NAFIBO, its management seems to have a clear view of the challenges facing the
2 IDA is supporting improvements in banking regulation to be more responsive to micro-finance and IFC is
now preparing a lending operation to Caja de los Andes, one of the beneficiaries of the credit line.



v
institution: the need to attract non-government guaranteed funds, diversify funding sources,
bring in new share-holders, expand and diversify the client base and cover operational costs
(which it has now begun to do), among others. They need now to adopt well-defined
timetables for meeting these various objectives and to develop a better monitoring system to
track the performnance of its clients and the financial sector as a whole. For its part, SAT is
also aware of its main weakness, the lack of monitoring and evaluation systems, and has
begun installation of a management information system and it should use it to track basic
information on survival rates, sales and employment in client firms. In the case of SIRESE,
monitoring indicators to track changes in private investment, market structures and the quality
of attention given to consumers were first discussed at the Consultative Group Meeting and
have now been confirmed under a new TA project.
12. Key Lessons. The main lessons learned from the Project include:
*  Responsiveness to new priorities is essential in a changing policy environment and can
make possible achievements greater than had been originally anticipated.
3  This responsiveness, however, does come at a cost, including an increase in complexity
which can strain supervision resources.
*  Another cost of responsiveness, especially in supporting new institutions is delayed
implemeritation.
O  Institution building is a long and sometimes complex process. If a Project is achieving
substantive institutional change, delays per se should not be seen as evidence of
implementation failure.
*  Directed lines of credit, focusing specifically for example on small and medium
enterprises, are unduly restrictive and do not necessarily encourage PFIs to develop
business in this area. This lesson is now widely incorporated in Bank project design.
*  Because institution-building is difficult and a long-term  undertakiing, it calls for
comprehensive projects that provide IDA significant leverage. Limited interventions,
such as those included for SIRESE in this Project are acceptable only if they form one
part of a larger program.
* Where there are no clear best practices, as was the case with the TA component, special
attention should be given to establishing monitoring and evaluation systems. A pilot
approach that allows for experimentation is recommended.



1
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOLIVIA
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2134-BO)
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. BACKGROUND
1.   Economic Reform.  When preparation of the Private Enterprise Development
Project (the Project) began in 1988, the Bolivian program of stabilization and economic
liberalization had been underway for almost three years. The introduction of prudent
fiscal and monetary policies had brought inflation down from 23,500 percent in mid-1985
to a respectable 22 percent in 1988 and the structure of the economy had been
transformed - the trade regime had been liberalized, tax system simplified, and price and
interest rate controls lifted with the exception of interest rates on development credit.
However, no significant privatization had taken place as yet.
2.   Remaining Obstacles to Growth. Despite these reforms, private sector response
was slow to come, and real GDP growth remained stagnant. Important obstacles to
private investment remained, including the domination of key sectors by public
enterprises, inadequate infrastructure, limited access to credit, very high real interest
rates, and low confidence in the new economic stability. The industrial sector, made up
mostly of small and micro-enterprises, was burdened with obsolete capital equipment. A
shortage of working capital forced firms to run on a costly stop-and-go basis. After
decades of state control of the economy, the entrepreneurial sector was weak, with poor
management techniques and limited marketing abilities. The banking system too had
been hard-hit by the period of hyperinflation which de-monetized the economy and led to
disintermediation. By 1988, there were some signs of recovery, with credit to the private
sector for the first time surpassing its 1982 level. Still, the sector continued to be
characterized by shallowness, high real interest rates (about 15%), a scarcity of term
credit and a concentration of credit in the hands of a few large borrowers.
3.  IDA Assistance.  The main objective of IDA assistance to Bolivia in the late
1980s was to accelerate economic recovery by increasing private investment, which in
1988 amounted to only 4.0 percent of GDP. Projects were approved to encourage private
investment in mining and in agriculture, and to improve infrastructure along key export
routes. In the financial sector, an adjustment credit aimed to increase confidence in the
banking system by strengthening supervision and regulation. The Private Enterprise
Development Project was to complement these efforts by helping to increase
productivity, exports and employment in industry, focusing in particular on the small and
medium sector.



2
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN
4.   Preparation missions for the Project took place between March 1988 and March
1989. It was appraised in June 1989 and post-appraised in December of the same year,
following a change of Government. The Credit of SDR 12.5 million (US$16.1 million
equivalent) was approved on May 17, 1990 and made effective on June 14, 1991, almost
one year later due to several factors - including a change in Government and the resultant
turnover in staff, the need to amend the development credit agreement due to a change in
the interest rate policy and difficulties in finding an appropriate manager for the technical
assistance component.
5.   Objectives.  The Project's overall goal was private enterprise development.
Specific objectives set out in the Staff Appraisal Report were to: (i) strengthen the private
industrial sector; (ii) broaden the client base and range of financial instrurnents available
from the banking sector; (iii) improve the effectiveness of public and private institutions
providing services to industry; (iv) minimize bureaucratic impediments to industrial
development; (v) improve managerial, accounting and marketing skills among
manufacturers; and (vi) promote entrepreneurial development. The Project also aimed
for the full liberalization of interest rates.
6.   Desi-n. To achieve these objectives, the Project provided a credit facility of SDRs
10.86 million (US$14 million equivalent) and a technical assistance (TA) component of
SDRs 1.4 million (US$ 2 million equivalent). Recognizing that the needs for credit and
technical assistance may be difficult to predict, project design itself provided for
automatic reallocation of up to one third of the remaining funds of the Credit from the
credit line to the TA component depending on the prevailing demand conditions. The
credit line component was managed by the Development Credit Department (DCD) of
the Central Bank, and the TA component by a Technical Assistance Fund (TAF)
established within the Central Bank.  The DCD was to act as second-tier lender.
channeling funds to participating financial intermediaries (PFIs), from whom private
firms could borrow to finance their fixed asset, working capital or related TA needs.
Sub-loans to a firm or group of related firms were not to exceed US$ 120,000 because of
the decision to focus on small and medium enterprises.  The TAF was to set up as a
largely second-tier facility to channel funds to TA providers against requests from final
beneficiaries. TA grants would finance up to 80 percent of activities such as training
seminars, in-plant assistance, and commercial fairs. Funds were included for institutional
strengthening of the TA providers themselves, such as associations of small businesses
etc.. In addition, training in SME sub-project appraisal and supervision was to be
provided to PFI credit officials.
7.   New Objectives. Project design evolved, however, as a new Government elected
in 1993 made large-scale privatization the linchpin of its economic strategy. Faced with
financing gaps for this key program in 1995, the Government requested an amendment to
this Project. Given the immediate need for financing, the fact that resources in all other
projects in the portfolio were committed, and that the proposed activities were within the
scope of the ultimate development objectives of this Project, IDA approved this



3
amendment.  As a result, consistent with the over-arching goal of private sector
development, the objectives were expanded to include: (i) assisting the privatization
and/or capitalization of state-owned enterprises; and (ii) strengthening the regulatory
capacity of SIRESE, the new regulatory agency. Just under a quarter of the Credit was
re-allocated from the credit line to this component (SDR 2.9 million, US$4.6 million
equivalent).
8.   Evaluation of Objectives. In the context of slow economic growth and an under-
developed private sector, the overall goal of private sector development was important
and appropriate.  When the Project was being prepared, it was clear that the
overwhelming state control of the economy was a major barrier to investment and growth
and the preparation team proposed the inclusion of privatization as a potential
component. At that time, however, it was the Government's view that privatization of
the largest enterprises - hydrocarbons, mining and public utilities - would be
unconstitutional. IDA therefore pursued the objective of private sector development by
focusing on the credit and TA needs of the resource-starved private sector. These were
appropriate interventions in the circumstances. The Project design was less clear in its
justification for loosely targeting credit at SMEs through a US$120,000 limit on
individual loans. The SAR did not provide economic justification for targeting on the
basis of greater productivity, export orientation or labor intensity of SMEs. Nor did it
actively pursue the objective of broadening access to credit by encouraging policy and
institutional changes to increase credit to the most marginalized, the micro-enterprises.
9.   During project implementation, however, many of the initial conditions changed
dramatically. The Government embarked on an innovative privatization program, credit
to the private sector expanded rapidly, and commercial micro-finance began to develop
with the emergence of Banco Sol as a dedicated micro-finance bank (which had hitherto
been an NGO) and other similar institutions. The Project correctly responded to these
changing circumstances by introducing privatization and regulation components and
shifting the focus of the credit facility to micro-finance.
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
Credit Component
10.  The component's size was twice reduced, first by re-allocations to the TA
component and then to the privatization component, in large part because of very slow
disbursements on this component. The Project had already been designed to foresee and
accommodate reallocations between the two components depending on demand
conditions.    The  initial  allocation  of  SDR 10.9 million  eventually  became
SDR 3.3 million (27% of the Credit), a reduction of seventy percent. Reasons for the
delays in disbursement on the credit line were several and this component remained
fraught with implementation problems till about one year before the final closing date of
the Credit. Initially, the credit line was in the Central Bank and did not disburse in part
because of an existing credit line from the IDB which allowed a higher threshold of
individual loan amounts up to $10 million and apparently less stringent requirements for
feasibility studies. PFIs, preferring to use a one-stop shop for all their lending needs
preferred the flexibility and familiarity of the IDB line.  In response to the continued



4
slow progress on the credit line, IDA initially increased the maximum loan size to
$300,000 and eliminated the prior review requirement to simplify procedures. This did
result in some disbursements, though the credit line stopped disbursing again as the
Government, in admittedly a positive step from a long term perspective, decided to
remove development credit operations from the Central Bank and decided to create a
separate new entity, NAFIBO, which was then designated to take over the credit line. An
eighteen-month hiatus followed until this new second-tier institution, NAFIBO, became
operative, the Central Bank acquired a quorum on its Board of Directors which could
formally authorize the transfer of the line of credit and the necessary legal documentation
was signed by all parties. During this time, no disbursements took place as the Central
Bank was prohibited from rediscounting any development credit by the new Banking
Law. NAFIBO finally became the operational manager for the line of credit in
April 1997 and disbursed it all by the end of the calendar year. At the time of the
transfer, the focus of the credit line was changed to micro-enterprises.
11.  Outreach. Despite the reduction in its allocation, the component met its outreach
objectives. By end-June 1998, it had financed almost more than 2,200 sub-projects, more
than double the SAR estimate of 800. The project financed two distinct portfolios: loans
to SMEs (US$3.4 million) channeled first through the Central Bank and then NAFIBO;
and loans to micro-enterprises via NAFIBO (US$2.7 million). The NAFIBO SME loans
were channeled through 6 commercial banks and the Central Bank portfolio through 4
commercial banks3. More than half the sub-projects were in the industrial sector, about
one third il. ourism and the rest in agro-industry.
Table 1: Characteristics of SME Loans
Institution   Period   Loans Disbursed      Average    Term      Interest Rate
(US$)        (USS)       (months)  (30/6/98)
=________  _________  ____  _________    ]                   To   PFIs   to   benef.
Central Bank 6/91 - 10/95 7  1,202,371     n.a.        n.a.      11.52%  a.
NAFIBO    4/97 - 12/97 24    2,197,268      91,550     99        9.51%  3.97%
Total      6/91 - 12/97      3,399,639
Notes: Weighted averages. "Central Bank" refers only to the portfolio sold to NAFIBO in 1997.
12.  With the shift in focus to micro-enterprises, the Project introduced significant
changes in procedures to facilitate lending for micro-enterprises. The Government and
IDA agreed that NAFIBO could disburse a global sum to micro-finance institutions
against ex-post documentation of sub-loans, instead of requiring ex-ante approval by
NAFIBO of hundreds of individual sub-loans. Five loans were made in this way, of
which three went directly to a Private Financial Fund (PFF), a regulated institution
typically specializing in micro-credit, while others were channeled through commercial
banks to micro-finance NGOs. The Credit provided US$2.7 million, or the equivalent of
2.1% of the micro-credit portfolio in Bolivia at end-1997. Taking into account
counterpart funds and repayments from the rapid turnover of the portfolio, NAFIBO's
lines of credit supported by the Credit 2134-BO totaled US$4.8 million by mid-1998,
3 This is based on information available on the Central Bank portfolio transferred to NAFIBO. It may not
include other loans made by the Central Bank that were fully amortized before this transfer on October 3,
1997.



5
including $1 million in PFI contribution and $ 0.37 million in beneficiaries' own
contribution. The average sub-loan was US$ 91,550 for NAFIBO's SME lines of credit
and US$ 1,100 for the micro-finance lines of credit (224% of 1997 per capita GDP).
The average loan term was 99 months for NAFIBO's SME loans and 287 days for the
micro-finance loans. The majority of funds were lent to women (60%), and as of
June 1998 delinquency rates were extremely low: 3.4% of the SME portfolio was thirty
days overdue, and of the micro-finance portfoliol.5% of the portfolio was eight days
overdue and 1.4% was thirty days overdue.
13.  Improving the Policy and Institutional Framework for Allocation of
Development Credit. The individual sub-loans contributed in a tangible way to the goal
of broadening access to credit, but overall the main achievement of the component was
the establishment of an appropriate policy and institutional framework for lending to
small and micro-enterprises. On the policy side, a major strength of the Project was its
emphasis on market interest rates, backed up by a time-bound plan. Rates on
development credit were liberalized in November 1990 when the Central Bank
introduced a system of credit auctions with a floor rate no lower than the banking
system's certificate of deposit rate.
14.  In achieving this and other financial sector reforms, the Project was helped by the
Structural Adjustment Credit (Credit 2298-BO) prepared in tandem and approved soon
after. Together they helped to improve the institutional framework for development
credit allo, tion. A new Central Bank law approved in 1995 removed the development
credit function from the Bank, making monetary policy its primary function. NAFIBO, a
joint public-private venture, was created and took over the credit line. It was able to
capitalize on private initiatives for commercialization of micro-finance in Bolivia, a trend
started with the licensing of the world's first private commercial micro-enterprise bank,
BancoSol. NAFIBO channels funds only through regulated commercial institutions that
satisfy eligibility criteria, reviewing their compliance regularly. Following the success of
BancoSol, commercial banks such as the Banco Santa Cruz and Banco Nacional de
Bolivia were attracted to NAFIBO's micro-credit window in order to on-lend to micro-
finance NGOs, not traditional clients. The Banco Santa Cruz, Bolivia's largest bank, is
now beginning to use its own funds for such lending.
13. Another major development in Bolivia during this period was the introduction of
Private Financial Funds, regulated institutions with flexible financial requirements that,
by allowing a lower equity requirements than regular banks, allowed micro-finance
institutions to graduate to a more formal, regulated status more easily. Though the
creation of PFFs was not a direct activity of this Project, NAFIBO and its operating rules,
as supported by the Project, reinforced the development. Micro-finance NGOs are taking
steps to gain access to NAFIBO funding by transformation into PFFs. One such NGO,
FIE, received its license from the Banking Superintendency in February 1998, while
another, PRODEM, is in the process of applying. Both are looking to NAFIBO for
funding. Their transforrnation into commercial regulated entities bodes well for the
sector's sustainability.



6
Technical Assistance Component
14.  This component, designed to provide technical assistance to private enterprises,
was also largely successful in achieving its objectives. In response to its popularity and
slow disbursements on the credit line, its initial allocation of SDR 1.4 million was tripled
in 1994 and then increased again in 1995 to SDR 5.5 million (44% of the Credit). After
starting as Technical Assistance Fund within the Central Bank, this component eventually
helped to establish the Technical Assistance Service (SAT) within the Ministry of
Industry and Commerce, as a second-tier provider of TA services to entrepreneurs.
15.  Outreach. The SAR target of 1,500 beneficiaries, admittedly not very ambitious,
was surpassed. Although funds were quadrupled, outreach was almost forty times that
estimated. This excellent outreach was initially concentrated in urban and peri-urban
areas, mostly in La Paz, Santa Cruz and Cochabamba. However, once a track-record was
established, and with the help of a subsequent $1.2 million grant from the European
Union, SAT has now opened regional offices in an effort to eliminate the bias. With the
Credit funds of about US$8 million, the SAT generated US$2.8 million in counterpart
funding to finance 2,908 projects for 59,838 beneficiaries. On-site technical assistance
accounted for 31% of the funds, 24% of the projects and 19% of the beneficiaries.
Classroom training used 26% of the funds for 51% of the projects and 59% of the
beneficiaries. Sales and export promotion, including projects such as commercial fairs,
accounted for 32% of the funds, 15% of the projects and 16% of the beneficiaries. In
addition,   * o smaller programs targeted women entrepreneurs and tourismn.  The
institutional strengthening program for first-tier private and public providers of TA
services used 7% of project funds for 5% of the projects and 193 beneficiaries. The
operational costs of SAT represented 17% of the component total of US$ 10.8 million.
16.  Impact of Services.  A mid-term  review  of the SAT4 undertaken by an
independent consultant found that it was achieving project objectives (basically to
promote entrepreneurial development), with a positive impact on employment and
production. Specifically, the study concluded that assistance aimed at technological
improvements, such as the introduction of cost-cutting production processes, quality
control, and development of new product lines, had been especially strong. There had
also been notable successes with export promotion, including through the organization of
export consortia. Training in general management subjects such as accounting appeared
to be less effective, and the study found that larger enterprises were proving better able to
absorb TA services.  However, the review also noted that monitoring and evaluation
systems needed to be strengthened. This has remained a major shortcoming of project
design and implementation, in large part due to lack of field staff presence. When
resources were finally mobilized for field staff, the initial ambivalence of the new
Government in 1997 on the continued existence led to a reduction of field staff soon after
they were put in place. The resultant lack of data makes it impossible to be precise about
the SAT's impact on productivity, exports or employment. It is clear, however, that the
SAT's clients value its services. This was confirmed by the mid-term review, by
successive visits of supervision missions to SAT projects and by co-payments made by
4 This review was organized in mid- 1995 (although none was originally planned) and included a survey of
256 beneficiaries and 29 first-tier TA providers.



7
project beneficiaries. Over the lifetime of the Project, these came to 26 percent of Project
costs (higher than the requirement of 20 percent), although some programs were able to
command as much as 33 percent. Willingness to pay for SAT services is the best
possible measure of their value. The review also concluded that it is unlikely that SAT
would ever be completely financially sustainable, a conclusion in line with world wide
experience with such agencies. One agenda for SAT in its future operation would be to
reduce its administrative costs from 20 percent of the value of the training provided
(including costs of the first tier institutions) over time.
17.  Institutional Development.   A major achievenment of the Project was the
establishment and development of the Technical Assistance Service as an independent
agency under the Industry and Commerce Ministry and with a majority private sector
Board. The SAT has established itself as a reputed second-tier provider of TA services,
and so taken the first step in creating a sustainable system of business development
services. One risk to keep in mind is that SAT as a primarily apex institution leaves it
dependent on first-tier providers for its impact. The Project took account of this risk by
assigning 40 percent of the component's funds to institutional strengthening of these
organizations. During implementation, however, this emphasis was lost. Although the
component expanded, spending on this program did not, so that less than a tenth of the
allocation was applied to this objective. Moreover, according to the mid-term review,
these interventions were having mixed results. The SAT has sometimes tried to get
around the problem by acting itself as TA-provider, but this approach duplicates efforts
and should not be continued. Instead SAT should concentrate on the pool of 74 outreach
institutions and TA providers with which it now works and build up their capacity.
Privatization/Capitalization and Regulatory Strengthening
18.  In 1993 the Government embarked on a large-scale privatization/capitalization
program that encompassed the hydrocarbons, mining, electricity, telecommunications and
transport sectors. The Project was quick to respond when financing gaps for this program
emerged in 1995. About SDR3.0 million (24% of the Credit) was used to finance
consultants and publications needed for various of the transactions. These activities
ended in July 1997, having supported the privatization of more than fifty small public
enterprises, which raised just over $100 million. Ihe component also financed advisory
services for some of the larger transactions including the capitalization of YPFB, the
biggest public enterprise as well as the privatization of the La Paz/El Alto municipal
water company, which through a 30-year concession awarded to Lyonnaise des Eaux is
expected to increase investment in the sector and so improve water and sewerage services
in the two cities. The IFC is now preparing a financing operation for this company.
19. A small portion of this component (5% of the Credit) aimed to strengthen the
General, Water and Transport Superintendencies of SIRESE. The project helped the
sectoral agencies with their establishment when other funds were scarce, as fees were not
yet being levied from the regulated companies. It permitted the hiring of consultants,
small purchases of equipment and training of some staff.   For the General
Superintendency, which was receiving support from another IDA project, this component
was used to finance several useful studies, especially on developing a methodology to



8
monitor the effectiveness of regulatory decisions. The technical assistance provided to
SIRESE through this Project, however, was a small, limited intervention designed to fill a
financing gap. It could not provide comprehensive support either to their institutional
needs or more importantly, to the overall independence of the nascent regulatory
structure, which was tested with the advent of a new Government in 1997. Both sectoral
agencies supported through this component, water and transport, continue to lack modem
framework laws in their sector. To build on the limited efforts of this Project, IDA has
organized a comprehensive package of support for SIRESE through a technical assistance
credit (approved by IDA's Board on June 30, 1998) and an adjustment credit (approved
November 19, 1998).   As part of the preparation and policy dialogue for these
operations, in June 1998, the Government appointed a new Superintendent of Transport
and work has started on the preparation of new water and transport laws.
D. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
20.  Changes in Government and Development Priorities.  Project implementation
coincided with a period of major reform in Bolivia. As the country's development
strategy changed, there was considerable reworking of institutions.  These changes
delayed implementation as the Project was adapted to new priorities and structures.
Seven amendments were required, one of them needing Board approval. The project
eventually closed three years later than scheduled, having suffered long delays as
institutional arrangements were finalized5. By the end of the Project, four governments
had participated in the project cycle. However, though these changes complicated and
delayed implementation, they led to better development impact - as in the transfer of the
credit line and technical assistance fund from the Central Bank to specialized entities
(NAFIBO and SAT), privatization of several state-owned companies and the
establishment of an independent regulatory system. Though its very long implementation
period and the extension of the Closing Date do correctly indicate significant problems in
implementation, closing the Project any earlier would actually have left project
development objectives unachieved. In June 1997, when the final decision to extend the
Project was made, NAFIBO had just become operational in April 1997 and would not
have been able to establish a track record of disbursements that has subsequently enabled
it to mobilize additional funds from the IDB and other sources. IDA's dialogue with the
regulatory system would also have been less robust during the critical time of a change in
Government and policy uncertainty about the continuation of existing SIRESE structure.
21.  Monetary Policy and Public Confidence.   The credit component was also
affected by the demands of monetary policy management. In 1993, disbursements came
to a halt as the Central Bank virtually ceased auctions of development credit in its desire
to control credit. The credit line was also slowed early on by the availability of a similar
IDB facility which had a higher threshold and appeared to enjoy better publicity and
familiarity amongst PFIs. Changes made by the Central Bank to the auction system held
up disbursements for nineteen months beginning in January 1994, as the new system
5 For example, it took almost a year for NAFIBO to become operational and a total of eighteen months to
effect the handover of the line from the Central Bank. Similarly, when the Government decided to make
the SAT independent, disbursements were held up for most of 1993 until the Central Bank was satisfied
with the new arrangements. The Government then took another nine months to make the necessary
amendment effective.



9
introduced an element of control over interest rates and was unacceptable to IDA. One
factor that affected this component was not entirely in the Government's control, and that
was the return of public confidence in the economy. Though the Project was appraised in
an era of credit shortage, as confidence in the economy grew, deposits in the banking
system increased from US$601 million to US$2.1 billion between December 1989 and
1993. Banks' loan portfolios expanded from US$1.1 billion to US$3.5 billion over the
same period.  The credit crunch which the Project was supposed to address had
effectively disappeared, further slowing disbursements.
22. Independent Micro-Finance Initiatives in Bolivia. Other factors, however,
worked in the Project's favor. In particular, the micro-finance movement in Bolivia
emerged as one of the most innovative and vibrant in the world. The success of
BancoSol, the world's first licensed micro-credit bank encouraged other micro-finance
NGOs to take steps to formalize their operations and to seek Government regulation.
These initiatives were both helped by and did much to catalyze the micro-finance
initiatives of this Project.
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
23.  Sustainability of the Project's achievements is likely. In the financial sector, the
policy environment is much improved; the Government no longer controls spreads on
development credit. The institutional framework of the sector is also stronger. The
Central Bank no longer rediscounts development credit, and the new apex institution,
NAFIBO, is a joint public-private venture. NAFIBO is developing as a strong second tier
institution with total assets of US$ 43.6 million and net equity of US$ 33.2 million. Its
track-record has now also enabled it to mobilize additional funding sources and NAFIBO
has recently negotiated a DM 8 million line of credit from the German KfW and another
US$15 million line of credit for small and micro-enterprises from the IDB, and is
committed to a strategy of attracting more private shareholders and seeking other sources
of private funding in the medium term.
24.  With regard to the micro-finance sector, the trend is clearly towards operations on a
commercial basis, which augurs well for the long term.  Unregulated NGOs are
converting into licensed Private Financial Funds. Commercial funding sources, even for
NGOs, are expanding. Commercial banks are beginning to use their own resources for
this type of lending. The policy environment supports sustainability; the Government
gives great priority to micro-enterprise development, and appears to be planning sensible
interventions, with a new Property and Popular Credit Law authorizing only limited
subsidies of micro-finance institutions.
25. With the establishment of the SAT, Bolivia has taken the first step towards creating
a demand-driven and sustainable system  of business development services.  The
involvement of the private sector, both on the SAT's board, and as service providers is a
strength. The issue of financial sustainability, however, remains; co-payments cover only
a quarter of the SAT's and TA providers' costs. Though a reliance on subsidies (public
or otherwise) is typical world-wide for providers of non-financial services around the
world, a medium-term strategy for SAT will have to address this issue and try and raise
the ratio of cost recovery to higher levels. The SAT should also draw on its experience to



10
identify first-tier providers with the best potential and to help to improve their services. It
especially needs to develop more sound criteria and indicators for identifying potential
beneficiaries. A good monitoring and evaluation system will be key in this effort. As
long as public subsidies continue to be necessary, the SAT must find a balance between
retaining government support for its activities while operating on an independent and
technical basis. The planned IDB project is expected to help meet these objectives and
will use the methodology of technical assistance vouchers that has been used in other
countries such as Paraguay.
26.  The advances in private sector development achieved through the capitalization and
privatization programs are also sustainable. These reforms are not likely to be reversed.
The Government is in fact planning to continue the sales of public enterprises. IDA has
approved technical assistance to support this and other measures to promote further
development of the private sector and to maintain the pace of the reform program. The
regulatory system, SIRESE, is still very young and was tested early on by the advent of a
new Government. It has so far survived the test and there have been heartening changes
in the Government's public stance. The interventions under this project were very
limited, but IDA has planned an overall program of support for SIRESE, which focuses
in particular on the water and transport sectors where framework laws are urgently
needed.
F. BANK PFRFORMANCE
27.  The Project was well identified given that the development strategy of the
Government in 1989 precluded privatization of the larger public enterprises. It responded
to the scarcity and concentration of credit in the country and to the weakness of the
entrepreneurial sector. In proposing support for business development services, it took
account of the profusion of micro-enterprises in Bolivia. their inexperience of exporting
and the generally low levels of educational attainment in the country. Preparation was
less satisfactory. The justification for targeting the Credit to the SMEs was not well
documented and the technical assistance component was not completely specified, in
particular the criteria for identifying beneficiaries and the integration of a monitoring and
evaluation system. The TA component, a new area of intervention, should have included
more emphasis on monitoring and evaluation. Best practices in business development
services are still being identified and vary according to a country's specific
circumstances. A pilot approach with emphasis on monitoring would therefore have been
better.  At appraisal, again given that this was a new  area of intervention, the
implementing agency could have been required to progress further with staffing the TA
office and setting up its policies, procedures and first-year program. Because these were
left as conditions of effectiveness, the incongruity of lodging the SAT in the Central
Bank was not fully apparent until implementation was underway, and time-consuming
amendments then became necessary.
28.  Credit supervision got off to a slow start due to the Borrower's delays in satisfying
the conditions of effectiveness. Once the Credit was effective, supervision was intensive
and responsive to new development priorities. The Project took every opportunity to
improve the policy or institutional environment - supporting improvements in interest
rate policy, the separation of the SAT from the Central Bank, simplifying credit approval



11
procedures, the creation of NAFIBO, introduction of the privatization/regulation
component and finally, when the Capitalization Ministry was closed, making SIRESE an
implementing agency. These changes were often complicated and time-consuming, but
the project team showed energy and commitment to do what was necessary to attain
project objectives.
29.  The flexibility and responsiveness that characterized supervision, however, did
carry costs that were perhaps not immediately evident. As more components were added,
the Project increased in complexity and became difficult to supervise. By 1995, in-depth
supervision would have required the presence of a micro-finance specialist, a business
development services expert, a privatization advisor and a regulatory expert. Some
expertise was brought in through complementary projects, but arguably the Project
became too complex for full supervision. This increasing complexity may explain why
more attention was not given to the weaknesses of the TA component. The need for
better monitoring and evaluation systems was noticed, and some initiatives were started
but were never fully followed through. In 1997, the development of systems was put on
hold as a new Government was slow to put its stamp of approval on the SAT, and capital
investments did not seem justified in such an uncertain environment.
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
30. Borrower performance was satisfactory at the policy level, in some areas going
beyond th.. original requirements of the project. The important improvements in the
environment for private sector development in Bolivia include: full liberalization of
interest rates; removal of the development credit function from the Central Bank;
withdrawal of the public sector from productive activities; and enactment of the principle
of independent regulatory agencies. Performance at the implementation level was less
satisfactory. There was uneven commitment to Project activities, especially at the start,
when the single implementing agency, the Central Bank, showed little ownership of the
Project. This problem, however, improved over time with the establishment of SAT and
NAFIBO as the Project activities were their primary line of business. However, SAT and
SIRESE activities were also hampered at different times by lack of Borrower
commitment to their independent operation. Timely receipt of audits, especially from
the Central Bank, also remained a persistent problem during the course of the Project. At
the end of the Project, however, audits are current.
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
31. Overall project outcome is rated partially satisfactory, with specific components
rated as follows: Credit line - partially satisfactory; Technical assistance - partially
satisfactory; Privatisation - highly satisfactory; and Regulation - partially satisfactory.
Despite several amendments and severe delays, the overall objective of private sector
development was substantially achieved. The delays arose more because of the difficulty
of developing new institutions rather than the fact that objectives were not being
achieved. Despite significant implementation delays, the credit component did broaden
access to credit by pushing forward the development of commercial micro-finance in
Bolivia. It helped create a new second-tier institution to mobilize and channel resources



12
for this sector.  Though the development objectives of this component were fully
achieved, it is rated less than fully satisfactory because of its implementation problems
and the need for significant reduction in its size. In the financial sector, it supported the
full liberalization of interest rates on development credit, as well as the transition away
from Central Bank involvement in rediscounting. In the technical assistance component,
the Project made an important start in setting up a sustainable system of delivery of
technical assistance to SMEs, helping to establish a well regarded second-tier provider
and promoting cost recovery. The component, however, was less than fully satisfactory
because of Through a new privatization component, it was able to offer timely support to
the most important program of private sector development Bolivia has yet seen. It was
also partially satisfactory in strengthening the capacity of the new regulatory institution
SIRESE.  The interventions under this project were useful but limited; a more
comprehensive and long-term effort is needed and is now underway with support from
new projects.
I. FUTURE OPERATION
32.  The project's implementing agencies, especially NAFIBO  and  SIRESE, are
relatively new institutions and they must continue to develop their capacity and
strengthen their public image. With regard to NAFIBO, its management seems to have a
clear view of the challenges facing the institution: the need to attract non-government
guarantee- funds, diversify funding sources, bring in new share-holders, expand and
diversify tli client base and cover operational costs, among others. They need now to
adopt well-defined timetables for meeting these various objectives. The new Property
and Popular Credit Law authorizes NAFIBO to offer services other than credit, which
should help it to grow, though the demand for new financial products and services should
be analyzed carefully. Before expanding, it should take note of the lessons learned to
date and strengthen further its information collection and analysis, especially of its micro-
credit portfolio. It will gain further experience with the upcoming IDB line of credit
aimed at small and micro-enterprises.
33.  The same IDB project will support the SAT, providing financing in the short tern
and moving it towards greater cost recovery for longer-term sustainability. A voucher
system will be introduced, which should help develop a more market based system to
technical assistance services and contribute towards developing a sounder eligibility
criteria to identify recipients.  The SAT is aware of its main weakness, the lack of
monitoring and evaluation systems, and has begun to install an MIS, which will in future
permit it to track the impact of its services more carefully.
34.  The new regulatory entities, especially those in the transport and water sectors, are
still at an early stage of development. IDA's dialogue with the Government on the
importance of their independence is continuing, as is practical support in the form of
technical assistance;  new TA and policy credits to support improvements in the
legislative framework have already been approved by IDA's Board. To monitor future
performance, indicators (first discussed at the Consultative Group Meeting and now
confirmed under the TA project) will track their impact through changes in private
investment, market structures and the attention given to consumers by the
Superintendencies. (See Table 6 of Part II).



13
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
The first few years of operation of this credit line demonstrated that directed credit
towards a specific group by size is not a good idea, and the Bank as a whole has now
moved away from this modality, except for very special cases of micro-finance.
*  Responsiveness to new priorities is essential in a changing policy environment and
can make possible achievements greater than had been originally anticipated.
*  This responsiveness, however, does come at a cost, including an increase in
complexity which can strain supervision resources.
*  Another cost of responsiveness, especially in supporting new institutions is delayed
implementation.
*  Institution building is a long and sometimes complex process.  If a Project is
achieving substantive institutional change, delays per se should not be seen as
evidence of implementation failure.
-  Directed lines of credit, focusing specifically for example on small and medium
enterprises, are unduly restrictive and do not necessarily encourage PFIs to develop
business in this area. This lesson is now widely incorporated in Bank project design.
=  Because institution-building is difficult and a long-term undertaking, it calls for
comprehensive  projects that provide  IDA  significant leverage.   Limited
interventions, such as those included for SIRESE in this Project are acceptable only
if they form one part of a larger program.
*  Where there are no clear best practices, as was the case with the TA component,
special attention should be given to establishing monitoring and evaluation systems.
A pilot approach that allows for experimentation is recommended.



14
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives  Substantial     Partial     Negligible     Not Applicable
Macroeconomic policies     D               D           D              r1
Sector policies                            LII 0       0              0
Financial objectives       EI                          LI             LI
Institutional development   LI             7l          I             L]
Physical objectives        OI               -I         0              El
Poverty reduction          C:              a                          L I
Gender issues              L                l:         LI I
Other social objectives    LI                           L 0LI
Environmental objectives    X1                         LI            1S
Public sector management   Lx I                        -I            L
Private sector development  x              0L 0LI
B. Project Sustainability        Likely             Unlikely           Uncertain
Fx-1              L 0
C. Bank Peri, :iance             I-lighlv Satisfactory  Satisfactory   Deficient
Identification                lII                                  1I
Preparation assistance        LII                 LI 
Appraisal                     LI                  FZI               CI
Supervision                   LI                  [E                I
D. Borrower Performance          Highlv Satisfactory  Satisfactory     Partially
Satisfactory
Preparation                   LI                                    LI
Implementation                L                   LI
Covenant compliance           -I                  L                 [E
Operation                     LI                                    LI]
Highly       Partially     Unsatis-     Highly Unsatis-
Satisfactory   Satisfactory   factory   factory
E. Assessment of Outcome
Overall Project                 -I                         LI          L I
Credit line component            I           [ELI                       LI
Technical assistance component   LI                         LI          LI
Privatization component                      LI            L            LI
Regulation component            0I                         LI           LI



15
TABLE 2: RELATED IDA CREDITS
Credit Title                             Purpose                                 Approved   Status
Preceding operations
Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (1 925-BO)  Strengthen banking system through improved FY88  Closed
regulation and supervision.
Mining Sector Rehabilitation (2013-BO)   Promote private investment in mining and FY89          Closed
restructure COMIBOL into holding company.
Export Corridors                        Improve  infrastructure  along  key  export FY89        Closed
routes.
Eastern Lowlands                         Promote  diversification  and  growth  of FY90         Closed
agricultural exports.
Following operations
Structural Adjustment Credit (2298-BO)   Restructuring  of financial sector, public FY92       Closed
enterprises and public investment.
Regulatory Reform & Capitalization Technical Support capitalization and help to establish FY95  In execution
Assistance (2647-BO)                     regulatory  framework  in  transport  and
telecommunications sectors.
Capitalization  Program  Adjustment Credit Support  capitalization   program    and FY96        Closed
(2761-BO)                                establishment of regulatory framework.
Hydrocarbons Sector Reform & Capitalization Support  capitalization   of  YPFB   and FY96       In execution
Technical Assistance (2762-BO)           establishment of regulatory framework.
Financial  Markets  &   Pension  Reform  Support implementation of pension reform and FY96      In execution
Technical Assistance (2789-BO)           further strengthening of financial sector.
Power Sector Reform  Technical Assistance Support privatization of transmission  and FY96       In execution
(2790-BO)                                establishment of regulatory framework.
Regulatory Reform and Privatization Technical Support the strengthening of the regulatory FY99  In execution
Assistance Credit                       institutions and framework
Regulatory   Reforn   and   Privatization Support the strengthening of the regulatory FY99      Approved.
Adjustment Credit                       institutions and framework



16
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in Project Cycle                 Date Planned          Actual Date           l
Identification                                               March 30, 1988
Preparation I                                                February 1988
Preparation II                         June 1988             September 1988
Preparation III                                              March 1989
Appraisal                              October 1988          June 1989
Post-Appraisal_                                              December 1989
Negotiations                                                 April 1990
Board Presentation                                           May 17, 1990
Signing                                                      August 22, 1990
Effectiveness                          Not available         June 14, 1991
Midterm review                         Not planned           December 1995
Project Completion                     December 31, 1994    December 31, 1997
Loan Closing                           June 30, 1995         June 30, 1998
TABLE 4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
FY91   FY92  FY93  FY94   FY95   FY96   FY97  FY98
Actual cumulative  0      36     34     30      30       42      85     100
as % of estimated
disbursements



17
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
SAR Indicators                         Estimated            Actual
Interest rates liberalized.             By June 1993         November 1990
Number of sub-loans                      800                 2200
Number ofjobs created                   8,000                N.A.
Number of TA beneficiaries               1,500               59,838
TA beneficiary contribution             20%                  26%
Modified Indicators                     Estimated            Actual
Sub-loan size (micro-credit)            Not estimated.
Sub-loan size as % of GDP (micro-credit)  Not estimated.
Sub-loans to women (micro-credit)       Not estimated.
Portfolio delinquency rate (SME)        Not estimated.
Portfolio delinquency rate (micro-credit)  Not estimated.
Number of PFI's                         Not estimated.
NAFIBO Total Portfolio                  Not estimated.       US$52.6m (at 6/98)
NAFIBO Micro-credit Portfolio           Not estimated.       13%
NAFIBO Operating Cost/Average Portfolio    Not estimated.    4.58% (Yr. to 6/98)
Enterprises Privatized                  Not estimated.       52
Privatization Revenues                  Not estimated.       US$ 100m
Private Investment (% of GDP)           Not estimated.       10.6% (Est. 1997)



18
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION
Institution                Indicators
NAFIBO                       As in Table 5.  Also increased private ownership and
funding. Basic financial indicators improving. Information
collection and analysis of micro-credit improving.
SAT                         As in Table 5. Also rising sales, exports and employment of
beneficiary firms. Regional dispersion of SAT services.
SIRESE                      As in Table 5. Also increase in private operators in regulated
sectors. Increasing attention to consumer concerns.
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Study                     Status           Result
Study for establishment of Completed.       General and all sectoral Superintendencies
SIRESE Normative Council.                   agreed  on  functioning  of  Council.
Supreme Decree prepared.
Study of proposed law  of Under review.    Instrument for dialogue with relevant
administrative procedures.                  government authorities.
Study proposing procedures  Under review.    Instrument for dialogue with relevant
for General Superintendency's               govemment authorities.
evaluation    of    sectoral
Superintendencies' activities.
Guarantee Fund Study       Dropped.



19
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS
Appraisal Estimate (USSm)   Amended Estimate (USSm)   Actual (USSm)
Local   Foreign  Total    Local    Foreign  Total    Local    Foreign  rotal
Investment Sub-loans      8.0       12.0     20.0      n.a.     n.a.      .4        n.a.      .a.      .7
|Technical Assistance Grants  3.8   1.0      4.8       n.a.     n.a.      16.0      .a.      n.a.      10.8
Central Bank                                           n.a.      .a.      0.2       n.a.     .a.      ).06
Privatization/Capitalization                           n.a.      .a.      5.7       n.a.     .a.       .1
Regulatory Reforn                                      n.a.      .a.      1.2       n.a.      .a       .87
Publications                                           n.a.      .a.      .3        n.a.      a.      D.75
Ministry of Capitalization                             n.a.      .a.      .04       n.a      n.a.      .05
Regulatory Training                                    n.a.     n.a.      .5        n.a.     n.a.      .03
Refunding of PPF                    .1       0.1       n.a       .an                .a       n.a.
TOTAL                     11.8     13.1      24.9                         2.3                          4.6
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING
Appraisal Estimate (USSm)   Amended Estimate (US$m)   Actual (USSm)
Local    Foreign  Total    Local    Foreign  Total    Local   koreign  Total
IDA                       3.0       13.1     16.1      n/a      n/a       19.8     n/a       n/a      18.9
Beneficiaries             7.4                7.4       na       n/a       11.1     n/a       n/a      4.6
GovermmentofBolivia       1.4                1.4      Ja        na        1.4      n/a       n/a      1.1
TOTAL                     11.8     13.1     24.9      n/a       n/a      32.3      La       /a        24.6
Note: Sums in dollars differ from appraised amounts because of exchange rate fluctuations.
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
IN.A.



20
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Section    Covenant Status Original   Revised    Description of                       Comments
type            fulfillment fulfillment covenant
date       date
CREDIT AGREEMENT
3.0l(aXi)   5         C     Continuous            MOC to carry out Part D of Project with
due diligence.
3.01(a)(ii)   5      C      Continuous            Cause NAFIBO and SAT to perform in
accordance with respective agreements.
3.01(a)(iii)  5       C     Continuous            Take all action to enable NAFIBO and
SAT to perform their obligations.
3.01(b)    3         CD    5/96                   Relend Credit proceeds to NAFIBO Delays in effecting transfer
under subsidiary agreement acceptable to from Cental Bank.
IDA.
3.01(d)(i)   3        C     Continuous            Tranfer proceeds to SAT on grant basis.
3.01(d)(ii)   3      C      Continuous            Require SAT to operate TA Fund and
make TA Grants under terms and
conditions acceptable to IDA.
3.01(d)(iii)  10     C      Continuous            Require SAT to comply with provisions
of the Credit Agreement.
3.01(d)(iv)  5       C      Continuous            Require SAT to enter into TA contracts
with beneficiaries.
3.01(d)(v)   5       C      Annual                Require SAT to present proposed TA
program to IDA by December 31.
3.01(d)(vi)  5       C      Annual                Require SAT to review demand for TA
grants by February each year.
3.01(d)(vii)  9      C      Continuous            Require SAT to exchange views with
IDA on progress of component.
3.01(e)    5         C      Continuous            Borrower to  exercise  rights  under
l_________                                        subsidiary agreement with SAT.
3.01()     5         C      Continuous            Require SAT to appoint qualified Board,
managers and personnel acceptable to
IDA.
3.02       5         C      Continuous            Procurement requirements.
4.01(a) &    I       C      Continuous            Require agencies implementing Parts B Quality of Central Bank
4.02(a)                                           and D of Project to maintain adequate accounts  poor;  SAT's
accounts.                          gradually improved.
4.01(b) &    I       C      Annual                Provide annual audit reports to IDA for Delays in receipt of reports
4.02(b)                                           Parts B and D of Project.          from Central Bank.
4.01 (c)   I         C      Continuous            Maintain records of SOE expenditures._
PROJECT AGREEMENT
2.01       5         C      Continuous            NAFIBO to carry out Part A of Project in
accordance with Charter, Statement of
l_________ ________                    _________ Policy and Investment Credit Guidelines.
2.02(a)    3         C      Continuous            NAFIBO   to  make  sub-loans  in
accordance with Schedule 1.
2.02(b)    5         C      Continuous            NAFIBO to exercise rights in relation to
sub-loans.
2.03       5         C      Continuous            Procurement requirements.



21
Section     Covenant Status Original   Revised    Description of                          Comments
type             fulfillment fulfillment covenant
date       date
2.04        5          C      Continuous            NAFIBO   to  carry  out  obligations
established in General Conditions related
to insurance, use of goods and services,
plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition.
2.05        5          C      Continuous            NAFIBO to perform obligations under
l________ Subsidiary Agreement.                                         l
2.06        5          C      Continuous            NAFIBO  to  enter into  Participating
Agreements with PFIs and to perform
obligations under such agreements.
2.07(a)     5         C       Continuous            NAFIBO to exchange views with IDA
on performance of its obligations under
the Project and Subsidiary Agreements
and its performance and those of PFts
under Participating Agreements.
2.07(b)     9         C       Continuous            NAFIBO to inform IDA of any threat to
progress of Project or performance by
NAFIBO of its obligations.                                   l
2.11        4          C      Continuous            NAFIBO to pass portion of spread to
SAT.
3.01(a)     I         C       Continuous            NAFIBO to maintain adequate accounts.
3.01(b)     I         C      Annual                 NAFIBO to provide annual audit reports
I         I      I           I          I to IDA.
3.01(c)               C       Continuous            NAFIBO to maintain records of SOE
expenditures.
SCHEDULE 1 OF PROJECT AGREEMENT
Part A: I(a)  3       C      Continuous             Sub-loan(s) not to exceed 80% of sub-
project cost or $300,000 to any single
firm.
Part A: I(b) 3        C      Continuous             Sub-loans to be denominated in dollars,
disbursed  and  repaid  in  dollars or
bolivianos at prevailing exchange rate.
Part A: I(c)  3       C       Continuous            Repayment period not to exceed 10 years
including grace period not to exceed 2
years; for sub-loans  financing  only
working capital, 2 years with grace not
exceeding I year.
Covenant types:
1. =  Accounts/audits                              5. = Management aspects of the project or executing agency
3. =  Flow and utilization of project funds        9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting
4. =  Counterpart funding                          10. = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
Present Status:
C  =  covenant complied with                      CP = complied with partially
CD =  complied with after delay                   NC = not complied with
TABLE 1 1: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
I The Project complied with all operational manual statements.



22
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Stage of Project Cycle                Planned         Revised          Actual
Weeks   US$   Weeks   US$   Weeks   US$
Preparation to Appraisal                                            73.8   40.8
Appraisal-Board                                                    24.8    82.2
Negotiations through Board Approval                                  .9    39.8
Supervision                         45     94.7    52.0   110.9  137.4  355.6
Completion                          7.8    12.5    7.8    12.5    5.5    14.4
TOTAL                             52.8   107.2   59.8   123.4  236.9   524



23
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Performance Rating
N umber                      Specialized       Inmplementation          Development
Stage of           Month/         of          Days in        Staff Skills      Status                   Objectives
Project Cycle         Year        Persons        Field        Represented
Through Appraisal        3/88         2            10
9/88        2             12
3/89        3            6
Appraisal     through   6/89          2            12
Board Approval
9/89         1           4
12/89       3            4
Supervision              9/91         3            1 8           Financial Analyst     I
3/92         1            13                                 1                        2
1/93        2            19                                  2                        2
6/93         1            1 1           Water Specialist     2                        2
10/94       3                           Water Engineer       S                        S
6/95         1            10            Lawyer               S                        S
11/95       6            9              Economist            S                        S
3/96        8             15                                 S                        S
6,/96       2             10                                 S                        S
10/96       5            10             Microenterpr.        S                        S
NGOs
7/97        2             1 0                                HS                       S
Comipletion              6/98         2            12            Economist-



24
APPENDIX A



,! _,_...
25                            B3 Nr
M U N D I A L
REPUBLICA DE BOLIVIA
MINISTERJO DE HACIENDA                              rr
Vicefifdetaio de Inverui6a PNblica                  .
Y Financiaiiento Extemo
La Paz,
VIPFE/DGFE/NEG-07 172/1998
Sefiora
Deborah Bateman
Representante
BANCO MUNDIAL
Presente
Ref: COMENTARIOS SOBRE LA EJECUCION DE LOS CONVENIOS
DE CREDITO 2134-80, 2761-B0, 2647-BO
Sefiora Representante:
Mediante la nresente, remito a usted los comentarlos de dste Viceministerio
sobre la ejecuci6n de los Convenios de Credito de referencia:
1. IDA 2134-BO PROYECTO DE DESARROLLO DE LA EMPRESA PRIVADA
Orlglnalmente este convenio tuvo dos componentes que en principio fueron
administrados por el Banco Central de Bolivia: el Componente de Cr6dito
$US. 14 mil/ones y el de Asistencia T6cnica $US. 2 millones.
Posteriormente se introdujeron al Convenio de Credito otras enmiendas a
traves de las cuales se estableci6 que el Servicio de Asistencia Tecnica (SA TJ
serfa la entidad ejecutora del componente de asistencia tecnica, Nacional
Financiera Boliviana (NAFIBO) seria la entidad ejecutora del componente de
cr6dito y el SIRESEpara la ejecuci6n de un tercer componente.
El objetivo general del proyecto era el desarrollo de la empresa privada. Los
objetivos especfficos eran: fi) Fortalecer al sector privado industrial; (ii)
Ampliar la base de cl/ientes y el rango de instrumentos financieros disponibles
en el sector bancario; Aiii) Mejorar la efectividad de instituciones pOblicas y
privadas de apoyo a la industria; (iv) Minimizar los impedimentos burocreticos
para el desarrollo industria/; (v) Mejorar la capacidad administrativa, contable
y de mercadeo entre manufactureras; y (vii promover el desarrollo de
PYMES.



26
REPUBLICA DE BOLIA
MNSTERIO DE HACEINDA
Vicgninisterio de Invcrsi6n Pbfia
Y FinacialDiento Extemo
Con el Programa de Privatizaci6n en 1.993, se ampliaron los siguientes
objetivos: (i) asistencia 8 la privatizaci6n y/o capitalizaci6n de las empresas
del estado y (ii) Fortalecer la capacidad regulatoria del SIRESE
SERVICIO DE A SIS TENCIA TECNICA (SA T)
La ejecucidn presupuestaria por programa del SAT durante siete arsos de
operaciones (agosto9 1/junio98) fue la siguiente:
1. Programa de Asistencia T6cnica en Planta.
Consiste en brindar asesoramiento en planta tanto a empresas como a
grupos con el objeto de modernizar y mejorar su competitividad, mediante la
contrataci6n  de consultores o  firmas consultoras especializadas  que
solucionen efectivamente problemas especificos en las a5reas de Produccidn,
Administr4ci6n y Comercializaci6n.
La ejecuci6n presupuestaria de este programa es de $us. 3.4 millones de
d6lares (30,66% del total ejecutado). Este programa contempla la realizaclcn
de 705 proyectos en beneficio de 11. 768 empresarios.
2. Capacitaci6n.
La capacitaci6n y entrenamiento es el segundo programa en importancia
dentro de las operaciones del SA T. La Ejecuci6n Presupuestaria del Programa
de Capacitaci6n es de Sus. 2.8 mi/lones de dolares (25.8% del total
ejecutado). Este programa contempla /l realizaci6n de 1.528 proyectos en
beneficio de 36.197 empresarios)
3. Fortaleclmiento Institucional.
El SA T ha apoyado y fortalecido a Instituciones Gestoras para que 5stas
logren un acceso 6ptimo de los beneficiarios a los servicios del SA T.
La ejecuci6n presupuestaria de este programa es de $us 767 miH dMlares
(6.95%  del total ejecutado). Este programa contempla la realizaci6n de 151
proyectos.



27
REPUBLICA DE BOLIVIA
MLNIS1IER1O DE HACENDA
Vicunintitaio de lnri6a PibIica
Y Financiamiento Extrmo
4. Comercializaci6n y Exportacion de productos manufacturados del sector.
Este programa persJgue poner en contacto a productores y consumidores, a
trav6s de organizacidn de Ferias Regionales y Nacionales, financiamiento
para asistencia de empresarios bolivianos a ferias y eventos internacionales,
desarrollo de un sistema de informaci6n de producci6n, comercializacidn y
organizacldn de consorcios, ademis ode asistencia en la elaboracion e
impresidn de tripticos y catSlogos de promoci6n.
La ejecuci6n presupuestaria de este programa es de $us. 3.6 millones de
d6lares (32.40%  de la ejecuci6n total). Este programa contempla la
realizaci6n de 433 proyectos en beneficio de 9.657 empresarios.
5. Apoyo a la Muier Empresaria o Empresas de Mujeres.
Este programa tiene como objetivo promocionar a mujeres empresarias para
elevar su nivel empresarial a trav6s de Seminarios de Liderazgo, Re/aciones
Humanas, Oratoria, etc..
El presente programa est1 dirigido al desarrollo del turismo receptivo,
fortaleciendo a traves de la Asistencia T6cnica y la Capacitaci6n, a las
instituciones vinculadas con el desarro/lo del sector turistico.
La ejecuci6n presupuestaria de este programa es de $us. 293 mil (2.65% de
la ejecuci6n total). Este programa contempla la realizaci6n de 88 proyectos
en beneficio de 7.570 empresarios.
La distribuci6n pdr rubros industriales y artesanales atendidos por el SA T,
dentro la ejecuci6n presupuestaria agosto9 1/junio98 es la siguiente:
Textiles y confecciones con (12,32%), Afimentos (5,41 %), Turismo y
Hotelerfa con (4,23%), Madera y Muebles con (4,18%), Ceramica (2,92%),
Cuero con (1,80%) Metalmecanica (1,68%), Orfebreria con (0,91%),
Quimicos con (0,64%), Artes Graficas (0,52%) y Arte Popular (0,24%).
Agrupados pare spoyo a varios rubros se encuentran: Comerciallzacidn -
Ferias con (20,24%) y Gesti6n Administrac/6n (20,74%) y tambien se



AMC_                      28
REPUBLICA DE BOLIVIA
MINISTERIO DE HACEENDA
Vioemnigatrio de Invesi6n Pbblica
Y Finnciamienao Extemro
consigna otros rubros para aque/los no incluidos en ninguno de los anter/ores
(8,89%).
Con la experlencia adquirida en seis gestiones, el SA T se ha fortalecido
institucionalmente, con el desarrollo de sistemas computarizados de Control
de Gestidn y Contabilidad un personal entrenado para planificar, ejecutar y
evaluar el impacto de los proyectos a favor del sector industrial.
NACIONAL FINANCIERA BOLIVIANA (NAFIBO)
El 31 de octubre de 1995 la Ley del Banco Central de Bolivia AN0 1670
aprueba la creacfin de Nacional Financiera Boliviana S.A. M. (NAFBOg, a
efectos de continuar con las funciones de la Gerencia de Desarrolio del Banco
Central de Bolivia.
En raz6n de ello, el 14 de mayo de 1996, se suscribio una Quinta Enmien .a
al Contrato de Prdstamo, entre la Rep 1blica de Bolivia y la AIF, mediante l
cual se reemplaza al BCB por NAFIBO como Organismo Ejecutor del
Componente de Cr6dito PARTE 'A' del Proyecto en la que se disminuye este
componente de DEG3.985.681 a DEG3.301.232 y se permite la utilizacidn
de estos recursos para otorgar cr6ditos a traves de las ventanillas pare
capital de inversidn y para la pequefia y microempresa.
NAFIBO alcanz6 los objetivos de la implementaci6n del componente de
cr6dito a trav6s del desembolso total de los recursos por parte de ia A/F en
Noviembre de 1997, y la colocaci6n de los mismos en una cartera de
cr6ditos por equivalente de US$4.868.967,82 compuesta por 24 pr6stamos
destinados a capital de inversi6n y 5 al microcrLdito, por el 45, 13%  y
54,87% del total de la linea respectivamente. Estos pr6stamos fueron
otorgados a trav6s de 7 ICI (6 bancos y 1 FFP) que colocaron los pr6stamos
para capital de inversi6n en los departamentos de La Paz, Cochabambe,
Santa Cruz y Chuquisaca, y los pr6stamos de microcr&dito en las areas de
influencia de FIE, PRODEM y Caja Los Andes.
Las recuperaciones de capital estcn siendo utilizadas para colocar crdditos
que cumplan con los criterios de elegibilidad establecidos en el contrato de
pr6stamo, luego de atender las obligaciones por concepto de intereses y
prdximamente por amortizaciones de capital. De esta manera NAF/BC



29
REPUBLICA DE BOLIVIA
MWSTERIO DE HACIENDA
Vioeministenro de Invenion  blica
Y Financianiento Extemo
asegura que las colocaciones que se efect0en con recursos del prestamo
lleven a la consecuci6n de los objetivos del programa.
Por lo anterior, la ejecucion del componente de cr6dito del pro yecto por parte
de NAFIBC esta en su fase final, toda vez que la concesi6n de pr6stamos a
las ICI como el desembolso de los recursos por parte de A/F, tomaron menos
de sels meses desde que se hizo efectivo el traspaso del programa a NAFIBC
por parte del Banco Central de Bolivia. Asimismo, dada la implementacin del
punto de vista de NAFI/B respecto a que la AIF flexibilice su procedimiento
para e/ otorgamiento de prdstamos de microcredito (permitir el conceder
pr6stamos a las ICI contra la presentaci6n ex-post de los subprestamos en
lugar de la identificaci6n a priori de un numero considerable de 6stosJ, ha
facilitado significativamente la colocaci6n de recursos del pr6stamo a traves
de la ventanilla de microcr6dito. En base a esta experiencia, e/ BID acept6
utilizar el mismo procedimiento para la ejecuci6n del Programa Integral de
Apoyo a la Pequefia y Microempresa,
Factores que afectaron el proyecto
Durante el periodo comprendido entre 1991 y 1996, la ejecuci6n de la Parte
A de/ proyecto se vio obstaculizada por la "mutua desconfianza' que existia
entre el BCS y las ICI que requerian los recursos del pr6stamo para
intermediarlos. Esto fue producto de los pesados requerimientos
administrativos del BCB para colocar los recursos, ocasionados por las
prioridades que establecia el gobierno en el manejo de la politica monetaria
del pais, adem6s de orros retrasos por el propio mecanismo de colocacion de
los recursos acordado entre el BCB y la AIF.
Esta fue la principal causa del mal desempefio en la ejecuci6n del
componente de credito del proyecto, que ademds llev6 a la reduccion del
monto asignado a menos de US$5 millones despues de sucesivas
reaslgnaciones del presupuesto, lo cual, en consecuencia, redujo
significativamente el impacto que podia haber tenido dicho componente el
mercado financiero formal de Bolivia, principalmente en el segmento de
microcr6dito.
Futuras operaciones
Pare el periodo 1999 - 2001, NAFI/B tiene programado colocar cerca a
US$20 millones a trav6s de la ventanilla de microcr6dito, US$14.85 millones



30
REPUBLICA DE BOLIVIA
IMNISTERIO DE HACBENDA
Vjceminiderio ds Invei6n Pfiblica
Y Financiamiento Extemo
de dMlares provenientes del Subprograma de Cr6dito del Programa de ApyoW
Integral a la Pequefia y Microempresa financiado conl recursos del pr6starm
BID 1020ISF-B0 (suscrito entre la Republica y el Banco el pasado mes de
noviembre), y aproximadamente US$4.78 mi/lones de ddlares financiados por
la KfW para el Programa de Financiamiento a la Peque,ia y Microempresa
(cuVo contrato serd suscrito en el transcurso del presente mes de diciembre;.
Para la ejecuci6n de estos programas se han acordado los respectivos
reglamentos para la intermediaci6n de recursos, los cuales, ademSs de haber
adoptado el mecanismo utilizado para Ia intermediaci6n de los recursos da5e
IDA-2134, contienen elementos que aseguran en buena medida el 6xito de
los programas tanto en la colo cacidn de NAFIBO hacia las ICI y en Ia o5e as
ICI a los Subpresta tar/os, como en el impacto en el acceso al cr6dito forr.n
por parte del grupo meta.
Finalmente, existe la posibilidad de que el BCB transfiera a NA FIBO !
administraci6n de otras lfneas de cr6dito las cuales aun estJn en proceso ffe
negociacic5n.
A pesar de Ia reduccidn de los recursos asignados al Componente de Cr6dfGt
del programa y de las dificultades en la primera etapa de su ejecuci6n, sus
efectos positivos han sido muy significativos en relaci6n a su tamano ya qua
se logr6 que el sistema bancario nscional mejore su universo de instrumentos
financieros disponibles para la iniciativa privada, y que ademjs amiplfe su
base de c/lentes incluyendo en sus operaciones al segmento de /a pequefne -
microempresa.
Por otra parte, para NAFIBO la ejecucidn del componente de crddito ayud6 a
poner en operaci6n su ventanilla de microcr6dito, y en consecuencia a
establecer un historial que servirS como base de an.lisis para aqueffos
financiadores que est6n interesados en apoyar al sector de la pequefa y
micro empresa en el futuro. A su vez, para las ICI del sisterna la ventanilla de
microcr6dito result6 atractiva en el sentido que pudieron ampl/iar su universc
de clientes ofreciendo servicios de microcr6dito, por lo que 6stas hian
comenzado a utilizar sus prop/os recursos en la colocaci6n de este tipo de
cartera.
Finalmente, este programa ha motivado a nuevos actores (GANGs
principalmente) a entrar en el mercado regulado de microcr6dito y buscEr
financiamiento a trav6s de los recursos que intermeedia NAFIBO.



31
REPUBLICA DE BOLIVIA
}NNISTERIO DE HACIENDA
Viceminiterio de Inversi6n Pijblica
Y Finaniiaiento Externo
SIRESE
Una pequefia parte fue otorgada para el fortalecimiento de las
Superintendencias de Agua y de Transportes.
2. IDA 2761-BO CREDITO DE AJUSTE AL PROGRAMA DE CAPITALIZACION
El cr6 dito de ajuste estructural fue un importante apoyo a la balanza de
pagos de Bolivia que tuvo la virtud de inducir al gobierno a cumplir en la
forma mJs rdpida posible una serie de medidas que se traz6 para el Programe
de Reformas estructurales. En este sentido debemos rescatar que estas
medidas estan relacionadas por tramos at cumplimiento de los siguientes
cuatro tramos, uno general y tres flotantes.
a) El pr,.,aero por $us. 10 mil/ones, cuyas condiciones fueron cumplidas
antes de la aprobaci6n por el Directorio del BM, entre ellas las mas
importantes son: i) la ley de Capitalizaci6n ii) estrat6gias de capitalizac/6n
por empresa   i/i) Ley  del SIRESE  iv) Ley  1606  v) Ley  de
Telecomunicac/ones vi) Ley de electricidad vii) acuerdo sobre los
borradores de enmienda a la ley de mineria y la ley de Hidrocarburos viii)
acuerdo sobre los principios basicos de la reforma del sistema de
pensiones ix) mantenimiento de un marco macroeconomico sdlido.
bJ Tramo de $us. 10 mi/lones al cumplimiento de i) aprobacien de los
decretos reglamentarios para ejecutar la capitalizaci6n como ser
establecimiento del SIRESE, reglamentaci6n del impuesto a las utilidades
de empresas ii) establecimiento del marco legal y regulatorio para los
sectores de telecomunicaciones, electricidad y mineria y c) invitaci/n
p6blica para capitalizar ENTEL
c) Tramo Hidrocarburos $us. 20 mil/ones al cumplimiento de i) aprobac/6n de
un marco legal y regulatorio apropiado para el sector hidrocarburos (/ey de
hidrocarburos y reglamentos) y ii) publicaci6n de documentos de licitaci6n
para la capitalizacl6n de una porcidn significativa de YPFB.
di Tramo de $us. 10 millones al cumplimiento de i) aprobacin de reformas
legales necesarias para atraer mayor capital extranjero privado y f/)



32
REPUBLICA DE BOLIVIA
MINISIERIO DE HACIENDA
Vicemninisterio de Inveri6rn P6blica
Y Fwancinmicnto Extemo
aprobaci6n de Ieyes de desarrollo y fortalecimiento del sector financiero,
en particular mercados financieros a largo plazo.
3. IDA 2647-BO REFORMA REGULA TORIA Y A SIS TENCIA TECNICA A LA
CAPITALIZA CION
Entre los objetivos de dste crddito estaba el fortalecirniento de la capacidad
del Min/sterio de Capitalizaci&n para administrar la reforma de los sectores de
comunicaci6n, electricidad, hidrocarburos, transporte y minerfa, asf como
desarrollar la polit/ca y la legislaci6n necesaria para la reorganizaci6n del
sector de la telecomunicaci6n y la capitalizaci6n de ENTEL.
En este sentido, la transferencia de aproximadamente $us. 2 mil/ones al
SIRESE por parte del Ministerio de Hacienda, permitieron realizar actividades
tendientes al cumplimiento de estos objetivos.
El Manuial de Fiscalizaci6n que se elabor6 proporcionarc a las
Superinte,?dencias Sectoriales una herramienta de control y seguimiento de Ia
act/v/dad sectorlal en base a indicadores de cumplimiento de metas.
El fortalecimiento de la Superintendencia de Telecomunicaciones a trav6s de
la compra de un equipo de control del Espectro Electromagn6tico, es un
importante avance para este sector. La contrataci6n del PNUD para Ia
compra del equipo a trav6s de una licitaci6n, fue muy favorable para el
proyecto, ya que permiti6 la adquisicidn de equipos adicionales para
Cochabamba y Santa Cruz, obteni6ndose como resultado una red de control
en el eje troncal con centro en La Paz.
Con este motivo, saludo a usted atentamente.
Aj
AICIAM  EXTEM
y IC  DE cACrENDA



33
Unofficial Translation
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Vice-Ministry of Public Investment and
External Financing
La Paz, December 18, 1998
VIPFE/DGFE/NEG-07 172/1998
Mrs. Deborah Bateman
Representative
WORLD BANK
City
Re.: COMMENTS TO THE FULFILLMENT OF CREDIT AGREEMENTS
2134-BO, 2761-BO, 2547-BO
Dear Madam Representative:
I should like to make the following comments on behalf of the Vice Ministry, with regard
to the Crc Ait Agreements under reference:
1. IDA 2134-BO PRIVATE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Originally, this agreement had two components, both of which were initially managed by
the Central Bank of Bolivia, i.e. a US$ 14 million credit component and a US$ 2 million
technical assistance component.
Later on, the agreement was amended to designate the Technical Assistance Service (SAT)
as the executing agency of the technical assistance component, Nacional Financiera
Boliviana (NA FIBO) as the executing agency of the credit component and SIRESE as the
executor of a third component.
The overall objective of the project was to develop the private enterprise sector. The
specific objectives were: (i) to strengthen the private industrial sector; (ii) to expand the
client base and the range of financial instruments available to the banking sector; (iii) to
improve the efficiency of public and private industry support institutions; (iv) to minimize
bureaucratic impediments to industrial development; (v) to enhance the management,
accounting and marketing capabilities of manufacturers; and, (vi) to promote the
development of PYMES:
In 1993, as a result of the implementation of the Privatization Program, two additional
objectives were added: (i) to support the privatization and/or capitalization of state-owned
enterprises and (ii) to strengthen SIRESE's regulatory capacity.



34
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE SERVICE (SAT)
For seven years of operations (August '91 to June '98), SAT's budget performance, by
program, was as follows:
1. Plant Technical Assistance
Under this program, technical assistance is provided to companies and groups at the plant.
The objective is to update and improve competitiveness by contracting specialized
consultants or consulting firms to effectively solve specific problems in the areas of
production, management and marketing.
The budget performance for this program is US$ 3.4 million (30.66 % of total
performance). This program contemplates the implementation of 705 projects to benefit
11,768 entrepreneurs.
2. Training
The second most important program of SAT operations is the training program. The budget
performance for this program is US$ 2.8 million (25,8 % of total performance). The
program includes 1,528 projects with a target population of 36,197 entrepreneurs.
3. Institutional Strengthening
SAT has supported and strengthened executing agencies so that these may enable the
optimum access of the target population to SAT services.
The budget performance for this program is US$ 767,000 (6.95 % of the total budget
performance). The program contemplates the implementation of 151 projects.
4. Marketing and exportation of products manufactured in the sector
The objective of this program is to bring producers and consumers together by organizing
industrial fairs at the regional and national levels, financing the assistance of Bolivian
entrepreneurs to international fairs and similar events, developing a system of information
on production, marketing and consortium organization, as well as supporting the design and
printing of promotion material such as brochures and catalogues.
The budget performance for this program is US$ 3.6 million (32.40 % of the total budget
performance). The program contemplates the implementation of 433 projects to benefit
9,657 entrepreneurs.
5. Support to business women or women's businesses
This program is aimed at promoting businesswomen and enhancing their entrepreneurial
capabilities through seminars and workshops on leadership, human relations, public
speaking, etc.
2



35
The program is focused on the development of incoming tourism and is designed to
strengthen the institutions related to the sector by providing technical assistance and
training.
The budget performance of this program is US$ 293,000 (2.65 % of the total). The program
contemplates the implementation of 88 projects and targets 1,570 beneficiaries.
From August 1991 to June 1998, SAT has supported activities in the following fields:
Textiles and clothing (12.32 %), food (5.41 %), tourism and hotels (4.23 %), woodwork
and furniture (4.18 %), ceramics (2.92 %), leather (1.80 %), metal and mechanics (1.68 %),
gold and silver work (0.91 %), chemicals (0.64 %), graphic arts (0.52 %) and popular art
(0.24 %).
The support provided may also be divided into marketing - fairs (20.24 %) and
administrative management (20.74 %), as well as other fields of activity not included above
(8.89 %).
SAT has gained experience during the six years of its operations, strengthening itself
institutionally. It now has management control and accounting computerized systems, as
well as staff that is trained to plan, implement and assess projects aimed at developing the
industrial sector.
NACIONAL FINANCIERA BOLIVIANA (NAFIBO)
Law N 1670 of the Central Bank of Bolivia, dated October 31, 1995, approves the creation
of Nacional Financiera Boliviana S.A.M to continue the functions of the Development
Department of the Central Bank.
As a result, a fifth amendment was made to the Credit Agreement signed between Bolivia
and IDA, to replace BCB by NAFIBO, as the executing agency for part "A" of the credit
component. In the amendment, SDR for this component are reduced from 3,985,681 to
3,301,232 and the use of these resources for loans for investment capital and to small and
microenterprises is authorized.
NAFIBO met the objectives of the credit component through the total disbursement of
funds by IDA in November 1997 and the placement of these funds in a loans portfolio of
US$ 4,868,967.82. The portfolio included 24 loans for investment capital and 5 for
microcredit, representing 45.13 % and 54.87 % of the total credit line, respectively. The
loans were made through 7 ICIs (6 banks and I private financial fund). Loans for
investment capital were made in the departments of La Paz, Cochabamba, Santa Cruz and
Chuquisaca and microcredit loans in the FIE, PRODEM and Caja Los Andes service areas.
Return of capital is being used for loans that meet the Credit Agreement's eligibility
criteria, once interest payments and amortization obligations have been met. NAFIBO is
thus able to ensure that the resources available under the Agreement are used to achieve
program objectives.
3



36
In view of the aforementioned, NAFIBO's role as the executing agency of the credit
component has reached its final phase as the granting of loans to the ICIs and the
disbursement of funds by IDA has been completed in less than six months since the
program was effectively transferred from the Central Bank to NAFIBO. Likewise, the
implementation of a more flexible microcredit loan procedure by IDA (authorization of
loans to ICIs against the ex post presentation of subloans instead of the ex ante
identification thereof), in line with NAFIBO's point of view, has made the placement of
loan resources through microcredit tellers much easier. Based on this experience, IDB has
accepted to implement the same procedure for the Integrated Small and Microenterprise
Support Program.
Factors affecting the project
During the period from 1991 to 1996, the implementation of part "A" of the project was
hindered by the "mutual distrust" that existed between the Central Bank and the ICIs who
acted as intermnediaries for loan resources. This was the direct result of very demanding
administrative requirements on the part of the Central Bank spurred by government
priorities with regard to the country's monetary policy and other delays due to the
placement mechanism itself, as defined by the Bank and IDA.
This was the major cause of the credit component's poor performance which also led to the
reduction of the amount allocated to less than US$ 5 million, after successive budget
reallocations. Consequently, the potential impact of the project component on Bolivia's
formal financial market, particularly as concerns microcredit, was also reduced.
Future operations
NAFIBO is planning to place approximately US$ 20 million through the microcredit teller
during the 1999 - 2001 period, that is, US$ 14.85 million from the Credit Subprogram of
the Integrated Small and Microenterprise Support Program, financed with resources from
loan IDB 1020/SF-BO (signed between Bolivia and IDB in November 1998), and US$ 4.78
million financed by KfW for the Small and Microenterprise Funding Program (for which
the contract is to be signed in December of 1998).
The regulations for resource intermediation under these programs have also been agreed
upon. In addition to adopting the intermediation mechanism of IDA-2134, these regulations
include elements that ensure program success both with regard to NAFIBO's placements
with the ICIs and of these with the sub-borrowers, as well as the impact on the access to
formal credit of the target group.
There is a possibility that the Central Bank will transfer the management of other credit
lines, currently in negotiation, to NAFIBO.
In spite of the reduction of resources allocated to the credit component and the difficulties
encountered during the first phase of implementation, positive effects have been significant
when compared to the magnitude of the component. The country's banking system was
4



37
able to expand the range of financial instruments available for private initiatives and
include the small and microenterprise sector in its client base.
On the other hand, the implementation of the credit component helped NAFIBO to initiate
the operation of its microcredit teller and start a track record that will serve as a basis for
the analysis of other financial institutions interested in supporting small and
microenterprises in the future. For the ICIs, the microcredit teller proved to be attractive as
they were able to expand their client base by offering microcredit services and are currently
using their own resources for this type of portfolio.
Finally, the program has motivated new actors (mainly NGOs) to enter the regulated
microcredit market and seek financing from NAFIBO funds.
SIRESE
A small part was granted for the strengthening of the Water and Transport
Superintendencies.
5



38
BOLIVIA: Financial SecWor
Loan Portfolios at June 30
(Thousand of Bolivianos)
1989      1991        1993        1995        1997
Banking System   :3,046,252: 5,457,814: 11,271,1 13: 16,429,361I 20,395,737
Mutuales         .  109,910:  302,068:   561,228:   972,449:  1,400,971
Cooperatives       ,n/a         40,939:   176,552:   464,360:   792,373
PFF's           :          :          :                 36,505:   529,510(
Total             3,156,162: 5,800,821  12,008,893  17,902,675  23,118,591
(Thousands of Dollars)
1989      1991        1993        1995        1997
Banking System   ' 1,153,883': 1,520,282:  2,639,605:  3,422,784:  3,899,759
Mutuales             41,633,   84,141,    131,435:   202,594'   267,872
Cooperatives         n,'a       11,404:    41,347       96,742j    15 1,505
IPFF's                                ,                  7.605:   101 245
Total             1,195,516: 1,615,828:  2,812,387:  39729,724:  4,420,381



BOLIVIA: Banking System
Loan Portfolio as at June 30
Distribution by Loan Size
(Thousands of Dollars)
Loan Size                      1989                1991                1993               1995                1997
Over $1,500,000             167,195 ,100%      255,914  100/       750,853   100%   1,274,441   I 00%    1,177,705 , 100%  *4Over $2,000,000
$1,000,001 to $$1,500,000    48,605  85.5%     110,637 : 83.2%     220,061  71.6%     262,400 :62.8%      514,347 :69.8%  ** $1,000,001 to $2000,000
$750,000 to $1,000,00        44,924 :81.3%      79,638 :75.9%      163,514 :63.2%      201,249 :55.1%     447,069 :56.6%  t $500,001 to $1,000,000
$500,001 to $750,000         60,700 77.4%      108,362 70.7%       199,401 57.0%      203,671 :49.2%           -   45.1%
$250,001 to $500,000        125,078  72.1%      188,145  63.5%     296,711 '49.5%      344,720 ,43.3%     467,358 ,45.1%  * $200,001 to $500,000
$100,001 to $250,000        202,910 ,61.3%     231,402 ,51.1%      317,275 '38.2%      358,448  33.2%     283,528 '33.2%  *$100,001 to $200,000
$75,001 to $100,000          52,166 :43.7%      67,506 : 35.9%      84,479 :26.2%       96,825  22.7%     248,505  25.9%  ** $50,001 to $100,000
$50,001 to $75,000           65,246 39.2%       74,610 .31.5%      101,593 '23.0%      109,008  19.9%          -    19.5%
$25,001 to $50,000          104,930 :33.5%     120,462 :26.6%      164,889 :19.2%      177,950  16.7%     156,076 :19.5%      $30,0)01 to $50,000
$10,001 to $25,000          114,445 '24.5%      124,726  18.7%     162,587  12.9%      164,735  11.5%     268,264 ,15.5%    $10,001 to $30,000
Below $ 10,000              167,684 :14.5%      158,882- 10.5%     178,242   6.8%      229,337   6.7%     336,906    8.6%
Total                     1,153,883           1,520,282          2,639,605           3,422,783          3,899,759 !
Distribution by Number of Loans
Loan Size                       1989               1991                1993               1995                1997
Over $1,500,000                  48  I 100%          79  100%          271 :100%           408 :100%           326 :100%  ~Over $2,000,000
$1,000,001 to $$1,500,000        41 :99.9%           88 :99.9%         180 .99.7%          214 :99.7%         366 :99.8%  * $1,000,001 to $2000,000
$750,000 to $1,000,00            47 '99.9%           90 '99.8%         187  99.5%          231 ,99.5%         624 *99.7%  t $500,001 to $1,000,000
$500,001 to $750,000            103 j99.8%          178 ,99.7%         324  99.3%          331 '99.4%              '99.3%
$250,001 to $500,000            365 :99.7%         547 :99.4%          836 :98.9%          977  99.1%        1,505 :99.3%  * $200,001 to $500,000
$100,001 to $250,000          1,272 :99.3%        1,460 :98.7%       2,034 :98.0%        2,261 ,98.4%        1,993 :98.6%  ** $100,001 to $200,000
$75,001 to $100,000           1,876  97.8%         779 :96.7%          966  95.7%        1,109 ,96.7%        3,487 '97.6%  * $50,001 to $100,000
$50,001 to $75,000            1,086 ,95.5%        1,236  95.6%        1,645 :94.6%       1,775 '95.9%              ,95.9%
$25,001 to $50,000            2,991 :94.2%        3,359 :94.0%       4,640 :92.7%        5,012 .94.6%        4,008 '95.9%  * $30,001 to $50,000
$10,001 to $25,000            7,294 :90.6%        7,900 :89.4%      10,132  87.5%       10,218 ,90.9%       15,381 :93.9%   t $10,001 to $30,000
Below $10,000                68,492 :81.9%       58,170 :787%       67,318 '76.0%      112 144  83.3%      172,659 :86.2%
Total                        83,615    -         73,886             88,533 -           134,680:           200,349



40
Loan Portfolio (June 30, 1998)
Loans made by NAFIBO, excluding microcredit loans
Amounts in US$
Date          Amount   Term  Grace Service Interest PFI Spread   Amortized     Balance
January 30, 1997   245,000.00  96    30    6    10.07%    5.00%            0.00   245,000.00
March 17, 1997    80,000.00  60    15     3    9.99%    4.00%         5,000.00    75,000.00
March 25, 1997    85,011.42  60    15     3    9.99%     4.00%        5,313.21    79,698.21
March 27, 1997    42,750.00  120   30     6    9.99%    4.00%             0.00    42,750.00
March 27, 1997    40,000.00  72    18     6    9.99%    4.00%             0.00    40,000.00
March 27, 1997    28,000.00  120   30     6    9.85%    4.00%        28,000.00         0.00
April 4, 1997    45,000.00  72    30    6    9.93%     6.00%            0.00    45,000.00
April 21, 1997    80,000.00  96    18    6    9.35%     4.00%            0.00    80,000.00
April 25, 1997    35,000.00  120   30    6    9.35%     4.00%            0.00    35,000.00
May 28, 1997   120,000.00  120   18     6    9.27%    4.00%             0.00   120,000.00
July 14, 1997    44,800.00  96    30    6    9.84%     5.00%            0.00    44,800.00
July 14, 1997    18,000.00  60    18    6    9.84%    4.00%             0.00    18,000.00
July 18, 1997    50,000.00  60    15    3    9.99%     4.00%        3,125.00    46,875.00
August 1, 1997    48,000.00  60    15    3    9.30%     4.00%            0.00    48,000.00
August 21, 1997   111,632.00  120   30    6    9.62%     3.00%            0.00   111,632.00
August 27, 1997   110,000.00  96    30    6    9.62%     3.50%            0.00   110,000.00
September 2, 1997    66,500.00  120   27    3    9.17%    4.00%         15,000.00    51,500.00
September 29, '997   148,976.00  84    15    3    9.19%     4.00%            0.00   148,976.00
October 10, 1997   133,000.00  120   30    6    9.25%    4.20%             0.00   133,000.00
October 28, 1997   140,598.40  120   30    6    9.25%     4.00%            0.00   140,598.40
October 30, 1997   150,000.00  96    30    6    9.25%     3.00%            0.00   150,000.00
October 31, 1997   180,000.00  96    30    6    9.25%    4.00%             0.00   180,000.00
November 25, 1997   160,000.00  120   30     6    9.18%    3.00%             0.00   160,000.00
December 22, 1997    35,000.00  96    27     3    9.24%     4.00%            0.00    35,000.00
TOTAL              2,197,267.82 _                                        56,438.21  2,140,829.61
AVERAGE              91,552.83 95.0  24.6   5.1   9.57%    4.03%                       _
WEIGHTED AVERAGE               98.8  25.6   5.3   9.51%    3.97%                  _
Loan Portfolio (June 30, 1998)
Microcredit Loans made by NAFIBO
Amounts in US$
Date          Amount   Term  Grace Service Interest Amortized    Balance
November 18, 1996   700,000.00  39    9      6    8.59%   233,333.34   466,666.66
June 13, 1997   110,000.00  12    6     6    9.03%   110,000.00         0.00
June 17, 1997   740,000.00  36    6     6    9.03%   246,666.67   493,333.33
December 18, 1997   881,700.00  24    6      6    8.78%   220,425.00   661,275.00
December 29, 1997   240,000.00  30    6      6    9.47%    48,000.00   192,000.00
TOTAL              2,671,700.00     _                      858,425.01  1,813,274.99
AVERAGE             534,340.00 28.2  6.6   6.0   8.98%
WEIGHTED AVERAGE               31.3  6.8   6.0   8.87%



41
Loan Portfolio (May 31, 1998)
Loans made by the DCD of the Central Bank
Amounts in US$
Date       Amount Term  Grace Interest  Sector Activity
March 17, 1992  115,000   96     24    10.60%  Tourism Tourism
October 5, 1992  28,100   96     24    10.20%  Industry Staples, clips etc.
October 5, 1992   52,200   60    12   10.60%  Industry Printing
October 5, 1992  30,000   60     12   10.20%  Industry Staples, clips etc.
March 29, 1993   50,000   60     0    12.91%  Industry Kitchen appliances
April 26, 1993  22,200   60     12   12.51%  Industry Mattress ticking
May 12, 1993   10,000   60     0    12.50%  Tourism Hotel
May 31, 1993  100,000   60     12   12.80%  Industry Ice Factory
Total            407,500
Average                   69.00  12.00  11.54%
Weighted Average          72.64  14.45  11.52%           _       _ X



42
Loan Portfolio (June 30, 1998)
Loans made by NAFIBO, excluding microcredit loans
Amounts in US$
Date          Amount   Term  Interest PFI Spread    Sector         Activity
January 30, 1997   245,000.00  96  10.07%    5.00%    Industry    Plastic containers
March 17, 1997    80,000.00  60   9.99%    4.00%     Industry    Steel balls
March 25, 1997    85,011.42  60   9.99%    4.00%     Industry    Printing equipment
March 27, 1997    42,750.00  120  9.99%    4.00%     Tourism    Hotel
March 27, 1997    28,000.00  120  9.85%    4.00%     Tourism    Hotel
March 27, 1997    40,000.00  72   9.99%    4.00%    Agro-industry  Poultry farm
April 4, 1997    45,000.00  72   9.93%    6.00%    Tourism    Hotel
April 21, 1997    80,000.00  96   9.35%    4.00%    Industry    Oxygen
April 25, 1997    35,000.00  120  9.35%    4.00%    Tourism     Hotel
May 28, 1997   120,000.00  120  9.27%    4.00%      Tourism    Hotel
July 14, 1997    44,800.00  96   9.84%    5.00%    Tourism    Hotel
July 14, 1997    18,000.00  60   9.84%    4.00%    Agro-industry  Flowers & fruit
July 18, 1997    50,000.00  60   9.99%    4.00%    Tourism    -lotel
August 1, 1997    48,000.00  60   9.30%    4.00%     Industry    Brick factory
August 21, 1997   111,632.00  120  9.62%    3.00%     Industry    Metallic products
August 27, 1997   110,000.00  96   9.62%    3.50%     Industry    Containers
September 2, 1997    66,500.00  120  9.17%    4.00%     Tourism    Hotel
September 29, 1C)97   148,976.00  84   9.19%    4.00%    Industry    Printing equipment
October 10, 1997   133,000.00  120  9.25%    4.20%     Tourism    Hotel
October 28, 1997   140,598.40  120  9.25%    4.00%     Industry    Pasta
October 30, 1997   150,000.00  96   9.25%    3.00%     Industry    PVC tubes
October 31, 1997   180,000.00  96   9.25%    4.00%     Industry    Milling equipment
November 25, 1997   160,000.00  120  9.18%    3.00%      Services    Electrical repair
December 22, 1997    35,000.00  96   9.24%    4.00%     Industry    Printing equipment
TOTAL              2,197,267.82     T   =  |_                                   _



43
Loan Portfolio (June 30, 1998)
Loans made by NAFIBO, excluding microcredit loans
Amounts in US$
Window
PFI                              Agriculture   Industry    Tourism     Microcredit     TOTAL
Banco Econ6mico                                35,000.00   120,000.00                    155,000.00
Number of loans                                        II _                                      2
Banco Ganadero                                 180,000.00                                180,000.00
Number of loans                                        I                     _                   I
Banco Mercantil                                568,976.00                                568,976.00
Number of loans                                        4                                         4
Banzo Nacional de Bolivia                     332,230.40   172,250.00    110,000.00      614,480.40
Number of loans                                        3           4             1               8
Banco Santa Cruz                                           133,000.00    881,700.00    1,014,700.00
Number of loans                                                    I             1               2
Banco Uni6n                       58,000.00    458,011.42   139,800.00                   655,811.42
Number of loans                          2             4           3                             9
Caja de Ahorro y Prestamo Los Andes                                    1,680,000.00    1,680,000.00
Number of loans                 l          l             l                       3               3
TOTAL                             58,000.00   1,574,217.82   565,050.00   2,671,700.00  4,868,967.82
_________ _________ _________2             13           8             S              28



44
Technical Assistance Service (SAT)
Project Execution through June 1998
Program                      SAT       Co-Payments       Total       Projects  Beneficiaries
Technical Assistance      2,539,545.86    765,626.69    3,305,172.55     703        11.667
Training                  2,155,178.75    629,093.83    2,784,272.58    1,477       35,072
Institutional Strengthening  664,906.89   104,171.24     769,078.13      150          193
Marketing & Exports       2,350,836.23   1,130,995.64    3,481,831.87    427         9,641
Women Entrepreneurs         137,425.09     33,105.90     170,530.99       65         1,694
Tourism                     194,153.37     93,942.04     288,095.41       85         1,570
TOTAL                     8,042,046.19   2,756,935.34   10,798,981.53   2,907       59,837



