Page  1
August 8, 1996
Mr. Rene Sergio Pereira
Nacional Financiera Boliviana S.A.M.
Edificio Hilda, Piso 9
Av. 6 de Agosto, entre Calles Salazar y Belisario Salinas
Casilla de Correos 2086
La Paz, Bolivia
Dear Sir:
Private Sector Development Project (Credit No. 2134) - Amendment
to the Project Agreement
Please refer to the above mentioned Agreement, as amended. We address you as the 
authorized representative of Nacional Financiera Boliviana S.A.M. (NAFIBO), the 
institution that pursuant to Law 1670 of October 31, 1995 and Supreme Decree No. 24246 
of February 27, 1996 will assume the obligations and undertakings of the Central Bank 
set forth or referred to in said Agreement and in the Credit Agreement with regard to 
Part A of the Project.
We are pleased to inform you that, pursuant to our recent discussions on the 
subject, the Association agrees to further amend the Project Agreement as follows so 
as to reflect the assumption by NAFIBO of all such obligations and undertakings of the 
Central Bank.
General
1.
The provisions of paragraphs 1, 5 and 6 of the amendment letter of May 14, 1996 
regarding the Credit Agreement also apply to the Project Agreement.
2.
All references to the date of the Project Agreement are deleted.
 
3.
In addition to the other amendments listed herein all references to "grant 
agreement" or "Grant Agreement" are deleted. The corresponding sentences are amended 
accordingly so as to preserve the meaning of the remaining text.
Specific
4.
WHEREAS clause (B) is redesignated as WHEREAS clause (E) and new WHEREAS clauses 
(B), (C) and (D) are inserted to read as follows:
"(B)   by Law No. 1670 of October 31, 1995 passed by the National 
Congress of the Borrower, the role of Banco Central de Bolivia (the Central 
Bank) was redefined so as to, inter alia, exclude second tier banking 
activities;
(C) the Borrower, the Central Bank and Nacional Financiera Boliviana 
S.A.M. (NAFIBO) have agreed to transfer to NAFIBO all the previous obligations 
and undertakings of the Central Bank with regard to Part A of the Project, 
pursuant to mechanisms and procedures consistent with Article 85 of Law 1670;
(D)  the Borrower and NAFIBO have requested the Association to agree 
with the assumption by NAFIBO of all Central Bank's obligations and 
undertakings with regard to Part A of the Project set forth or referred to in 
this Agreement and in the Credit Agreement; and".
5.
A new WHEREAS clause is inserted immediately after the last WHEREAS clause to 
read as follows in its entirety:
"WHEREAS NAFIBO has agreed to assume the obligations and undertakings 
set forth in this Agreement and thus replace the Central Bank in the execution 
of Part A of the Project".
6.
Section 2.01 is amended by inserting the words "Part A of" after the words 
""shall carry out".
7.
The second sentence of Section 2.06 is deleted.
Page  2
8.
Sections 2.08 and 2.09 are deleted.
 
9.
Section 2.11 is amended to read as follows:
 
"Pursuant to the provisions of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the 
Borrower shall assist in the funding of the Technical Assistance Fund with an 
amount, satisfactory to the Association, representing a portion of the 
interest spread charged by NAFIBO on Investment Subloans.".
10.
Section 3.01 (a) is amended by deleting the words "and its Department of Credit 
and Development".
11.
Section 3.01 (b) (i) is amended by adding the words "for Part A of the Project" 
after the words "Special Account".
12.
Section 3.01 (c) (ii) is amended by inserting the words "and payments out of the 
Special Accounts" after the words "last withdrawal from the Credit Account".
13.
Section 4.01 is deleted.
 
14.
Section 5.01 is amended by replacing the address for the Central Bank by the 
following address for NAFIBO:
Nacional Financiera Boliviana S.A.M.
Edificio Hilda, Piso 9
Av. 6 de agosto, entre Calles Pedro Salazar y Belisario Salinas
Casilla de Correos 2086
La Paz, Bolivia
15.
Section 5.02 is amended by replacing the words "the President of the Central 
Bank" by the words "the Executive President of NAFIBO".
16.
Paragraph 1 (b) of Part A of Schedule 1 is amended by:
 
(a)
inserting the words "dollars or" before the word "Bolivianos"; and
 
(b)
replacing the reference to "official exchange rate" by a reference to 
"daily market determined rate quoted by the Central Bank".
17.
Paragraph 1. (d) of Part A of Schedule 1 is amended to read as follows:
 
"(d)  Interest Rate: The Investment Enterprise shall pay interest on the 
principal amount of the Investment Subloan withdrawn and outstanding in 
accordance with the Investment Credit Guidelines."
18.
Paragraph 3 (a) is amended to read as follows:
 
"(a)  Each request by NAFIBO for authorization to make withdrawals from 
the Credit Account of an Investment Subloan shall contain, in accordance with 
the 
Investment Credit Guidelines".
"(i)
basic data regarding the Investment Enterprise and the 
Investment Project; and
"(ii)
the terms and conditions of each Subloan.".
 
19.
Paragraph 4 of Part A of Schedule 1 is amended by inserting the words "or 
appropriate arrangements through the Financial Intermediary (in the case of Subloans 
to micro-enterprises), all as provided in the Investment Credit Guidelines," after the 
words "Investment Subloans shall be made on terms whereby NAFIBO shall obtain by 
written contract with the Investment Enterprise".
20.
Paragraph 4 (f) of Part A of Schedule 1 is amended by inserting the words "or 
the arrangements through the Financial Intermediary in the case of Subloans to 
micro-enterprises" at the end thereof.
21.
Paragraphs 1 and 3 (d) of Part B of Schedule 1 is deleted.
 
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and dating 
this letter in the spaces provided below.  This amendment letter shall be executed in 
two counterparts, each of which shall be an original.  Upon your confirmation, please 
Page  3
return one executed original to us.
The provisions of this amendment letter will become effective as of the date the 
provisions of the amendment letter of May 14, 1996 from the Association to the 
Borrower regarding the Credit Agreement (other than the provisions of paragraph 19 and 
26 thereof) have become effective.
Please note that by means of this letter NAFIBO also has assumed the obligations 
of Sections 2.07 (a) and (b) of the Project Agreement to exchange views with the 
Association with regard to the progress of the Project and promptly inform the 
Association of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the 
progress of the Project. 
For easy reference, kindly find attached an unofficial consolidated version of 
the Project Agreement that incorporates these and all prior amendments (Attachment 1).
Because of his interest in the matter, a copy of this amendment letter is being 
sent to the Minister of Finance of the Borrower and the President of the Central Bank.
Sincerely,
By /s/ Peter Ludwig
Acting Country Director
Country Department III
Latin America & the Caribbean
AGREED:
NACIONAL FINANCIERA BOLIVIANA S.A.M.
By /s/ Rene Sergio Pereira
Date:  September 9, 1996
