Page  1
July 31, 1997
H.E. Fernando Candia 
Minister of Finance 
Republic of Bolivia 
Palacio de las Comunicaciones 
Av. Mariscal Santa Cruz Esq. Oruro, Piso 19 
La Paz, Bolivia
Re:
Credit No. 2134-BO
(Private Enterprise Development Project)
Seventh Amendment to Development Credit Agreement
Dear Minister Candia:
Please refer to the Development Credit Agreement, dated August 20, 1990 between 
the Republic of Bolivia and the International Development Association for the above 
referenced Project, as amended, and to the letter SIPFE/SFE/NEG/2292/97, from the 
National Secretary of Public Investment and External Financing, requesting an 
amendment to that Development Credit Agreement, for purposes of enabling the 
Superintendency of SIRESE to be the agency implementing Parts D.2 and D.3 of the 
Project. 
We agree with such request and propose to amend the Development Credit Agreement 
as follows:
1.
In Section 2.09 (c), the word "Part D" is replaced by "Part D.1".
2.
In Section 2.09, a new paragraph (d) is inserted to read as follows: 
"(d) The General Superintendent of SIRESE (or such other person or 
persons as such General Superintendent shall appoint in writing) is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action 
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions in respect of Part D.2 and 
Part D.3 of the Project."
3.
Section 3.01 (i) is amended to read as follows:  
"(i)
shall carry out Part D.1 of the Project, through MOC, and Part D.2 
and Part D.3 of the Project, through the General Superintendency 
of SIRESE, all with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance 
with appropriate technical, financial, administrative and 
environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, 
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
Part D of the Project;".
If you agree with the foregoing amendments, please sign and date both copies of 
this letter and return one to the World Bank’s Resident Mission in La Paz. Upon 
receipt by the Association of the copy of this letter countersigned by you, the 
amendments will become effective as of the date of the countersignature. 
Sincerely, 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Isabel Guerrero 
Director 
Country Management Unit 
Bolivia, Paraguay and Peru
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
Page  2
By /s/ Fernando Candia Castillo
Authorized Representative
Date: 31 July 1997
