Page  1
March 22, 1994
His Excellency
Fernando Illanes de la Riva
Minister of Finance
Mr. Fernando Cossio Cossio
Secretary of Finance
Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
Cajon Postal - Ministerio de Finanzas
Calle Bolivar esq. Indaburo No. 688
La Paz, Bolivia
Mr. Fernando Candia
Banco Central
Casilla 3118
La Paz, Bolivia
Re: Bolivia - Credit No. 2134-RO
(Private Enterprise Development Project)
Third Amendment
Dear Sirs:
Please refer to the Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Bolivia 
(the Borrower) and the International Development Association (the Association) and the 
Project Agreement between the Association and Banco Central de Bolivia (the Central 
Bank) on the above-mentioned Project, both dated August 22, 1990, as amended on 
September 12, 1991 and January 11, 1994,
We are pleased to inform you that pursuant to your request in letter dated March 
10, 1994 and subject to the Association having received:
(a) evidence satisfactory to the Association that! (1) the Grant Agreement has 
been amended reflecting --mutatis mutandis-the provisions specified below; (11) theTAS 
Subsidiary Agreement referred to in the new Section 3.01 (c) specified below has been 
entered into; (iii) TAS has been invested with the rights of, and has assumed the 
obligations of, the Central Bank with respect of the Technical Assistance Grants 
entered into by the Central Bank before the date of this amendment letter; and (iv) 
has adopted the Technical Assistance Credit Guidelines;
(b) a legal opinion or opinions satisfactory to the Association of counsel 
satisfactory to the Association to the effect that: (i) this amendment letter has been 
duly executed by the Borrower and the Central Bank and is enforceable and legally 
binding on the Borrower and the Central Bank in accordance with its terms; (ii) the TAS 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been entered into and is legally binding upon the parties 
thereto in accordance with its terms: and (iii) the Grant Agreement has been amended 
and is legally binding upon the parties thereto in accordance with its terms; and
(c) a duplicate copy of this amendment letter duly countersigned by the Borrower 
and the Central Bank; the Association hereby agrees to amend the Development Credit 
Agreement and the Project Agreement as follows:
A.
Development Credit Agreement
1. Preamble:
(a) paragraph 0: W the words "Parts A and C of" are added in the first line 
before the words "the Project"; (ii) the words "part of" are added in the fourth line 
after the word "Bank" and before the words "the proceeds"; and (iii) the word "and" is 
deleted 'in the fifth line; and
(b)
a new paragraph (gg) is added to read as follows;
"(C) Part 6 of the Project will be carried out by the Technical 
Assistance Service (TAS) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of 
such assistance, the Borrower will make available to TAS part of the 
proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and".
2.
Section 1.02.
Page  2
(a)
paragraph (g): The words "the Central Bank" in the second and fourth 
lines are deleted and replaced by "TAS";
(b)
paragraph (i) is deleted and replaced by a new paragraph (i) to read as 
follows!
"(i) "Free-limit Technical Assistance Grant" means a Technical 
Assistance Grant as so defined, which qualifies as a free-limit 
Technical Assistance Grant pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 2 (b) 
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;"
(c)
paragraph (r): the words "the Central Bank" in the fourth line are 
deleted are replaced by "TAS" and "Part B" is deleted and replaced by "Part B.1 
":
(d)
paragraph (s): the words "the Central Bank" are deleted and replaced by 
"TAS.";
(e) paragraph (u)- the words "the Central Bank" are deleted in the second line 
and replaced by "TAS" and after the words "Section 2.12 of the Project Agreement and 
Section 6.01 (d) of this Agreement" the following words are to be modified pursuant to 
the provisions of Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement";
(f) paragraph (w): the word "Part S" is deleted and replaced by "Part B. 1 " and 
the words "adopted pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.01 (d) of this Agreement" 
are deleted and replaced by the words "satisfactory to the Association";
(g) the word "and" at the end of paragraph W is deleted and the colon at the end 
of paragraph (aa) is replaced by a semicolon; and
(h) two new paragraphs, designated "(bb)" and "(cc)" are added to read as 
follows:
"(bb) "TAS" means Technical Assistance Service, the service established 
as an autonomous entity with juridical personality pursuant to Supreme Decree 
No. 23608 of May 22, 1993; and
(cc) "TAS Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower, as the same may be amended from time to time, and 
such 
terms includes all schedules to the TAS Subsidiary Agreement."
3.
Section 2.09 is deleted and replaced by the following:
"Section 2.09. (a) The President of the Central Bank is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action 
required 
or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions in respect of Parts A 
and C  of the Project; and
(b) The Executive Director of TAS is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be 
taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article 
V of 
the General Conditions in respect of Part B of the Project.
4.
Secticn 3.01.
(a) Paragraph (a) is deleted and replaced by the following:
"Section 3.01, (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
and, 
to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement:
(i)
shall cause: (A) the Central Bank to perform in accordance with 
the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations 
of the 
Central Bank therein set forth: and (B) TAS to carry out 
Part B of 
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance 
with the provisions of the TAS Subsidiary Agreement 
and in respect 
of Part B.1 of the Project in accordance with the 
Technical 
Assistance Credit Guidelines; and
Page  3
(ii)
shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the 
provisions of funds, facilities, services and other resources, 
necessary or appropriate to enable the Central Bank and TAS 
to 
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be 
taken 
any action which would prevent or interfere with such 
performance."
(b)
Paragraph (c): (i) the words "Parts 8 and V are deleted and replaced by 
"Part C"; and (ii) the words "which shall include, inter ali, that the Central Bank 
shall allocate the funds for Part 8 of the Project for the operation of the Technical 
Assistance Fund" are deleted,
(c)
Paragraph (d) is redesignated (e) and a new paragraph (d) is added to 
read as follows:
"(d) The Borrower shall enter into a Subsidiary Agreement satisfactory 
to the Association, with TAS providing, inter alia, for.
(i)
the transfer of part of the proceeds of the Credit on a 
grant basis to TAS for purposes of carrying out Part 
B of 
the Project;
(ii)
TAS' obligation to carry out Part 8 of the Project in 
accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement, including, without limitation, (A) the 
obligation 
to allocate the funds of Part B.1 of the Project for 
the 
operation of the Technical Assistance Fund; (B) to 
maintain 
a technical assistance fund under terms and 
conditions 
satisfactory to the Association as a successor 
to the fund 
thereintofore being administered by the 
Central Bank and for 
which the Central Bank received 
the technical assistance 
provided under Part 
C of the Project; and (C) the obligation 
to provide Technical Assistance Grants in accordance with 
the procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement:
(iii) TAS' obligation to comply with all the provisions of this 
Agreement applicable to TAS;
(iv)
TAS' obligation. (A) to enter into Technical Assistance 
Contracts or other written instruments satisfactory 
to the 
Association with the TA Beneficiaries in 
accordance with the 
terms and conditions st forth or 
referred to in Schedule 5 
to 
this Agreement; and (B) to duty perform all its 
obligations under the Technical Assistance Contracts:
(v)
TAS' obligation: (A) to furnish to the Association, not 
later then September 1 each year, for its approval 
the 
technical assistance program proposed to be financed 
by 
Technical Assistance Grants the following year; and 
(S) to 
finance such program, modified as needed, to 
take into 
account the comments, if any, made by the 
Association thereon;
(vi)
TAS' obligation to review with the Association, not later 
than October 31 each year and April 30, 1993, the 
estimated 
demand for Technical Assistance Grants, with a 
view to 
ascertaining with the Borrower and the Central 
Bank the need 
of reallocation between the proceeds of the 
Credit allocated 
to finance investment Subloans and Technical 
Assistance Grants; 
and
(vii) TAS obligation to comply --mutatis mutandis-- with the 
obligations referred to in Sections 2.07 and 2.08 (b) 
of the 
Project Agreement as they are applicable to the 
Technical 
Assistance Contracts and Technical Assistance 
Grants.
(d)
Redesignated paragraph (e):
Page  4
(i)
the words "Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the Grant 
Agreement," are deleted in the second line and replaced by 
the words "Subsidiary Loan Agreement, Grant Agreement 
and 
TAS Subsidiary Agreement"; and 
(ii)
the words "Subsidiary Loan Agreement or the Grant Agreement" 
are deleted in the sixth and seventh lines and replaced by 
the words "Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the Grant 
Agreement or 
the TAS Subsidiary Agreement,"
(e)
A new paragraph (f) is added to read as follows:
"(f)  Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) above, the 
Borrower shall cause TAS:
(i)
to appoint, and thereafter maintain, members of its Board of 
Directors, and managers, and key personnel with 
qualifications and experience acceptable to the 
Association; and
(ii)
to seek the Association's aploroval before making any new 
appointments of Board of Directors' members, managers 
or key 
personnel. 
5.
Sectipn 3.02. The words "Schedule 3 to the Project Agreement are deleted and 
replaced by "Schedule 6 to this Agreement".
6.
Section 3.03: The last two lines are deleted and replaced by the following: 
"carried out by: (a) the Central Bank in respect of Parts A and C of the 
Project; and (b) 
TAS in respect of Part B of the Project."
7.
Section 4.01:
(a)
Paragraphs "W" and "(b)" are redesignated paragraphs "(c)"; and "(d)"; 
and
(b)
two new paragraphs designated "W" and "(b)" are added to read as follows:
"(a) The Borrower shall cause TAS to maintain records and accounts 
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations and financial condition of TAS, including separate records and 
accounts to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures in respect 
of 
Part B of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause TAS to:
(i)
have the records and accounts, and financial statements of 
TAS referred to in (a) above, for each fiscal year 
audited, 
in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to 
the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available. but in any 
case not later then four months after the end of each 
such 
year: (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements 
mentioned in W above for such year as so 
audited: and (8) 
the report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and 
in such detail as 
the Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records, accounts, financial statements and the audit 
thereof as the Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
8.
Section 5.01:
(a)
Paragraph (c): the words "or the Technical Assistance Credit Guidelines" 
in the second iine are deleted:
Page  5
(b)
Paragraph (f): the words "the Central Bank" are deleted and replaced by 
"TAS"; and
(c)
new paragraphs "(g), (h), (i) and (1)" are added to read as follows:
"(g) TAS shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
TAS Subsidiary Agreement.
(h) As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have 
arisen 
which shall make it improbable that TAS will be able to perform 
its 
obligations under the TAS Subsidiary Agreement.
(i) Supreme Decrea No. 23508 of May 22, 1993 or the Technical Assistance 
Credit Guidelines shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of TAS to 
perform 
any of its obligations under the TAS Subsidiary Agreement.
(j) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have 
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of TAS or for 
the 
suspension of its operations."
9.
Section 5.02 is deleted and replaced by the following:
"Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, 
the following additional events are specified.
(a) the events specified in paragraph (a) or (e) or (f) or (g) of 
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to 
the Borrower; and
(b)
the events specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) or 0) or (j) of 
Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall cccur."
10.
Schedule 1:
(a)
The table in paragraph 1 is deleted and replaced by the table set forth 
in Attachment I to this Amendment Letter.
(b)
Paragraph 2 (c) (i): the words "Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement" are 
deleted and replaced by "Schedule 5 to the Development Credit Agreement;
(c)
Paragraph 2 (c) (ii): the words "pursuant to the provisions of Section 
6.01 (e) of this Agreement and 2.13 of the Project Agreement" are deleted; and
(d)
Paragraph 3: The words in "Section 2.09 (b) (B) of the Project Agreement" 
are deleted and replaced by "Section 2.08 (b) of the Project Agreement and Section 
3.01 (d) NO of this Agreement".
11.
Schedule 2. Part B:
(a)
The heading of Part 8 is d9lated and replaced by "Part B: Technical 
Assistance Grants and TAS' Institutional Strengthening;
(b)
The existing paragraph is redesignated as paragraph 1; and
(c)
a new paragraph 2 is added to read as follows:
"2. Strengthening the capacity of TAS; (a) to operate the technical assistance
fund through the provision of consultants' services and the acquisition and 
utilization of computers; and (b) to provide technical assistance 
directly to 
small and medium enterprises, and agencies designed to assist small and 
medium enterprises."
12.
A new Schedule 5 is added to read as per the Attachment 11 to this Amendment 
Letter.
13.
A new Schedule 6 is added to read as per Attachment III to this Amendment 
Letter.
B. Project 
Agreement
Page  6
1.
Preamble: Paragraph (B): The words "for the financing of Parts A and C of the 
Project" are added in the forth line between the words "Agreement" and "will".
2.
Section 2.01:
(a)
the words "Parts A and C of" are added in the heading of Article 11, 
after the words "Execution of", and in the fourth line before the word "the Project";
(b) 
the words "and the Technical Assistance Credit Guidelines" are deleted in 
the is seventh and eighth lines and the word "and" is added afterthe word "Policy, , 
and beforethe word "the".
3.
Section 2.02:
(a)
paragraph (a)- the words "and Technical Assistance Grants", "and Schedule 
2", respectively" are deleted in the third, fourth, and fifth lines, respectively;
(b)
paragraph (b): the words "and Technical Assistance Project" and "the 
Grant Agreement" are deleted and the word "and" is added after "Agreement," in the 
fifth line.
4.
Section 2.03. The words "Schedule 3 to this Agreement." are deleted and replaced 
by "Schedule 6 to the Development Credit Agreement."
5.
Section 2.04. The words "Parts A and C of" are added in the fifth line before 
the words
"the Project".
6.
Section 2.07 is deleted and Sections "2.08, 2.09, 2.10, 2,11, 2.12, 2.13" are 
redesignated 2.07, 2.08, 2.09, 2.10, 2.11 and 2.12.
7.
Redesignated Section 2.07:
(a)
paragraph (a),. the words "Parts A and C of" are added before the word 
"the Project" in the third line;
(b)
paragraph (a): the words "and the performance of its obligations and 
those of the TA Beneficiaries under the Technical Assistance Contracts" are deleted in 
the seventh and eighth lines; and
(c)
paragraph (b): the words "and the Technical Assistance Contracts" are 
deleted.
8.
Redesignated Section 2.O8.
(a)
paragraph (b): is deleted and replaced by:
"(b) without limitation to the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement, the Central Bank shall review with the Association, not later than: 
(i) October 31, 1991 or when an aggregate amount of $7,500,000 equivalent have 
been disbursed and/or committed for Investment Subloans, whichever shall be 
earlier; (ii) October 31, 1991 and October 31 of each year thereafter; 
and 
(iii) April 30, 1993; (A) the progress made in the implementation of the 
Action Plan; and (iv) the estimated demand for Investment Subloans with a 
view 
to ascertaining with the Borrower and TAS the need of reallocation between the 
proceeds of the Credit allocated to finance Investment Subloans and Technical 
Assistance Grants."
9.
Redesignated Section 2.09.  The words "approving or" are deleted in the sixth 
line,
10.
Redesignated Section 2.10 is deleted.
11.
Redesignated Section 2.11 is deleted and replaced by the following:
"The Central Bank shall assist in the funding of the Technical 
Assistance Fund with an amount representing at least 3 points of the interest 
spread charged by the Central Bank for the Central Bank Loans."
12.
Redesignated Section 2.12 is deleted.
13.
Section 3.01 (a), The words "Parts A and C of" are added in the fourth line 
Page  7
before the word "Project".
14.
Schedule 1 Part A:
(a)
Subparagraph 1 (a) (ii): the amount "120,000" is deleted and replaced by 
"300,000".
(b)
Paragraphs 2 and 3 are deleted and replaced by the following:
"2. No expenditures for goods or services required for an Investment 
Project shall be 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit 
unless such expenditures shall have been made not earlier than ninety 
days 
prior to the date on which the Association shall have received the 
request and 
information required under paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
3. (a) Each request by the Central Bank for authorization to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account in respect of an Investment Subloan shall contain: (i) 
a summary description of the Investment Enterprise and the Investment Project, 
including a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit; and (ii) the terms and conditions of the Investment 
Subloan, including the schedule of amortization therefor.
(b)
Application and requests made pursuant to the provisions of 
subparagraph (a) of this paragraph shall be presented to the Association 
on or  before June 30, 1994."
(c)
Paragraph 4 (b): the words "Schedule 3 to this Agreement" are 
deleted and replaced by "Schedule 6 to the Development Credit Agreement,
15.
Schedules 2 and 3 are deleted.
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing by signing and dating the form of 
confirmation below and returning the same to the undersigned.
Very truly yours,
By /s/ 
Country Director Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
CONFIRMED:
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
BANCO CENTRAL DE BOLIVIA
By /s/
By /s/
Authorized Representative
Authorized Representative
Date:
March 24, 1994
Date:   March 24, 1994
ATTACHMENT I
Table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Cateoory
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Investment
   7,526,500
100% of the amount
Subloans
of the Investment
Subloan
(2)
Technical
   4,843,500
100% of the amount
Assistance
of the Technical
Grants
Assistance Grant
Page  8
(3)
Consultants'
100%
Services for
Part 8.2
of the Project
      80,000
(4)
Goods for:
(a) for Part S.2 of
27,790)
100% of foreign
the Project
expenditures and
70% of local
(b) for Part C of
      22,210)
expenditures
the Project
(5)
Refunding of
   0
Amount due pursuant
Project
to Section 2.02 (c)
Preparation
of this Agreement
Advance
TOTAL
  12,500,000
ATTACHMENT II
SCHEDULE 5
Terms and Conditions of Technical Assistance Grants
1
(a)
Amount: each Technical Assistance Grant shall not exceed 80% of the
cost of the Technical Assistance Project,
(b)
Financial Terms and Conditions: each Technical Assistance Grant shall be 
provided as a grant to the TA Beneficiary.
2.
No expenditures forgoods or services required for a Technical Assistance Project 
shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit unless:
(a)
The Technical Assistance Grant for such Technical Assistance Project 
shall have been approved by the Association.
(b)
The Technical Assistance Grant for such Technical Assistance Project 
shall have been a free-limit Grant for which the Association has authorized 
withdrawals from the Credit Account. For the purposes of the Development Credit 
Agreement, a free-limit Technical Assistance Grant shall be a Technical Assistance 
Grant for a Technical Assistance Project in an amount to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit which shall not exceed the sum of $50,000 equivalent, when 
added to any other outstanding amounts financed or proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the foregoing amounts being subject to change from time to 
time as determined by the Association.
3.
(a)
When presenting a Technical Assistance Grant (other than a free-limit 
Technical Assistance Grant) to the Association for approval, TAS shall furnish to the 
Association an application, In form satisfactory to the Association, together with; 
(i) a description of the TA Beneficiary and an appraisal of the Technical Assistance 
Project, including a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit; and (ii) such other information as the Association shall 
reasonably request.
(b)
Each request by TAS for authorization to make withdrawals from the Credit 
Account in respect of a free-limit Technical Assistance Grant shall contain a summary 
description of the TA Beneficiary and the Technical Assistance Project, including a 
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit.
(c)
Applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions of 
subparagraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph shall be presented to the Association on 
or before June 30, 1994,
4.
Technical Assistance Grants shall be made on terms whereby TAS shall obtain, by 
the Technical Assistance Contract, rights adequate to protect the interests of the 
Association and TAS, including, in the case of any Technical Assistance Grant, the 
right to:
(a)
require the TA Beneficiary to carry out and operate the Technical 
Page  9
Assistance Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound 
technical, financial and managerial standards and to maintain adequate records;
(b)
require that: (i) the goods and services to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 
6 to the Development Credit Agreement; and (ii) such goods and services shall be used 
exclusively in the carrying out of the Technical Assistance Project:
(c)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representative of the Association if 
the Association shall so request, such goods, and plants included in the Technical 
Assistance Proiect, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents:
(d)
require that: (i) the TA Beneficiary shall take out and maintain with 
responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall 
be consistent with sound business practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon the 
foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazard incidents to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to the 
place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a 
currency freely usable by the TA Beneficiary to replace or repair such goods;
(e)
obtain all such information as the Association or TAS shall reasonably 
request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial 
condition of the TA Beneficiary and to the benefits to be derived from the Technical 
Assistance Project; and
(f)
suspend or terminate the right of the TA Beneficiary to the use of the 
proceeds of the Credit upon failure by such TA Beneficiary to perform its obligations 
under its contract with TAS.
Attachment III
SCHEDULE 6
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section 1.
Procurement of Goods and Consultants' Services undor Parts A and B of the 
Project
1.
Contracts for goods to be financed out of the proceeds of Investment Subloans 
and Technical Assistance Grants shall be procured at a reasonable price, account being 
taken also of other relevant factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and 
reliability of the goods and availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts 
therefor, and in the case of works, of their quality and the competence of the parties 
rendering them, provided, however, that: (i) contracts for goods, works and services 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Investment Subloans and Technical Assistance 
Grants estimated to cost more than the equivalent of $50,000 per contract shall be 
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list,of at 
least three (3) suppliers from at least three different countries eligible under the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRO Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
May 1985 (the Guidelines), in accordance with procedures acceptable to the 
Association; and (ii) in respect of used equipment: (A) the condition, value and 
useful life of used equipment procured through the proceeds of the investment 
Sub-loans or Technical Assistance Grants shail be certified by independent and 
qualified experts acceptable to the Association: (B) an assessment shall be furnished 
to the Association demonstrating that the price differential between the new and used 
equipment represents a significant benefit in the profitability of the Investment 
Project or Technical Assistance Project; and (C) proceeds of the Investment Subloans 
and Technical Assistance Grants allocated for the procurement of used equipment shall 
not exceed in the aggregate the equivalent of $1,000,000 respectively.
2.
Contracts for the provision of technical assistance services to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Investment Subloans or Technical Assistance Grants and for 
Consultants' Services to be employed for implementation of Part B of the Project shall 
provide for the employment of consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms 
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such 
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures 
satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of 
consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" 
published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section II. Procurement of Goods under Part C of the Proiept
Microcomputers under Part C of the Project shall be procured under contracts 
Page  10
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at 
least three suppliers from at least three different countries eligible under the 
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
