Doument of
The World Bank
FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
R*ps No. P-3940-PAX
REPORT AND RECOMMENDAON
OF THE
PRiSIDE2NT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANRK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO USS1O0 MILLION
TO THE
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A
FOURTH WAPDA POWER PROJECT
February 13, 1985
This docout b  a resuicted disth. md my be nod by redplenls only in the perfmumamce of
tir ouejal du&b lts cme_mt my na otbeawie be disdosed witht Wwrld Bank autborlzbo.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Pakistan Rupee (Rs)
Rs 1          = Paisa 100
US$1          = as 14.5
RS 1          = US$ 0.0690
FISCAL YEARS
Government of Pakistan : July I-June 30
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ADB        Asian Developsent Bank
CIDA       Canadian International Development Agency
GNP        Gross National Product
GDP        Gross Domestic Product
GOP        Government of Pakistan
GCh        gigawatt hour
IERK       Internal Economic Rate of Return
KESC       Karachi Electric Supply Corporation, L d.
km         kilometer
kV         kilovolt
kWh        kilowatt hour
MW         megawatt
NIC        National Insurance Corporation
TOE        Tons of Oil Equivalent
USAID      United States Agency for International
Development
WAPDA      Water and Power Development Authority



FOR OFFICJL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
FOURTH WAPDA POWER PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                Water and Po-wer Development Authority (WAPDA).
Guarantor:               Islamic Republic of Pakistan.
Amount:                  US$100.0 million equivalent.
Terms:                   Repayable in 20 years, including five years of grace
at the standard variable interest rate.
Project Description:    The proposed project, which would assist WAPDA in the
further reinforcement and expansion of the secon-
dary power transmission network, thereby reducing
transmission losses, consists of (a) the erection
of about 3,815 km of transmission line, (b) the
construction of 139 new substations, (c) the
extension and reinforcement of another 86 existing
substations, and (d) studies, technical assistance
-       and training to (i) prepare an investment program
'or reducing losses in the transmission network,
(ii) prP-pare a program of action to improve power
plant efficiency, (iii) develop a least cost
national power plan, and (iv) modernize WAPDA's
internal audit system and strengthen its acccunt-
ing capabilities. The proposed project consists
of normal electric utility work entailing no
unusual risks and there should be no difficulty in
its execution. Under the Third WAPDA project,
WAPDA has built up and demonstrated the capability
to design and execute the planned program. The
*                                likelihood of serious delays or substantial cost
overruns is therefore considered to be mi.nimal.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official dutiet Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Costs
Local      Foreign       Tota1
US$ million
Transmission Lines                                  95.6        33.6        129.2
Substations                                       203.6        147.0        350.6
Studies, Technical Assistance and Training            -          2.4          2.4
Base Cost                                     299.2        183.0        482.2
Physical Contingencies                              15.0         9.4         24.4
Price Contingencies                                 49.4        36.0         85.4
Total Project Cost                            363.6        228.4        592.0
Interest During Construction                        14.4         7.6         22.0
Total Financing Required                      378.0        236.0        614.0
Duties and Taxes                                   141.4          -         141.4
Net Financing Required                        236.6        236.0        472.6
Financing Plan
Local      Foreign       Total
-- - = US$ million
IBRD                                                 -         100.0        100.0
Bilateral Aid and Suppliers Credits                             46.3         46.3
WAPDA                                             245.6           -         245.6
GOP                                               132.4         89.7        222.1
Total                                         378.0        236.0        614.0
Estimated Commitments and Disbursements:
--- US$ million-
IBRD      FY86  FY87  FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91
Annual                                           2    20    43    25       8     2
Cumulative                                       2    22    6,    90    98   100
Rate of Return: 14X
Appraisal Report: No. 5047-PAK dated January 31, 1985.
Map: IBRD 18148



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENTM TO  HE EXECUTIVE DIRECMRS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE WATER AND POWER DEVELOPNENT AUTHORITY
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A FOURTH WAPDA POWER PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Loan to
the Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA) with the guarantee of the
X        Islamic Republic of Pakistan for the equivalent of US$100 million to help
finance a Fourth WAPDA Power Project. The loan would have a term of 20 years,
including five years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      The most recent economic report "Pakistan:  Recent Economic
Developments" (No. 4906-PAK, dated February 24, 1984) was distributed to
the Executive Directors on March 13, 1984.
3.      Economic developments during FY83 were generally favorable.  GDP
grew by 5.8Z, with value added in agriculture rising by 4.8Z and in
industry by 8.3Z. Continued stagnation in (fixed) investment, which
declined slightly from 13.6% of GNP in FY82 to 13.4% of GNP in FY83, was
among the few unfavorable events. National savings, on the other hand,
rose sharply from 10.9% to an estimated 14.1% of CNP. The declining trend
in the rate of inflation continued; as measured by the consumer price
index, the rate of inflation slowed from 11.5% in FY82 to 5.2% in FY83.
4.      There was a dramatic turnaround in the balance of payments in
FY83. The current account deficit, at US$554 million (1.8% of GNP), was
less than half the size of deficits in recent years. This outcome
reflected three main factors: a resumption in the growth of exports fol-
lowing a substantial decline in FY82; a slight decline in the value of
imports; and buoyant remittances from migrant workers. Exports grew by
13%, nearly regaining their FY81 level. The most striking feature of the
export performance was the growth of non-traditional exports, which
increased by over a third.  The drop in imports reflected, inter alia,
higher domestic production of oil and import-substitution in some key
commodities. The incipient recovery in world trade and delinking of the
exchange rate from the U.S. dollar in January 1982, with its subsequent
depreciation, contributed significantly to the improved balance of pay-
1/ Part I is substantially the same as Part I of the President's Report
P3892-PAK (Baluchistan Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research
Project), dated November 20, 1984



-2-
=ants picture. Given the favorable outcome on the current account, normal
levels of net inflows of long-term capital, and net IMF purchases,
Pakistan's reserves more than doubled. At the end of FY83, gross official
reserves stood at US$1,911 million, the equivalent of 3.5 months' of
imports of goods and non-factor services.
5.      Notable progress was made in many areas during the Fifth Five-Year
Plan Period (FY79-:3). Real growth rates in national output (6.3%),
agriculture (4.4Z), industry (9.1Z) and exports (9.2x), though below Plan
targets, were all substantially above the rates achieved during 1970-78
and very respectable compared to the performance of other LDCs over the
same period. This growth - coupled with increased inflows of migrant
remittances - benefited large segments of the urban and rural population.
The output of all major crops reached record levels and self-sufficiency
in wheat and sugar was achieved. Encouraged by improved government
policies, private investment in manufacturing expanded by 8% p.a. in real
terms; this expansion was more than offset by the declining public invest-
ment in the sector, however. The balance of payments performance was
quite satisfactory: the current account deficit declined significantly
relative to GDP. Government fiscal and credit policies reduced budget
deficits and monetary expansion and inflationary pressures gradually
subsided. This progress was made despite a number of unforeseen events:
(a) world recession; (b) a 30Z decline in the external terms of trade
after 1979; (c) the Afghan crisis, which necessitated increased outlays
for defense and refugee assistance; and (d) a continued decline in real
net aid flows.
6.      In recent years the Government has taken a number of initiatives
to improve agricultural, industrial and fiscal and credit policies. In
agriculture, particular attention has been given to improving farmer
incentives and input supplies. Support prices for all major crops have
been raised so that they are now closer to world prices. At the same
time, steps have been taken to reduce the fertilizer subsidy. An
Agricultural Prices Commission has been set up to make recommendations on
appropriate changes in crop support and input prices on a consistent and
timely basis.
7.      The Government has formulated and begun to implement a new
agricultural policy based on the main recommendations of a UNDP study on
irrigated agriculture which emphasizes the need to improve the efficiency
of the water delivery system through the rehabilitation of canals and
better scheduling of water deliveries to the farmer, and to expand the
role of the private sector. Other programs--in pesticides, seeds,
agricultural credit, extension, research and farm power--have also been
strengchened. These initiatives are still at an early stage and a
breakthrough from the problems of low productivity at the farm level is
yet to take place.



-3-
8.      Major changes have also been made during the past five years in
government policies in the industrial sector. The policies pursued in the
early and mid-1970s of extensive nationalizations, tight restrictions on
the private sector, and rapid expansion of the public sector LO spearhead
industrial investment and growth have been gradually reversed.  Most
agricultural processing and some industrial units have been denationalized;
constitutional safeguards have been provided to private industry against
further arbitrary government acquisitions; and the areas open to the
*        private sector have been widened.  A wide range of fiscal incentives have
been granted to encourage private investment and exports. These have been
supplemented by a liberalization of imports which has improved the
availability of inputs. The investment sanctioning procedure has been
streamlined. These measures hav. led to an improvement in private sector
confidence and stimulated private investment, mainly in small and medium-
scale projects.
9.      At the same time, the Government has embarked on the difficult and
inevitably long process of reforming the public industrial sector, which
has been plagued by low efficiency and profits. Major studies have been
completed of the management and organization of the public sector, and the
performance of individual enterprises.  In accordance with the recommenda-
tions of these studies, the Board of Industrial Management (BIM) hac been
abolished, the number of sector holding corporations has been reduced, and
boards of directors have been established which have helped to increase
autonomy at the enterprise level. Some public sector units which have
little prospect of improved financial performance have been closed down.
These measures have helped to incredse production and capacity utilization
substantially in the public sector.
10.     Fiscal performance improved significantly over the Fifth Plan
period. The overall budget deficit and government borrowing from the
bar.-ing system, which stood at 8.8% and 4.3% of GDP in the first year of
the Plan, fell to 6.4% and 1.7%, respectively, by the final year. Reduced
levels of government borrowing from banks, together with overall credit
restraint, led to lower rates of growth of the money supply and lessened
inflationary pressures; prices rose by 5% in the final year of the Plan as
compared with 8% in the first year.  The improvement in fiscal performance
was, however, largely the result of expenditure restraint rather than
better revenue performance. Real expansion in current expenditures on
economic and social services barely kept pace with population growth and
development expenditures declined relatively to GDP. At the same time,
government revenues remained constant at 16% of GDP and public savings,
having risen in the first half of the Plan period from 1% to 3.8% of GNP,
amounted to only 1.6% in the last year of the Plan. Greater resource
mobilization by the public sector will be critical for the implementation
of the Sixth Plan.
11.     The developments in the Pakistan economy since 1977 represent
welcome steps towards the solution of a set of problems which are essen-



-4-
tially structural and long term in nature. Notwithstanding these
improvements, further wide-ranging measures to address the main issues
are necessary if Pakistan is to sustain its recently improved economic
performance over the Sixth Five-Year Plan period (FY84-88). These issues
include the farm-level factors affecting low productivity in agriculture;
the structure and competitiveness of the industrial sector; the need to
restrain the growth of energy demand and improve the exploitation of
domestic energy resources; the factors lying behind continued rapid growth
in population; and the problems of resource mobilization.
12.     Agriculture remains the economy's mainstay, accounting directly
for roughly a third of GDP, employing about 55Z of the labor force and,
directly or indirectly, providing nearly two thirds of total exports.
Except in the important case of wheat, agricultural growth since the
mid-1970s has been the product of acreage expansion with little improve-
ment in yields. Because of the high cost of extending the irrigation
system, a switch to more intensive agriculture is essential. The achieve-
ment of higher productivity will require improved agricultural services
and increased efficiency of the irrigation system as well as continued
attention to producer incentives. Toward the latter part of the Fifth
Plan, some progress was made in reorienting expenditures towards projects
designed to rehabilitate and improve the operation and maintenance of the
irrigation system, increase the efficiency of water use, improve quality
of research and e'tension, and increase the supply of complementary
agricultural inputs. These efforts will need to be accelerated during the
Sixth Plan period. To encouraze greater agricultural yields, the
Government must also continue to rationalize prices of agricultural out-
puts and inputs. In recent years, pricing decisions have been taken in a
more systematic and timely fashion based on recommendations by the newly
formed Agricultural Prices Commission; procurement prices have been
brought more nearly in line with international prices and subsidies for
fertilizers and pesticides substantially reduced. These efforts, too,
will need to be continued during the Sixth Plan period.
13.     Manufacturing contributes about 15Z of CDP and during much of the
1950s and 1960s provided a major stimulus to growth. After a period of
stagnation during the period 1970-77, manufacturing growth has again
accelerated. To provide a solid economic basis for continued rapid
growth, incentives for greater private and public manufacturing enterprise
efficiency will have to be implemented. Despite some success in reviving
the private sector and improving the performance of public enterprises,
much remains to be done to bring about a major restructuring of industry
and place it on a competitive basis. The efficient long-term development
of the industrial sector will require both a relaxation of government
controls and rationalization of industrial incentives. To encourage
industrial growth more in line with Pakistan's comparative advantage, the
process of import liberalization initiated over the past few years must be
continued. In addition, the differential rates of protection given to
various domestic products need to be substantially narrowed. To provide
further encouragement for private investment as well as to attract risk
capital, the number of administrative regulations must be reduced. In



-5-
addition, the scope of price controls should be substantially narrowed,
especially the use of cost-plus pricing which discourages improvements in
efficiency and energy conservation. Further strong measures to increase
efficiency and self-financing capacity in the public sector are also
essential. The implementation of the Public Enterprises Signaling System
in FY84--which has set performance objectives for individual enterprises
and will provide bonus incentives for managers--should contribute toward
the achievement of these objectives.
14.     Energy shortages have become a significant constraint to rapid
economic growth in Pakistan. Power and gas shortages are common and the
country imports 90% of its petroleum needs accounting for over 26Z of
total imports. Energy investments to improve the energy situation total
over 33Z of public investment in the Sixth Five Year Plan. The
Government's efforts to deal with the energy situation by adjusting domes-
tic oil prices, and by encouraging the substitution of other energy forms
and the exploration and development of domestic oil resources, have met
with some success. Growth of petroleum consumption has been restrained by
the development of hydroelectricity and natural gas resources as well as
by petroleum price adjustments. At the same time, activity in the oil
sector has been stepped up, in some instances through joint ventures with
foreign private companies. Nevertheless, due to a variety of technical,
geological and other reasons, progress on exploration of new fields as
well as the development of existing fields has been slow and Pakistan's
considerable potential in the oil and gas sector has yet to be realized.
The Government has begun to implement a number of reforms relating to such
matters as energy planning, pricing and organization in order to
accelerate progress.
15.   While it is clearly vital to sustain rapid economic growth, it is
also necessary to contain the rapid growth in population, currently run-
ning at about 2.8% p.a. Family planning programs have so far had little
effect and there have been few changes in the socio-economic environment
of a type that usually accompany declines in fertility. Rapid population
growth places severe burdens on government resources simply to maintain
education and health programs at their current inadequate standards.
However, without higher literacy rates, improved health facilities and a
reduction in child mortality, it is doubtful that population growth rates
can be much reduced. The Government has recently shcin more awareness of
this problem.
16.     Policies that face the longer-term issues in both the productive
and the social sectors will take time to have an appreciable effect and
will have to be implemented in the context of continued domestic and
external resource constraints. National savings averaged only 12% of GNP
over the Fifth Plan Period. To improve the budget and the balance of
payments, a fundamental improvement is required in the overall savings
levels in the economy, particularly in public savings. Given the size of
the public sector's domestic resource requirements, a comprehensive
strategy that utilizes all available instruments, including taxation
policy, greater reliance on user charges, curtailment of open and implicit



-6-
subsidies and improved self-financing of investment by public enterprises,
will be needed.
17.     The Sixth Five-Year Plan, initiated on July 1, 1983, represents a
pragmatic overall strategy for Pakistan's continued rapid deveLopment.
The Plan puts heavy stress upon improvements in economic policies as weLl
as on a public expenditure program. Recognizing the importance of a
dynamic private sector for rapid economic growth and the limitations on
public sector resources, it calls for reduced reguLations on the private
sector, increased emphasis on market incentives for greater production and
efficiency and for increased participation in sectors where the Government
has previously played a large role. The size and composition of the
public sector development program is appropriate. While public develop-
ment expenditures would expand only as rapidly as gross domestic product,
this is a realistic target given projected available resources and the
demands for improved public services. To achieve such an expansion - a
reversal of the declining trend experienced under the Fifth Plan - and to
finance an increasing share from domestic resources will require a major
mobilization effort. The largest increases in sectoral allocations will
go to energy, agriculture and irrigation, and the social sectors. The
shift in the composition of the public sector development program is
justified because of the threat to future growth posed by energy
shortages, the need to increase agricultural yields by improvements in
agricultural and irrigation/drainage services, and the past neglect of the
social sectors.
18.     The recent policy initiatives, which are to be continued during
the Sixth Plan, have improved Pakistan's creditworthiness for commercial
borrowing and for a bLend of Bank and IDA borrowing. At the end of calen-
dar 1982, Pakistan's external public debt (exclding the undisbursed
pipeline) stood at US$9.2 billion, of which US$4.8 billion was owed to
bilateral members of the Pakistan Consortium, US$1.3 billion to OPEC and
US$1.8 bilLion to multilateral agencies and the balance to other bilateral
and private lenders. In 1982, the Bank Group's share in Pakistan's exter-
nal public indebtedness was 15.2X and in external debt service was 12.1%.
According to Bank forecasts, provided recent policy improvements are
sustained, Pakistan's debt service ratio (debt service divided by exports
of goods and services), which was about 13.7% (including IMF charges) in
FY82, is likely to remain below 15X during the 1980s, even with somewhat
higher levels of commercial borrowing.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
19.     The cumulative total of Bank/IDA commitments to Pakistan
(exclusive of Loans and Credits or portions thereof which were disbursed
in the former East Pakistan) now amounts to approximately US$3.2 billion.
During its long association with Pakistan, the Bank Group has been



-7-
involved in most sectors of the economy. This has included its involve-
ment with other donors, over a 20-year period, in the major program of
works to develop the water resources of the Indus Basin. Approximately
30% of total Bank/IDA commitments to Pakistan have been for agriculture
and irrigation; 28% for industry incLuding import program credits; 18% for
transport, telecommunications and public utility services; 14% for energy
including power, gas pipelines and petroleum; 5% for social programs in
education, population and urban development; and 5% for structural adjust-
ment lending and technical assistance.
20.     In the current period, the Bank's assistance strategy is to sup-
port the Government of Pakistan's efforts to formulate and implement
policy reforms in three sectors--energy, industry, agriculture--which
shape the structural adjustment process in the economy. At the same time
and in order to ensure that the gains from adjustment are sustained in the
long term and shared more broadly, the strategy also includes investments
in physical infrastructure and the social sectors (education, population
etc.) which have been neglected in Pakistan's development efforts. To
succeed, this strategy requires a flexible deployment of the full range of
traditional instruments of Bank support - sector work and active policy
dialogue, policy and project based lending, technical assistance and aid
co-ordination. The Bank Group's lending program comprises two components.
The larger project-based component supports specific high priority invest-
ments in productive sectors and physical and social infrastructure. The
smaller but strategic component focusses on policy reforms in the key
sectors of agriculture, industry and energy, relying heavily on high
quality economic and sector work. The strategy includes a series of
technical assistance credits to finance studies and formulate action
programs for policy reform. The experience with the first of these has
been extremely positive. Through the annual Country Economic Memorandum,
we aim to foster a greater understanding among Consortium members of the
Government's structural adjustment program and aid requirements, which
coupled with increased co-financing should enhance the policy relevance
and effectiveness of other official aid and help attract additional
resources to Pakistan from non-concessional sources.
21.     Historically, the Bank Group has placed special emphasis on lend-
ing for agriculture which is the mainstay of the Pakistan economy. The
Bank and the Government are in agreement on the main elements of a
strategy which underpins lending in the sector. In recent years, the
objective has been to increase agricultural productivity through improve-
ments in the efficiency of the irrigation system and supporting agricul-
tural services. Among the issues being addressed are: the balance
between short-gestation projects and longer term expenditures,
rationalization of input and output prices, marketing, improvements in
operation and maintenance, cost recovery, and a wider role for the private
sector. Projects in the sector have ranged from irrigation/drainage to
agricultural inputs, research and extension and have included institution



-8~-
building components. Overall, progress in agriculture has been
satisfactory.
22.     In industry, the strategy has two complementary aspects: to
strengthen and broaden the process of structural adjustment in Pakistan's
industrial sector and to support the Government's efforts to revitalize
the private sector through the provision of industrial finance. The
industrial reform program is designed to improve the competitiveness of
the sector in order to promote export expansion and import substitution.
Issues being addressed include trade and industrial incentives;
deregulation; efficiency of public enterprises; pricing decontrol; and
improvements in the credit delivery system. Projects have included lines
of credits to DFCs and other financial intermediaries which has been
mainly for the private sector, totaling US$488.5 million. Direct lending
for industry has also included assistanre to three large fertilizer plants
and a refinery engineering loan. As of September 30, 1984, IFC has made
investments in 15 Pakistan enterprises totaling US$174.21 million of which
US$163.24 million was by way of loans and US$10.97 million by equity
participation (these are shown in Annex II). While individual operations
have generally achieved their objectives, the agenda for overall reform in
industry remains formidable.
23.     Following progress on a number of major sector issues as a result
of the Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) process in 1981/82, our lending
program in energy is expanding rapidly. The overall objective is to
expand domestic supply from all energy subsectors while simultaneously
increasing the efficiency of energy use through appropriate pricing,
conservation and other demand management measures. No less central have
been efforts to strengthen key institutions in the sector. In power the
Bank has assist^d both the Karachi Electric Supply Corporation (KESC) and
the Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA) in both power generation
and transmission; the sector has also been assisted by the construction
under the Indus Basin Development Program of Mangla and Tarbela Dams. In
oil and gas, the Bank has financed operations which support a sound
exploration and development program and has assisted in the development of
the extensive gas transmission system. Smaller operations, mostly of an
engineering and technical assistance nature, have supported coal
exploration, energy audits and oil refining.  Despite much progress,
however, the Bank will need to continue iLs participation in institution
building in concert with efforts to assist the Government mobilize ade-
quate funds for energy investments through tariffs, co-financing, and
greater privdte sector participation.
24.     Bank Group lending for transport and communications has focussed
both on new capital investments and on improving the efficiency of exist-
ing assests. Operations have also focussed on strengthening the institu-
tions responsible for these services, especially the Karachi Port Trust,
Pakistan Railways, the Telephone and Telegraph Department and federal and
provincial highways agencies. However, recent analysis has identified



transport infrastructure as a critical constraint to over-all growth, due
in large measure to a running down of infrastructure stock. In the future
the balance between new investments and operation and maintenance and
among various modes will need to receive greater attention.
25.    With an over-all literacy rate of only 25Z, a population growth
rate of about 32, and rapid urbanization, Pakistan faces a formidable
development agenda in the social sectors. The Bank has supported the
Government's programs in education through five credits totaling some
US$62.5 million designed to upgrade primary, post secondary and higher
technical and agricultural education, middle-level training of primary
teachers and agricultural extension agents. The focus has and will con-
tinue to be on the lower end of the education system (primary, secondary,
technical and non-formal education including literacy) A first population
project designed to expand demand for population control services was
approved in FY83. In the urban and water supply sector, the Bank has
financed four projects. Besides providing urban services, these opera-
tions are addressing, among other issues, improved local resource mobi-
lization and cost recovery, improved planning and efficiency of resource
utilization; and urban management especially at the Provincial and
Municipal levels.
26.    With respect to policy-based lending, a SAL operation was approved
in June 1982. The SAL program consisted of a number of significant
reforms in government development planning and in policies and programs in
the agriculture, energy and industrial sectors. The loan was fully dis-
bu-rsed at the end of FY83 and achieved significant progress in the above
areas. In the next few years, continuing support to the structural
adjustment process is envisioned under sector loans.
27.     Annex II coctains a summary statement of Bank Loans and IDA
Credits as of September 30, 1984. Credit and loan disbursements have been
generally satisfactory. Some projects have experienced initial delays due
to protracted government procedures for project approval, which are being
addressed, and to slowness in the procurement of goods and services.
Rapid turnover of managerial and technical staff, in part due to migration
to the Middle East, and budgetary constraints have been problems in the
case of some projects.
28.     A number of operations are currently under preparation or are
being appraised. These include projects for power transmission and
generation; oil and gas exploration and development; coal development;
lines of credit for industrial finance for the private sector, industrial
subsector restructuring, balancing and modernization; irrigation/drainage,
agricultural inputs and services; primary and informal education; urban
development and water supply. Three sectoral loans which would support
further structural adjustment in energy, industry and agriculture are also
being discussed with the Government. Where successful, these sector loans
would provide a policy umbrella for projects in those sectors. To assist



-10-
the Government to finance agricultural and other high-priority projects
which have a low foreign exchange component, financing of some local
expenditures in specific cases is justified.
29.     In addition to lending, economic and sector work provides the
basis for continuing dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government of
Pakistan on development strategy, the sector loans now being prepared, and
for the co-ordinatior. of external assistance within the Pakistan
Consortium. The work program emphasizes resource mobilization, structural
adjustment in the three key sectors, and physical and social
infrastructure.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR AND POWER SUB-SECTOR
A. Energy Sector
30.     Pakistan's commercialLy exploitable domestic energy resources
consist of hydropower and natural gas, which account for a major share of
these resources, followed by oil and coal. In addition, the country has a
substantial non-conventional energy resource base consisting maiiily of
firewood and agricultural waste. Despite Pakistan's past efforts to
develop its hydropower potential and natural gas resources, the country
still remains dependent on imported oil, while much of its energy resour-
ces are underutilized. In its dialogue with the Government of Pakistan,
the Bank has stressed the critical importance of a comprehensive program
foi accelerating the exploration and development of the country's domestic
energy resources and increasing private sector participation in the
implementation and financing of energy development. In its effort to
reduce dependence on imported energy the Government instituted a range of
policy measures for strengthening the local capabilities for energy
planning, resource development and conservation. These measures are
reflected in the understandings reached between the Bank and the
Government under the first Structural Adjustment Loan and Credit (Ln.
2166-PAK/Cr. 1255-PAK) and a number of projects in the petroleum sector.
Pakistan's Energy Supply, Consumption and Resources
31.     Pakistan's gross domestic consumption of commercial energy
increased from 9,852 thousand tons of oil equivalent (TOE) in 1978 to
15,586 thousand TOE in 1983, representing an average annual rate of growth
of about 9.6%. Industry and transp-rtation were the major consumers
representing about 31Z and 21%, respectively, of total energy use. The
rate of growth is expected to remain virtually unchanged over the next
five years at about 9.7%. With real tDP growth between 1983 and 1988
expected at the bame rate as in preceding five years, no change is
expected to occur in the intensity with which energy is consumed. As the



-11-
Government's growth targets for domestic energy output are unlikely to be
met, the scenario for energy consumption over the period 1983-1988 implies
a substantial increase in energy imports, particularly, liquid
hydrocarbons. Recognizing that such increases in imports could offset the
recent turn- around in the country's balance of pavment situation and
affect economic growth, Government has initiated a number of measures to
encourage greater efficiency of energy use, including increased consumer
prices for natural gas and a program of industrial energy audits and
conservation measures.
32.     Pakistan's gross supply of energy increased during the period
1978-1983 at an average annual rate of about 8%, from 10,978 thousand TOE
to 16,160 thousand TOE. Concomitant with this increase, the country also
became less dependent on imported liquid hydrocarbons, whose share as a
percentage of gross energy supply decLined from 45Z in 1978 to 38% in
1983. This was due largely to the rapid increase in domestic output of
natural gas, which grew at an average annual rate of about 11.6%, from
4.453 thousand TOE in 1978 to 7,695 thousand TOE in 1983. During this
period, increased allocation of gas to domestic consumers and the fer-
tilizer industry necessitated the substitution of fuel oil, Pakistan's
main energy export, for gas in the industrial and power sub-sectors. As a
result, exports of liquid hydrocarbons as a share of gross energy supply
declined from 10.3% in 1978 to 3.5% in 1983. The structure of energy
supply observed between 1978 and 1983 is unlikely to continue through
1988. The financial resources, time and institutional capacity required
to bring on stream the existing reserves of gas, oil and coal, preclude a
drastic increase in the supply of domestic energy in the immediate future.
Consequently, unless a comprehensive program for rationalizing the con-
sumption and supply of energy is formulated and implemented, the country's
dependence on imported energy will increase over the next decade, with a
decline thereafter as new domestic supplies of coal and gas, and
hydropower projects are brought on stream.
33.     Conversion losses in electricity generation, petroleum refining,
as well as distribution losses, remained virtually unchanged between 1978
and 1983, accounting for about 22% of the gross consumption of energy.
According to Government estimates, these are forecast to increase mar-
ginally over the next five years reaching 22.5Z by 1988, implying no
improvements in the efficiency with which energy is consumed or supplied
by the power and refining sub-sectors. In view of the objectives of the
proposed project and a Bank supported refinery engineering and energy
efficiency projeLc (Ln. 2218-PAK), and recent Government policy
.nitiatives, this scenario can be revised with a decrease in losses over
the period 1983-1988. The downward trend could be further accelerated if
a comprehensive plan is formulated and implemented for the expansion and
reinforcement of the transmission and distribution networks and for
improving the efficiency of thermal power plants through rehabilitation
and retrofitting. Studies to assist in developing such a plan would be
carried out under the proposed project (paragraph 52).



-12-
Hydrocarbons
34.     Natural gas is Pakistan's main commercially exploitable energy
resource accounting for over 40% of commercial energy consumption. Total
remaining reserves are estimated to be about 343 million TOE of which 92Z
is non-associated gas. A gas development program is being implemented to
increase production from 18 thousand TOE/day in FY82 to 26 thousand
TOE/day in FY86. Increases in production beyond that level will require
additional gas discoveries. Although the prospects for increasing gas
reserves are good, this would require the implementation of an expanded
exploration program. Government has negotiated substantial increases in
gas prices for existing fields in return for expanded investment to
increase production. However, given the reluctance of foreign oil com-
panies to explore for gas and the absence of an attractive gas pricing
policy for new discoveries, private sector exploration in gas prone areas
is minimal, while public sector investment is constrained by institutional
weaknesses in the Oil and Gas Development Corporation (OGDC), the state
petroleum corporation. A new pricing initiative to make gas exploration
attractive to private oil companies is urgently needed and will be pursued
in the Bank's ongoing dialogue on petroleum policy. There is an increas-
ingly severe shortage of gas in Pakistan with restrictions on new gas
connections and curtailment of supply during the winter months to existing
consumers. To limit excess demand and encourage substitution in favor of
other fuels, Government has decided to substantially increase gas consumer
prices (paragraph 42). The long-term goal is to increase the price to
full fuel oil parity. In the absence of very major new gas discoveries,
the Government will increasingly have to ensure that the limited gas
supplies are diverted tc the highest value user. The Government has
agreed under Loan 2324-PAK to undertake a gas utilization study aimed at
determining the optimal allocation of gas among various end uses and
locations.
35.     Proven oil reserves are modest, estimated to be about 10 million
tons, including about 5 million tons of condensate. In addition to the
proven reserves, probable reserves at the known fields are estimated at
about 3 million tons and possible reserves at another 6 million tons. The
estimates of oil reserves have remained virtually unchanged since 1976
when the Government adopted a new policy aimed at increasing the par-
ticipation of the private sector, both domestic and foreign, in explora-
tion an; ievelopment.  At the time, the policy was successful in attract-
ing abc .t a dozen foreign oil companies to undertake exploration conces-
sions in Pakistan, which increased exploration activities. However,
despite this effort, the only success to date has been the discovery by
Union Texas (US firm) of a small field at Khaskeli. At present, only two
of the new entrants have active work programs, and the rest are either
inactive or have relinquished their concessions. The prospects for sub-
stantially increasing the participation of the private sector in oil
exploration over the next few years are fairly modest. However, active



-13-
prootion efforts by the Government and the OGDC designed to identify and
market new oil-prospective areas would sustain the level of private
exploration at its current level or slightly above it. Assistance in
these efforts are being provided to the Government under the recently
approved Petroleum Exploration Project (La. 2351-PAK). These efforts
would be continued under the Bank's future lending program in the
petroleum sector.
36.     Hydropower.  Pakistan's hydropower potential is estimated to be
about 30,000 MS, at several sites, ranging in size between 100 MS and
2,500 MW. To date, about 2,547 MW has been developed, 350 MS is under
construction, and another 6,300 MW are expected to be exploited by the
year 2000. Prior to 1981, the development of the hydropower potential was
carried out on a site by site basis rather than a long-term strategy that
integrated the development of the hydropower potential as part of a least
cost plan for development of thermal and hydropower generation.
Recognizing this shortcoming, the Gcwernment commissioned a study in 1981,
financed by CIDA, to evaluate sites in the Northern Sector With potential
greater than 1,000 GWh, and rank them in terms of priority of development.
The results of this ranking study, expected by March 1985, will be a
critical input to the formulation of a national least cost program
(paragraph 50) for the development of the power sub-sector. WAPDA would
review with the Eank nor later than June 30, 1985, the results of the
hydro ranking study financed by CIDA and identify the priority schemes,
their sequencing and the timetable for their preparation and development
(Section 3.05 of the draft Loan Agreement).
37.     In addition to sites with large potential there are many smaller
hydro sites suitable for the development of hydropower schemes. Very
little has been done to integrate the development of this hydropower
potential with the long-term plan for extension of public supply of elec-
tricity to the rural areas and in the least cost development of the power
subsector. Investigation into developing such sites on irrigation bar-
rages and link canals is being undertaken with bilateral donor assistance
and provincial governments are doing the same on minor canals and rivers.
38.     Coal and Nuclear.  Total recoverable reserves of coal are
estimated at 640 million tons, of which only 20Z are proven.  Although
most of the proven coal reserves are of poor quality, the prospects are
good for incr2asing domestic output to meet part of the power sub-sector
needs. In 1982 reported coaL production amounted to about 1.65 million
tons, representing 5.4% of commercial energy supply. The share of coal in
domestic commercial energy supply has declined continuously over the past
20 years because of the maintenance by the Government of gas prices at
levels substantially below the domestic price of coal. The Government is
now placing greater emphasis on the exploration and development of domes-
tic coal and has received an IDA credit in support of a Coal Engineering
Project for Baluchistan (Cr. 1355-PAK). Pakistan has one operational
nuclear power generation station (137 MW) which provided 0.3% of commer-



-14-
cial energy supplies in FY82; a secord 900 MW unit is planned to be com-
missioned in the early 1990s.
39.     Nonconventional Energy Resources.  tonconventional energy
resources, mainly firewood, agricultural and animal waste, have tradition-
ally supplied over half of the country's total energy requirements.
However, this has recently declined and in 1983, they accounted for 40X of
overall consumption if energy. Data on their consumption by fuel type and
sector are sparse. USAID is assisting the Government in the formulation
and implementation of a comprehensive program for promoting the use and
the development of the country's renewable energy resources.
Institutional Framework
40.     Three ministries share primary responsibility for the energy
sector: The Ministry of Water and Power (MWP), the Ministry of Petroleum
and Natural Resources (MPNR) and the Ministry of Production (MOP).
Operational responsibilities in the sector are vested in a large number of
entities and agencies in both the public and the private sectors.
Coordination between the ministries on energy matters is secured through
the National Energy Policy Committee (NEPC), which is responsible for the
formulation of the Government's energy policy. Energy pricing policies
are subject to the approval of the Finance Ministry and are under the
ultimate jurisdiction of the Economic Coordination Committee of the
Cabinet (ECC).
41.     Each ministry has specific responsibilities within the sector.
The MWP is responsible for the electric power sub-sector, with jurisdic-
tion over WAPDA and the Karachi Electric Supply Corporation (KESC).  The
responsibilities of MPNR relate mainly to the development of oil, gas and
coal resources, including oil and gas production, distribution and
marketing. It also has responsibility for the development of renewable
energy and for the collection and publication of data on the energy
sector. MOP's jurisdiction in the sector covers the three state-owned
enterprises engaged in oil refining and the manufacture of petrochemicals.
The organizational structure of the energy sector is characterized by a
multiplicity of ministries, committees and agencies responsible for plan-
ning and development. This diffusion of responsibility has led to a lack
of coordination, clear policy directions and effective decision making for
what is a crucial sector in the economy. The Government recognizes the
problem and is seriously considering a number of alternatives including,
inter, alia, establishing a Ministry of Energy and strengthening the
planning role and capability of the Ministry of Planning in the energy
sector.
Energy Pricing
42.     The various enterprises in the energy sector are notionaLly
responsible for setting prices at levels that cover costs, generate suffi-



-15-
cient revenue for their investment programs and earn an acceptable rate of
return on their assets. In practice, however, all changes in the struc-
ture and level of prices must be reviewed by the ministry concerned and
approved by the Cabinet. Since 1973, Government has consistentlv buffered
the economy from the full impact of the higher cost of energy, by main-
taining the upward adjustment in prices at levels that were substantially
below economic cost. As a result, energy prices decreased in real terms
betweer 1973 and 1979, seriously distorting the relative prices of compet-
ing fuels and resulting in increased uneconomic use of energy products and
resources. In 1980, the Government decided to rationalhze the consumption
and supply of energy and increased the domestic prices of petroleum
products and electricity, at rates that, on the average, exceeded the
increase in the general price level. Further steps are still required,
however, to fully eliminate the distortion in energy prices, particularly
with respect to gas pricing and differential pricing for various users.
The Government recognizes the need for consistent and systematic adjust-
ment in the structure and level of prices, and has set as one of the
objectives of the Sixth Five-Year Plan (FY84-88) the achievement of parity
between domestic prices of energy and border prices or economic cost,
wbichever is applicable.
43.     Over the past decade the petroleum sub-sector has been a net
contributor to the resources of the Government. The veighted average
domestic price of petroleum products is at 150Z of the border price.
Under the prevailing price structure, prices of all petroleum products,
with the exception of fuel oil, are at or above their respective border
prices. Gasoline continues to be the major contributor to the resources
mobilized by the sub-sector. Domestic price of natural gas has tradition-
ally been kept below its opportunity cost, which is assumed, in the case
of Pakistan, to be equal to the border price of fuel oil. As a result,
demand for natural gas during the 1970s increased at about 1OZ a year,
culminating in the supply shortages experienced in the early 1980s. In an
effort to stem the growth of demand, Government has agreed under SAL I to
move the price of gas to reach two-thirds the border price of fuel oil by
1988. As a result, the weighted average domestic price of gas has
increased since 1980 at an average annual rate of 23Z.1/ In January 1985,
the weighted price of natural gas was about 40% of the border p.-ice of
fuel oil.
44.     The weighted average electricity tariffs in Pakistan, for both
WAPDA and KESC, increased in real terms between 1973 and 1983 at an
average annual rate of 1.8Z. In real terms, the tariff charged to dif-
11 Specifically, in 1982, nominal increase in the price of gas Was 19Z
for industry, 17% for the commercial consumers and 17% for households.
In 1983, the corresponding increases were 58%, 35% and 14%,
respectively.



-16-
ferent consumer categories increased for all, except the residential
consumer category. In January 1984, average revenue represented 63% for
WAPDA and 98% for KESC of the average long-run marginal cost (LRMC) of
about 100 paisa/kWh for the combined system. The Government has made a
commitment to a minimum investment program for WAPDA of Rs 30 billion for
the period FY86-88. It is estimated that this would require a tariff
increase, net of fuel surcharge, of 112 for FY86, 15% for FY87 and 18% for
FY88 in order to achieve the 40X level of internal cash generation as
required under the Third WAPDA Power Project (Cr. 968-PAK). The results
of a tariff study undertaken jointly by WAPDA and the Bank in 1979-80 to
estimate the LRMC have been used to correct some of the distortions in the
structure of electricity tariffs. Currently, WAPDA is updating that study
in compliance with an agreement with ADB. The results of the updated
study are expected later this year, at which time they would be reviewed
by Government with the Bank and ADB with the aim of agreeing on
appropriate measures and their timing ta correct remaining distortions in
the structure and level of tariffs.
Energy Strategy in the Sixth Five-Year Plan
45.     With the emergence of shortages of power and natural gas and
higher imported oil costs during implementation of the Fifth Five-Year
Plan (1978-83), Government has recognized the need for new policy initia-
tives to improve the domestic energy balance. In recognition of these
constraints, the Sixth Five-Year Plan gives priority to re-structuring the
energy sector. To achieve the needed improvements, Government has iden-
tified the following key objectives:
(i)  promote efficient and rational use of energy and reduce the
growth in demand through price and non-price policy instru-
ments while meeting future demand for energy at least cost
to the national economy;
(ii)  accelerate the development of domestic energy resources,
particularly proven oil and gas fields and intensify explora-
tion for additional domestic energy reserves including oil,
gas and coal; and
(iii) increase the participation of the private sector in financing
and implementing energy investments.
46.     In keeping with these objectives, the Government has substantially
increased the allocation to the energy sector for the Sixth Five-Year
Plan. The allocation for the energy sector accounts .or about 38% of the
total public sector development outlays. In addition, the Government has
taken several important policy initiatives to rationalize the consumption
and supply of enorgy. A medium term gas development plan has been
prepared with Bank assistance (paragraph 34) to accelerate the development
of proven gas fields. The development of domestic coal is being given



-17-
high priority and projects being prepared with assistance from the Bank
and USAID foz accelerating coal exploration at the Lakhra field.
47.     Tmportant policy and planning issues remain unresolved including:
the formulation and implementation of a coordinated fuel policy to mini-
mize the cost to the economy of meeting the future demand for energy; the
translation of the objectives relating to the conservation of energy into
a concrete plan of action; and the formulation and implementation of a
g     comprehensive plan for the exploration and development of domestic energy
resources including an attractive compensation package for gas producers.
These would be addressed in the Bank-s continuing sectoral dialogue with
the Government and in future operations.
B. Power Sub-sector
48.     Public electricity supply plays a crucial role in meeting
Pakistan's energy requirements. Agriculture derives 75% of its commercial
energy from electricity, industry 48Z and households 46Z.
49.     Electric Power.  Pakistan"S total installed power generating
capacity as of January 1985, was 4,052 MV, of vhich 2,547 MV (63Z) was
hydro and the balance 1,505 NW (37Z) was thermal. Pakistan's hydropower
potential has been estimated at 30,000 MW of vhich only 9X has been
developed. Power demand in the decade to 1981/82 grew at about 9Z p.a.
and is expected to increase at about 10% p.a. over the next ten years.
Power supply, as measured by gross generation, more than doubled between
FY72 and FY82, from 7.6 to 17.5 billion kWh, asd installed generating
capacity grew from 1,863 to 4,123 MN over the same period. Despite sub-
stantial expansion of the power system in the past decade, supply has
failed to keep pace with demand, leading to shortages at present of up to
700 MW at peak hours. Power shortage has become one of the critical con-
straints on the continued growth of the economy as demand growth has been
more a function of power availability than of actual needs. Alleviating
these shortages is a primary objective of WApD&'s investment program. The
Sixth Five-Year Plan forecasts continued rapid growth with installed
capacity projected to reach 8,200 M4 by the end of the period. To finance
this expansion the Plan allocates Rs 80 billion for the power sub-sector,
*    which represents 80% of the allocation for energy or 27% of the total
allocation for public investment. Thermal generation until recently was
based almost exclusively on gas-fired plants, but with increasing gas
shortages most of the new thermal plants are to use fuel oil and/or coal.
50.     Over the past decade power demand has outstripped supply leading
to severe power shortages, particularly during peak hours (paragraph 49).
So far, the development of the power sub-scctors has been based on an
incremental approach to planning, which suffers from the absence of a
comprehensive analysis needed for the expansion of a power system of the
size operated in Pakistan. There is an urgent need for a national plan
that would set the priorities and ensure the coordinated development of



-18-
hydro and thermal capacities. Several needed studies have recently been
carried out including a ranking study for hydro development, formulation
of a preliminary least cost plan for generation development, development
plan for the expansion of the primary transmission system, and a study of
the operation and control of the grid system. However, the combination of
these various activities into the preparation of a National Power Plan
(NPP) has not yet been effectively addressed. With Bank assistance WAPDA
has already startea work on the preparation of a long-term NPP and by the
end of this year will be retaining consultants to assist them in the major
part of this exercise. The principal objectives of the NPP are to develop
a sound planning and decision making system for the development of gener-
ation and transmission facilities in the country, and to prepare, on the
basis of this system, a 20-year expansion program, identifying the least
cost sequence of additions to the generation and transmission systems.
Further, the competence of WAPDA's planning unit will be strengthened so
that the power plan may be kept current with annual reviews and modifica-
tions by WAPDA's own staff. In order to ensure progress in formulating
the NPP, WAPDA would engage consultantsl/ to assist in formulating a
national least cost plan for the power sub-sector and to initiate work by
June 30, 1985, and complete the study and review the results with the Bank
no later than June 30, 1986 (Section 4.08 of the draft Loan Agreement).
51.     Institutionally, the responsibility for the power sub-sector rests
with the Ministry of Water and Power whereas the responsibility for
primary energy policy and planning is under the Ministry of Energy. The
execution of the power projects and their operation is carried out by two
major organizations; WAPDA, which accounts for 80% of power supply in
Pakistan, distributes electricity throughout most of the country and KESC
which generates and distributes electricity under license in the Karachi
area. WAPDA is responsible for the supply of electricity through its
power wing.
52.     In 1977, WAPDA's system-wide energy losses in the transmission and
distribution networks were about 34.7Z. Under the Third WAPDA Project
(Cr. 968-PAK), it was agreed that system losses should be reduced to 21%
by 1984. Losses in 1983 amounted to 27.2% and are expected to be about
25% for 1984. A.though WAPDA has not fully achieved the targets for
reducing system losses agreed under the Third WAPDA Project, progress has,
nevertheless, been satisfactory, particularly in light of delays in
project components critical to system loss reduction such as extension of
the subtransmission grid and the high voltage transmission network.  Over
the next few years progress can be expected with the completion of ongoing
work in extending the high voltage transmission network, commissioning of
new secondary transmission lines and substations and installation of
1/ Financed out of the First Technical Assistance Credit (Credit
1256-PAK).



-19-
capacitors. WAPDA would be required to take necessary measures to reduce
its system losses to 21% by June 30, 1988 (Section 4.07(a) of the draft
Loan Agreement). At present, WAPDA lacks experience in identifying and
reducing energy losses further.  WAPDA would engage consultants by no
later than July 31, 1985, to assist in undertaking a study for identifying
losses, and preparing a program to reduce system-wide transmission losses
and to complete and review the results of the study with the Bank by July
31, 1986 (Section 4.07(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). WAPDA also lacks
experience in designing a comprehensive investment program for improving
the efficiency of its thermal power plants by reinforcing, rehabilitating
and retrofitting. To assist in formulating a plan for energy efficiency,
WAPDA would engage consultants by no later than June 30, 1985, to under-
take a study aimed at the preparation of an investment program for improv-
ing the energy efficiency of its thermal power plants and to review the
results of the study with the Bank by June 30, 1986 (Section 4.09 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
The Bank Group Involvement
53.     The Bank Group's involvement in Pakistan's energy sector started
in 1955, with a loan to KESC for the construction of a thermal power
station. Since then, it has assisted in financing projects in all the
energy sub-sectors including petroleum, coal, pipelines and refineries.
For the future, Bank Group operations would continue this broad coverage
with a focus on supporting the Government's adjustment process as outlined
in the Sixth Five-Year Plan.
54.     In the pouir sub-sector, the Bank has participated in the Indus
Basin Development Projects, which include the hydro generation capacities
at Mangla and Tarbela. Together, these account for 83% of the country's
total hydro generation capacity. A series of four credits/loans were made
to KESC between 1955 and 1967 for generation facilities. Since 1970, the
Bank has been more directly involved with the Government's program to
upgrade the power transmission and distribution network, for which three
credits/loans were made to WAPDA. The first credit to WAPDA (Credit
213-PAK) was made in 1970 to finance a project to augment the transmission
substation capacity of the power system. The project faced implemenLation
*       delays as fund limitations required scaling down the physical components
of the project; high losses impacted unfavorably on WAPDA finances and
major financial covenants were not met; and operational improvements
within WAPDA were slow and major targets were met much later than
anticipated. The main finding of the Project Performance Auditl/ was that
where institutional change is a prime objective, careful planning and
realistic targets are of the utmost importance. Loan 1208T-PAK was made
in 1975 to finance part of a 500 kV transmission system which would even-
1/ "Project Performance Audit Report", April 6, 1981 (SecM81-291).



-20-
tually create the backbone of a high voltage grid connecting tne hydro
resources of the north with the thermal generation in the center and
south, providing the most economic means of supplying power throughout the
country. The start of the project was delayed by about nine months due to
late employment of consultants and slowness in awarding contracts.
Despite this delay, the project has been satisfactorily implemented.   A
credit was extended to WAPDA in i980 to cover a four year time slice
(FY78-FY82) of its secondary transmission program (Cr. 968-PAK).
Implementation, though somewhat delayed, has been satisfactory and the
project is expected to be fully implemented by the end of calendar year
1985.
55.     Over the course of its involvement in the power sub-sector, the
Bank has directed its institution building efforts to strengthen KESC's
and WAPDA's management and technical capabilities. WAPDA is now capable
of undertaking the design and implementation of projects for the develop-
ment of the transmission network. The role of the Bank in the proposed
project would be to continue supporting the institution building measures
already undertaken by WAPDA.
Bank Objectives in the Power Sub-Sector
56.     The main objectives of the Bank in the power sub-sector include:
(a) to assist in the establishment of a permanent planning and
decision making system for the power sub-sector in Pakistan
leading to the least cost expansion program in the long run;
(b) to establish close coordination between the primary energy
development policies (production, imports, pricing, etc.) and
the power generation program;
(c) to promote the use of local energy resources, especially
hydro, for power generation in the medium and long term;
(d) to support in the short run projects aimed at improving the
use of existing generating facilities, reduction of energy
losses, implementation of load management programs, etc., to
alleviate the power shortage; and
(e) to strengthen the institutional arrangements and the
managerial capabilities of the sub-sector to adequately cope
with planning, execution and operation needs.
The proposed project has been designed within this context and is seen as
one of a series of projects and sectoral operations designed to address
the above issues in progressively greater depth.



-21-
PART IV - THE PROJECT
57.     The proposed project was prepared by WAPDA.  It was appraised in
November 1983. Negotiations took place in Washington from May 15 to May
16, 1984; the delegation from Pakistan was led by Mr. Akram Khan.  A Staff
Appraisal Report, entitled "Pakistan: Fourth WAPDA Power Project" (Report
No. 5047-PAK, dated January 31, 1985) is being circulated separately to
the Executive Direetors. A supplementary data sheet is attached as Annex
III.
Project Objectives and Background
58.     The power sub-sector is the largest consumer of petroleum products
and natural gas in Pakistan. Reduction in the losses in its transmission
and distribution networks and improvements in the efficiency of its ther-
mal power plants are pivotal to the Government's efforts to reduce overall
energy consumption in the country. Because of the recent growth of demand
for electricity, WAPDA has concentrated on the expansion of the network at
the expense of rehabilitation and reinforcement needed to maintain losses
at a technically acceptable level. Moreover, the efficiency of WAPDA's
thermal power stations, a large number of which are quite old, is rela-
tively low.
59.     The objectives of the proposed project are to continue the
institution building efforts initiated under the Bank Group's earlier
lending operations by strengthening WAPDA's capabilities in formulating
and implementing an investment program for upgrading and enhancing the
power transmission system in order to improve its overall energy
efficiency. The project would also assist WAPDA in planning for a more
rational use of primary energy for power generation and the efficient
production and distribution of secondary energy. The proposed project
would finance equipment and materials covering five years (FY86-FY90) of
WAPDA's ongoing program for the expansion of the transmission network and
provide technical assistance for studies to address the issues of energy
use and efficiency in the power sub-sector.
*        60.      Project Description.  The proposed project would include the
equipment and materials, construction and engineering services required to
implement a five-year Lime-slice (FY86-FY90) of the program for the rein-
forcement and expansion of the secondary transmission network. It would
contribute to the reduction of losses and ensure that power is transmitted
at least cost.  TLe proposed project would also include studies and tech-
nical assistance aimed at improving the management, operations and
efficiency of the power sub-sector. Specifically, the proposed project
consists of:
(a) the erection of about 3,815 km of transmission line compris-
ing 280 km at 220 kV, 2,458 km at 132 kV, 1,077 km at 66 kV;



-22-
(b) the construction of 139 new substations;
(c) the extension and reinforcement of another 86 existing
substations; and
(d) studies, technical assistance and training to: (i) develop a
least -ost national power plan (paragraph 50); (ii) prepare
an in%astment program for reducing losses in the transmission
network (paragraph 52); (iii) prepare a program of action to
improve power plant efficiency (paragraph 52); (iv) formulate
a program for decentralization of the power distribution
function in the power sub-sector (paragraph 71); and
(v) strengthen WAPDA's accouncing capabilities (paragraph 75)
and modernize it's internal audit system (paragraph 77).
Project Implementation
61.     The implementation of the project will be undertaken by WAPDA
through a special project management team assembled for the execution of
the Third Power Project (Cr. 968-PAK). Most of the construction would be
carried out by local contractors whose performance would be monitored by
WAPDA's team. In the areas where local contractors cannot mobilize the
resources or lack experience, installation and erection would be carried
out by WAPDA's own forces. WAPDA is not expected to have any difficulty
in managing and implementing the project, as the experience gained in
implementing the third project has greatly enhanced its capability to
undertake these tasks.
62.     WAPDA has already prepared standard engineering designs,
specifications and bidding documents, using procedures and practices
established under the Third Power Project. These have been developed with
active Bank participation and review, and consequently, no difficulty is
expecLed in entrusting the engineering work to WAPDA.
63.     The studies under the project would be carried out by consultants
under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.
Project Cost
64.     The total financing required for the project, including price and
physical contingencies, customs duties, and interest during construction
is estimated at US$614.0 million. Of this, US$236.0 million would be in
foreign exchange, and the remaining US$378.0 million in local cost. These
estimates are based on April 1984 prices. Escalation of foreign costs was
assumed to be 3.5% for calendar year 1984, 8.5% for 1985, 9% for 1986 and
1987, 8.25% for 1988 and 6.75% thereafter. Escalation of local costs was
taken as 8% FY85, 7% for FY86, 6.5% per annum for FY87, and 6% from FY88
and thereafter. The total price escalation amounts to 16.9% of the base



-23-
cost plus physical contingencies. Physical contingencies were calculated
at 5% for equipment, materiaL and services amounting to 5% of the b_;e
cost. Taxes and duties included in the estimate of total cost amount to
$141.4 million. Studies and technical assistance amounting to US$2.4
million is included in the proposed project. The total project cost, net
of taxes and duties, is estimated at $472.6 million.
Project Financing
65.     Of the total foreign exchange costs of about US$236.0 million
equivalent, US$100.0 million (42%) would be financed by the Bank, and
US$46.3 million (20Z) through co-financing, suppliers" credits and other
bilateral aid. The Government would provide the remaining foreign
exchange -equirements amounting to $89.7 million from its foreign exchange
resources.
66.    Of the total local cost of the project of about US$378.0 million,
about US$245.6 million would be financed by WAPDA from its internally
generated cash and the rest, amounting to US$132.4 million, would be
covered by loans from the Government, at an interest rate of 11%.
Procurement and Disbursement
67.     With the exceptions noted below, contracts financed under the
proposed loan for the supply of equipment and materials, construction and
erection equipment and tools would be awarded in accordance with Bank
guidelines for international competitive bidding (ICE). Local manufac-
turers are expected to win about 30% of the contracts for equipment and
materials. For purposes of bid comparison, a preference limited to 15% of
the CIF price of imported goods, or the customs duty, whichever is lower,
would be extended to responsive local manufacturers. Contracts for stand-
ard equipment and materials, and tools, also financed under the proposed
loan, not exceeding US$50,000 each and in the aggregate not exceeding the
equivalent of US$500,000, wouid be procured through limited international
bidding (LIB) by inviting quotations from at least three suppliers from
eligible countries. The tendering documents for contracts larger than the
equivalent of US$250,000 to be financed out of the proceeds of the
proposed loan would be subject to prior review by the Bank.



-24-
Procurement Method 1/
(Us$ million)
Component                        ICB      LIB     LCB      Other   N.A.    Cost
Land & Riehts of Way                                                16.0    16.0
Equipment
(i) Substations                 103.8   0.3      40.8    128.3            273.2
(77.4) (0.3)                             (77.7)
(ii) Lines                        32.2   0.2      75.0                     107.4
(22.1) (0.2)                             (22.3)
Civil Works
(i) Substatinns                                  57.9                      57.9
(ii) Lines                                         4.4                       4.4
Transport, Erection, etc.                        104.9                     104.9
Engineering & Administration                                       25.4    25.4
Technical Assistance. etc.                                   2.8             2.8
Interest During Cz--struction                                      22.0    22.0
TOTAL                         136.0   0.5    283.0       131.1  63.4   614.0
(99.5) (0.5)                            (100.0)
11 Figures in parentheses are amounts financed out of the loan.
68.     Disbursements from the proposed loan would be made against IOOZ of
foreign expenditure on directly imported goods and 100Z of the ex-factory
price of locally manufactured goods. Based on a .project implementation
period of four years, disbursemr:nts are estimated to be completed in five
and one-half years. This is bout one an4 one-half years less than the
Bank-wide average for transmission and dis.zibution projects and is based
on the experience and performance under the previous transmission project
in Pakistan.
Water and Power Development Authority
69.     Organization and Management.  WAPDA is a semi-autonomous agency
established to --oordinate the development of Pakistan's water and power
resources. It s dividca into two I"rgely independent "wings", one for
power and the other for water. Tne Power Wing is responsible for the
construction and operation of power generation, transmission and distribu-
tion facilities throughout the country, except for the Karachi area which
is served by KESC. The Water Wing is responcible for the overall planning
and investigation of water resources, and the design and construction of
surface and griundwater development projects for the federal and provin-
cial governm=nts. The managemenc of WAPDA is vested in an executive board
comprising a chairman and three members, in charge of power, water, and



-25-
finance, respectively.  The board is appointed by the Government and the
members act as chief executives of their respective sections.
70.     Within the Power Wing the Member Power is assisted by seven
general managers in charge of generation, transmission, distribution,
finance, coordination and planning, design and protection, and inventory
control. Dist-ibution is the largest department within the Power Wing,
accounting for 70% of the staff, including staff of the eight Area
r        Electricity Boards (AEBs), with responsibility for local electricity
service. Each AEB has its own chairman, three full-time members, and
three part-time members representing local interests, one of whom is
normally a representative of the Provincial Government.
71.     Recently, the Government has been reviewing options for reorganiz-
ing WAPDA's distribution department. Preliminary thinking has focused on
transfering the responsibility for distribution to regional and local
agencies, leaving WAPDA to concentrate on generation and transmission.
The Government, in keeping with goals in the power sub-sector outlined in
the Sixth Five-Yea- Plan, has explored the possibility of attracting the
private sector to take over the distribution of electricity throughout the
country. The private sector has, however, only expressed interest in
taking over the main urban areas, which the Government is unwilling to
accept. In order to develop alternatives for decentralization of the
power distribution function, WAPDA intends carrying out a study financed
by USAID. The results and recommendations of the study will be reviewed
by the Bank.
72.    Financial Aspects.  The accounts of WAPDA's Power Wing for the last
five fiscal years (FY80-FY84) show a generally satisfactory financial
performance and position. Both the ratio of current assets to current
liabilities and the coverage of debt service from internally generated
cash are satisfactory. As of June 30, 1984, WAPDA's capitalization showed
a debt/equity ratio of 48/52 in FY84 compared to a ratio of 61/39 for
FY79, reflecting an increased reliance on internal resources for financing
its investment program. The Authority has been able to finance between
53Z and 76Z of its capital investments from internal sources corresponding
to a rate of return of between 15Z and 18% on historically valued net
assets in operation or between 82 and 10% on proforma revalued assets.
The cash generation covenant under Cr.968-PAK required WAPDA to finance
not less than 40% of its capital expenditures from internal sources. This
impressive level of internal cash generation has been achieved through
tariff increases, reductions in system losses and a fuel adjustment
surcharge, which allows WAPDA to recover the cost of fuel from its
consumers. Moreover, recently adopted accounting and commercial systems
have enabled management to begin exerting a tighter control over
operations. Although WAPDA has been able to satisfy the existing cash
generation covenant the formula used for calculating the level of cash
generation covers the current and the two preceding years and therefore is
retrospective, rather than prospective, which forces the Authority to take



-26-
corrective action for shortfalls only after they have occurred. To
address this, WAPDA would change the basis for the calculation of the
level of internal cash generation by adopting a rule requiring the averag-
ing of the year under consideration, the preceding year and the forthcomt-
ing year, and take into account increases/decreases in working capital,
for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year ending on June 30, 1988
(Section 5.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
73.     Projections of WAPDA's financial position over the next seven-year
period shows a substantial growth in gross fixed assets, from Rs 29.3
billion in FY84 to Ks 103.9 billion at the end of FY91 and a threefold
increase in equity from Rs 17.3 billion in FY84 to Rs 46.1 billion by
FY91. Retained earnings would account for 80Z of this increase. Over the
same period, long term debt is forecast to increase fourfold to Rs 65.6
billion resulting in a debt/equity ratio of 59/41, which is considered
reasonable for an electricity utility operation. The coverage of debt
service by net revenues would be satisfactory during this period, as would
the ratio of current assets to current liabilities. Nevertheless, the
debt servicing position of WAPDA would be monitored. WAPDA would limit
it's incurring debt, based on the Bank's forecast cash flow debt limita-
tion covenant, with debt service coverage at 1.5 times (Section 5.05 of
the draft Loan Agreement).
74.     Financial/Commercial Operations. VAPDA has made good progress in
streamlining its commercial operations and in establishing modern account-
ing and commercial systems with the assistance of consultants.
, vertheless, additional steps still need to be undertaken in areas such
as materials management, asset valuation and accounting. Also, extensive
training programs are needed to ensure that the new systems are properly
staffed. This additional work requires substantial outside assistance,
which will be furnished by USAID under its recently approved rural elec-
trification project.
75.     A Limiting factor in continuing the development of WAPDA is the
shortage of qualified staff for key posts in the accounting and commercial
departments. Although the new commercial procedures have been
implemented, the desired results have not always been achieved, mainly
because of the inadequacy or lack of key staff. WAPDA is currently
evaluating its recruitment practices, job grading and compensations for
the financial staff to facilitate the recruitment of experienced financial
staff outside the Authority. In order to improve its accounting
capabilities, WAPDA would review from time to time with the Bank the
qualifications and adequacy in number of the accountants in its power
wing, and thereafter establish, as necessary, a plan satisfactory to the
Bank for recruitment of professionally qualified accountants (Section
4.04(a) and (b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
76.     The commercial function in WAPDA is of major importance, and
becomes increasingly so, as a large number of new consumers is added each



-27-
year. The commercial operations include application processing, connec-
tion of service, meter reading, billing and collection, disconnection and
reconnection, and customer relations, each of which directly affects
WAPDA's realization of revenue. The commercial department is headed by a
Chief Commercial Manager at a level lower than that of a general manager,
which tends to hinder the commercial functions of the Authority. In order
co improve the organizational structure of WAPDA and strengthen its com-
mercial department vis-a-vis other departments, WAPDA would grant the
r      Chief Commercial Kanager all the powers of a general manager in all com-
mercial matters as a condition of loan effectiveness (Section 4.05(a) of
the draft Loan Agreement).
77.     Internal Audit. WAPDA's Internal Audit Department's functions
urgently need to be examined and revised with the objective of enhancing
its role and influence within the Authority. Compliance auditing clearly
should be a major function of the Department, and a more positive role
should be established, embracing the wider aspects of management audit.
Developing and implementing a suitable internal audit function would
require assistance of consultants. WAPDA would undertake to engage by
September 30, 1985 consultants, satisfactory to the Bank, to help develop
a modern system for internal auditing (Section 4.04(c) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
78.     External Audit.  The WAPDA Act stipulates that the Auditor General
(AG) of Pakistan is responsible for auditing WAPDA's accounts. He dis-
charges his responsibility through one of his special groups, the
Director, WAPDA Audit, which employs some 400 staff attached to WAPDA on a
permanent basis and are located at all points of its operations. Under
Credit 968-PAK, it was agreed to accept AG as the independent auditor
until the WAPDA accounting system was strengthened sufficiently to permit
a judgement as to the quality of the Government audit. It is still too
early to render a judgement though AG is making a significant effort to
strengthen the audit function. These improvements, together with WAPDA's
efforts to reform its accounting procedures and strengthen its internal
audit functions, will go a long way in facilitating AG in performing a
satisfactory audit. The Bank has resarved the right to monitor the
present audit arrangements and, if necessary, to request an audit consis-
tent with Bank guidelines.  It is proposed that the existing audit arran-
gements continue until the new internal audit system is in place and rhe
new accounting system is fully implemented and operational, so that a
judgement may be made on the quality of the Government audit.  WAPDA has
confirmed that the financial statements and the Preliminary Audits would
be furnished to the Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal year.
79.     Government Arrears.  Private consumers have been settling their
electricity bills satisfactoriLy, while Government has been delinquent in
settling its accounts. Though there has been improvement, the position is
still not satisfactory. Government arrears are now estimated at the
equivalent of about four months' Government billings. The Government has



-28-
agreed to settle all arrears owing to WAPDA as of June 30, 1985, by not
later than December 31, 1985, and that all future electricity bills would
Fe paid by all government agencies and departments within three months
after the receipt of bills (Section 3.03 of the draft Guarantee
Agreement). If necessary, the Federal and Provincial Governments would
ensure that adequate provision is made in the budgets of Federal and
Provincial agencies for the payment of current bills.
80.     Insurance.  Prior to 1977, WAPDA placed its insurance with the
National Insurance Corporation of Pakistan, a Government insuranc' agency.
Due to difficulties in settling its claims with this agency, WAPDA elected
to insure its assets under a self-insurance scheme, and with the assis-
tance of actuarial consultants, established a self-insurance scheme cover-
ing substations, power houses, machinery and workshops against loss from
fire and machinery breakdown. Based on studies carried out by WAPDA and
its actuarial consultants an amount of Rs 14.4 million is allocated
annually to the insurance fund. The insurance fund, which amounted to Rs
64.7 million as of June 30, 1984, is administered independently by a Board
of Hanagement with assistance from its actuarial consultants. The Bank
has reviewed these insurance arrangements and found them acceptable.
Benefits and Risk
81.     The projected growth in energy consumption in Pakistan will result
in increasing oil imports until domestic energy production is further
increased. Given the resource and institutional constraints and time
needed for realizing production increases, short term energy demand
measures are an obvious high priority. The proposed project, therefore,
aims to enhance the institutional capabilities for improving energy
efficiency as a first step towards rationalizing consumption of primary
energy and the production and distribution of secondary energy in the
power sub-sector.
82.     The project is expected to play a critical role in ensuring the
optimal development and operations of the power system as part of the
least cost investment program for transmission being undertaken by WAPDA.
The internal economic rate of return (IERR) on the project is 14%. This
is based on WAPDA's average tariff being increased in real terms, by about
122 annually between FY86 and FY90 in order to meet 40% of its development
program of a minimum of Rs 30 billion agreed with the Bank for FY86-88,
and a reduction in incremental sales by about 3% per year to accommodate
the likelihood that higher real tariffs would induce greater conservation
and economy in the use of electricity. Based on using KESC's average
tariff of 98 paisa/kWh as a proxy for WAPDA's consumers' willingness to
pay and incremental sales are reduced by 5% to allow for the possibility
that not all consumers would be willing to pay the higher tariffs. The
IERR on the investment program is about 13.1% Though it is not possible to
isolate the benefits of the Project from those of generation and
distribution, this provides an accurate approximation of the real return



-29-
on the Project and the best measure of economic merit. A calculation
based on WAPDA's average tariff (62 paisa/kWh) yields a 6.2% IERR, which
understates the real return as the Government maintains WAPDA's tariffs
low for social reasons, enabling WAPDA consumers to capture surplus or
benefits greater than is reflected in its tariffs. The surplus currently
captured by WAPDA's consumers has been quantified to provide the best
estimate of economic viability of the project. In the absence of adequate
data to specify a demand curve, a partial measure of the surplus was
estimated by determining the maximum price consumers are willing to pay
for public supply of electricity, best reflected by KESC's average tariff.
The 13.1% IERR is based on measurable costs and benefits. If all benefits
associated with the project such as power plant efficiency improvements,
reductions in overall fuel costs due to efficient plant operation and
reduced transmission and distribution losses, could be quantified, the
IERR would reflect an even higher value.
83.     The project consists of normal electric utility work entailing no
unusual risks, and no particular difficulty is foreseen in its execution.
Project costs estimates are based on similar work currently in progress in
the country, and provision has been made for escalation, so there should
be little risk of substantial cost overrun. No ecological problems are
anticipated.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
84.    The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Water and Power
Development Authority of Pakistan, the draft Guarantee Agreement between
the Islamic Republic of Pakistan and the Bank and the Recommendations of
the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles
of Agreement, are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
Additional conditions of effectiveness would be approval by the Executive
Committee of the National Economic Council (ECNEC) of the PC-1 document
for the projectl/; and the granting to the Chief Commercial Manager of
WAPDA the powers of a general manager in all commercial matters. Special
Conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex III.
85.     I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
1' A PC-1 (Planning Commission Proforma No. 1) is an internal govern-
ment project appraisal document necessary for the Government of
Pakistan's approval procedures.



-30-
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
86.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
February 13, 1985
Washington, D.C.



-31-                                                  A.NNE   I
TABLE  36                                         PAII
nun                   - sociAL WcAs    DATA SH
-jxTs3133G  SUs3IWM AVERAGKB) D
HOST                (MST RBClr RSTDIATZ) fb
19W       19w0t!b    wrcC            um INC tsarsc         S      rinco
waLk    19701k    ESTINATKIkb    ASIA A, PACIFIC     ASIA A PACIFIC
ANA (swa    sq m)
TOTAL                              103.9       303.9       803.9
AGRTICULRL                         227.5       243.3       233.2
GM Sm  ChIN  (on)                      70.0       1     30.0    3 O.0           278.6                  1091.2
CinoPAuS OF OX. EQUIVAtEN)          93.0       139.0       179.0            272.0                    567.3
nOww aM VIUL s _AmC
POPMATIOIINID-IEAR CTHOUSAIIU)   45351.0    60449.0      87125.0
t1UAN POPULATION ( o TOTAL)         22.1       24.9         29.1             21.7                     34.7
PP*ULATION PROJECTIONS
POPMlATXI IN YEA  2000 (HIL)                              199.6
STATIONRT PouMATIN (MILL)                                377.3
POPULATIO NbmFIh                                            1.9
FPOPULATION  ImI
?xa Sq. IN.                       57.0        75.Z       105.1             166.6                   261.9
Fm  SQ. IN. ACXI LAND            201.5       248.4       333.6             345.5                  1735.1
POPUIATION AC;E STIUCIUR (2)
0-14 ItRS                        43.8        46.3        46.1              35.6                    39.0
15-4 TYS                          51.3        50.5        50.9             59.8                    57.6
65 A  AIME                         4.4         3.2         2.7               4.3                     3.3
POPUATION Gmot RATE (Z)
TOrAL                              2.3         2.S         3.0               1.9                     2.3
URAN                               4.6         4.0         4.3               4.1                     4.3
CRE BIRIt RATE (PERL lO)            48.6        46.6        42.0             27.7                     30.1
CRUE DEATH URAT  (PER 730)          23.4        19.3        15.4              10.1                    9-5
CROSS REPRODICTIONl KlAT             3.4         3.4         3.0               1.8                    2.0
FAMILY PLAIINC
ACE S, AN_AL (I005)                 ..      1903t.1     1244.0 Jc
USERS t: OF ARRID 9N1)              ..         6.0 /d       ..                ..                    52.7
FM AD  NOtD MI
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. ER CAPIrA
(1969-71-100)                       39.0       102.0       105.0             112.6                   123.0
PER CAPrET sumIP Or
CAUORIES ts OF REQUINUiENTS)       U3.0      106.0        106.0             97.7                   114.4
PRTINS (CRAKS PR  DAT)            58.0        65.0        65.0             56.8                     57.0
OF UMUCH ANDIAL AND PULSE       23.0        22.0        20.0 /e           14.9                    14.1
*ltLD (ACES 1-4) DClAi RATE         25.4        21.0        16.8              9.S                     7.2
HEALIN
LIFE ErECT. AT 31n2 (TEAS)          43.1        46.0        49.8             60.0                    60.4
INFANrT MORT. RATE (PER  30t0S)    161.5       143.0       120.9             83.6                    66.3
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (2POP)
TOTAL                               ..        21.0        29.0 if           32.9                    37.0
untA                                ..        77.0        60.0 if          70.9                     54.8
RURAL                                .         4.0        37.0 If          22.1                     26.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DXSPOSAL
(7 OF POPULATION)
L                     TOTAL                                ..         3.0         6.0 IR           18.1                   41.3
URBAN                               ..        12.0        21.0 I           72.6                     47.4
RURAL                               ..          ..          ..              4.6                     33.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          5400.0      4300.Olh    3480.0            3464.2                 7749.4
POP. PER NURSIN PERSON           16960.0    1053O. o&     5320.0           4793.1                  2460.4
POP. PER HOSPTAL MM
TOTAL                           1790.0      1660.0      1560.0 /c         1066.5                  1044.2
URBAN                            510.0       650.0       710.0 Ie         298.0                   651.2
RURAL                          22850.0    12480.0      11860.0 1          5993.4                  2594.6
AIiISSIORS PER HOSPIL ED             ..          ..           .               ..                     27.0
AVERACE SIZE OF NDUSEIOLD
TOTAL                              5.4         5.3         6.1 /c
UKRBN                              5.6         5.5         6.4 /..
RURAL                              5.4         5.2         6.0 -c
AVERAGE NO. OF PELSOr/ROoE
rTOAL                              3.1         2.8 1
URUJN                              3.1         2.7 j        ....
RURAL                              3.1         2.811        ..                ..                     ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (: OF DIELIlGS)
TOTAL                                         17.9 /i
URBAN                               ..        54.4 It
RURAL                               ..         4.9 if



-32-                                              ANNEX I
TABLE  P                                        PACK 2
7AKIST1N              - SOCIAL DICATO ATA SNO
PAKISTAN                    REPUREiIM m   GOUPS (HEICETR  AVENACUS) 
MOST               0     0? RICENT ESTnA) f
RECENT          LOW IUCrI CIDDI INCORV
iffOI     P7Ok1970=    gSTDME     ASIA & ACC             ASIA & PACIFIC
ADJUSTE  EHEOLJIUTJIT ATIOS
P111MB?:  TOTAL                   30.0       40.0        56.0             97.4                   102.0
VALE                   46.0        57.0        78.0            110.5                  105.9
7uL1                   13.0       22.0         31.0             83.7                   U.2
SECOUMAT: TOTAL                  11.0        13.0        17.0             35.9                   4.0
KLM.                  1.0        20.0         27.0             44.6                   48.7
VUAE                    3.0        5.0          7.0             26.8                   43.1
V0eLATIosW. (2 OF SECONDART)        1.0         1.5         1.0 /c           2.2                   17.S
?UPL-TRAaNER IRATWI
P311KB?                          39.0        41.0        48.0             38.5                   31.8
s    _cou                        24.0        20.0        23.0 Lc          18.7                    23.5
ADULT LITEAY RAU (S)                15.4       20.7 /I     24.0 /c          53.4                    72.9
IASWICE  CARS/THOUSASD P0O          1.5         2.6         3.4              0.9                   10.1
RADIO RPcIT1USAIC 7OP               6.0        17.1        67.0            112.1                   113.6
Tv  cEvE S/Tou0s PoP                 ..         1.6         9.7             15.7                    50.1
ISPAPE  ('DAZ   CIIIEAL
INTREST") CIRCULATIO
PM 11EUSAD POPUTXON               13.2         ..        13.7 /c          16.2                    53.9
CIDMD4 ANNUAL ATZENDANCEICAI        1.7         3.0 /I.     2.2 /;           3.6                    3.4
TOL LIW Z C  (TOM)               14448.0    17364.0     25240.0
zKALE C(,R )                      8.6         9.3        10.5             33.3                    33.5
AGRICULTR (PERcE)                61.0        59.0        57.0             69.6                    52.2
lDSRY (PERCENT)                  18.0        19.0        20.0             15.8                    17.9
PARTICIPATION RATE C(PUCRT)
TOTAL                             31.5       28.7        29.0             42.6                    38.7
RAIZ                              55.2       50.4        49.3             54.7                    50.9
FPLRA                             5.7        5.5         6.0             29.0                    26.6
EC0NlIIC UPEIMCYr SATIO             1.5         1.7         1.8              1.0                     1.1
IE DZBRN_
PERCENT OF PRIVATE IaE
RECEIVED BS
RIXCGST 52 0F HOUSENDLOS          20.3 hk    17.6          ..               ..                    22.2
lUcUS  20% OF NOUNLas             65.3 a1 *1.8             ..               ..                   48.0
LOWEST 202 OF IDUSENOIIS          6.4 Jr      8.0          ..               ..                    6.4
LOWEST 602 OF eroUSESOLDS         17.5 J     20.2          ..               ..                    15.5
POUT TRPO
ESTIMATED ABSOLU  POVET INCU
LEVEL (11S5 PER CAPIT)
URUBA                              ..        68.0 II    176.0 tc         133.9                   188.6
uRAL                               ..        67.0       122.0 /_         111.6                   152.0
ESTD   mRTIVE PVRT ICURJ
L        (USS PER CAPITA)
uRBAN                              ..        34.0 lj J8.0 /S                                     In.9
RURAL                              ..        22.0 1      58.0I              ..                   164.6
ESTMAD POP. BW  ASOUTS
POVERTY INCOE MLEV  (Z)
URBA                               ,,        42.0 /I     32.0 /c          43.8                   23.4
RW@UR                              ..        43.0        29.0 /;          51.7                    37.7
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPCABLE
NOTES
/a  7A. group average for each  ildcator arm poputton-ul mi9bted erithetlc meann. Coverage of coantries amo  bhe
indicators depends on availablity of data and is not uiform
lb  Unlaes otherute  noted, 'Onta for 1960" refer to any year betueen 1959 and 1961; 'DatB for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; end data for 'Vost Recet  ntleate" betumn 19H0 and 1962.
/c  1979; d 1968; Je 1977; If 1976: /, 1975; /h Rqietered. not all practiciug In the cootry; It 1973; /J1972; h
1964.                                                                                           l17i
JKUE* 1984



*33,.           WI3 33.334    3       -At-3)33...4.I  1-  .nnte3
our3 433 39.~4               W.)333. .33334          .    " 333  P33333s
-43.43    -34-W3 o.3 1.319   3394 -ft             33   (.11-4     A-363 
34 W    o    4 _  33333 - 333333e3 -a  ~...a    3    333 e34   3.3
~~~~~~~Pd~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                           td*-~~~3 3-3*f3433  33)3  3349.3
1.34  N.W .-  on) m7n   -I ..'~~~~~ -1343333 334 3- 3  -                                        1334.   ..3-~.  -J333a  4q33.'   33
-1.P_JW  ~        ~       3       33344333)431   3133..3  .  *3.34.33
3.333s .933    .334    33343 9333434  33.3 I3.33 53)33 9_3.3-."3-
.a.4.  333333(14 93  333333 I 43-3                                                                 3393343n333               W.      .*4   3.333)343   3
.333)333 C333 3- ~)3&339 33:3.433-~                                    *a.~ean WA 33.43  33333 (35.  J3  W.-313  333  W..4 .   4-.11
". =1 M    _11:  1-  I'333333-34'*3.   333333333333-    .a.3
W                                                                           ...... .        W.-~~~~~~~~3              "33  33114-3-1443"7       333333
p333-. to3 33 (3C3Ss      - 63a.      .33.-33  a.r   3-34-33.3a.:3a                                               3*        9a -.P..  -   Mga    ..s    'e3_t-o..
ma.- (3*433  33333-JR  35334   33~333 .331333.333  3e33333                                          W3fl33
P    M-.  -   a   333.)5333  a.9)3  -33a.Ip Z333 33.3
333333 -o3al  ---    3333         .   333  333333   s..   3333                                    353 -333. 3*334  -  333.93333333W 3---33.-a --                          a
r..   .333 t - -   (335         ~    -~-           )83   3333   3333                                                 -   333   ~3%-333333,f                           43.
-51- .1        - ~ ~ 3333.33                                    -33  a4    31it.4313333J.3.3343.331                        a-314.
53 3334343333434 93. "333434   f 333334   .33 WI ( 3344"3334.3    333 l133933333   34-33  "3  333aa  4W 
3333934  3 93333  -(33   Aj3. 33  33 331 3-533 -.-ld3 j         34.                    3333333.333.  )31      59434)*~33433-3333.
3333.333343333303                                  33 33333 9P-3333 "333.   343333         a,3336   3
W                   -' ~~~~~~~!_=M. P ~~~~~~~~133= 1J  .3.35d At                           3.3*93  3333..-3.333a-3 .I93
"33-PW-3   333.333344033333   33.3333  93   3343-3- 393)33tj33a33399333-33
p33333313933  a3-        -J3333  33133W  -- 3333   343.9331  .33-30                         34.4.  333333l43   33333443.3333.   3
.-   TP-           331433434.3333.)                                  353W3      4333.33  33333393*-3--P493  -   33                        33-
33"33563333333333449-d                          43.333.P.03.33""S"9.  333  33 .I-.3333343333-33333. 3333.3. A                                                  933 .33.-,
Z33   33333a3333  3               33    33   33.   3353353333   333   3339.433-9330"    3343   )3339*3
34333.3.33     333 3 .33333  333   3  33   333  3.4s.a333334543.33.3    33333   334-93                                                            3.33333 33.
333333  .93  33333-W "33   3.333   333-         .3333  333333393..3MI                                      33333..43            Z"3.3) -3P.-  33333.s3..3
43330333334- 33-  93   333  3333   N3o.3". 333  333- I433                                                                                                    33MM3.9-  .
'"3539 33393(3193".3%33--3.39.333   .333404.   33333.  333
eas  "333  3333  3333  333 3  033.333  3     -, 3   3333   3333a)3                  335334343  .333393   3.331*9934.   3.393.3
3m- 33433433  333433.   333333..3 3-                        33343)on333 3. .3363'3.)3333.3333.33  339  3  33333                                        333 693.333 Mot34439d.
339343   -3r     3*3.    3333333333 -03343  3  3333593   934.334 .J.                                               .330 -   jse  a.33   3393333
3-  3)33   ~43335  33333. 3. .43  413  ~93  9333.33333)33334                           3.3333334  33 3.1         33339.W= = -
'3343 .333333333   33333.33  .a .3333 333.34-  333433 33.34  3343. .33'. 3933 . 33*"153331  3333;            3333,3.4493334I.3Po
PI poll-   -Ww_                                                                                                                   60~~~~~~~~~33  9313   333  -33.3344-   0    -3.q 33i  33
"3333333                     9333.3  a."033.33.4 -q 33          _..33334.33   33334-  3.43333    33-4333.3
a. am    63 33 933- 433 a-  333.43  3333Ia- .333                 ,Id                     Mo3333 -3- 3 -.3-3  -333  3A:3.33  33.333334331 333333  33433WI         3333
"3- 3333 R.    333333.33.433                       - 3334m9-W .933               53,I- a. )-P 3-3  .3 36333.9)  333P.3-- '3333.3 .333-4  3
'339   3.)        s.is  "'S  4 9 p  W 33 -333    -.3  .333333    -    33  33.            334     - 333     -3    WI33-9 a. a.a.03433
333)33   Won 93 _3 =393331-  O.33333W. 93p 3=3                                                              9                33339t f333t. 4 33a-r  .33    3333.3
-A 3933   33333.34                (33-W 3Sp             33   4333-a                          4499   33336333433393333.  9333PI333  33  33.1393
51- r-ft  --"W                    a3'3931333- 3W3-"333. W3333  34   3.33.3 33)33333o                                                                        3
333333333  433313         333  331 d 33333   3334  333          3333-   A.1. -S33334  333  3)31-p   3333333
3.3*3-333"333.3~r.39333  3.3.333  3533333333   33333433"339(_33 3_  a3 3..3  33333333
333  3)W..3 33.Wd         ftl3333t383  9333 p 43 - 311- '..33333 A        ~a..                  3   333-J 3   5-9343   13393 _33  93  *3434
---P 9.1-11 "               I  - I-3.34                         .33 0-,..3333 f     3333313...)  393.3..  3-   P-  T-"443  31 33333333
3-3334l 93 33333W.336i 3333   _l0a..a3   3.                            .  .3A3 3343.3343 433333333  933I33  . 3-3  343333r-3 333  3-
P.-%     l   1s3W.sW.. 4-33
33 9333333   1~33  33333- 54393)33  33 '   -J333. %-3333   ).33.334-                                           -P33  333 "93-
333333333  W        3-333W "-o  93 33433933343333363                                T M4 J3.33333.33334333343333333333W                                   .3
336033333 33334  3333a.3334 3333"3333133  333)3339373.433  3 3333333 P3333333Wd4)3.333333)33
0333313333  3333333   34393333  3 333333  333333333It3333             33  433343  94333  343333  333....33)_3W. 3  3.2333 P
9333334~33.3            1"43k  3333  33333433339343   3am.33.33.    3 UU
34       3333333   034.33333 (   3  3~                      33363  933333333333'3133  3313.35333  33  333 33  -3
433 3333333W3- 3933335P33- 33   3333   3341   3333                                             - W33334  33333  34439339   3.                              lob?6 v-133
33333333334)3333935843.  3 334  -4~J   f- 33.     .I3 3333  P3333-3363Q   -133  33 .-33                    -P33 333   43)333433 3   333a3  P3334    3
'-  13W'on  ftolv           3    335   -           33331.- 3C3WI.    -933.-.Pk 33 -33 W333330-33   -3333.3)34349333-..I3  . 
a~W..                                                                                            --3343  3333434    93 3  3.4 SJ 3333  33503.33 -333  9333   ..I-333 933333-33la33
p-S3 3   333 "333   p333  I.3 3333   on43334333d34-p93   33 3339 33.33.33333334 .33)
v""  0 ~     ~       ~       413143339)1f.3-3334~i(                                            43    43433433-433439                      33
Pt-AN  -101A                11              333333                   33  33343-93333                   3   .3-334"3338.343,.33
M".."M ALIM                      -363333  3   333          43   3  .333. 33343  33P33  33...Pft
p-                                                                                    al~*3.;.3.  0)3-o333   -"333   333o3 33d W3333339 34 -33  M34433333435  4.4 ~33-a 3-a   .33
3-   4~333333 ..13333    6333 a                            S333363,34333333333.8  "0333-3 43334333 .3333                433 - 3-3     -   3.-9   -f1l-t        -nrrLPP
~            % 3a            r3Mo  oPSI-I    "  -   W3333)3 mi 333333   33-333433n         3333a-     3a . 9363 3333-33)3(3 , .333333W  33.3-31  -a .3          I-ana
"'Maoo-po Jss"'33333on - 33343-344  33 gwm Po    u                    %moo33.3339IeMM                                            11.  2w -j uooI  -
3333343843333"'3333333433-or- 9133633p v   ."3.-39 333 3-  30343  33a3 333 _43                                              I-3 
33 W3 f3 34 333I3.30   4333e "M  "A    3.93P MI3331 333)333"          3-            l         3Al 9at        "'333343        Sp=34338334   33-33333)349.3."3333)9
s1f0~ M    I  o    m"     No  Mw    33 3333F   9333333333                               11      333337W   33333333=.=3331    33.3  33 333)3   333  333.4T  -on"3
E   gova                                                        00=1 34)mew m fi        (3. 3-333 T.3333333
xmw                                         _cE_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1hIi.5X.~i



-34-
Page 4
GROSS N        PRIQUL ODUCT IN 1982/83 &                         Aat. h 4-J.TfOF9YzX JL.moost           sunt micee2I
Us  buAllon.      -1          13L269=122125  ]251  i1    2Q1138  12.011} 2138 
GNP at mrket prices              33.07         100.0               3.5               6.8           3.8     7.3       5.6
Grose domestic investment         5.13          15.4              -5.5              4.0            9.4     9.0       3.4
Gross national saving             4.12          14.1              -2.1               6.9           5.0    20.3
Current account balance          -1.00          -1.7
Resource gap                     -3.18         -10.1
.
9TIMUM  LABR  ORE AMD PRODUCTIVITY I1 1983184
Value Added          Labor Force Lb         V. A. PWorker
1 Miallio    2.      tillion,   X_             Us$     Z_.
Agriculture                      6,679     24         14.1      53             474      46
Industry LS                      7,832     29         5.2       19           1,506    147
Services                        12.812     47         7.4       28           1721    169
Total/Average                 27,323    100         26.7     100           1,023    100
GOVERN1MNT _F'tCE
General Government Ld   _                        Federal Government
(&g  billon     ___    ofCGDP                   Ng   ioo   _          ,   of GDP
1983184 /e    1983/84  1979180-1983i84         1983/84 Le  j83/84  j9/8          4,
Current receipts                   73.2          17.4          16.6                 58.2        13.9         12.8
Current expenditures               71.9          17.1          14.9                55 9         13.3         11.4
Current surplus                     1.3           0.3           1.7                 2.3          0.6          1.4
Capital expenditures Lf            29.1           6.9           8.3                22.1          5.2          6.5
External assistance (net)           6.0           1.4           2.8                 6.0          1.4          1.3
MONEY. CREDIT AND PRICES
1976/77  M97I.h  1978972  192.9/8   1980/81  1981182  l982L83  1 83/84 La
(Rs billion)
Money and quasi  noney                51.7     63.7      76.5     90.7    103.5    113.6      146.0    162.5
Bank credit to public sector          29.5     34.3      43.1     48.1     54.1     60.1       71.4     77.8
Bank credit to private sector         30.1     35.7    42.7       50.6     58.7     70.9       86.9    105.6
(percentages or index numbers)
Money and quasi  oney as 1 of GDP    34.6      36.7      39.0     38.3     37.0      35.1      40.1     38.7
Consumer price index (1975/76-100)  111.8    120.5    128.5    142.2    159.8    175.3        183.7    199.0
Annual percentage changes in:
Consumer price index                  11.8      7.8       6.6     10.7     12.4       9.7       4.8      8.3
Bank credit to public sector          28.8     16.6      25.6     11.6     12.5      11.1      18.8      9.0
Bank credit to private sector         30.3     18.6      19.6     18.5     16.0      20.7      22.6     21.5
La  Provisional.
Lb  Does not include unemployed labor force.
jc  Includes manufacturing, mining, construction and electricity and gas.
/d  Consolidated revenues and expenditures of Federal and Provincial Governments (excluding Federal-Provincial
Government transfers).
Le  Revised budget data.
/f  Excluding principal repayments of loans.  Capital expenditures as defined in government budget include
certain current expenditures.



-35-
Page 5
112"1122  1222139  1391111  12311111  132#112  1232B                                   JL1iJJ 4L
(us$ million)
ftports of goods.  gF               2.107    2,955    3.461    3,052    3.416    3,440         Raw cotton                     302.3         12.4
Imports of goods. Nr8              _43      .5-15.9 3   JAB    .A622   J458    _L9fl           Cotton yarn                    210.7         8.6
Resource gap (deficit - -)        -2,371   -2.754   -3,005   -3,627   -3.172   -3,619          Cotton cloth                   252.3         10.3
Rice                          401.9         16.4
Interest payments                   -26:      -285     -357      -453     -421      -477       All other consodities        1,277 4       _th
Workers' remittances                1.395    1,748    2,097    2.225    2,886    2.737           Tot.l                      S,444.6        100.0
Other factor payments (net)           134      151      274       325       162      331
Not transfers                         .24    _._    __w   _" JJ            JJ   .--Jj
Balance on current account        -1.110   -1.140      -991   -1.530      -554   -1,028                  EXTERNAL 0E3T- JUNE_ 12f
Direct foreign invetent                ..       ..
Net NLT borrowing                                                                                                                   US$ million
Disbursements                      813    1.134       956    1,102    1.301    1,234
Amortization                     -        __ ..Q   _....fl__ 63U                 _951        Public debt, including guaranteed    9,141.1
Sub-total                          578       824      440       610      915       665       Non-guaranteed private debt if
Transctions with IWFL.               -14        78       315      358      413       -15          Totel outstanding and disbursed    9,141.1
Other items n.e.i. Lb                 238      600       546      364       337      296
Increase in reserves C-)             308      -362     -291       198   -1,111        62              DEBT_SERVICE RATIO_FOR 1382/83 Lf
Cross reserves (end year)Lf           3S6      748    1,039       841    1,952    1,870                                                   __S_
Official Cold (year end;
million ounces)                     1.8      1.8       1.8      1.8       1.9      1.9
Public debt, including guaranteed           11.2
Non-guaranteed private debt
ap4353 flit Nan an aa C5dTotal                                                                                                       11.2
Petroleum imports Ld                 530    1,079    1.535    1,710    1,610    1,419
Petroleum exports /d                  61       178      126       194       77        72
RATE OF  CEIIAGE                                                                            IBRD)IDA LENDING   J ng   819 5S vikLionj
=T=hxnzLDhsJt1] 1972 I                         9- 12  l97-F   15. 1973                                                      BD        IDA
USS1 - In 4.7619                        USS1 - Rs 11.00                            Outstanding and disbursed             353.5    1,105.7
Rs 1 - USSO.21                          Rs 1 - us$0.09                             Undisbursed                           114.7    _ 670.3
Outstanding including undisbursed   468.2    1,776.0
fYo  Feb. I  19_17-J1zn. 7  1982      F ra l19lIhJwaJlf   a              oo  ulx 182-June 1983   a        FrojJuly  398 -June 1984 LS
US1  I - Rs 9.90                       US$1 - Rs 10.55                 US$1 - Rs 12.75                     USSI - Rs 13.75
Rs  1 - US$0.10                       R  1 -  $SSO.095                 RS I - USS0.078                     Rs I - USSO.073
|n  Including Trust Fund.
Ak  Including net short-tern borrowing and errors and missions.
Lc Excluding gold reserves of about 1.8 million troy ounces.
1d  Crude and derivatives.
/e Non-guaranteed private debt service is nes1lgible.
f_ Ratio of actual debt service to exports of goods, non-factor services and worker-  remittances; debt service does not include
short-tern or UVI charges.
I&  Effective January 8, 1982. the rupee is being managed with reference to a weighted basket of currencies. The average
exchange rate shown is vis-a-vie US$ for the period shown.
Not available.
October 1984



-36-
hz-11
Page 1
STASOF bANMIQPgLzHATIONSJLEMIITM
A. STATD OFEMSJ4T  AN  DA CR                Ifl.In_L  Spte   oer30. 192 Is
(USS million)
Loan/                                                  Shswn  Dets1 cnst]inn1
Credit    Fiscal                                                               Undis-
Nynbu.    in. r        "." Ierk.  fW                                   31PA    buae
Ninety-five loans and credits fully diubursed Lb       781.4  32.0    960.8af
630       1976   Second Lahore Water Supply             -               26.6    0.2
648       1976   Irrigation & Drainage (Ehairpur)       -               s$.0    4.4
1366T     1977   Punjab Livestock Development           -      10.0     -       3.8
678       1977   Third Education                        -               15.0    3.5
751       1977   Hill Farming Tech. Development         -                3.0    0.1
754       1978   Salinity Control & Reclamation         -               70.0   67.0
813       1978   Punjab Ext. & Agric. Dev.              -               12.5    5.7
877       1979   Salinity Control & Recl. (Nardsn)    -                 60.0   54.4
892       1979   Primary Education                      -               10.0    4.5
922       1979   Sind Agricultural Extension            -                9.0    6.2
968       1980   Third  WAPDA Power                     -               45.0    8.9
974       1980   Third Highway                          -               50.0   24.4
1019      1980  PlICC Industrial Development            -               40.0    4.8
1109/e.   1981   Vocational Training                    -               25.0    9.8
1113kt   1981   Small Industries                        -               30.0    3 7
1157/e   1981   Grain Storage                           -               32.0   20.9
1158/e   1981   Agricultural Research                   -               24.0   17.0
1163kI   1981   On-Farn Water Management                -               41.0   15.8
1186/e    1982   Industrial Development (IDBP I1)       -               30.0   11.0
2122      1982   Fourth Telecomunication                40.0            -      20.4
2172      1982   Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation   38.5              -      30.8
2247      1983   Reservoir Maintenance Facilities       10.2            -      10.0
2305      1983   Agricultural Dev. (ADBP V)             10.0            -       7.4
2324      1983   Fifth Sui Northern Gas Pipelines       43.0            -      42.2
1239e    1982   Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation    -                  40.0  28.2
1243fL    1982   Baluchistan Minor Irrig. & Agr.        -               14.0   10.8
1256ke   1982   Technical Assistance                    -                7.0    5.1
1278ke   1982   Elevenrb Railway Project                -               50.0   41.6
1348/e   1983   Lahore Urban Development                -               16.0  14.8
1350fe   1983   Population                              -               18.0   14.9
1355Lk    1983   Coal Ehgineering                       -                7.0    6.5
1374/e   1983   Karachi Water Supply                    -               25.0   22.9
1375/e   1983   Fourtb Drainage                         -               65.0   59.3
1380/e    1983   Agricultural Development (ADBP V)    -                 47.8   21.3
2218      1983   Refinery Engineering Project           12.0            -       9.5
2351      1984   Petroleum Exploration                  51.5            -      51.3
2374      1984   Second Toot Oil and Gas Development  30.0              -      25.6
2380      1984   Industrial Investment Credit           50.0            -      49.9
1439e    1984   Industrial Investment Credit            -               50.0  47.2
146Le    1984   Integrated Mill Farming Development  -                  21.0   21.0
1480Le    1984   Second Technical Assistance            -                7.0    6.6
1487Lc    1984   Command Water Managesent               -               46.5   46.5
1499c    1984   Second Small Industries                 -               50.0   50.0
Total                                                1,066.6  42.0  1,962.2  909.9
of which has been repaid                           - 503.2   0.7  _  35.4
Total now outstanding                                  562.7  41.3  1,926.8
mount sold                   23.9
of which has been repaid    23.9                      - 
Total now held by Bank and IDAJA                       562.7  41.3  1.926.8
Total undisbursed                                      247.1   3.8    659.0  90.2
/a  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report
on all Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly
and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
Lb  Excludes the disbursed portion of loans and credits wholly or partly for projects
in the former East Pakistan whicb have now been taken over by Bangladesh.
IS  Not yet effective.
id  Prior to exchange adjustment.
k IDA Credits under the 6th Replenishment denominated in SDRs. The principal
is shown in USS equivalent at the time of negotiation. Disbursed amounts are
computed at the market ralte on dates of disbursements.
Lf  By using the market rate on dates of disbursements, the current principal
for Credit 1066-PA alnd Credit 1255-PAZ (both fully disbursed) is
$42.5 and $77.5, respectively.



-37-
ANNEX II
Page 2
B. STATEENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of Seitember 30. 1984)
Fiscal                                          Amount In US$  Million
Year   Obligor              Type of Business    Loan  Eciiti   Total
1958    Steel Corp of        Rolled Steel
Pakistan Ltd.       Produc-ts            0.63             0.63
1959    Adamjee Industries
Ltd.                Textiles             0.75    -        0.75
1962-   Gharibwal Cement
1965    Industries Ltd.      Cement              5.25    0.42      5.67
1963-   PICIC                Development
1969-                        Financing            -      0.52      0.52
1975
1965    Crescent Jute
Products            Textiles             1.84   0.11      1.95
1965-
1980-   Packages Ltd.        Paper Products     19.26    0.84    20.10
1982
1967-   Pakistan Paper
1976    Corp Ltd.            Paper               5.38   2.02       7.40
1969    Davood Hercules
Chemicals Ltd.      Fertilizers         1.00    2.92      3.92
1979    Milkpak Ltd.         Food and Food
Processing          2.40    0.37      2.77
1979    Pakistan Oilfields
Ltd. and Attock     Chemicals and
Refinery Ltd.       Petrochemicals      29.00   2.04    31.04
1980    Fauji Foundation     Woven Polypropy-
lene bags           1.78    -         1.78
1980    Premier Board
Hills Ltd.          Particle Board       2.70    -        2.70
1981    Habib Arkady         Food and Food
Processing          3.15    0.17      3.32
1982    Asbestos             Cement              4.05    -         4.05
t          1983    Pakistan Petroleum  Chemical and
Ltd.                Petrochemicals      86.05    1.56    87.61
Total Gross Commitments                163.24  10.97   174.21
Less: Cancellations, Terminations,
Repaymts and Sales              122.83    0.39    123.22
Total Comitments Nov Held by IFC        40.41   10.58    50.99
Undisbursed (including participants)    67.12   0.33    67.45



-38-
ANNEX III
Page 1
PAKISTAN
FOURTH WADPA POWER PROJECT
Supplementary Proiect Data Sheet
Section I:    Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:
20 months.
(b) Agency which prepared project:
Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA)
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and da-c of first
Bank mission to consider project:
June 1982; December 1982.
Cd) Date of departure of appraisal mission:
February, 1984.
-e)  Date of completion of negotiations:
May 16, 1984
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:
June 30, 1985
Section II:   Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Results of the CIDA-financed hydro ranking study to be
reviewed with the Bank by June 30, 1985, and priority
schemes, their sequencing and timetable for preparation
and development identified (paragraph 36);



-39-
ANNEM III
Page 2
(b) Consultants to be engaged to undertake formulation of a
national least cost plan for the power sub-sector; results
to be reviewed with the Bank no later than June 30, 1986
(paragraph 50);
(c) Necessary measures to be taken to reduce system losses by
21Z by June 30, 1988 (paragraph 52);
(d) Studies to be undertaken to: Ci) identify energy losses
and prepare program to reduce system-wide transmission
losses; and (ii) prepare an investment program for improv-
ing energy efficiency of thermal plants. Results of
studies to be reviewed with the Bank by July 31 and
June 30, 1986, respectively (paragraph 52);
(e) All Government arrears as at June 30, 1985 to be settled
(by Government) by December 31, 1985; all future bills to
be paid within three months of receipt (paragraph 79).
The following would be additional conditions of effectiveness
(paragraph 84):
(i) approval by ECNEC of the PC-1 document for the project;
and
(ii) granting the Chief Commercial Manager of WAPDA all the
powers of a general manager in all commercial matters.



hemMe       LAHORE RING              u s s R               L' .   k\EIN                ,/     40'\ -+'..                      hcuMinittb 
MUIIAN~~AL A SHI KAK         A2 r||4                 of ma                                                                        lotI |t c||vitc of    ASIOW/
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                                                             Voirm4d Fmvncer^  2  otpot77a NM 
_          _   ,                      v   _-t            ,@   'A9! >                                           of o, twidaty Lv an
/~~~~~~~~~~~~t                                   I N D IOtll A1 6



Fi's ),J A I \lv-/                             J- I 
/  QuEHA^ ~  9j                                             LTAN ,II S#IKARP  _UA
*'    U                                                                S /,      ANPWRSAIN              N
k}     ,8I,//I                                                     __ //RNMSSO               lE
,|'                                                I   .-R      |5:I - _-=           /20
-'        a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l
~HUZDAN                                                      'P               KS       A
1%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
~~'  V                   ~~~FOURTH  WAPDA  POWER PROJECT
26*                                        I    I                  9Wk  ,^  1   GTRANSMISSION  LINES
3rd POWER PROJECT 4i~
,. -                     K0           * i          (it                 * @                                 POWER SIATIONSS
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~XISIN                           PLA NE  COMPIOAD  P YROFOEDETI
DU,                                                                        TRANSMISSION LINES~~~~~~  , 
DA   (   1.  II(.                             -                             $00 kV
& <Mt(33O.*{'1;   % J J   ^ < '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ NUCLEAR
ONOJv  v  *   }//   \,    B        F                      -t-  NtERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
LAB  U~~~~~~~Lf~~~~ft~~~~~O  o  S                            1~~~~~00    0             Ik
A1 rao b I a n   ) @; o2y                      X       *        z       o           xoo         2900    ,    3020 KILOMETERS
S ea                        t                       .-                0                     sJ 100            200 MILE5tS
)9\$t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 13 kv2
66'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6 k ,'                   ,J     
3 -0  ..t)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F NUCEA
68                       70                                            74~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INENTIIA   O UDRE






