Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15228
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
FOURIH WAPDA POWER PROJECT
(LOAN 2499-PAK)
DECEMBER 29, 1995
Energy and Project Finance Division
Country Department I
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit            = Pakistan Rupee (Rs)
Appraisal Year 1984      = US$1.00 = Rs 13.48
Intervening Years 1990  = US$1.00 = Rs 21.45
Completion Year 1993    = US$1.00 = Rs 25.96
GOP AND WAPDA'S FISCAL YEAR (FY)
July 1 - June 30
MEASURES AND EOUIVALENTS
1 kilometer (km)               =   0.6214 miles (mi)
1 ton                          =   1,000 kilograms (kg)
=   2,200 pounds (lbs)
1 kilovolt (kV)                =   1,000 volts (V)
1 megawatt (MW)                =   1,000 kilowatts (kW)
1 megavolt-ampere (MVA)        =   1,000 kilovolt-amperes (kVA)
1 kilowatt hour (kWh)          =   1,000 watt-hours (Wh)
1 gigawatt hour (GWh)          =   1 million kilowatt hours (kWh)
1 kilovar (kVAR)               =   1,000 volt-ampere reactive (kVAR)
1 megavar (MVAR)               =   1,000 kilovolt-ampere reactive
(MVAR)
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ADP     -  Annual Development Plan
GOP     -  Government of Pakistan
PCR     -  Project Completion Report
PMU     -  Project Management Unit
QPR     -  Quarterly Progress Report
SAR     -  Staff Appraisal Report
SBD     -  Standard Bidding Documents
STG     -  Secondary Transmission and Grid
USAID   -  United States Agency for International Development
UNDP    -  United Nations Development Program
WAPDA   -  Water and Power Development Authority



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
The World Bank
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.SA
Otice of ihe Dociaor-Genml
Opamlions Evaluation
December 29, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Pakistan
Fourth WAPDA Power Project (Loan 2499-PAK)
Attached is the Project Completion Report (PCR) on the Pakistan Fourth WAPDA Power project
(Loan 2499-PAK, approved in FY85) prepared by the South Asia Regional Office, with Part II prepared
by the Borrower. The closing date was extended twice until December 31, 1992 by which time the loan
was fully disbursed. The project was cofinanced by the Asian Development Bank (ADB), Switzerland, the
U.K. and CIDA.
The objective of this eighth Bank operation in Pakistan's power sector was to improve sector
efficiency by helping WAPDA (the state water and power utility): (i) reinforce its transmission and
substation network; (ii) strengthen its investment planning capacity; and (iii) maintain sound finances.
To this end, the project included the construction of about 3,800 km of transmission lines and 6,400 MVA
of transformer capacity, studies (loss reduction, internal audit, and least-cost planning), and training of
accounting staff.
After an initial two-year delay in start-up due, inter alia, to insufficient local funding and
revisions in bidding documents, the project was satisfactorily carried out-indeed with a 10 percent
increase in the scope of its physical components and at a cost 28 percent lower than estimated at appraisal
(a consequence of the rupee's devaluation). Despite implementation delays due to shortages in counterpart
funding, difficulties in arranging cofinancing, land acquisition problems and slippages in bid preparation
and evaluation schedules, the project was successful in achieving its main objectives: network
reinforcement led to a decrease in system losses (from 25 percent in 1985 to 21 percent in 1991) and
allowed for energy sales to grow by about 10 percent annually in 1985-93; and WAPDA's financial
performance remained satisfactory overall, with the exception of a persistent Government arrears problem.
The project's ex-post economic rate of return is estimated at 7 percent (slightly above the appraisal
estimate of 6.2 percent), an indication that tariffs remain somewhat below marginal cost. The latter issue
is being addressed under subsequently-approved Bank projects.
Accordingly, and as in the PCR, the outcome of the project is rated as satisfactory, its
institutional development impact as moderate and its sustainabillity as likely. Bank performance is rated
as satisfactory as confirmed by the Borrower. Key lessons learned are: first, the importance of taking into
account prior project implementation experience in setting a realistic implementation schedule; and,
second, the need to agree with the borrower on a format for progress reports which makes them useful
management tools.
The PCR is of good quality: it is thorough in its analysis and provides most of the needed
background data (with the exception of the standard annex on studies). The project will be audited
together with subsequent loans made to Pakistan's power sector, as an input into a forthcoming OED study
of the Bank's experience with private sector development in the electric powe    or.
Attachment
|This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of their
s  ofcial duties. Ks contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
FOURTH WAPDA POWER PROJECT
(LOAN 2499-PAS)
Table of Contents
PREFACE
ZVALUATION  SUMMARY  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . i
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
1.      Project Identity  ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .... .        1
2.      Background  ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   ... .    1
3.      Project Objectives and Description .  .  .  .  . . . . . . .   2
4.      Project Design and Organization .   .   .   .   . . . . . . . . .   3
S.      Project Implementation .    .    .    .    . . . . . . . . . . . . .   3
Project Start-up and Implementation Schedule   . . . .   3
Project Revision....                                       4
Studies  .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  5
Project Costs....                                          5
Closing Date Extensions  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   5
Procurement....                                            5
Disbursements....                                          6
Environmental Aspects... .                                 6
Compliance with Loan Covenants   . . . . . . . . . . .   6
6.      Operational, Financial and Institutional Performance  . .   6
Operational Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   6
Financial Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   7
Institutional Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   9
7.      Sustainability and Economic Rate of Return  . . . . . . .  10
8.      Bank Performance  ........... ........    11
9.      Borrower Performance  ..........   ........   12
10.     Performance of Consultants and Contractors  . . . . . . .  13
11.     Project Relationship           ..13
12.     Project Documentation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
PART II - PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . . .  14
PART III - STATISTICAL INFORMATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  17
Table 1    Related Bank Loans and Credits   . . . . . . . . . . .  17
Table 2    Project Timetable . ..........                  ...        19
Table 3    Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements  . . . .  19
Table 4    Project Implementation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  20
Table 5    Project Costs and Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . .  22
A. Project Costs .22
B.  Project Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  22
Table 6  Project Results              .. .23
A. Direct Benefits   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  23
B. Economic Impact   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  24
Table 7    Key Covenants and Status of Compliance   . . . . . . .  25
Table 8    Use of Staff Resources   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  26
A. Inputs  ..................                         26
B. Supervision Missions  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  26
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
FOURTH WAPDA POWER PROJZCT
(LOAN 2499-PAR)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Fourth WAPDA Power
Project, for which Loan 2499-PAK in the amount of US$100 million was approved on
March 7, 1985. The loan to the Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA) was
signed on April 17, 1985, and declared effective on July 12, 1985. The original
loan Closing Date of December 31, 1990, was extended twice until December 31,
1992 by which time, the loan was fully disbursed and the project closed.
The PCR was prepared by the Energy and Project Finance Division, Country
Department I, South Asia Region, and by WAPDA. The former prepared the Preface,
Evaluation Summary and Parts I and III of the PCR, while WAPDA prepared Part II,
and provided most of the supporting data.
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final supervision
mission in December 1993.   Preparation of Parts I and III of the PCR was based
on, inter alia, information in the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan and Guarantee
Agreements, material on the project in Bank files and that provided by WAPDA. The
preparation was also based on discussions with the officials of the Government
of Pakistan and WAPDA during the PCR mission.
The generous assistance provided by those officials to the PCR mission
is gratefully acknowledged.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
FOURTH WAPDA POWER PROJECT
(LOAN 2499-PAK)
EVALUATION SU3KARY
Introduction
1.        This was the fourth Bank Group operation with the Water and Power
Development Authority (WAPDA), and the eighth in the country' s power sector.  The
loan, in the amount of US$100 million, for construction of transmission lines and
substations, was approved ten months after loan negotiations.  The delay was due
to two issues: the introduction of a revised or updated  financial covenant, and
the introduction of long run marginal cost as an objective for tariffs.  The
first one was eventually agreed and the second one was deferred for the future
(paras 2.5 and 2.6).
Prolect Oblective.
2.        The objectives were: (a) to improve the efficiency of power sector
operation by reinforcement of a part of WAPDA's transmission and substation
network; (b) to strengthen WAPDA institutionally, including its capacity to
formulate and implement the capital investment program; and (c) to ensure
financial viability of WAPDA (para 3.1).
ImDlementation ElDerience
3.        Project  implementation  took  three  years  longer  than  originally
envisaged for several reasons including: (a) a delayed start because WAPDA's
staff responsible for implementation activities were engaged in residual work on
an earlier project; (b) bidding documents, prepared in accordance with Bank
guidelines applicable under the earlier project, had to be changed in accordance
with the Bank's revised formats; and (c) budget allocations for the project,
especially during the initial three years, were substanitally lower than the
requirements of the project. Because of the start-up delays, no disbursement of
loan proceeds took place during the first two years (paras 5.1 and 5.2). The
physical components underwent some informal revisions during project
implementation and, as completed, the project was somewhat larger (about 15%-20%)
than that envisaged at appraisal (5.3). Total project costs, in 1993 rupees, are
estimated to be about 20% higher than the appraisal estimate, and about 28% lower
in US$ equivalent, and reflect in part the devaluation of the rupee from Rs
14.5/US$ in 1985 to about Rs 27/US$ in 1993 (paras 5.7 and 5.8).
Results
4.        The project was successful in meeting its objectives.   It enabled
WAPDA to transmit power and energy from generating plants to load centers with
improved system efficiency.   The facilities built under the project have
functioned generally satisfactorily.   They contributed to:  (a) reduction in
system losses, while the energy generated more than doubled during the project
period (1985-1993); and (b) extension of service to nearly double the number of
customers (para 6.3). WAPDA's financial performance during the same period was
generally satisfactory, and its internally generated funds have contributed
around 40%  of  its annual  capital  expenditure  (para 6.5).    The accounts
receivable, however, are still on the high side, and this is partly due to the
large amounts due from Government Departments and agencies, over which WAPDA has
little control (6.10).   The ex-post economic rate of return is estimated at 7%
which is close to that projected at appraisal. Other non-quantifiable benefits
included, inter alia, improvement in the quality of life and the standard of
living through the use of electricity; development of the local manufacturing,
supply and contracting industries; and an increase in industrial and commercial
activities which generate increased employment opportunities (para 7.2).



11
Sustainability
5.        The project, part of WAPDA's transmission system, has contributed to
improved efficiency of power transmission, extension of service to customers, and
reduction in system losses. The Government and WAPDA are committed to ensuring
the financial viability of the utility, as manifested by adequate tariff
increases, and the resulting satisfactory financial performance. In the
institutional aspects, WAPDA is a well-managed, technically competent entity. It
is therefore concluded that the project is fully sustainable (para 7.1).
Findings and Lessons Learned
6.        Implementation experience under this project was in many respects the
same as under previous Bank operations, in that project activities were
completed, and the loan disbursed, about three years later than the completion
dates envisaged at appraisal. The factors accounting for these delays were also
much the same--shortfalls in resources allocated for the project; delays in
project start-up (design and procurement activities were intiated about eight
months later than envisaged), and in procurement (substantial time was required
for finalizing bidding documents, as well as for the evaluation of bids by
WAPDA); and weaknesses in project management and reporting.   Nevertheless,
despite the delays, the project has made a significant contribution towards
enhancing WAPDA's grid system capacity to transmit power efficiently, and serve
the needs of a market that is growing rapidly, both in terms of the customer base
as well as the geographical area covered by the system.   As envisaged at
appraisal, basic and detailed designs were prepared by WAPDA, and generally
completed in a timely manner. The Bank loan was disbursed only for goods, while
civil works and erection costs were borne by WAPDA.
7.        Among the major lessons of this project for any future operations
therefore is the need for more carefully evaluating project objectives and
targets at the time of appraisal, to ensure that these are consistent with what
can realistically be achieved within the envisaged timeframe. In particular,
implementation schedules should allow adequate time for start up activities,
including the time required for procurement activities to be completed. At the
same time, WAPDA's administrative procedures should also be streamlined in order
to minimize the time that technical staff assigned to the project have to devote
to routine tasks. Finally, despite periodic attempts to address the issue, the
utility of progress reports as a management tool remains limited. These reports
should highlight project issues and identify corrective actions which have to be
taken by management; consequently the format and contents of such reports should
be critically reviewed during project preparation and appraisal, and agreement
reached on a format that achieves the intended objectives.
8.        Under subsequent operations, a number of actions have been taken by
the Government and the Bank to address the critical issues identified during the
implementation of the project, in particular those relating to the Borrower's
participation and role during the preparation and implementation of projects, and
shortfalls in budgetary allocation. Specifically, agreements have been reached
on (a) the preparation and annual review of a Core Investment Program of priority
projects, which would be protected from budgetary shortfalls; and (b) a National
Procurement Reform Program, including the adoption of model bidding documents,
based on the Bank's standard bidding documents for goods, works and consultants,
which are designed to address some of the procurement issues that have repeatedly
arisen during the implementation of Bank funded-projects.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
FOURTH WAPDA POWER PROJECT
(LOAN 2499-PAR)
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.        Proiect Identity
Project Name            Fourth WAPDA Power Project
Loan No                 2499-PAK
RVP Unit                South Asia Region, Country Department I
Country                 Pakistan
Sector/Subsector        Energy/Power
2.        Background
2.1       Responsibility for public electricity supply in Pakistan is assigned
to the Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA), a semi-autonomous agency
established in 1958. WAPDA operates throughout the country with the exception of
Karachi area, which is served by the Karachi Electricity Supply Corporation
(KESC). WAPDA is organized into two largely independent wings, one for power
activities and the other for water activities. WAPDA, as used in this report,
refers solely to the Power Wing which is responsible for planning, construction
and operation of power generation, transmission and distribution facilities
throughout the country with the exception of the area served by KESC (para 2.4).
2.2       In 1985, WAPDA's facilities included (a) installed generating capacity
of just over 4,000 MW (63% hydro and mainly in the northern part of the country,
and 37% thermal and mainly in the south); (b) about 19,000 km of transmission
lines at various voltage levels including 850 km at 500 kV; (c) 457 grid
substations with about 14,000 MVA of transformer capacity; and (d) a distribution
network (some of which was about 50 years old) amounting to about 145,000 km, at
11 kV and 440/220 volts. The energy generated in FY85 was nearly 19,000 GWh of
which about 73% was billed to approximately 4.5 million customers. The per capita
energy consumption was only 155 kWh, which was lower than that in other countries
in the region at a similar level of development.
2.3       Through the early 1970s, WAPDA investments--with international donor
support--was channelled largely towards increasing generation facilities.
Nevertheless, for most of the period including the present, the increase in
installed generating capacity had been inadequate to meet the rapidly increasing
power demand. This resulted in considerable load shedding, particularly during
the dry season. Furthermore, the system losses through the late 1970s had been
very high (around 35%). This is partly attributed to the old and overloaded
distribution system, and to inadequate, ad hoc investments in sub-transmission
and distribution systems. These systems transmitted power over long distances at
rather low voltages, and had inadequate step-down substations to reduce the
length of primary feeders.
2.4       Between 1955 and 1967, the Bank Group financed four KESC operations
for the development of generating facilities. Thereafter, the Bank Group became
involved in the Government of Pakistan's (GOP) program for strengthening power
transmission and distribution networks.   The first operation to WAPDA was in
1970, a second in 1976 and a third in 1979. A list of related Bank loans and
credits to WAPDA are detailed in Table 1, Part III. Implementation of the third
project (Cr. 968-PAK which in closed 1985) took about three years longer than
envisaged. Reasons for the delay included non-conformity of tender documents
with Bank guidelines; shortage of local finances; insufficient staffing of the
unit responsible for project management; and difficulties with land acquisition.
Overall, physical objectives were achieved (even though the reduction in system
losses was short of the target) and considerable progress was made in
institutional development. While WAPDA had met the requirements of the financial
covenant, it did not generate adequate funds from its operation because of a
deficiency in the formula for the covenant.



-2-
2.5       The fourth Bank Group operation with WAPDA forms the subject of this
PCR.   It was prepared in December 1983 by WAPDA's planning department, and
covered a four-year time slice of WAPDA's development program for the secondary
transmission grid network (para 3.2). The project was considered suitable for
a variety of cofinancing arrangements. From the Bank's position several issues
needed to be resolved, including (a) rectifying the deficiency in the formula for
the financial covenant; (b) introduction of long run marginal cost (LRMC) as an
objective  for setting WAPDA tariffs;  (c)  recruiting senior staff  in the
accounting department; (d) upgrading the status of the Commercial Manager; (e)
setting targets for reduction of system losses and accounts receivables;  (f)
reorganizing and upgrading the internal audit function; and (g) carrying out
several studies.  Negotiations took place on May 15 and 16, 1984, with agreement
on all the issues except (a) and (b), but there was the expectation that the loan
proposal would be submitted to the Board by June 30, 1984, provided agreement was
reached on the two unresolved issues.
2.6       There was misunderstanding and confusion within GOP and WAPDA on the
concept and application (including details) of LRMC. GOP was unwilling (a) to
agree to a binding covenant whose meaning and impact were unclear; and (b) to
commit itself to the revised formula for the covenant due to the perception that
it would call for immediate steep tariff increases because of the large increase
in investment. After much communication between GOP and the Bank, the revised
covenant was agreed upon, but effective from 1988. Following a Side Letter from
GOP confirming minimum capital expenditure for the next three years, and the
updated financial projections indicating that the tariff (under the revised
covenant) would be approximate to LRMC by 1990, the Bank agreed to defer the
implementation of LRMC. Following this agreement, the loan was approved by the
Bank in March 1985, signed in April 1985, and was declared effective three months
later (Table 2, Part III).
3.        Prolect Oblectives and Description
3.1       The objectives of the project were to: (a) assist WAPDA to implement
its ongoing program to reinforce the transmission network and thereby lead to
more efficient operation of the power sector; (b) continue with institution
building efforts initiated under earlier lending operations by strengthening
WAPDA's capacity to formulate and implement an investment program to improve
energy efficiency; and (c) build WAPDA into an institution which could borrow
commercially, rather than depend on loans from the Government which was already
faced with budget deficits.
3.2       The project, as approved by the Board, covered a four year time-slice
(FY86-FY89) of WAPDA's program for reinforcement and expansion of the secondary
transmission network, and comprised:
(a)  construction of about 3,815 km of transmission lines (280 km at 220
kV, 2,458 km at 132 kV, and 1,077 km at 66 kV) (para 5.5);
(b)  construction of 139 new substations, and reinforcement and extension
of a further 86 existing substations, resulting in a total installed
capacity of about 6,400 MVA (para 5.5);
(c) studies to: li) reduce transmission network losses; (ii) improve power
plant efficiency; (iii) strengthen WAPDA's internal audit; and (iv)
formulate a national least cost plan for the power sector (para 5.6);
and
(d)  training of WAPDA's accounting personnel (para 5.6).
3.3       The total project cost, including interest during construction, was
estimated at about Rs 8,900 million (US$614 million equivalent) of which Rs 3,421
million (about US$236 million) was the foreign exchange cost. Sources of project
financing were: Bank loan of US$100 million; anticipated cofinancing and
bilateral credits of about US$46 million equivalent; and the balance from WAPDA's
internal sources and from GOP. The loan was expected to be completed by June 30,
1990, and was scheduled to close in December 1990.



4.        Prolect Desian and Oraanization
4.1       As in previous Bank Group operations with WAPDA (Table 1, Part III),
this investment was made mainly for the development of the transmission system.
Specifically, the loan financed part of the equipment and materials required for
the reinforcement and extension of the secondary transmission network during
FY86-89. A Project Management Unit (PMU) comprising WAPDA staff, had already
developed substantial experience in the design and construction of transmission
lines and substations of up to 220 kV.   Preparation of basic and detailed
engineering work, specifications, bidding documents and bid evaluation reports
was carried out by PMU. Excavation, concreting, foundation laying, etc., was
done through contractors. Installation of equipment in substations, erection of
towers, and stringing of conductors in transmission lines was carried out by
WAPDA staff with assistance from contractors.   Testing and commissioning of
substations and transmission lines was carried out entirely by WAPDA staff.
5.        Prolect ImDlementation
5.1       Project  Start-up  and  Implementation  Schedule.    Following  loan
effectiveness in July 1985, project implementation experienced substantial
delays, mainly during the start-up, resulting in the actual completion taking
about three years longer than originally envisaged. The main reasons for the
delays were: (a) WAPDA did not start project implementation activities until (i)
the project was approved by the Executive Committee of the National Council in
April 1985; and (ii) loan effectiveness in July 1985, whereas the project
implementation schedule (which had been prepared about a year earlier) required
these activities to start in October 1984; (b) PMU (which had also been
responsible for the third project was hampered from working on the fourth project
by the residual work on the third project which took longer than expected partly
because of shortage of local funds (para 2.4); (c) bidding documents, which had
been prepared on the same lines as those prepared with Bank approval under the
third project were considered deficient and had to be modified substantially
(after much communication between WAPDA and the Bank) in order to comply with
Bank requirements; and (d) the perennial shortage of funding for the project
through the budget.
5.2       The problem with bidding documents persisted for a considerable time,
and well after the project start-up, until eventually WAPDA, with assistance from
a Bank mission, prepared a standard bidding document. A shortage of materials and
a GOP short-term ban on import of 11 kV switch gear contributed to further
delays. Other causes of delays were land acquisition and right-of-way problems,
security problems in some remote project areas and GOP insistence on the use of
national shipping lines for shipment of goods and consequent Bank refusal to
finance the freight element of the contract from the loan proceeds. Finally,
project implementation was also delayed in the initial years due to the shortfall
in budgetary allocations (relative to WAPDA's annual requirements for
implementing the project). As indicated in Table 1 below, only in FY90-91 were
the allocations close to what was required; by contrast, during FY87-89, the
shortfall in allocations ranged between 25-40% of the funding requirements of the
project.
Table 1: Annual budQetarv reauests and allocations
(Million Rs)
WAPDA                         Allocation as %
Year       Requirement   Allocation       of Requirment
FY87       1571           1175            75
FY88       1771           1018            57
FY89       1358           887             65
FY90       1300           129             95
FY91       1600           1543            96
FY92       1600           1340            84
FY93       2964           2318            78



-4-
5.3       Prolect Revision.  The detailed project description which was agreed
at appraisal provided only the number of substations which were to be
constructed, extended, augmented and converted: their voltage and transformer
capacity, and likewise, the length and the number of circuits of the transmission
lines and their voltage (para 3.2).  The specific substations and associated
transmission lines to be funded under the project were not identified by name or
location, nor were the target dates or the sequence of their construction, and
the expected load growth for even a selected number of proposed facilities.1'
5.4       A Bank supervision mission carried out by a consultant in October 1986
found that there was confusion concerning the project composition. Similar
confusion was found by the same mission on the third project (para 2.4) which was
then in the final stages of its completion.  After a detailed review of the
program, the mission and WAPDA jointly prepared a list comprising 231 substations
(with 4,718 MVA transformer capacity), and 3,300 km of transmission lines, as
constituting the project21. In retrospect, this confusion related more to the
list of items (substations, transmission lines, etc.) to be financed under the
Bank loan rather than the scope of the project.   In view of the project
components actually implemented, the list compiled by the October 1986 mission
represents the items/components financed under the Bank loan.
5.5       Table 4 of Part III provides details of the project components as
listed in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), and the actual components implemented
respectively. The number of substations installed was 422 (compared to the
appraisal estimate of 225); installed transformer capacity was about 8475 MVA
(compared to 7314 MVA at appraisal, or about 16% larger); while the length of
transmission lines installed was 3675 kms (or about 4% less than the appraisal
target of 3815 kms).   This indicates that physical implementation was on a
somewhat larger scale--around 10%--as compared to appraisal. Nevertheless, it
is noted that substantial changes were made in project components. For exammple,
only 91 new substations were constructed, compared to the appraisal estimate of
140; most of the activities actually carried out involved extensions and
augmentation of existing substations (285 versus 886 envisaged at appraisal); and
about 40% of the substations identified by the October 1986 mission were
eventually  replaced  or  substituted.3/   Similarly,  while  the  length  of
transmission lines constructed was close to that appraised, around 1600 kms (more
than two and a half times the appraisal target of 600 kms) carried double
circuits. Several Quarterly Progress Reports (QPRs) were not available in the
Bank filing system; and some of them were not available to the PCR mission during
the country visit. The available QPRs are deficient in information necessary to
monitor implementation progress, and to compare the actual and projected
Large sub-transmission and distribution projects can rarely be designed or
determined with precision at the time of their appraisal, and generally
undergo some changes and/or substitutions of the original components (due
to changes in the envisaged long-term load growth) during their
implementation, without having to go through the process of a formal Bank
approved revision. However, this makes it more difficult to evaluate the
project at its completion, particularly in terms of the components of the
project (as designed) which were actually implemented.
According to the supervision mission report, WAPDA had agreed:  (a) to
ensure that any subsequent changes in the above list of substations and
transmission lines would be recorded in the next Quarterly Progress
Reports, with reasons for the changes. The mission had also pointed out
that the reports were bulky with unnecessary detail but lacked the
important information of comparing the progress achieved with the original
or the revised estimate.   To overcome this problem the mission had
prepared an outline for progress reporting, which WAPDA had agreed to
carry out in the future.
2/    It is not clear from the appraisal documents whether substations that were
scheduled for more than one activity, e.g., extension and conversion, were
counted separately under each activity.



-5-
implementation progress. Furthermore, QPRs do not provide any explanation for
changes in the project components.
5.6       Studies.  The four studies required under the project--para 3.2 (c)--
were carried out. Consultants financed by USAID submitted a report identifying
the sources of losses in the distribution networks, and outlining a detailed work
program to reduce those losses. A national, least-cost plan for the expansion
of the power sector was prepared by consultants funded by UNDP (along with WAPDA
staff), with the Bank as Executing Agency.   Consultants prepared a report
identifying the potential for rehabilitation and retrofitting of the existing
thermal capacity; this report formed the basis for the Bank financed Power Plant
Efficiency Improvement Project (Ln. 2792-PAK: approved 1987; closed 1994). The
study on internal audit led to reorganization of the department (para 6.14).
WAPDA has a training program which includes training of accounting staff (para
6.16).
5.7       Proiect Costs.  The appraisal estimate of the base cost of the project
was Rs 6,993 million  (US$482 million equivalent).   With contingencies and
interest during construction (IDC), the total project cost estimate was Rs 8,900
million (US$614 million equivalent), of which about 38% was foreign cost. A Bank
supervision mission in 1992 reported that during project implementation, actual
expenditures on the project were not maintained separately from WAPDA's overall
expenditures on the transmission program.   On the basis of the cost and
expenditure information complied after project completion, the final cost of the
revised project is determined to be Rs 10,684 million (US$441.9 million
equivalenti'). Estimated and actual costs are shown in Table 5 of Part III.
5.8       These costs amount to an increase of 20% in rupees, while in foreign
currency terms the project cost shows a substantial saving (about 28%). While
the saving in foreign currency terms can be partly explained by the substantial
devaluation of the rupee (from Rs 14.45/US$ in 1984), the appraisal year, to Rs
27.4/US$ in 1993, the year of completion, the relatively modest increase in local
currency terms is more difficult to reconcile, particularly when account is taken
of the fact that (a) the period of implementation was a time of relatively high
inflation in the country; and (b) the final outcome of the project was larger
than envisaged.  A precise comparison between actual costs and the appraisal
estimate cannot readily be made because of signfificant changes in project
components; nevertheless, implementation over an 8-9 year period (compared to the
appraisal estimate of five years) as well as the enhanced scope is expected to
have resulted in a larger increase in project costs in local currency terms. On
the basis of information provided to the Bank, and assuming that the final cost
of the revised project is reasonably accurate, the only conclusion that can be
drawn is that the original cost estimates were on the high side.
5.9       ClosinQ Date Extensions.  The loan was scheduled to close on December
31,  1990.    Because  the start-up  of project  implementation  had  suffered
significant delays, successive Bank supervision missions had reported that
project completion would be delayed by well over a year.  The missions also
expressed concern about the shortage of local funding which was likely to cause
further delays. Following a 70% increase in GOP allocations for the project, and
a request from GOP and WAPDA, the Closing Date was extended first to December 31,
1991, and a second and final time to December 31, 1992 after completion of most
of the project components.
5.10      Procurement.  Individual contracts for equipment and material financed
from the loan, and estimated to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent (but
collectively not more than US$0.5 million), could be procured under limited
international bidding procedures, while all contracts estimated to cost over
US$0.25 million required prior Bank review of bidding documents and evaluation
reports.  As stated earlier (para 5.1), project implementation was considerably
On project completion the annual expenditure in Rupees was converted to
US$ at the prevailing average exchange rate for that year. Since most of
the project components had been completed by December 31, 1992, no further
extension was deemed necessary. The loan account was, however, kept open
a few months beyond this date to effect payments for goods/services
provided or performed by December 31, 1992.



- 6 -
delayed because the bidding documents prepared by WAPDA did not conform with the
Bank's revised formats for Standard Bidding Documents (SBDs), and preparation of
SBDs took some time.  Based on the available documentation, the average time
taken from bid opening to the award of the contract (including Bank acceptance
of the proposed award) is estimated at about 14 months, which is a rather long
time.  Complaints were also reported from some equipment manufacturers about
WAPDA's bidding documents and the subsequent evaluation.
5.11      The equipment and materials financed under the project were split into
73 contract packages, and generally procured under international competitive
bidding (ICB) procedures in accordance with Bank guidelines. Of the 73 contracts
(total value: US$100 million equivalent) put out for ICB, 25 contracts (valued
at about US$33 million or about 33% of the total) were awarded to local suppliers
or manufacturers.   By contrast, under the third project, Cr 968-PAK,  local
manufacturers were awarded contracts valued at about US$18 million--or about 25%
out of a total value of US$72 million.   One could conclude that the local
industry was  fairly competitive  in the  field of transmission  towers  and
conductors, and where the size of the contract package was within its
manufacturing and supply capability.   The splitting of the equipment into a
relatively large number of packages increased the workload on the PMU, and
probably also made it more difficult to rationalize or standardize the equipment.
It   did,   however,   promote   participation   from   the   smaller,   local
manufacturer/supplier and thereby contributed to the development of local
manufacturing industry.
5.12      Disbursements.  Because of substantial project start-up delays, there
was a large lag between the actual and the estimated disbursements.   No
disbursements took place during the first two years, i.e, through June 1987,
compared to US$43 million estimated.  Once the project was underway however,
disbursements picked up momentum and by December 31, 1990, (the original Closing
Date), 80% of the loan proceeds had been disbursed. Thereafter, the disbursement
pace slowed down, and it took an additional two and a half years for the
remainder of the amount to be fully disbursed, with the last disbursement taking
place on May 28, 1993.
5.13      Environmental Aspects. The sites for new substations were generally
selected in relatively less inhabited areas or in the more remote parts of the
population centers. The routings for the transmission lines were also generally
selected so as to minimize transgression into the populated areas or infringement
on  forest  land.   As  a result,  there were no  environmental  problems  of
significance, nor were there significant issues regarding relocation or
resettlement of people affected by the project. WAPDA, with Bank support under
the Power Sector Development Project (Ln. 3764-PAX, approved in June 1994) is in
the process of establishing an Environmental Management Unit to develop, with
initial assistance from foreign experts, in-house expertise in dealing with
environmental issues particularly in view of the large investments planned.
5.14      Compliance with Loan Covenants.  The key institutional and financial
covenants introduced in the Loan Agreement and the extent to which they were
complied with are listed in Table 7 of Part III. The Borrower complied with the
main financial covenant--5.04 (a) which required an annual internal contribution
of 40% towards an averaged capital expenditure. The Borrower also complied, but
three years later,  with the covenant 4.07 (a) which required a reduction in
system losses to 21% or lower by June 1988. The reduction of accounts receivable
fell short of the targets.
6.        ODerational. Financial and Institutional Performance
ODerational Performance
6.1       Pro-ect Results.   Since their commissioning,  the substations and
transmission lines constructed under the project have functioned generally
satisfactorily. The problems which arose were generally of a minor nature and
were resolved without adversely affecting the transmission of power.5a    The
Line trippings did take place on several occasions. In order to minimize
such trippings arising from pollution and fog accumulation on the discs,
some discs were replaced with fog type insulators.



-7-
availability of these facilities, excluding routine maintenance, has been around
100%. The facilities built under the project were designed to meet the growth
in load for the next few years. A comparison between the actual load growth and
that envisaged is not possible because the figures for the latter were not
provided in the appraisal documents nor in the Quarterly Progress Reports when
project revision was carried out and some of the components were replaced or
substituted (para 5.3 and 5.4).
6.2       Some project substations, particularly those where the capacity was
extended through the installation of one or more transformers, ended up with
functionally similar equipment from different manufacturers (e.g., two or more
transformers, each one not necessarily from the same manufacturer, and likewise
for other equipment such as switch gear and relays). Although this situation
caused difficulty with standardization of the equipment and created the need to
carry a larger total inventory of spare parts, WAPDA staff adjusted
satisfactorily in the operation and maintenance of technically similar equipment
from different manufacturers.
6.3       Achievement of Project Obiectives.   The project was successful in
achieving its objectives. It enabled WAPDA to transmit power and energy from
generating plants to the load centers with improved system efficiency. Between
FY85 and FY93, WAPDA's overall operational performance was satisfactory.  Its
generation and sales of energy more than doubled, representing an average annual
growth rate of about 10% compared to the GDP growth rate of 5.6% during the same
period. Gross assets in operation and total fixed assets (in historical costs)
nearly quadrupled, installed generating capacity nearly doubled, the length of
its transmission lines and the number of grid stations increased by about 30%,
and the transformer capacity nearly doubled. The number of electrified villages
more than doubled, the number of connections nearly doubled, and per capita
consumption increased by about 80%. More importantly, the industrial sector's
consumption has more than doubled, reflecting sustained high growth in industrial
output and investments; these developments also have secondary benefits such as
increased employment and exports. The project, part of a continuing program of
power system reinforcement and rehabilitation has helped to reduce total system
losses from 25% in 1985 to around 21% since 1991. The losses are still on the
high side, and the problem is being addressed under follow-on Bank operations
(Table 1, Part III) as well as from operations financed by other donor agencies.
WAPDA has installed a significant MVA capacity, and has also been promoting or
inducing the industrial consumers to invest in capacitors and thereby raise the
power factor, which would improve the system efficiency and reduce the overload
on the system.
6.4       WAPDA's performance compared to the appraisal estimate has also been
generally satisfactory. Annual generation and sales of energy during the most
recent years exceeded the appraisal estimate by about 10%. The actual computed
maximum (or peak) demand during the last three years has been lower than that
projected, but the unmet demand (or load shedding) has also been lower. Table
6 Part III provides a comparison between the appraisal estimate and actuals based
on key indicators.
Financial Performance
6.5       WAPDA's financial affairs are governed by the WAPDA Act of 1958 which
requires the utility to operate along commercial principles and to generate
sufficient revenues from electricity sales to cover operating costs and achieve
a reasonable return on investment. To ensure that adequate funds are available
for the implementation of WAPDA's investment program, WAPDA has agreed under
ongoing operations with the Bank on an Internal Cash Generation (ICG) covenant,
which requires WAPDA to generate annually from internal sources at least 40% of
its capital expenditures, averaged over the previous, current and ensuing year,
taking into account changes in working capital.   WAPDA is also required to
consult with the Bank before incurring new debt should it be unable to maintain
a debt service coverage of at least 1.5 times. WAPDA's tariffs are set to ensure
that these two financial objectives are met. By and large, WAPDA has achieved
these financial performance targets satisfactorily since FY85.
6.6       Past and Present Financial Performance.  Table 6, Part III provides
a comparison between appraisal estimates and actual performance for selected
financial indicators during FY85-93, while Table 2 below provides a summary of



WAPDA's financial performance during FY89-94:
Table 2:  WAPDA'S FINANCIAL RESULTS, FY89-FY94
KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS  ] FY89 J  FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93 J  FY94
kWh Generated (Millions)       28898   31427   34345  380687   40791   42396
kWh Sold (Millions)            21982   24121   26584   29267   31272   32131
Average Revenue/kWh Sold (Rs)   0.944   1.057   1.165   1.268   1.262   1.408
Increase in Average Revenue (X)  13.9   12.0   10.2    8.8    0.0    11.6
Operating Revenues (Rs/kWh Sold)  .98   1.09   1.19    1.29    1.28    1.42
Operating Expenses (Rs/kWh Sold)  .59    .61    .70    .78    .80    .96
Net Operating Income (Rs/kWh Sold)  .39    .48    .49    .51    .47    .46
Investment Program (Rs Million)  14815   16764   16030   24804   22310   25591
Internal Cash Generation CX) -3Yr. Ave.   41.2   40.7   47.3   50.0   44.5    27.8
Current Ratio                    1.9    3.3    2.1    1.7    1.3    1.0
Rate of return on Ave. Net Fixed Assets Ct)..  18.7  20.8  19.0  19.2  18.6  20.8
Debt Service Coverage Ratio      1.8    1.8    1.5    1.6    1.4    0.9
Debt:Eguity Ratio              57:43   58:42   57:43   56:44   57:43   56:44
a/ un nistorical cost basis.
6.7       WAPDA's  overall  financial  performance  during  the  period  was
satisfactory.  Average revenue has steadily increased from Rs 0.94 in FY89 to Rs
1.45 in FY94. WAPDA's self-financing performance has also been satisfactory with
the ICG averaging about 43.8%, above the covenanted 40% level during the period.
Operating revenues increased from Rs 0.98/kWh in FY89 to Rs 1.48/kWh in FY94
representing an average annual increase of 8.6%, while operating costs increased
at an average annual rate of 7.8% during the same period (from Rs 0.59/kWh to Rs
0.86/kWh). The faster increase in operating revenues than the operating costs
is due to a higher recovery of fuel costs through increases in the fuel
adjustment surcharge rate beginning in FY90, and increased efficiency through
gradual reduction of losses.  Thus, net operating income as a percentage of
operating revenues increased from 39% in FY89 to 42% in FY94. As a result, WAPDA
earned a satisfactory rate of return on net fixed assets during the period (18% -
23%). WAPDA's assets are valued at historical book values, which is the normal
practice of public corporations in Pakistan.   With average inflation rates
running at about 8 - 11% during the period, WAPDA has been achieving rates of
return well above inflation.
6.8       Although WAPDA's current ratio was also satisfactory, exceeding 1.3
during the period, WAPDA's debt service coverage has been gradually declining
from 1.8 times in FY89 to 1.4 during FY93 and projected in FY94. The decline is
due to several factors, including increases in short-term borrowing to meet cash
flow requirements resulting from a build-up of accounts receivable, inadequate
sinking fund appropriations for WAPDA's first bond issue which was retired in
FY93, and WAPDA's increased cost of debt.   WAPDA's debt-equity ratio, however,
has remained at satisfactory levels at about 55:45. In future, there is a need
to monitor WAPDA's debt-servicing capacity in order to avoid expensive short-term
borrowings, as well as its efforts towards receivables collection, as overall
receivables have increased from 22% of total sales in FY92 to about 24% in FY93.
Finally, WAPDA continues to pay hydroelectric profits to the provinces.
6.9       Domestic Borrowing.  WAPDA's local debt has comprised mainly of bonds
issued in the local financial markets.  WAPDA raised Rs 16.9 billion in four
successive bond issues between FY88-92.  The first three issues were in the form
of bearer certificates, which could be encashed before maturity.  Therefore,
WAPDA has set up a sinking fund to make provision for payments for such
conversion of bonds and thus moderate the tariff increases required.
Furthermore, beginning in FY93, the Federal Government no longer guaranteed the



- 9 -
domestic borrowing of public corporations which could affect prospects for
refinancing the bonds as they become due. Although the long-term objective of
WAPDA is to borrow its local financing requirements on the basis of its own
credit rating and trading profile, prudent financial management requires WAPDA
to continue to maintain a sinking fund.
6.10      Accounts Receivable.  The level of WAPDA's overall accounts receivable
has been increasing over the past three years, from 22% of sales in FY92 to 24%
in FY93. *As of June 30, 1993 total receivables amounted to Rs 10.7 billion of
which Rs 2.3 billion (22%) have been outstanding for more than three years (see
Table 3 below). Under the ongoing Rural Electrification Project (Ln. 3148/Cr.
2078-PAK, 1989), WAPDA agreed to carry out an aging analysis of its accounts
receivable, and reflect on its balance sheet only receivables outstanding for
less than three years and deemed collectible. However, while WAPDA is reviewing
its accounts receivable of over three years to determine which ones are
uncollectible, its balance sheet has yet to be adjusted.
Table 3:  WAPDA'S AGING OF RECEIVABLES AS OF FEBRUARY 1995
Up to       1-3       over
1 year      years    3 years        Total
Rs  Million       5,234      4,778    4,821        14,803
t of total         35.4       32.1      32.5         100
6.11      At the end of December 1993, overall receivables had increased to 29%
of total sales, and excluding electricity duty, hydroelectric surcharge and
income tax, which are items that WAPDA collects on behalf of the provincial and
federal governments, the overall receivables amount to Rs 12.7 billion sales.
The overall accounts receivable of WAPDA (excluding the duties) and surcharges
represent about 3.5 months average sales. While receivables from private sector
consumers, amounting to about Rs 8.6 billion, represent 2.7 months average sales,
those from government departments and agencies, amounting to Rs 3.8 billion were
equivalent of 5.1 months sales.  Under the ongoing Bank loans, GOP agreed to
ensure that all federal and provincial government departments and agencies would
settle all bills for the supply of electricity within three months.   WAPDA
presented its case with respect to government receivables and arrears to the
Cabinet in November 1993, which took several important decisions providing for:
(a) recovery of arrears from provincial governments through budgetary releases;
(b) deductions at source for all arrears for Salinity Control and Reclamation
Projects, irrigation, tubewells of Punjab and Sindh; (c) withholding of payments
due by WAPDA to the federal government, provincial departments and local bodies
for adjustment against arrears; (d) disconnection of local bodies at the
provincial level with arrears; (e) deduction at source by provincial governments
of electricity arrears of local bodies from subsidies due to the local bodies,
and (f) monthly reporting of status of arrears to the Economic Coordination
Committee through the Ministry of Water and Power. These decisions are now being
implemented by WAPDA. As a result, the government has agreed that about Rs 2.5
billion of receivables from Government departments and agencies would be adjusted
against amounts payable by WAPDA to the government in FY94. And at the end of
FY94, it is expected that the receivables from government will be within the
covenanted level of three months' sales.
Institutional Performance
6.12      Management. Professionals and Other Staff.   WAPDA's managerial and
professional staff is well qualified and competent. The professional staff have
particular expertise in the technical areas, e.g., design of transmission (up to
220 kV) and distribution systems, operation and maintenance of generation plants,
transmission lines and substations and other equipment. The institution, which
in the past has been somewhat over-staffed at the lower levels (particularly in
the distribution department which, it is estimated, accounts for over 70% of the
total employees), has made some improvement over the years. This is manifested
by the increase in the conventional efficiency ratio of number of consumers per
employee (defined as total employees in the Power, Water and Finance Wings) which
has increased from 42 in 1985 to 53 in 1993.



- 10 -
6.13      Financial and Accounting Aspects.  Following the recommendations from
a study by consultants in 1982, WAPDA adopted a decentralized accrual-based
accounting system. It has about 400 accounting units distributed over the entire
country.    The  department  has difficulty  in attracting  trained accounting
personnel in the distribution areas. This shortcoming, together with the manual
system of maintaining accounts in those areas cause delays in the submission of
information for management, and in the preparation of accounts. Under the Bank
financed Rural Electrification Project,6 WAPDA availed the assistance of an
Irish consulting firm to provide training to accounting staff, and to design and
implement automation of accounting and financial management information system.
6.14      Internal Audit.  As required under the Loan Agreement, WAPDA engaged
a consortium of foreign consultants and seconded two of its staff (one a former
WAPDA Chief Auditor and the other a Deputy Chief Auditor) to design a modern
system  of  internal  auditing  (para  5.6).    The  consultants  submitted  a
reorganization plan,  the salient features of which were:  (a) upgrading the
position of Chief Auditor to that of General Manager; (b) establishing new
Sections for System Control and Data Processing and for training coordination;
(c) Special Audit; and (d) upgrading of Regional Audit Offices, and Policy
Procedures.   Following  WAPDA  management   approval   of   the  consultant's
reorganization plan, the consultants carried out a review of audit procedures and
developed manuals for the implementation and functioning of the internal audit.
Most of the proposals and recommendations in the manuals have been approved by
WAPDA management, and have been implemented. The Audit Division carries out a
number of investigations on various relevant issues and problems, and its
recommendations are generally implemented.
6.15      External Audit.  The Auditor General of Pakistan (AGP) is responsible
for auditing WAPDA's annual accounts.   So far,  the audited accounts have
consistently taken a few months longer than the target (six months from year end)
stipulated in the loan covenant because of delays in the flow of information and
the lack of an effective internal audit system. The delays are expected to be
gradually eliminated after the completion of the automation of the accounting
system and with the reorganization which has taken place in the internal audit.
The observations made by AGP on WAPDA's FY90 financial statements included
deficiencies such as lack of reconciliation of material account balances, and
lack of supporting detail to certify revenue accounts.
6.16      Training.   WAPDA has a comprehensive  training program,  with  11
training establishments located in eight cities, to meet the needs of managerial,
professional,  technical  and accounting  staff.  Between  1986  to  1992,  the
establishments have collectively provided training to approximately 76,000 staff,
from officers in grades 17-20, supervisors in grades 11-16, and staff in grades
5-10. In addition, staff have received training overseas.
6.17      The PCR mission understood from managers and senior staff of the
training department, that several of their establishments need to be better
equipped, in terms of improved practical training facilities (tools, equipment
and plant), libraries, laboratory equipment, and audio and visual equipment. It
would also appear that staff training needs more attention and commitment from
the management. In order to emphasize this aspect, it was felt by the training
department managers that there was need to make completion of relevant training
courses one of the requirements for promotion to a higher grade.
7.        Sustainability and Economic Rate of Return
7.1       Sustainabilitv.    The  project  formed  a  vital  part  of  WAPDA's
transmission system. It contributed to reduction in system losses, to an increase
in the number of connections, and to improved efficiency in the transmission of
a two-fold increase in power and energy from the generating plants to the load
centers. GOP and WAPDA recognize the need for the utility to remain financially
viable, and to make a reasonable contribution to its capital expenditure. These
are manifested by GOP commitment to the cash generation covenant, and by the
increases in WAPDA tariffs and fuel adjustment surcharges, which have been
generally adequate and timely. The tariffs and fuel adjustment charges
6/        Ln. 3148/Cr. 2078-PAK, approved in 1989 with a closing date of
December 1995.



- 11 -
cbllectively are now moving towards long run marginal costs. Institutionally,
WAPDA has also improved; it is generally a well-managed, technically competent
utility.   A significant activity where the performance has been less than
satisfactory is the continuing high level of accounts receivable, contributed
largely by the amounts owed to the utility by some of the Government departments
and agencies, and where the utility has very little control. Overall, however,
it is concluded that the project is fully sustainable.
7.2       Economic Rate of Return (ERR) .  The SAR correctly determined that
while the project was expected to play a vital role in ensuring optimal
development and operation of WAPDA's system, its benefits could not be isolated
from those of generation and distribution; therefore, the ERR on WAPDA's total
program in generation, transmission and distribution for the period 1984-1990 was
used as a proxy for the ERR for this project. The ex-post ERR, determined on the
same lines, and using only WAPDA's average revenues from the sale of electricity
as a proxy for the benefits of the project, is 7% (Table 6, Part III), about the
same as the appraisal extimate (6.2%).
7.3       The above ERR does not take into account the following benefits, some
of which are not readily quantifiable: improvement in the quality of life and the
standard of living through the use of electricity; development of the local
manufacturing, supply and contracting industry; and increase in industrial and
commercial activities (para 5.11) and the employment opportunities which these,
in turn, created. Alternatively, the ERR derived by using only WAPDA's existing
tariff as a proxy for project benefits understates the economic value of
electricity, which in Pakistan is deemed to be considerably higher. Given the
shortage of electricity, many industrial and commercial consumers have installed
their own standby generation facilities. The above ERR thus does not account for
the consumers' surplus, based on the consumers' willingness to pay for
electricity.
8.        Bank Performance
8.1       Twelve supervision missions were undertaken with reasonable continuity
in staff. Although frequency of the missions was adequate, mission staff had a
large agenda which included supervision, preparation and appraisal of other
projects. Discussions with WAPDA staff suggests that Bank supervision missions,
pressed as they were with a number of activities related to other projects as
well, did not have much time to visit project sites and to meet with WAPDA
officials in the field, nor to provide the detailed assistance they might have
needed.   The supervision missions were effective, however, in resolving complex
issues. For example, procurement issues emerged often and required substantial
attention.  In this regard, the Bank assisted WAPDA in the eventual preparation
of standard bidding documents (SBD) which contributed to the reduction in the lag
time between preparing bidding documents and procurement.  In another effort to
expedite WAPDA's procurement process, the Bank organized a Procurement Seminar
in Lahore in February 1987, which was attended by power entities and others,
including those from the energy sector. The Bank also intervened with GOP on
behalf of WAPDA for reinstating the cut-backs in GOP funding for the project.
8.2       Finalizing the cofinancing arrangements which were incomplete at the
time of loan signing, took an unduly long time. While Bank supervision missions
pressed WAPDA to finalize the arrangements, the Bank was unable to play any role
in inducing the prospective cofinanciers to expedite action.
8.3       WAPDA did not record in its final accounts expenditures on this
project separately from the expenditures on the overall investment program for
thermal generation. However, accounts were maintained separately for the project
as part of the detailed accounts. For a utility the size of WAPDA (with about
400 accounting units) it is normal to expect that the final accounts would record
expenditures on individual projects only in a consolidated manner. While this
practice makes it difficult to monitor project expenditures on a periodic basis
(in particular, for comparison with appraisal estimates), Bank missions had
relatively free access to the detailed accounts, and were able to ensure that the
loan proceeds and disbursements were adequately accounted for (para 5.7).
8.4       The studies required under the project certainly had merit (para 5.6)
However, they did represent a burden to a Project Management Unit that was
already fully extended by its ongoing investment program. The question,



- 12 -
therefore, is whether the Borrower derives a reasonable benefit when saddled with
several studies within the framework of one project, particularly when the
Borrower's technical and institutional capability has already been extended by
the large investment program.
8.5        The SAR description for this project did not specifically identify
substations or the associated transmission lines by name and/or location which
caused confusion in implementing the project (paras 5.3 and 5.4) . Therefore, the
pro-ect needed to be revised during its implementation, and a Bank supervision
mission was required in 1986 to define more clearly the number of substations and
transmission lines which constituted the project. Large sub-transmission and
distribution projects can rarely be designed with precision at the time of their
appraisal; however, without a clear understanding of project components, it
becomes very difficult to evaluate the project at its completion (paras 5.3 and
5.4).
8.6       At the time of project appraisal, it should have been reasonably clear
that the third project was still some way to being completed (para 2.4) .  As
WAPDA staff (who were to be responsible for implementation of the fourth project)
were also expected to be engaged with the residual work on the third project,
there was a good probability that the start-up of the new project would take
longer than indicated in the SAR implementation schedule. This fact contributed
to the overall delay in project implementation.
8.7       The Bank identified most of the appropriate financial, institutional
and physical implementation _issues, e.g., revision to the formula for the
financial covenant, reduction in accounts receivable, reorganization -of the
internal audit, improvement in the accounting and financial department, and
reduction in system losses. Appropriate covenants covered these aspects.
8.8       Overall,  despite the weaknesses discussed above,  Bank performance
during the preparation, appraisal and implementation phases of the project is
considered satisfactory.
9.        Borrower Performance
9.1       WAPDA's technical staff, having benefitted from the experience of
earlier projects, are fully competent to handle the design and implementation of
the substations and transmission lines up to 220 kV.  Substantial delays in
project implementation did take place, particularly in the start-up of project
implementation, and in preparing bidding documents and bid evaluations, because
the documents were prepared on the basis of the previous Bank formats, and had
to be substantially modified in line with the Bank's new formats.   During
implementation also, delays were encountered in the evaluation of bids by WAPDA,
in part due to the preoccupation of technical staff assigned to the PMU with
routine administrative matters.
9.2       Problems which adversely affected implementation of the third project
(Cr. 968-PAK) surfaced again under the subject project. These included (a) a
shortage of GOP financing and (b) protracted negotiations for finalizing
cofinancing agreements with the respective cofinanciers  (para 2.4) .   Bank
supervision missions reported that WAPDA's project implementation progress was
repeatedly falling behind the revised schedule, and highlighted the need for
substantial increases in budgetary allocations in order to expedite the pace of
implementation.
9.3       The Borrower's financial performance was satisfactory during the
project period and met the key performance criteria stipulated in the Loan
Agreement.    In  fact,  a 40% contribution  towards  a  large  annual  capital
expenditure which resulted in nearly quadrupling the gross assets in operation
in less than ten years is quite a good achievement. WAPDA's performance in bill
collection, however, has fallen short of the target. Given the economic, social
and political environment which prevailed during the project period, it is
unlikely that WAPDA, on its own, could effect a substantial improvement on its
accounts receivable through timely collection--particularly from certain
government departments and agencies, including the defense establishment.



- 13 -
9.4       In most operational areas (such as energy generated and distributed,
the number of customers, and the number of villages electrified), the utility has
verformed creditably. The system losses have progressively decreased from 25*
in 1985 to about 21% since 1991, and the manpower utilization ratio (an
efficiency criterion) has improved, with the number of consumers per employee
having increased from 42 in 1985 to 53 in 1993 (para 6.12).
9.5       The Ouarterly Progress Reports prepared by WAPDA were not used to best
advantage,  despite guidance provided by Bank missions.   These reports are
intended for use as a project management tool to identify critical issues and to
recommend action required to be taken by management to address them. However,
the quality of the progress reports did not improve despite Bank requests, and
provided neither required information relevant to monitoring implementation
progress, nor the basis for comparing actual progress to that originally planned
(paras 5.4 and 5.5).
10.       Performance of Consultants and Contractors
10.1      Overall  performance by the Borrower is considered satisfactory.
WAPDA' s design department acted as consultant/engineer responsible for the design
and implementation of the project. At appraisal it was expected that most of the
civil works would be carried out by contractors, whose performance would be
monitored by the PMU. During implementation, however, contractors were employed
for the civil works in the substations and the erection of transmission towers
only; the installation of equipment in the substations and the stringing of the
transmission lines, and the subsequent testing and commissioning were carried by
WAPDA's own staff.  This enhanced use of WAPDA's own staff is, in part, the
result of the over-staffing of WAPDA, which generates pressures within the
organization to enhance the use of in-house work crews.   While WAPDA staff
possess the capability to carry out these civil works, the pace of implementation
could have been enhanced in case in-house crews had been supplemented by outside
contractors.   The performance of WAPDA's design department as well as those
responsible for installation, testing and commissioning was satisfactorv.
10.2      Barring a few problems and some minor delays, overall the performance
of the contractors and suppliers/manufacturers was also satisfactory. The
splitting of the contracts in smaller sizes enhanced participation from local
manufacturers and suppliers, thereby contributing to the development of local
manufacturing industry (para 7.3).
11.       Prolect Relationship
11.1      Bank staff maintained a good working relationship with GOP and WAPDA
staff. Staff from the Resident Mission also made useful contributions to the
relationship.
12.       Project Documentation
12.1      The Loan Agreement as well as the SAR adequately reflected project
objectives.   The SAR, however, did not provide sufficient details (para 5.3)
including lack of data on the envisaged load growth for even a few of the major
substations. Furthermore, there were differences between the figures provided
in the Loan Agreement and those in the SAR on the project completion date. Given
the long interval between appraisal and presentation of the project to the Board
(about 13 months), it would have been beneficial if the SAR were to have been
updated.  Because it was not, the implementation schedule was already out of
date, and comparing actual accomplishments to original plans could only be
estimated (paras 5.4 and 5.6).
12.2      Perhaps arising from the 1987 Bank reorganization and the subsequent
relocation of the division, some of the important project documentation was not
found in Bank files. Those QPRs which are available do not provide adequate
information to compare the actual implementation progress of the project against
the planned or revised expectations, nor do they provide explanation for the
changes to project components or the sequence of their construction (para 5.5).



- 14 -
PROJECT COMPLETION RSPORT
PAKISTAN
FOURTH WAPDA POWUR PROJECT
(LOAN 2499-PAZ)
PART IS - PROJECT REVEFROM H BOROWER' S PERSPECTIVEZ'
The Dorrower's main comments are summarised below:-
A)   The Bank's portormance during evaluation and implementation
of the project is discussed here.
i)  The bank approved the bidding documents in average
a little over one month's time. In case of two
contracts the bank took a year and in one case
six(6) months in approval of the bidding document.
ii)  The evaluation reports of the tenders were ap-
proved by the bank in an average time of 50 days.
In few cases the approval took 3 months and in one
case only it took 6 months.
In view of above, the overall performance of the
bank has been satisfacoty.
iii) The annual allocations for the years 1987, 1988
and 1989 were inadequate which resulted in delayed
procurement of the material, consequently the
project completion was delayed.
iv)  The bank's missions have helped in quickly solving
the procurement, disbursement and technical prob-
lems in evaluation of the tenders.
LESSONS LEARNED
i)   A mandatory SBD during the forthcoming 5th project
will cut short the time spent on approval of the
bidding document.
ii)  Bank should adopt the means to cut short the time
spent on approval of the evaluation reports.
iii) To avoid the delay, annual allocations for the
years at the start of the project should be ade-
quate.
3)  ih, Wapd2a- performance during the evolution and implementa-
tion of the project is discussed below:-
i)   Wapda's role as 'Engineer' has been satistactory
as the evaluation of the tenders has been tried to
be completed promptly.
Part II-A is the Borrower's own evaluation and its content is not
attributable to the Bank. A fax copy of a letter dated June 20,
1995 is in the project file.



- 15 -
ii) There were delays in the complotion of ths project
and the reasons of delay are discussed below:
a)  The Third Power Project which was originally envisaged to be
completed by December, 1984 (subsequently revised to Decem-
ber, 1985) could not be completed in time due to the reason
that the local funds provided under ADP did not match with
our full demand.
b)   In accordance with the original implementation schedule as
envisaged in the World Bank's Appraisal Report dated:27-4-
84, the tender documents were to be issued from July, 1984.
This was based on the expectations that the loan will be
signed during April, 1984 but unfortunately the loan signing
was delayed by one year with its effectiveness date as 17th
July, 1985. This was due to the fact that certain conditions
being levied by the World Bank with regards to Long Range
Marginal Cost etc. were not acceptable to the Government of
Pakistan. Consequently the schedule of the project was
affected by one year.
C)   Tenders were floated in accordance with Wapda's prevailing
terms and condit*ons which were in line with Wapda's previ-
-ous world Bank tenders, floated under Third Power Project
but World Bank Mission durinq its visit in early 1986 came
up with Standard Bidding documents and advised Wapda that in
future all the tender documents should be based on the
format of Standard Bidding Documents and further informed
that the controversial clause be changed on the pattern of
World Bank Standard Bidding Documents. It was however,
agreed that the tenders already floated will be processed as
a special case.
Subsequently lot of correspondance was exchanged and number
of meetings were held with the World Bank to convince them about
theoneed of retaining Wapda's existing clauses. Some of the
clauses which became controversial are given below:-
I. Government of Pakistan had issued an order that all
shipments are to be effected through Pakistan National
Shipping Corporation which was not agreed by the World
Bank and it was insisted by them that in case of such
restrictions, World Bank will not finance the freight
element of the contract although the adjudication will
still be carried out on the basis of CIF prices as per
guide lines of World Bank.
I1. Previously elements of taxes and duties on the compo-
nents improted by the local manufacturers was reim-
bursed by WAPDA. This practice was not agreed to by the
World Bank and it was insisted by then that such like
provisions should be deleted and the local suppliers
should quote the prices inclusive of taxes and duties.
d) The year-wise allocations of local currency has always been
inadequate and lees than d*mand over the period of implemn-
tation of the project. Especially for first three years i.e.
1986-87, 1987-88 & 1988-89 the allocations have been remark-
ably les& i.e. ranging from 2S% to 43t less than the demand.
Overall allocations for the year 1986-87 to 1992-93 have
been on the average less by 22% than demanded.



- 16 -
e)  Trh  delay in construction of grid stations has been due to
.any reasons such as lengthy process of acquisition of land,
non availability of suitable land, high land costs and
Litigation etc.
f)  The delay in construction of transmission lines has been
mainly due to right-of-way/litigation problems.
g)   The work has been done partly by Wapda staff/crew & partly
by the contractors. Staff crew strength limitations has been
one of the major causes of delay. The supervision of con-
tractors work has been done by Wapda.
LESSON LEAR.NED
aa)  Wapda should provide adequate local funds matching with the
demand.
bb)  The delay in acquisition of land for grid stations,
right-of-way of transmission lines and other litigation
problems is un-predictable.
ccY In View of Wapda's staff/crew limitations it has beon
decided to give more work to contractors through I.C.B. This
practice will help in avoiding the delay during 5th STG
ProJect.
dd)  rt has been experienced that delivery period of equipment
reckoned from Notification of Avard helps the supplier to
start the spade work such as preparation of drawings etc.
before formal contract.
e)  It has been experienced that payment to the supplier through
direct disbursement is less time consuming as compared to
time spent in establishment of Letter of Credit.
ff) 4th STI Project has helpted development of local electrical
industry.
I$I) while the financial performance of Wapda has boon
satisfactory and met the covenant under loan agreement.
The accounts receivable remained in a much higher level
than those required under the covenant.
IV)  On the whole the project has been operated satisfacto-
rily as there is no major break down in the system.
This has been proved during the Bank representativl's
spot checking in the field.
V)   The relationship between the Bank and Wapda has been
quite effective.
V:.} The performance of co-financers has been generally
satisfactory except that lot of time was lost in bring-
ing down the high prices of bidders obtained in the
components/items financed by U.K. Grant.



- 17 -
PROJECT COMPL4TION RIPORT
PAltISTAN
FOURTH WAPDA POWER PROJECT
(LOAN  2499-PAK)
PART III - STATISTICAL INFOR MTION
1.             Related Bank Loans and Credits
Cr./Ln. No.       I                                      | Yr.of        l
and Title                        Purpose                  Apprv./Amt       Status          Cowments
A.  Precedina ODeration L                                                        .                               l
Cr. 213-PAK WAPDA         Upgrading capacity of                  1970          Closed         Completed with
Power Project             Transmission Network                                  (12/31/78)    delay of five
(WAPDA I)                                                        USS 23.1                     yrs.
Ln. 1208-PAK Second       Finance part of 500 kV Trans.          1976          Closed         Successfully
WAPDA Power Project       System, connecting hydro in north                     (9/30/82)     completed. with
(WAPDA II)                and thermal gen. in south              USS 50.0                     1 year delay.
Cr. 968-PAK Third         Finance 4-year tranche of program   1979             Closed         Successfully
WAPDA Power Project       for dev. of secondary                                 (12/31/85)    completed but
(WAPDA III)               transmission                           USS 45.0                     with 3 year
delay.
Ln. 2499-PAK              Finance 4-year tranche of program   1985             Closed         Subject of this
Fourth WAPDA Power        for development of secondary                          (12/31/92)    PCR.
Project (WAPDA IV)        transmission.                          USS 100.0
Ln. 2556-PAK Fifth        Assist WAPDA in reinforcement of    1985             Closed         Co pleted but
WAPDA Power Project       EHV power transmission network                        (12/31/93)    with a delay of
(WAPDA V)                 reducing transmission losses           USS 100.0                    3 years: Guddu-
Jamshoro
section
expected to be
energized by
6/95.
Ln. 2698-PAK Kot Addu   Installation of 200 MW additional    1986              Closed         PCR under
Combined Cycle Power    generating capacity at Kot Addu                         (6/30/93)     preparation.
Project (WAPDA VI)        Power Station.                         USS 90.0
Ln. 2792-PAK Power        Finance program for                    1987          Closed         Expected
Plant Efficiency          rehabilitation of 7 power plants                      (6/30/94)     completion by
Improvement Project       and addition of combined cycle         USS 70.0                     June 1995.
(WAPDA VII)               generation at 2 power plants.                      .
B.  Followina ODerations s                            _      _
Ln. 3147-PAK              Installation of 2 single circuit       1989          Ongoing        Official
Transmission              500 kV transmission lines between                                   Closing date is
Extension and             Hub Power Complex and Jamshoro;        US$162.0                     12/95 but may
Reinforcement Project   installation of a third single                                        be extended.
(WAPDA VIII)              circuit 500 kV line between Guddu
and Multan and a second single-
circuit 500 kV line between
Multan and Lahore via Gatti:
extension and reinforcement of
existing 500 kV substations at
Lahore. Gatti. Multan and Guddu.



- 18 -
Yr. of
Cr. /Ln. No.                     Purpose                 Apprv./Amt      Status   |      Coauents
and    Title__       _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _   _ _  _ _
Ln. 3148/Cr. 2078-PAK   Extending the supply of               1989          Ongoing       Official
Rural Electrification   electricity to new villages and                                   Closing Date is
Project (WAPDA IX)       settlements: connecting to the       USS 160.0                   12/95, but may
grid settlements of electrified                                  be extended.
villages: expanding consumer
connections: reinforcing and
rehabilitating existing
distribution network: extending
electricity supply to tubewells:
mapping of all villages and
settlements: and installing load
management schemes.                                                                II
Ln. 3764-PAK Power       Restructuring and privatization      1994          Ongoing       Closing Date is
Sector Development       component to implement a                                         6/99.
Project (WAPDA X)        Strategic Plan including             US$ 230.0
reorganization and
corporatization of WAPDA:
investment component to implement
a timeslice (1995-1998) of
WAPDA's investment program.                                                       I
C.  Related Loans      _                                                                                    l
Ln. 2552-PAK Energy      Finance GOP's program for policy    1985           Closed        Successfully
Sector Loan              reform and inst. develo ment                       (12/31/88)   completed.
during Sixth Five Yr. Plan (FY83-   USS 178.0
88).                                                                              l
Ln. 3107-PAK Second      Finance GOP's program for policy    1989 &         Closed        ICR under
Energy Sector Loan       reform and inst. development         1991          (12/31/94)   preparation.
during Seventh Five Yr. Plan
l ___________________     (FY89-93)                            USS   278.0
Ln. 3252-PAK             Finance program for                  1990 &        Ongoing       Being
Corporate                restr./privatization of SNGPL,       1991                        implemented:
Restructuring and        and expansion of its transmission                                Closing Date is
System Expansion         and distribution network capacity   USS 190.0                    currently
Project                  by about 50X.  Under the project.                                12/96.
SNGPL constructed a pipeline
between Multan and Kot-Addu for
supplying natural gas to the
._____________________ .power station



- 19 -
2.             Project TimeTable
Activitv                       Date Plannea               Actual Date
Appraisal                                                    February 1984
Negotiations                                                 May 15 - 16. 1984
Board Approval                 June 8. 1984                 March 7. 1985
Loan Signature                                              April 17. 1985
Loan Effectiveness             June 1985                     July 12. 1985
Closing Date                   December 1990                 Decemoer 31. 1992
Last Disbursement              June 1991                     May 28. 1993
3.             Loan Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(U.SS millIIion)
Actual as Z
FY                   Estimated                 Actual                      of estimated
1987                                   43                    0.0                                 0
1988                                  82                     7.4                                 9
1989                                  95                   40.6                                 43
1990                                 100                   72.2                                 72
1991                                 100                   88.1                                 88
1992                                 100                   93.5                                 94
1993                                 100                  100.0                               100



- 20 -
Pro.1ect Implementation
Transformers Installed
Number Installed                  Total MVA
No.   Voltage       CaDacity    SAR Est.    Actual                  SAR Est.    Actual
1.    132/11KV    26 MVA          90           129                  2340            3354
2.    132/11KV    15 MVA           -             1                    -               15
3.    132/11KV    13 MVA          126          129                  1638            1677
4.    132/11KV    6.5 MVA         -              1                    -              6.5
5.    132/11KV    6.3 MVA          13           13                    82             81.9
6.    132/6.6KV   16 MVA           -             2                    -               32
7.    66/11KV       13 MVA        39            41                   507             533
8.    66/11KV       6.3 MVA        14           30                    88             189
9.    66/11KV       7.5 MVA         7            4                    53              30
10.   66/11KV       2.5 MVA       -              4                    -               10
11.   66/11KV       2 MVA         -              4                                     8
12.   66/11KV       5 MVA          5             7                    25              35
13.   66/11KV       15 MVA        -              3                    -               45
14.   220/132KV   160 MVA         14            12                 2240             1920
15.   132/66KV    16 MVA          -              1                    _               16
16.   132/66KV    37.5 MVA        -              3                    -             112.5
17.   132/66KV    40 MVA           7             9                   280             360
18.   33/11KV       4 MVA          5             7                    25              28
19.   33/11KV       2.5 MVA       -              1                    _              2.5
20.   132/33KV    13 MVA          -              1                                    13
21    66/33KV       6.3 MVA        -             1                    -              6.3
22.   OTHERS                        5            -                    36               -
325          403                  7314           8474.7



- 21 -
B Grid Station Works
Number of works
No.   Voltage            Tvpe                SAR Est.    Actual
1.    220                New                 7            2
2.    220                Conversion          -            1
3.    220                Extension           -            1
4.    220                Augmentation        -            9
5.    132                New                 94           70
6.    132                Conversion           9           29
7.    132                Extension           19           130
8.    132                Augmentation        26           66
9.    132                Remodelling         -            3
10.   66                 New                 38           16
11.   66                 Extension           20           41
12.   66                 Augmentation        12           44
13.   66                 Remodelling         -            2
14.   33                 New                 -            3
15.   33                 Extension           -            3
16.   33                 Augmentation        -            2
TOTAL                                        225          422
Note: The 422 works/activities were carried out on 331 grid stations.
C. Transmission Lines
Length in Kms
No.   Voltage                         SAR Est.    Actual
1.    220 KV       Single Circuit    120            -
2.    220 KV       Double Circuit    160           473.37
Re-routing         -           1.4
3.    132 KV       Single Circuit    2073          925.389
Re-routing         -           0.25
4.    132 KV       Double Circuit    385           1197.066
Re-conductoring   -            63.66
Re-routing         -           4.6
Underground        -           5.31
Second Circuits   -            334
Other              -           116.13
5.    66KV         Single Circuit    1004          488.49
Re-routing         -           4.4
6.    66KV         Double Circuit    73            2.891
7.    33KV         Single Circuit      -           58.7
Total                           3815         3675.656



- 22 -
Proiect Costs and Financino
A. Prec rot
Appraisal Estimate          Actual
A.    Land E Right of way                              16.0                 5.72
B.    Equipment
Substations                                     273.2                1.44.35
(77.7)
Lines                                           107.4                85.79
(22.3)
C.    Civil Works
Substations                                     57.9                 27.63
Lines                                           4.4           included in erection
charges
D.    Transport, Erection etc.                         104.9                72.93
E.    Engg. & Administrative  }
plus              }28.2                                     105.47
F.    Technical Assistance        }
G.    Interest during construction                     22.0          included in Engg. &
Admn. charges.
Total:        614.00               441.89
Note: Figures in parenthesis represent the amounts to be financed by the Bank.
RB. Pro 1ect f inanci ng
(U5S mi iIion)
----------------------------------------------------------------------__
Planned
Source                                   Loan Agreement       Revised       Final
--------------------------------------------------------------__--------.
IBRD Loan No.2499-PAK                    100.000                -           100.00
Co-Financinf Institutions
IBRD Loan ESL-II (3107-PAK)               46.300                -            27.82
ADB Loan No.824-PAK               )                                          36.13
Swiss Mixed Credit                )                                          15.87
U.K. Grant                        )                                           8.96
CIDA Grant                        )                                            4.50
-----------------------------------
Total (Foreign)             146.300                _           193.28
WAPDA Internal                           245.600                 -          248.61
Government of Pakistan                   222.100
-----------------------------------
Grand Total:               614.000                 -           441.89
------  ------ -----  ----  --   _______



- 23 -
Pro.Ject Results
A. Direct Benefits
Project Implementation (Indicators)
Key Economic Indicators
FY85     FY87            FY93       X Increase
Act      Act       Est       Act   (FY85-FY93)
Inst. Capacity (MW)       4,339    5,349    9,416    7,882           82X
Max. Demand (MW)           3,791    4,325    7,872    7,522          98X
Max. Load Shed (Mw)         -         -
Generation  (GWH)         18,777   23,630   36,775   40,783         117X
Energy Sales  (GUH)       13,756   17,745   28,317   31,338         128X
Losses, incl. Aux.        27X      25X       23X       23X
Trans. Lines (km)         19,347   21,426      -       24,648        27X
Grid SubStns (no.)           457       518     -          597        31X
Transformer Cap. (MVA)  14,258   18,551                26,651        871
Consumers (million)
Residential            3.50      4.11      -         6.62        89X
Industrial             0.13      0.14      -         0.17        32X
Commercial             0.77      0.90      -         1.22        58X
BuLk Supply (000)       1.50     2.80      -         2.40        60X
Others
TOTAL                  4.52      5.27      -         8.18        812
Villages Electrified    19,269   25,251                45,608       1371
Consufption (GUH)
Residential           3,880    5,357    7,078   11,242          190X
Industrial            5,061    6,436   10,993   10,925          116X
Commercial               769      991    1,557    1,307          702
BuLk Supply           1,115    1,361    2,463    2,022           81X
Others                2,931    3,600    6,226    5,842           991
TOTAL                13,756   17,745   28,317   31,338          128X
Per Capita Cons.(kwh)        155      188                 277
Key Financial Indicators
(Rs million)
FY85     FY87           FY90                FY91          FY93   FY93-FY85
Act      Act       Est       Act       Est      Act       Act   X Increase
Gross Oper. Assets       35,019   54,723   87,771   91,731  103,912  103,286  127,126            2631
Elec. Sales (GUH)         13,756   17,745   21,418   24,121   24,036   26,584   31,272           1271
Av. Tariff (p/kwh)          63.8     70.9    148.8    107.8    160.5    116.5    126.2            981
Fuel Surcharge             1,500    2,517    7,232    7,405    9,130    9,130   12,262
TOTAL Op. Revenues        8,986   12,921   32,225   26,408   38,969   31,605   40,123            347X
FueL Cost                 2,404    3,714   11,126    6,768   14,047    9,150   11,771
TOTAL (Cash) Op. Exp.    5,224    7.099   19,602   12,009   24,503   15,198   23,440             3492
Working Ratio               0.58     0.55      0.61      0.45      0.63     0.48      0.58
Op. Ratio (inc. Dep.)       0.71     0.68      0.70      0.56      0.71     0.59      0.69
Debt Serv. Coverage          1.7       1.5      1.9       1.9       1.8       1.5     -
Contrib. to Invest.        47X      351       402       412       402      461
Debt/Equity Ratio,        50/50    56/44    58/42    58/42    59/41    57/43    57/43
Rate of Return              10.6     11.5      15.3      20.8      14.6      17.6     14.6



- 24 -
3. Economic lmpact
tconomic Rate of Return
FYear     Inft. Deflator Annual  Effcc.   Annual   T & D    Genera-  Energy   Av. Rev. Benefit  Net Bewef  Conat.
Invest.  Invest.  0 & N    Costs      tion    Sates    per KWH  (Rp mit) (or Costs  Prices
(Rp mit) (Rp mil) (Rp mit) (Rp mit) (GWH)    (GOH)    (paisa)
1985    1.000                               5,400             13,756
1986    1.049            8,739    7,428    6,400    1,000   15,504    1,748        74.4    1,301   (7,128)  (7,128)
1987    1.136    1.00    9,872    8,391    7,100    1,700   17,745    3,959        69.6    2,776   (7,315)  (6,755)
1988    1.247    1.10   11,597    9,857    9,700    4,300   20,702    6,946        82.9    5,758   (8,399)  (7,066)
1989    1.352    1.19   14,815   12,593   10,800    5,400   21,982    8,226        94.4    7,765  (10,227)  (7,935)
1990    1.468    1.29   16,764   14,249   12,000    6,600   24,121   10,365    105.7   10,956   (9,894)  (7,070)
1991    1.644    1.45   16,030   13,626   15,200    9,800   26,584   12,828    116.5   14,945   (8,41)  (5,411)
1992    1.764    1.55   21,846   18,569   19,200   13,800   29,267   15,511    126.8   19,668  (12,701)  (7,553)
1993    1.928    1.70   23,939   20,348   22,500   17,100   31,272   17,516    126.2   22.105  (15,343)  (8,348)
1994    2.150    1.89      -               22,500   18,841   34,926   21,170    142.0   30,061   11,220    5,474
1995             1.89                                21,709   38,148   24,392    142.0   34,637   12,928    6,308
1996             1.89                                21,709   38,148   24,392    142.0   34,637   12,928    6,308
1997                                                                                                           6,308
1998                                                                                                           6,308
1999                                                                                                           6,308
2000                                                                                                           6,308
2001                                                                                                           6,308
2002                                                                                                           6,308
2003                                                                                                           6,308
2004                                                                                                           6,308
2005                                                                                                           6,308
2006                                                                                                           6,308
2007                                                                                                           6,308
2008                                                                                                           6,308
2009                                                                                                           6,308
2010                                                                                                           6,308
2011                                                                                                           6,308
2012                                                                                                           6,308
2013                                                                                                           6,308
2014                                                                                                           6,308
2015                                                                                                           6,308
2016                                                                                                           6,308
2017                                                                                    ERR   =              u7Xs*
ASSUMPTIONS
1. Effective Invwstment excludes customs duty and other charges estimated a15% of annual investment
2. Revenue is used as a proxy for benefits.
3. Average annual revenue per KWH sold is used to calculate incremental revenue.



- 25 -
Status of Covenants
Key Covenants ana Status of ComDliance
Section     Summarv of Covenant                          Extent of Compliance
3.02        Insurance provision.                                      Complied
& 4.03
3.03 (e)    Project Complete Report within 6 months                   Complied
3.04        Acquire project land and rights                           Complied with
delays
3.05        Hydro ranking study for Bank review by June 1985         Complied
4.04 (b)    Plan to recruit qualified accountants.                   Complied
4.04 (c)    Recruit consultants by Sep. 1985 to develop              Complied
internal audit system.
4.05        Grant Chief Commercial Manager powers of General         Complied
Manager
4.07 (a)    Reduce system loss to 21% or lower by June 1988.         Complied
in 1991
4.07 (b)    Engage consultants by July 1985 to prepare work          Complied
program to reduce transmission system loss
4.08        Engage consultants by June 1985 to study least cost   Complied
power plan and review study with Bank by June 1986.
4.09 (a)    Engage consultants by June 1985 for work program         Complied
to optimize thermal plant efficiency.
5.02 (a)    Appoint independent auditors                             Complied
5.02 (b)    Provide Bank audited reports within 6 months from         Complied
with delay.
6.04 (a)    Internal contribution to be 40% of average capital    Complied
expenditure starting from FY 1988.
5.04 (b)    Prepare and review with Bank financial forecasts          Complied
by March of each year, and adjust tariffs.
5.05        Debt service ratio to be not less than 1.5.               Complied
G/2.02      GOP to provide WAPDA with funds, if needed, for           Complied
project expenditures.
G/3.03 (a)  GOP to cause all governmental entities to pay their   NOT
electric bills within 3 months.                          Complied
G/3.03 (b)  GOP to cause above entities to settle, by Dec. 1985,  NOT
accounts owed to WAPDA as of June 1985.                  Complied



-26-
S.          Us, of Staff Resources
A.    InDuts
1.   Through Appraisal .............................................                      77
2.   Appraisal through Board Approval ..............................                      28
3.   Supervision ...................................................                     117
TOTAL .........................................................                    222
B. Supervision Missions
No.   Month/   No. of    Specialization   Performance
Year       Persons    (a)                  Rating  (b)
1      04/86      3           E,Ec,F
2      10/86      1           E
3      10/86      2           E,F
4      03/87      4           E,E,F
5      11/87      6           E,E,E,F
6      07/88      3           E,E,F               -
7      03/89      4           E,E,F               2/3
B      11/90      1           E                   -
9      04/91      3           E,E,F               2/3
10     06/92      3           E,E,F               2/3
11     02/93      2           E,Ec                2
12     12/93      2           E,E                 -
gL    Engineer               (E)
Financial Analyst  (F)
Economist             (Ec)
k/   Minor or no problem                    (1)
Moderate problem or no change  (2)
Major problem                        (3)












IMAGING
Report No:      15228
Type: PCR



