 IEG
                                                                                               Report Number: ICRR14854

                   ICR Review
                   Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 10/07/2015

               Country: Brazil
             Project ID: P095626                                                   Appraisal              Actual
         Project Name: Second Family Health          Project Costs (US$M):                     166.9               34.75
                         Extension Adaptable
                         Lending
  L/C Number:                                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                      83.45               34.75
      Sector Board:      Health, Nutrition and        Cofinancing (US$M):                          0                   0
                         Population
           Cofinanciers:                               Board Approval Date :                                 04/25/2008
                                                               Closing Date:           03/30/2012            12/31/2014
           Sector(s):      Health (57%); Sub-national government administration (23%); Central government
                           administration (20%)
          Theme(s):        Child health (33%); Population and reproductive health (33%); Participation and civic
                           engagement (17%); Health system performance (17%)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:           ICR Review                 Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Judith Hahn Gaubatz        Judyth L. Twigg        Lourdes N. Pagaran         IEGPS2

2. Project Objectives and Components:

 a. Objectives:
 According to the Project Appraisal Document (PAD, page 9) and the Loan Agreement (page 6), the project
objectives were as follows:

         To increase access to family health -based primary care in large , urban municipalities ;
         To raise the technical quality of and patient satisfaction with primary care ;
         To improve the efficiency and effectiveness of family health service providers as well as the broader
          delivery system.

    This project was the second of a three-phase program in the health sector, with the overall program objective to
    improve utilization and quality of publicly-financed health services. (Note: The third phase will not move
    forward).

    The project objectives were not changed during the project period; however, the results framework was revised
    during a project restructuring in March 2013. Therefore, this review assesses the project outcome before and
    after the project restructuring (according to the original vs. revised targets).


b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
No

c. Components:

    1. Expansion and Consolidation of Family Health Care in Municipalities (Appraisal: US$ 137.7 million; Actual:
   US$ 25.0 million): This component aimed to scale up and strengthen municipal capacity to implement the
   primary health care model (Programa Saude da Familia - PSF), in order to increase coverage of PSF services in
   large, urban areas. PSF is a community-based, outreach-oriented model with multi-professional teams delivering
   primary health care services to households and communities. It also serves as a gateway to higher-level
   services (i.e. hospitals and specialists). 188 municipalities (with populations over 100,000) were selected to
   submit sub-project proposals that would finance construction of primary health care units, supplies and
   equipment, training for health care providers, and/or technical assistance. Sub-project financing would be
   channeled to the municipalities through pooled funding (with government budget). Additional activities in this
   component included strengthening referral links to higher levels of health care, introducing a quality certification
   program, in-service training, and strengthening results-based management capacity.

   2. Strengthening State Capacity for Supervision, Monitoring and Technical Support of Family Health Services
   (Appraisal: US$ 18.0 million; Actual: US$ 4.55 million): This component aimed to strengthen state capacity to
   support municipalities in expanding PSF coverage, improving the human resource base, and conducting
   monitoring and evaluation. Activities included establishment of state health secretariats with clarified roles, and
   pre-service and continuous education for family health professional staff.

   3. Strengthening Federal Oversight of the Family Health Program (Appraisal: US$ 14.9 million; Actual: 5.0
   million): This component aimed to strengthen federal Ministry of Health capacity to supervise the PSF program.
   Activities included: development of PSF governance, policy and regulation; management of results-based
   financing agreements; human resources policy; and research and evaluative activities.

   At the time of project restructuring in March 2013, the unused funds from Components 1 and 2 were transferred
   to Component 3, for implementation of a new electronic primary health care information system and
   establishment of tele-health access points in primary care units.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

   Project cost
     The appraised project cost was US$ 166.9 million, and the actual cost was US$ 34.75 million. The shortfall
        was due to the significant underutilization of funds for Components 1 and 2 (sub-project proposals submitted
        by states and municipalities to expand primary care provision and strengthen capacity), and the failure to
        procure information technology equipment for Component 3.
     At the time of project restructuring, activities under Components 1 and 2 were not continued (due to lack of
        demand), and the remaining funds of US$ 30.0 million were reallocated to Component 3 for new activities.

   Financing
      The project was to be financed by an IBRD loan (50%) and Borrower contribution (50%). The IBRD loan
       disbursed US$ 34.75 million out of an appraised amount of US$ 83.45 million (41.6%); counterpart funds
       were provided as regular budgetary allocations from the government.
      The project funds were to be pooled with government financing for primary health care, an arrangement that
       allowed for a single fiduciary and monitoring system.
      US$48.7 million of the IBRD loan was cancelled due to unused funds, including for Component 3
       (information technology equipment).

   Borrower contribution
     The government was expected to provide US$ 83.45 million in counterpart financing. Funds were provided
       through regular budgetary allocations, although it was agreed that these would not be registered in the
       project financial monitoring system.

   Dates
        October 2009: The Loan Agreement became effective, 17 months after Board approval. The lengthy delay
         was partly due to a procurement issue unrelated to the project. The Brazilian Federal Court of Accounts had
         issued a requirement that diverged from Bank procurement guidelines, and therefore the government
         stopped authorizing the signing of any externally financed loans until the requirement was removed in May
         2009. Due to the impact of this delay on the implementation schedule, the project closing date was
         extended from March 2012 to March 2013.
        March 2013: The project underwent a Level 2 restructuring to revise the results framework and introduce
         two new activities. Unused funds from Components 1 and 2 were reallocated for the new activities (US$
         30.0 million). The project closing date was extended from March 2013 to December 2014 to allow for
         implementation of the new activities.
3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

   The provision of quality primary care remains a priority of the government and the Bank. Although there have
   been significant improvements in national health indicators, including child and infant mortality rates, there
   remain significant inequalities within the country, including by geographic region and socioeconomic status.
   Increasing access to primary care in urban areas remains a relevant objective, as does the aim to improve quality
   and efficiency of the health system. The government's recently approved National Primary Care Policy (2011)
   highlights the expansion and improvement of primary care. However, the new policy led to a significant increase
   in government budget for the construction of health centers, the addition of several new health initiatives, and a
   new national program for quality improvement. The Bank's Country Partnership Strategy for FY 2008-2011
   identifies improved access to primary care for the poor as a key issue, while the FY 2012-2015 strategy shifts the
   emphasis to improving quality and effectiveness of the primary care delivery system.

   Relevance of the original objectives is rated Substantial.
   Relevance of the objectives under the revised targets is also rated Substantial.

b. Relevance of Design:

   At the time of project appraisal, the project design was relevant as the interventions were likely to lead to the
   intended outcomes. Construction of health centers and the provision of staff and training were likely to expand
   access to services, while technical assistance to federal, state and municipal governments in managing and
   monitoring the quality of services was likely to improve effectiveness and efficiency in care. The project targeted
   large, urban municipalities where there were significant populations of low-income families.

   As discussed above, the introduction of the new government policy on primary care in 2011 led to significantly
   diminished relevance of the project activities, as originally designed. With the increased availability of
   government budget for primary care, incentives for states and municipalities to submit sub-project proposals
   declined. Other project interventions to improve quality through implementing a quality assurance system also
   lost relevance due to the introduction of a new government program that became the new standard for monitoring
   and evaluating performance.

   However, under the project restructuring in 2013, project activities to increase access to primary care were not
   continued, nor were the quality improvement interventions. Targets related to access and quality were
   significantly revised to reflect the diminished outputs, although the objectives remained the same and were still
   unlikely to be achieved. A new project activity was introduced to support implementation of an information
   technology system, which would likely contribute to improved effectiveness and efficiency of the primary health
   care system.

   Relevance of the original project design is rated Modest.
   Relevance of the project design under the revised targets is rated Modest.

4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

   To increase access to family health -based primary care in large , urban municipalities

   Outputs
     187 municipalities were originally selected to submit sub-project proposals for establishing and/or improving
       PSF programs. However, by the second stage of the sub-project proposal process, only 143 municipalities
       signed sub-project agreements, of which: 67 did not end up using the funding, seven used less than 50
       percent, and only 32 used at least 90 percent.
     All states and the federal unit signed sub-project agreements; however, only 22 percent of funding was used.

   Outcomes
     Coverage of the PSF program increased in project areas from 33.0% in 2006 to 48.2% in 2014. This
       surpassed the original target of 40.0% and the revised target of 37.0%. It also surpassed the level of
       coverage in non-project areas (32.0%).

   However,
     Per capita contact with primary care providers did not improve significantly in project areas. The ratio was
      1.7 in 2003, increased to 1.8 in 2012, but then decreased to 1.5 in 2014, falling short of the revised target of
     1.8. There was no original target set for this indicator. The ICR (page iii) reports that this data reflects a
     "partial reporting, based on data from the old information system."
    The proportion of patients with hypertension (among the estimated population with hypertension) that was
     registered by PSF teams increased from 23.0% in 2006 to 24.4% in 2014. This fell short of the original
     target of 35.0%.
    The sum of the proportion of infants (less than one year old) with completed tetra-, penta-, and hexavalent
     vaccines decreased from 100.8% in 2008 to 92.3% in 2014. This fell short of the revised target to maintain
     the coverage level of at least 95.0%. Note: The original indicator was to measure coverage of the DPT and
     tetravalent vaccinations, with a baseline of 71% and target of 85%.
    The percentage of women with live births attended by PSF teams that had seven or more pre-natal visits
     increased from 60.0% in 2006 to 64.1% in 2014. This fell short of the original target of 70.0%.

Achievement of this objective is rated Negligible, under both the original and revised targets, due to significant
shortfalls in implementation and major shortcomings in achievement of targets. Attribution of outcomes is also
weak due to low participation of municipalities in the sub-project proposal process.


To raise the technical quality of and patient satisfaction with primary care

Outputs
  An appraisal instrument was implemented to improve quality of care. The percentage of municipalities that
    conducted the self-assessments was 95.1%. This surpassed the original target of 10.0%.
  Primary Care Booklets were prepared, including protocols for administration of health care units and clinical
    guidelines for managing primary care diseases and conditions.
  There were no outputs reported on pre-service and in-service training for family health professional staff.

Outcomes
  The percentage of all PSF teams in project areas that applied the quality evaluation instrument and that are
    ranked according to standards increased from 7.0% in 2006 to 81.5% in 2014. This surpassed the original
    target of 15.0%.
  The percentage of sampled PSF teams using clinical guidelines for hypertension and diabetes was 65.9% at
    project closing. This surpassed the original target of 25.0%.

However,
  There were no outcomes reported on patient satisfaction.

Achievement is rated Modest for increased technical quality due to evidence of utilization of quality tools, but
limited information on actual improvements in quality. Achievement is rated Negligible for increased patient
satisfaction due to lack of evidence on outcomes. Note: As there were no revised targets under this objective,
the rating is the same for before and after restructuring.


To improve the efficiency and effectiveness of family health service providers as well as the broader delivery
system
As noted above, the utilization of project funds for these activities was low due to the availability of government
budget; the ICR (page 20) notes that "it is more likely that improvements are linked to the establishment of the
government's [National Program for Access and Quality Improvement]."

Outputs
  Mechanisms and tools to support planning, management, and monitoring of primary health care were
    implemented at the federal, state and municipal levels. These included performance agreements, quality
    assessment programs, monitoring plans, and communities of practice.
  A results-based management system was established at the federal level that links project financing to
    states and municipalities. 3,956 municipalities implemented the system.
  A study on costs and tripartite spending on primary health care was completed.
  Tele-health access points were established in support of 3,979 PSF units. 47.0% of municipalities in project
    areas have access points, surpassing the original target of 20.0%.
  Information technology equipment was to be financed by the project (as part of project restructuring in 2013)
    to support establishment of a health information system for primary care; however, the approval of contracts
    took place too late in the project period for the goods to be delivered before project closing.
  There were no outputs reported on development of PSF governance, impact evaluation, or human resource
    development.
    Outcomes
      The proportion of states with M&E plans implemented and evaluated was 52.8%. This achieved the original
        target of 50.0%.
      The proportion of states that established performance agreements with at least 25% of their municipalities
        was 100.0%. This surpassed the original target of 25% and the revised target of 40.0%.
      The percentage of all PSF teams in project areas that applied the quality evaluation instrument and that are
        ranked according to standards increased from 7.0% in 2006 to 81.5% in 2014. This surpassed the original
        target of 15.0%.
      The percentage of total medical consultations referred from PSF teams to hospital specialty services in
        project areas was maintained at 10.0%. This achieved the original target of maintaining the level at 10.0%.
      The infant mortality rate decreased in project areas from 17.8 (per 1000 live births) in 2003 to 12.7 in 2013.
        This surpassed the target of 16.0. However, attribution to project interventions is not strong given the
        multiple factors that influence infant mortality rates (concomitant improvements in access to safe water and
        sanitation, quality of food and education, and economic situation of households).

    Achievement of this objective is rated Modest for improved effectiveness and Modest for improved efficiency,
    under both the original and revised targets. There was implementation of some outputs, but lack of evidence of
    actual improvements in effectiveness and efficiency that are attributable to the project.

5. Efficiency:

    The project appraisal document (Annex 9) provides an economic analysis of the project. Project benefits were
    considered as the savings from averted hospitalization costs and the number of productive life years gained
    through early detection and treatment of diseases. The benefit:cost ratio was estimated at 1.25 over ten years.
    The internal rate of return was calculated at 47.5%.

    The economic analysis was updated at project closing (ICR, Annex 3). Project costs were significantly lower than
    appraised, given the underutilization of funds by the states and municipalities. Benefits were defined as the
    same, although at lower levels given the shortcomings in achievements. The benefit:cost ratio was calculated as
    1.07. The internal rate of return was calculated at 20.0%.

    However, there were significant delays throughout the project period (including in effectiveness and then
    restructuring), which extended the closing date by two years. Additionally, the sole project intervention that was
    to be implemented in the nearly two-year period after restructuring - the information technology system - was not
    successfully carried out before project closing.

    Given the above, as well as the significant shortfalls in achieving targets, efficiency is rated Modest.

a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
   re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                       Yes                                      47.5%                                    100%

    ICR estimate                    Yes                                       20%                                     100%
                                        * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:

    Original Project: Unsatisfactory
    Relevance of the project objectives is Substantial, while relevance of the project design is Modest. Achievement
    of the objective to increase access to family health-based primary care in large, urban municipalities is rated
    Negligible due to significant shortfalls in implementation and major shortcomings in achievement of targets.
    Achievement of the objective to raise the technical quality of and patient satisfaction with primary care is rated
    Modest for increased technical quality due to implementation of some outputs related to quality, but lack of clear
    evidence on outcomes, and Negligible for increased patient satisfaction due to lack of evidence. Achievement of
    the objective to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of family health service providers as well as the broader
    delivery system is rated Modest for improved effectiveness and Modest for improved efficiency due to
    implementation of some outputs, but lack of evidence of actual improvements in effectiveness and efficiency that
    are attributable to the project. Efficiency is rated Modest.
   Project under revised targets : Unsatisfactory
   Ratings are the same as above, under revised targets.

   According to the harmonized guidelines, the combined overall outcome rating is determined according to the
   proportion of the loan that disbursed before and after the project restructuring. As the outcome rating is the same
   for before and after the restructuring, the combined rating is also Unsatisfactory.

a. Outcome Rating: Unsatisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

   Achievements in health outcomes, as well as in capacity building at the state and municipal level, were modest to
   negligible, in large part due to the decreased relevance of the project to the Borrower's needs. Capacity
   improvements at the federal level are more likely to be sustained, particularly related to federal fund transfers,
   results-based financing, and quality monitoring. The government continues to give high priority to the provision of
   quality primary health care; however, fiscal constraints due to the slightly deteriorating macroeconomic situation
   poses some risk to the existing high levels of funding.

  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

   The project was a follow-up to a predecessor project (Family Health Extension I, US$ 68.0 million,
   2002-2007) that focused on extending coverage of the PSF program, developing a federal transfer
   mechanism and a performance-based financing system, and introducing a quality assessment system. The
   current project intended to build on the progress achieved, with the additional focus on strengthening quality
   of care and state capacity to monitor the provision of services by the municipalities. The consistency in the
   Bank team supervising the predecessor project and preparing the current project helped to ensure that
   lessons learned were incorporated into the design, including the need for fiduciary assistance to
   municipalities. The risk assessment was appropriate, as the government's change in policy and funding could
   not have been foreseen. The M&E design was overall satisfactory, building upon the systems developed in
   the predecessor project, although capacity to effectively monitor the project at the municipal level was
   questionable. Inconsistencies in the wording of the procurement procedures in the Loan Agreement
   compared to national legislation led to some confusion and reluctance to pursue procurement actions (see
   ICR, page 15).


  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                      Moderately Satisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:

   The increased availability of government budget along with the difficulties in adhering to Bank procurement
   processes led to significantly decreased demand for project funding, the requirements of which were seen by
   states and municipalities as "excessive vis-a-vis the amount of resources that could be made available" (ICR,
   page 12). The Bank team responded to the decreasing relevance and demand for project funds by
   collaborating with other Bank staff on an ongoing project (Health Network Formation and Quality
   Improvement Project) to reallocate project funding towards information technology initiatives. However,
   although targets were revised to address the low utilization of project funds, the project design was still
   unlikely to achieve objectives. In addition, delays in approvals for procuring the IT equipment led to failure to
   obtain the goods before the project closing date. The Borrower's ICR (page 58) notes that the deadlines for
   procuring the new technology were "too tight, since administrative formalities needed to be completed prior to
   publication of the official public announcement." The ICR (page 25) reports that the Bank team made
   concerted efforts to engage in policy dialogue (including offering technical assistance on impact evaluations
   and costing analyses) and address implementation issues (including a suggestion, ultimately rejected by the
   government, to request a partial cancellation of the loan); however, the Borrower's comments (page 60)
   indicate that "there were no opportunities for sharing analyses on Brazil's primary care situation with a view to
   understanding how the new programs and actions designed to enhance the Family Health Strategy could be
   used to improve the project actions." Implementation Supervision Report (ISR) ratings on both development
   objective (DO) and implementation progress (IP) were in the satisfactory range up until July 2014, at which
   point the ratings were downgraded to the unsatisfactory range; these ratings reflect a lack of realism on
   implementation status. Refinements were made to the results framework to increase its relevance; however,
   M&E utilization remained modest, as the project monitoring system was no longer consistent with the
   government's newly introduced monitoring system.


  Quality of Supervision Rating :                Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :              Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

   The project provided support to a large and well-established government program in the provision of primary
   health care. The Ministry of Health underwent a change in administration during the first half of the project
   period; although it continued to place a high priority on primary health care, there was a significant policy shift
   with the introduction of several new initiatives (that rendered most of the original project activities irrelevant)
   and an increase in government funding for construction of health centers. These developments led to
   significantly decreased demand for project funds by the states and municipalities, and there was limited
   attention given to modifying the project such that its relevance and effectiveness could improve. There were
   delays in approval of the loan, the appointment of key staff to the project implementation unit, and approval of
   the project restructuring. Planned counterpart contribution (to a pooled fund) were provided through regular
   budgetary allocations.


  Government Performance Rating                                Unsatisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

   The project implementation unit in the Ministry of Health was well established from the predecessor project,
   although implementation of most project activities had been shifted to states and municipalities. The project
   design emphasized hiring of additional fiduciary staff and provision of technical assistance to the states and
   municipalities; however, this did not take place until late in the project period. The changes in government
   policy and availability of additional government budget, alongside difficulties with modified Bank procurement
   guidelines, led to significant challenges in procurement and shortfalls in implementation. There were also
   shortcomings in financial management (see Section 11). The ICR (page 25) reports that despite Bank team
   efforts to address relevance of the project, the implementing agency "was not willing to engage in a technical
   dialogue with the World Bank on health sector policies." In addition, reporting on project implementation was
   weak, contracting of equipment for information technology suffered repeated delays, and there were "large
   and consistent delays in addressing satisfactorily the agreements reflected in mission Aides Memoire and in
   responding to World Bank correspondences" (ICR, page 15).


  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                     Unsatisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                        Unsatisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

   The M&E design was comprehensive, monitoring health outcomes and the effectiveness of the health system as
   well as progress on project implementation. The monitoring system was initially established by the predecessor
   project, but then simplified for the current project. It included a system for collecting indicators linked to
   performance, in support of the results-based financing approach being implemented with states and
   municipalities. The M&E design also included evaluative activities, such as an impact evaluation. Baseline data
   and target figures for key project indicators were identified, although one shortcoming was the lack of an indicator
   for "improved patient satisfaction."

b. M&E Implementation:

   The project design featured significant implementation responsibility at the municipal level; however, municipal
   capacity to effectively implement the M&E system was weak. When the government introduced the new quality
   assurance system, indicators were no longer consistent between the project and the government system. The
   methodology and plan for the impact evaluation were prepared, although the ICR does not report that it was
   conducted.

c. M&E Utilization:

   Monitoring data was used to determine state and municipality participation in sub-project proposal processes;
   however, the level of participation in the process was significantly lower than planned. Utilization of information
   technology systems was inconsistent across municipalities.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

   The project was classified as environmental category "B" due to new construction and medical waste issues.
   The safeguard policy on environmental assessment (OP/BP 4.01) was triggered, and therefore an environmental
   framework was prepared to guide selection, screening, and monitoring of new health unit construction, and to
   develop a medical waste management system. According to the ICR (page 14), there were no significant
   problems in safeguards compliance during the project period.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

   Financial management: The project design featured financial management arrangements that would further
   establish the federal-state/municipal fund transfer system and performance-based financing. However, the ICR
   (page 15) notes that actual implementation resembled more traditional investment lending arrangements, such
   as transferring of funds only after the signing of procurement contracts. Shortcomings in financial management
   performance included: reluctance on the part of the Ministry of Health to strengthen inventory control of goods
   acquired by states and municipalities; weak financial planning (as reflected by the inability to secure sufficient
   resources in the MOH budget for loan funds to be spent in the final year of the project period); and delays in
   executing transferred funds, which prevented timely provision of statements of expenditures. Government audits
   in 2012 and 2013 identified US$ 1.4 million in ineligible expenditures, which was subsequently reimbursed to the
   Bank in 2015. An additional US$ 5.8 million was transferred to states and municipalities, but not executed, and
   therefore these funds were also reimbursed to the Bank.

   Procurement: As reported previously, there were conflicting procedures between the government's and Bank's
   procurement guidelines (the latter of which were modified in the middle of the project period), which led to
   decreased demand for Bank project funds (including at the federal level, for which planned studies were more
   easily contracted with government budget vs. project funds). Also, planned hiring of fiduciary staff to provide
   additional technical assistance did not take place until late in the project period. Under the project restructuring,
   information technology equipment was to be procured with reallocated funds; however, extensive delays in the
   approval of the contracts prevented obtaining the goods before the project closing date.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):

   None reported.

d. Other:
12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                   Reason for
                                                                                       Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory
          Risk to Development Significant                   Significant
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory

                 Quality of ICR:                            Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

    Lessons drawn from the ICR (pages 25-26), adapted by IEG:

         Maintaining the relevance of a project (and ensuring its effectiveness) in the context of vastly changed
          government policy requires both Bank and Borrower involvement. In the case of this project, even with
          positive developments on the part of the Borrower (increased availability of government budget), the
          project impact was limited due to the inability to engage in policy dialogue and restructure the project in a
          timely manner.
         Inconsistencies between national legislation and Bank procurement processes need to be reconciled to
          avoid increased transaction costs for the implementing agency and reduce the risk of procurement
          inactions. In the case of this project, municipal governments were reluctant to risk non-compliance with
          national procurement guidelines and therefore did not execute sub-projects.

14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


    The ICR is candid in its assessment of the project achievements and performance of the Bank and the Borrower.
    Ratings are also candid and consistent with the quality of the evidence (i.e. lack of strong evidence or attribution).
    The differing accounts of Bank supervision performance (as reported by the Bank team vs. the Borrower's ICR)
    are not satisfactorily reconciled.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
