CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1529 PA
Loan Agreement
(Fifth Highway Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated March 17, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1529 PA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 17, 1978, between REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Prior Loan Agreement" means the Loan Agreement No.
1059 PA (Fourth Highway Project) between the Borrower and the
Bank, dated December 12, 1974, as the same may be amended from
time to time;
(b) "MOPC" means the Borrower's Mtnistry of Public Works
and Communications and any successor thereto;
(c) "DGV" means Direcci6n General de Vialidad, a Direc-
torate of MOPC organized and existing under Law No. 75 of the
Borrower, dated July 17, 1969, and the term includes any successor
to DGV;
(d) "OCIPT" means Office of Coordination and Integral
Planning of Transport established by MOPC's Resolution No. 165,
dated October 6, 1972, pursuant to Section 4.04 of the Prior Loan
Agreement, and the term includes any successor to OCIPT;
(e) "DGT" means Direcci6n General de Transporte por
Carretera, a Directorate of MOPC, and the term includes any
successor to DGT; and


﻿-2-
(f) "DECP" means Direcci6n de Ejecuci6n y Control
Presupuestario, a Directorate of MOPC, and the term includes any
successor to DECP.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
thirty three million dollars ($33,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works required for the Project
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agree-
ment.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1983 or
such later date as the Bank shall otherwise establish. The Bank
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven and forty-five hundredths per cent (7.45%) per annum
on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through MOPC substantially in accordance with an execution
schedule of even date herewith agreed between the Borrower and the
Bank, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate engineering, administrative and financial practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) Notwithstanding the aforesaid, MOPC's functions in the
carrying out of the Project will be divided between:
(i) DGV for the purpose of the carrying out of Parts A,
B, C and D of the Project;
(ii) DGT for the purpose of the carrying out of Part E
(1) of the Project; and
(iii) OCIPT for the purpose of the carrying out of Part
E (2) of the Project.
(c) Without limitation on the generality of paragraph (a)
above, the Borrower shall take all such action as shall be neces-
sary to provide DGV, DGT and OCIPT with qualified and sufficient
personnel and adequate funds in order to enable them to carry
out their functions with respect to the execution of the Project.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying
out of Parts C (1), D and E (2) of the Project and the establish-
ment and operation of the Project Unit referred to in Section
3.03 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall employ consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall:
(a) establish within DGV, not later than August 31, 1978,
and maintain and operate thereafter until completion of the
Project, a Project Unit whose staff, functions and terms of
reference, including those set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agree-
ment, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agree-
ment between the Borrower and the Bank, shall be satisfactory to


﻿-4-
the Bank, and which shall assist DGV in the carrying out of all
activities of DGV in connection with the Project;
(b) hire, for the purpose of the establishment and operation
of the Project Unit and subject to Section 3.02 of this Agreement:
(i) not later than August 31, 1978, and employ thereafter until
such date as shall be required in accordance with the respective
terms of reference, three engineers; and (ii) not later than
March 31, 1979, and employ thereafter until such date as shall be
required in accordance with the respective terms of reference, the
remaining staff of such Project Unit; and
(c) inform the Bank, within three years from the date
of this Agreement, on the way the Project Unit's functions and
responsibilities shall be reassigned within DGV after completion
of the Project, including inter alia, the allocation of funds,
staff and fa%ilities for the purpose; and shall afford the Bank a
reasonable opportunity to comment on such reassignment before the
implementation thereof.
Section 3.04. For the purpose of carrying out Part B of the
Project, the Borrower shall:
(a) not later than September 30, 1978, furnish to the Bank
for its approval:
(i) an overhaul program for Part B (2) (c) of the
Project, satisfactory to the Bank, which shall be
completed not later than December 31, 1980; and
(:Li) a list showing among the existing road maintenance
equipment of DGV those units that will be over-
hauled under such Part B (2) (c) of the Project,
and the spare parts to be purchased for the purpose
and those units that will be taken out of com-
mission; and
(b) furnish to the Bank, not later than September 30 in
each year until completion of the Project, a program specifying
which of those works included in Annex B to Schedule 2 to this
Agreement shall be carried out during the year immediately follow-
ing each such year, and shall afford the Bank a reasonable oppor-
tunity to comment on such program before commencing to implement
it.


﻿-5-
Section 3.05. For the purpose of carrying out Part C of the
Project, the Borrower shall:
(a) start, not later than September 30, 1978, with the
preparation of the study included in Part C (1) of the Project,
and shall complete such study and furnish to the Bank for its
comments the findings and recommendations thereof, timely so as
to comply with paragraph (b) herein; and
(b) take, not later than December 31, 1979, or such later
date as the Borrower and the Bank shall agree, all such steps as
shall be necessary including, if so required, revision of Resolu-
tion No. 205 of the Borrower's Ministry of Public Works dated
October 26, 1968, in order to enforce the recommendations of the
study carried out pursuant to the foregoing paragraph.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, in a manner satisfactory to
the Bank:
(a) carry out Part D (1) of the Project not later than
December 31, 1980; and
(b) carry out Part D (2) of the Project timely, so as to
permit the adoption by DGV, not later than December 31, 1979, of
the set of design standards and specifications to be prepared
under such Part of the Project.
Section 3.07. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for its comments, not later
than December 31, 1978, the traffic counting program to be formu-
lated by DGT under Part E (1) of the Project.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.


﻿-6-
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facili-
ties and construction sites included in the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any rele-
vant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land
and rights in respect of land as shall be required for carrying
out the Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after such
acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land and
rights in respect of land are available for purposes related to
the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek,


﻿-7-
in normal circumstances, special security from the member con-
cerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distri-
bution of foreign exchange held under the control or for the
benefit of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created
on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for
any external debt, which will or might result in a priority for
the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allo-
cation, realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien
shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no
cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower,
in creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges nn, the Loan by an equivalent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any
such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange
assets held by any institution performing the functions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions,
for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall:


﻿-8-
(a) through MOPC, (i) cause (A) all its national and depart-
mental roads to be adequately maintained and cause necessary
repairs thereof to be made, all in accordance with appropriate
engineering practices and (B) all road maintenance equipment and
workshops of DGV to be adequately maintained and cause all neces-
sary repairs and renewals thereof to be made, all in accordance
with appropriate engineering practices; and (ii) provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the foregoing;
(b) ensure, without in any way limiting the generality of
paragraph (a) above: (i) regular and prompt supply of spare parts
through (A) the appropriation of sufficient funds to be provided
under a separate heading of DGV's annual budget and (B) the
granting to DGV of the necessary exemptions from import duties
therefor; and (ii) a systematic renewal of equipment by means of
the establishment of a fund, satisfactory to the Bank, to be
provided, starting in the Borrower's fiscal year of 1981, with not
less than the equivalent of $1.3 million annually in terms of
purchasing power as of February 1, 1978, or by such other means as
the Borrower and the Bank shall agree; and
(c) through DGV and not later than December 31, 1981: (i)
prepare an assessment of all funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the resealing and overlaying, up to
December 31, 1991, of all the Borrower's paved roads; and (ii)
furnish the Bank, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank,
with such assessment.
Section 4.04. The BorrotC- shall implement, through DECP,
the regulations on weight and a.L"ensions of vehicles, and take all
measures necessary to ensure at all times that the dimensions and
axle loads of vehicles using the Borrower's roads do not exceed
limits consistent with the structural and geometric design stan-
dards of such roads.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall carry out, through DGT in
coordination with DGV's maintenance districts, the systematic
counting of traffic on the Borrower's roads, and shall transmit
the results thereof to OCIPT.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall, during the period of
execution of the Project, undertake a review through OCIPT of
every investment to be made in the permanent way and rolling stock
of President Carlos Antonio L6pez Railway; in addition to the


﻿-9-
foregoing, if such investment amounts to $5,000,000 equivalent or
more in any given year, the Borrower shall then promptly furnish
to the Bank the results of OCIPT's review including an assessment
of the impact of such investment on the Borrower's public finance
program.
Section 4.07. After the completion of the Project, the
Borrower shall continue to provide OCIPT with such qualified and
experienced personnel, facilities, funds and other resources as
shall be required for OCIPT's efficient operation.
Section 4.08. The Borrower shall update every five years
the inventory to be carried out under Part D (1) of the Project.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date of June 20, 1978, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Public Works and Communications
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Public Works
and Communications
Oliva y Alberdi
Asunci6n, Paraguay
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINOBRAS                          162 PYMOPC
Asunci6n, Paraguay


﻿- 10 -
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
By /s/ Mario L6pez Escobar
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Enrique Lerdau
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works:                               54%
(a) Part A of            8,830,000
the Proj-
ect
(b) Part B (1)           2,480,000
of the
Project
(c) Part C (2)             220,000
of the
Project
(2) Equipment and
spare parts:
(i) imported                         100% of foreign
expenditures
(ii) imported                         90% of local ex-
but lo-                         penditures
cally pro-
cured
(a) Part B (2) (a)      11,250,000
of the Project
(b) Parts B (2) (b),       440,000
B (2) (d) and
E (1) of the
Project


﻿- 12 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(c) Part B (2) (c)         980,000
of the Project
(d) Part C (2) of          380,000
the Project
(3) Supervision of civil      1,300,000        73%
works
(4) Technical assistance      1,070,000        73%
to DGV and Project
Unit (including Proj-
ect Unit staff sal-
aries)
(5) Technical assistance        260,000        73%
to OCIPT
(6) Unallocated               5,790,000
TOTAL    33,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,


﻿- 13 -
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made: (i) on account of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; (ii) on account
of expenditures under Category (2) (a), (b) and (c) until the Bank
has been furnished with evidence satisfactory to the Bank that the
Project Unit has been established and that three engineers have
been hired, pursuant to Section 3.03 of this Agreement; and (iii)
on account of expenditures under Category (2) (d) until the Bank
has been furnished with evidence satisfactory to the Bank that the
Borrower has complied with paragraph (b) of Section 3.05 of this
Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Coronel Oviedo - Tacuara - San Estanislao Road
Upgrading and paving of the road between Coronel Oviedo and
Tacuara (about 91 km) and of the spur Tacuara - San Estanislao
(about 7 km), all in accordance with the design standards speci-
fied in Annex A to this Schedule.
Part B:   A four-year Highway Maintenance Program (1979-1982)
This program will consist of:
1.   Resealing and partial strengthening of the pavement
of the paved road between Paraguarl and Encarnaci6n
(about 303 km).
2.   (a) Acquisition and use of maintenance equipment and
related parts and signalization materials necessary
to enable DGV to expand its annual maintenance
program and carry out Part B (3) of the Project;
(b) Acquisition and use of workshop equipment;
(c) Overhaul and intensive maintenance of about 260
units and acquisition and use of spare parts
required therefor;
(d) Acquisition and use of mini-computers and other
equipment necessary to achieve the mechanization of
accounting operations within DGV; and
(e) Training of DGV's engineers, technicians and
operators.
3.   Execution of a road betterment program on those road
sections that cannot be efficiently maintained through
routine or periodic work, in accordance with the
guidelines set forth in Annex B to this Schedule.


﻿- 15 -
Part C:   Improvement of Vehicle Weight Control
1.   Preparation of a study on weighing station's design,
staffing and operational procedures, and policing of
weight control, including measures to improve and
reinforce control of axle weights.
2.   Construction of weighing stations and acquisition and
installation of seven automatic fixed scales.
Part D:   Improvement of Highway Planning and Engineering
1.   Preparation of an inventory of the overall highway
network.
2.   Preparation of design standards and specifications
for highway construction and improvement.
Part E:   Strengthening of Transport Sector Planning
1.   Formulation of a permanent program of traffic counting
and acquisition and use of traffic counters and mis-
cellaneous vehicles and equipment for such program.
2.   Carrying out OCIPT's program of activities described in
Annex C to this Schedule, as such Schedule may be
amended from time to time by agreement between the Bank
and the head of OCIPT.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1982.


﻿- 16 -
ANNEX A TO SCHEDULE 2
Design Standards for the
Coronel Oviedo-Tacuara-San Estanislao Road
Flat         Rolling
Design Speed                     kmph       100           80
Radius of Curvature Minimum       m         400           220
Desirable     m         600           350
Maximum Grade                     %           3             5
Platform Width                    m           9.20         9.20
Shoulders                        m           1.50          1.50
Pavement Width                    m           6.20         6.20
Superelevation (Max.)             %          8             8
Sight Distance - Stopping        m         160           110
Passing          m         680           540
Axle Load Design (Road)       metric ton     10            10
Axle Load Design (Bridges)    metric ton HS-20-44      HS-20-44
Surface: Triple Surface Treatment


﻿- 17 -
ANNEX B TO SCHEDULE 2
Guidelines for the
Road Betterment Program
The Road Betterment Program under Part B (3) of the Project
will be carried out, simultaneously with the maintenance works
to be carried out under Section 4.03 (a) of this Agreement,
according to the tentative scope of works and yearly targets set
forth below and resulting from the study dated April 1977 entitled
"Technical Economic Report on a Maintenance Program and Study of
Maintenance Needs for 1979-1982", prepared by the consultant
Jorgensen-Tecnipar.
The selection criteria for the betterment works to be carried
out are that such works will improve the condition of those
road sections which cannot be maintained efficiently through
routine maintenance operations and that such betterment works will
not include major reconstruction or change of design standards. On
that basis it has been determined that the aggregate length of
roads requiring betterment over the period January 1, 1979 to
December 31, 1982 totals about 5,200 km. In addition to periodic
regravelling, the tentative amount of works to be carried out
over that length is:
(i) construction of culverts         meters           14,000
(ii) earthworks                       cubic meters 1,100,000
(iii) construction of about
50 small wooden bridges
The tentative length, in Kilometers, of roads to be improved
during the Project period is, year by year:
1979             800
1980           1,420
1981           1,270
1982           1,710
5,200


﻿- 18 -
ANNEX C TO SCHEDULE 2
OCIPT's Program of Activities
for 1978 and 1979-1981
I.~ 1978
1.   Updating of Ten-year Transport Investment Plan and
of the financing scheme related to such Plan.
2.   Preparation of a transport model for Paraguay.
3.   Program for international road and rail links with
neighboring countries.
4.   Identification and economic evaluation of highway
improvement.
5.   Identification and economic evaluation of a port and
river transport investment.
6.   Development of a data collection system for the trans-
portation sector (hereinafter called the System).
7.   Study of the transport sector tariff system.
8.   Updating of transport costs for the different modes
(hereinafter called the Transport Costs).
9.   Work on the introduction of a permanent traffic census
system.
10. Continuation of monitoring performance in motor vehicle
registration.
11. Updating of an existing study on road user taxes.
II. 1979-1981
1.   Updating of the transport plan referred to in Part I (1)
of this Annex.
2.   Identification of traffic capacities and levels of
service on the country's major highways.


﻿- 19 -
3.   Identification and economic evaluation of highway
improvement, other than the one included in Part I (4)
of this Annex.
4.   Further development of the System.
5.   Updating of the Transport Costs.
6.   Continuation of motor vehicle registration census.
7.   Further updating of the study mentioned in Part I (11)
of this Annex.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 15 and August 15
beginning August 15, 1982
through August 15, 1994                      1,270,000
On February 15, 1995                              1,250,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 21 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years                         1.30%
before maturity
More than three years but not                     2.65%
more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but not                       4.80%
more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but                        6.55%
not more than fifteen years
before maturity
More than fifteen years                           7.45%
before maturity


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the
purchase of goods or for civil works shall be procured in accor-
dance with procedures consistent with those set forth in the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding under the Project, in addition to
the requirements of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower
shall prepare and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in
any event not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability
to the public of the first tender or prequalification documents
relating thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement
notice, in such form and detail and containing such information as
the Bank shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods or
works remain to be procured on the basis of international compe-
titive bidding.
3.   With respect to any contract for civil works to be procured
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 above, con-
tractors shall be required to prequalify.
4.   For bidding purposes, civil works under Part A of the
Project shall be divided into two sections (Coronel Oviedo to km
49 and km 49 to San Estanislao). Each invitation to bid for such
works shall, inter alia, specify that: (i) bidders may submit bids
for one or for both sections; (ii) all bids shall be opened and
all awards shall be made simultaneously; (iii) the award or
awards shall be made on the basis of the lower of (A) the lowest
evaluated bid for the entire works or (B) the lowest evaluated
combination of bids for each section; and (iv) the Borrower will
have the option of awarding to one contractor, contracts in
respect of both sections, or to different contractors, contracts
in respect of each section.


﻿- 23 -
5.   The invitation to bid for the contract for the acquisition of
the equipment to be procured under paragraph 2 (d) of Part B of
the Project shall specify that the supplier shall begin to carry
out, not later than 30 days after delivery to the Borrower of the
applicable equipment, a training program for the accounting staff
of DGV, the length and terms of such program to be satisfactory to
the Bank.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for: (a) civil works under Part C (2) of the
Project; and (b) subject to the purchase program under Part D (2)
of this Schedule, acquisition of parts and equipment under Parts B
(with the exception of paragraph 2 (d) thereof), C, D and E (1) of
the Project, may be procured in accordance with local competitive
bidding procedures satisfactory to the Bank, provided the cost of
each such contract shall not exceed the equivalent of $75,000.
2.   Contracts for the purchase of spare parts of specific makes
of existing maintenance equipment may be procured directly from
established dealers in accordance with a purchase program accept-
able to the Bank provided (i) the cost of each such contract shall
not exceed the equivalent of $75,000 and (ii) the aggregate
cost of such contracts shall not exceed the equivalent of
$500,000.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods (except those to be procured in accordance
with Part B hereof): (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and
sales and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be
excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
D.   Review of Tender Documentation and Procurement Decisions by
the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification: The Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the pro-
cedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications in


﻿- 24 -
said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list of
prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their qualifi-
cations and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant
for prequalification shall be furnished by the Borrower to the
Bank for its comments before the applicants are notified of the
Borrower's decision, and the Borrower shall make such additions
to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as the Bank
shall reasonably request.
2.   Prior to inviting bids with respect to contracts for the
acquisition of parts and equipment under Parts B (with the excep-
tion of paragraph 2 (d) thereof), C, D and E (1) of the Project,
the Borrower shall obtain the Bank's approval for: (i) lists of
all items required for the Project, including the specifications
and the estimated unit and total prices of each item, each item to
be coded and numbered for identification of the facility and type
of space for which the item is required; and (ii) a schedule
showing the approximate time of procurement of major groups of
items.
3.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in suaiicient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.


﻿- 25 -
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 5
Organization and Staffing of the Project Unit
This Schedule sets out details of the reporting responsibi-
lities, functions and staffing required for the Project Unit
referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement.
A.   Organizational Assignment and Reporting Responsibilities
The Project Unit will be staffed by a total of eight Engi-
neers (the Engineers) and an Accountant/Administrator. The latter,
as well as seven of the Engineers, will report to the Chief of the
Highway Maintenance Department of DGV who will simultaneously be
the Chief of the Project Unit. The remaining Engineer (Construc-
tion Engineer) will report to the Chief of the Highway Engineering
Department of DGV.
B.   Functions
The Project Unit will assist DGV in carrying out the national
road maintenance program and assist DGV in construction works
(including works under the Project). In particular, the Project
Unit will execute the following:
(i) prepare lists of required equipment and spare parts and
a schedule for the purchase and use thereof;
(ii)   prepare necessary tender documents for items under
(i), study proposals and make recommendations for
selection of successful bidders in accordance with the
procedures set forth, or referred to, in this Agreement;
and supervise the acquisition of equipment and related
parts and their entry into operation;
(iii) prepare the yearly work programs for the maintenance
districts and sections, including the proposed yearly
maintenance budget;
(iv) review the quarterly work programs to be prepared by
the districts on the basis of the yearly programs;
(v) estimate and provide the staff, equipment and facilities
required by the districts for carrying out their yearly
programs;


﻿- 27 -
(vi) guide and assist the district engineers on the pro-
cedures and practical rules for carrying out their work
programs;
(vii) guide and assist the district engineers in the prepara-
tion of their reports on work performed and resources
utilized;
(viii) evaluate compliance with the work programs and suggest
improvements whenever necessary;
(ix) oversee punctual submission of reports from all district
offices so that the data can be aggregated in timely
fashion and overall results analyzed;
(x) provide training to DGV's engineers, technicians and
operators; and
(xi) provide necessary input of MOPC into the civil works
components of the Project.
C.   Staffing Required
The Project provides for operations of the Project Unit
during the Project execution period. The professional titles and
expected duration of the members of the Project Unit over the
Project period will be the following:
Internationally Recruited               Man-months
1 Maintenance Planning Engineer               9
1 Field Maintenance Engineer                 12
1 Equipment Engineer                         12
Internationally or Locally Recruited
1 Chief of Project Unit                     48
(Chief of the Highway
Maintenance Department)
I Maintenance Planning Engineer             40
1 Field Maintenance Engineer                40


﻿- 28 -
1 Equipment Engineer                         48
1 Training Specialist                        40
1 Construction Engineer                      48
1 Accountant/Administrator                   48


