FILE COPY
Report No. 1322-AL
Appraisal of a Third Education Project in the
Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
February 23, 1977
Education and Manpower Development Division
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Official Rate (December 1976)
US $ 1.00                    =       Algerian Dinar (D.A.) 4.05
D.A. 1.00                    =       US$ 0.25
MEASURES
1 m                           3.28 feet
1 m2                         10.76 sq. ft.
1 km2                         0.38 sq. mile
1 hectare         5           2.47 acres
FISCAL YEAR
January 1    -   December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
APPRAISAL OF
A THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
GLOSSARY
BASIC DATA
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  .............           .................           i - ii
I.    INTRODUCTION  ...1...................................... 
II.    COUNTRY BACKGROUND  ......             ........................                 2
The Changing Structure of Algerian Society                  ......       2
Economic Development  Strategy  ...................                      3
Manpower Requirements  ...........................                       4
III.    EDUCATION AND MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT  ...................                          6
The Present Education System  ....................                       6
Educational Development Strategy  ....                 ............      7
Summary Assessment of Strategy  ....                 ..............      9
Education Finance  ...............................                      10
IV.    THE PROJECT  ..........................................                        11
Project  Scope  ...................................                     11
Technicums  ......................................                      11
Vocational Training Centers  ......... ..               ..........      13
Technical Assistance  .............          ..     .............       14
Cost Estimates  ...............         ..      .................       15
Financial Plan  ...............         ..      .................       16
Implementation  ................         ..      ................       17
Procurement          ...................      .................         18
Disbursements  ................         ..     .................        19
V.    BENEFITS AND RISKS  ...................................                        19
VI.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  ....                   ............     20
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their ofcil duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
ANNEXES
1.   Comparative Education Indicators
2.   The Education and Training System
Chart 1 - Administrative Organization, Ministry of
Primary and Secondary Education
Chart 2 - The Developing Structure of the Formal Education
and Train:ng System
Chart 3 - Education Pyramid, 1974-1975
Table 1 - (a) Enrollment Distribution by Course of
Studies and University, 1974/75
(b) Output from Universities, 1970-1974
Table 2 - Institutes of Technology, 1972/73
Table 3 - Enrollment Growth in Formal Education
3.   Projected Manpower Needs, 1975-1985
4.   Actual and Projected Enrcllments, 1974/75-1984/85
5.   Education Finance
Table 1 - Central Gcvernment Expenditures on Education
and Training, 1970-1975
Table 2 - Ministries of Education Recurrent Budget, 1976
Table 3 - Public Investment Plan, 1974-1977
Table 4 - Projection of Public Expenditures on Education,
1975-1985
6.   Teacher Training for Proposed Technicums
Table 1 - Enrollment by Technicum and Course
Table 2 - Student/Teacher Ratios and Use Factors
7.   Vocational Training Centers
Chart 1 - Administrative Organization, Ministry of Labor
and Social Affairs
C,hart 2 - Organizati3nal Chart, Vocational Training Center
8.   Technical Assistance
9.   Unit Capital Costs and Ar2as
10.   Project Costs by Type of Expenditure
11.   Contingency Allowances
12.   Financial Plan
13.   Project Implementation Sciedule
14.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
MAP



GLOSSARY
Fundamental      Universal basic education extending over grades 1-9 and
Education:       divided into two cycles: elementary education (grades 1-
6) and "polytechnic" education (Enseignement Polytechni-
se, grades 7-9)
CET:             Colleges d'Enseignement Technique (vocational school,
grades 9-11)
Lycee:           First and second cycle secondary school (grades 7-13) of-
fering after grade 10 specialized streams in Arabic, Hu-
manities, Mathematics and Sciences (General Lycees) or in
Industrial Arts, Mathematics, Commerce and Economics (Tech-
nical Lycees). Upon completing courses and passing the re-
quired examinations, students are awarded the "Baccalaure-
at" (various specializations) which qualifies for entry
into university
Technicum:       A new type of technical secondary school (grades 10-12)
with strong vocational bias, designed to produce middle-
level technicians
ITE:             Institut de Technologie d'Education (teacher training,
1 and 2 year courses, grades 10-14)
Institute of    A new type of secondary and/or post-secondary institution
Technology:      providing intensive, specialized and job-oriented training
for professional and para-professional personnel, with
flexible entry requirements and strong emphasis on practi-
cal subjects. Courses vary from 4 to 5 years after grades
12-13 for the professional level and from 1 to 4 years for
the technician level
ENSEP:           Ecole Normale Sup'erieure de l'Enseignement Polytechnique
(Technical Teacher Training College, grades 13-16)
Ministries and Agencies:
MHESR:           Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research
MOLSA:           Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs
MOIE:            Ministry of Industry and Energy
MPSE:            Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education
INPED:           Institut National de la Productivite et du Developpement
Industriel (National Institute for Industrial Development)
ETAU:            Bureau d'Etudes d'Architecture et d'Urbanisme



GLOSSARY (Continued)
CTC:            Organisme de Contro^le Technique de la Construction
CNAT:            Centre National d'Animation de l'Enterprise de Travaux
(National Development Center for the Construction In-
dustry)
CNA:             Centre National d'Alphabetisation (National Literacy
Center)
CNEG:            Centre National d'Enseignement Generalise (National Cen-
ter for Complementary Education)
IPN:             Institut Pedagogique National (Center for Education Re-
search and Development)



ALGERIA
BASIC DATA (1975) 1/
Area                                            2,381,700 km2
Total Population                                15.7 million
Current Rate of Population Growth               3.2% p.a.
Per Capita GNP                                  US$780
Literacy Rate                                   30% (estimate)
Primary School Enrollment as a
Percentage of Age Group 6-11                  76%
Secondary School Enrollment as a
Percentage of Age Group 12-18                 16 i/
Higher Education Enrollment as a                  2/
Percentage of Age Group 19-23                 476-
Central Government Expenditures on
Education as a Percentage of Total
Government Expenditures                       20.7%
Central Government Expenditures on
Education as a Percentage of GDP              7.5%
1/ See Annexes 1 and 2 for comparative educational data and a detailed
description of the present education and training system.
2/ Gross enrollment ratio.






SUTZIARY ATND COICLUSIONS
i.        The education and training system in Algeria is expected to play
a key role in implementing the country's development strategy by: (i) creat-
ing a socio-cultural environment imbued with Arab-Algerian cultural values
and conducive to economic development, and (ii) responding quickly to the
demand for skilled manpower generated by industrialization and the rapid
growth of the economy. Accordingly, the two main goals of educational
development are: (i) provision of nine years of "ifundamental education" to
all Algerian children by the mid 1980s, and (ii) continuous rapid expansion
and reorientation of secondary and post-secondary education with emphasis on
scientific and technological fields.
ii.       Two Bank-financed education projects, approved in 1973 and 1976,
are assisting in implementation of this strategy: the first one by expanding
and/or improving existing technological institutes wvhich are supplying high
level technical manpower for critical sectors of the economy (agriculture,
natural gas, mining and metallurgy, plastics, construction materials, mecha-
nical construction and electrotechnology); the second one by supporting a
new post-secondary Technological Institute of Electricity and Electronics
and providing much needed technical assistance for the planning, preparation
and execution of educational reforms in other priority areas: basic educa-
tion, vocational training, general secondary and university education. The
proposed third education project would further reinforce the system of tech-
nical education and training (at secondary and post-primary levels) through
supporting the development of a network of technicums and vocational train-
ing centers.
iii.      Specifically, the project would comprise:
(a) architectural design, construction, furniture and equipment
for:
(i)  15 Technicums (Ministry of Primary and Secondary
Education);
(ii) 2 Vocational Training Centers (Ministry of Labor
and Social Affairs); and
(b) Twenty-one nan-months of technical assistance for:
(i) a study of the optimal location of future technicums;
(ii) administrative training related to technicums;
(iii) feasibility study of applied system building.
iv.       By increasing the annual output of the education system by abouL
4,500 middle-level technicians and 480 skilled craftsmen, the project would
assist in alleviating acute manpower shortages in the mechanical, electrical,
construction and chemical industries, and in commerce, which could seriously
impair planned economic and social development. The project would provide new
specializations not found elsewhere in the training system, thus supporting
the growing diversification and technological sophistication of Algerian
industry, one of the basic goals of the country's development strategy.



- ii -
v.        The Directorate of Construction and Equipment of the Ministry of
Primary and Secondary Education would be responsible for implementation of
the technicums and for supervision of the feasibility study on system build-
ing; close cooperation would be maintained with the Ministry of Public Works
and the wilayate concerned. The Planning Directorate of the Ministry of
Primary and Secondary Education would be responsible for supervising the
preparation of the study on the location of future technicums and the admin-
istrative training program. The Directorate of Vocational Training in the
Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs would be responsible for implementation
of the vocational training centers. The Project Liaison Officer of the first
and second education projects, would also act as information officer for the
ministries and government agencies involved in the third project.
vi.       Contracts for civil works, furniture and equipment would be awarded
in accordance with Bank guidelines on the basis of international competitive
bidding, except for equipment and furniture items which can only be grouped
in small packages (under US$50,000), items which must be compatible with
other equipment procured under international competitive bidding, and items
of such specialized nature that international competitive bidding would not be
practicable.  These items--which would not exceed US$7.0 million or about 27%o
of total furniture and equipment cost--would be procured under normal govern-
ment procurement procedures, which are satisfactory to the Bank, and would
include, whenever possible, price quotations from at least three manufacturers
or suppliers. For the purpose of comparing foreign and local bids, local
manufacturers of furniture and equipment would be allowed a margin of prefer-
ence equal to the existing rate of custom duties applicable to competing
imports or 15% of c.i.f. price, whichever is lower.
vii.      The total project cost is estimated at US$111.9 million, with an
estimated foreign exchange component of about US$48.5 million. The project
is suitable as a basis for a Bank loan of US$48.5 million to the Democratic
and Popular Republic of Algeria for a term of 17 years including a grace
period of 3-1/2 years.



I.  INTRODUCTION
1.01      In June 1973, the Bank approved a loan of US$6.0 million for the
first education project in Algeria, which was conceived as the first phase
of a larger program designed to: (i) help supply the scientific and tech-
nical personnel required for continued economic and social development; and
(ii) pronote and support structural reforms in the education system. The
project includes financing for: (i) the Algerian Petroleum Institute (equip-
ment for two technician centers at Setif and Arzew); (ii) the Institute of
Mining and Metallurgy, Annaba (supplementary equipment); (iii) the Institute
of Agricultural Technology, Mostaganem (workshops and field units); and
(iv) technical assistance for a pre-investment study of the Institute of
Light Industry, Boumerdes. Project implementation is about two years behind
schedule due mainly to initial delays caused by lack of experience in imple-
menting Bank-financed projects and interministerial differences over the
development pattern of post-secondary agricultural education. However, these
differences have been resolved and, in the last year, project implementation
has improved. In Mlarch 1976, the Bank approved a loan of US$47.0 million for
a second education project designed to support the expansion and reorganiza-
tion of technical education by financing a new Institute of Electricity and
Electronics at Tlemcen and providing much needed technical assistance for
the planning, preparation and execution of educational reforms in four other
priority areas: basic education, vocational training, general secondary and
university education. This loan became effective on June 4, 1976, and project
implementation has so far progressed satisfactorily.
1.02      The proposed third project (Loan amount US$48.5 million) would
further reinforce the reform of technical education and support the system
of vocational training by financing fifteen new technicums and two new voca-
tional training centers, and providing technical assistance for location
planning of future technicums, administrative training of technicum personnel
and a feasibility study on applied system building. The project was prepared
by the government following exploratory talks with a Bank pre-preparation
mission in January/February 1976 and a reconnaissance mission in May 1976.
The project was appraised in June/July 1976 by a Bank mission consisting of
Messrs. J. McCabe (educator; mission leader), A. de Capitani (economist), E.
Dib (architect, consultant) and J. C. Jones (vocational training specialist,
consultant).
1.03      The project was modified slightly from the government proposal.
The proposed program of technical assistance for CNAT (Centre National
d'Animation de l'Enterprise de Travaux--National Development Center for the
Construction Industry) was deferred because a request capable of evaluation
had not been prepared. On the other hand, provision was made for additional
technical assistance for administrative training of technicum staff -
specifically, institutional administration for technicum directors and
workshop management for workshop supervisors.



- 2 -
II. COUNTRY BACKGROUND
The Changing Structure of Algerian Society
2.01      The 15 years since independence have been for Algeria a period of
rapid social and economic development. Prior to independence in 1962, most
economic activities in the modern sector were owned or controlled by about
one million Europeans living in Algeria, nearly all high administrative and
management positions were occupied by Europeans and only 10% of the jobs
requiring technical and professional skills were held by Algerians. In the
years following independence, Algeria strived to build up an administrative
and economic management capacity fully controlled by Algerians while pur-
suing a policy of rapid industrialization and structural reforms. The new
Algerian government opted for a one-party system and a reorganization of
society along socialistic and Islamic lines. The nationalization of most of
the foreign capital stock and the prevailing ideological and political condi-
tions promoted the development of a centrally controlled economy.
2.02      The pattern of economic growth since 1962 has been heavily in-
fluenced by the resource endowment of the country and the quest for economic
independence. The development strategy consistently followed has been to
expand oil and gas production for export, to develop the physical and human
capital stock required for a diversified industrial base, and to modernize
agriculture. Due to the persistent shortages of managerial and technical
skills and the widespread skepticism on the value and/or feasibility of
"intermediate technologies", highly capital intensive technologies tended
to be used, which severely limited the absorption of the unskilled and semi-
skilled. In turn, the lack of managerial and, particularly, middle-level
technical skills (which cannot readily be made up by recourse to expatriates)
adversely affected the efficiency and productivity of investments in almost
all sectors of the economy.
2.03      Remarkable results have nevertheless been obtained as witnessed by
the growth of the economy and the profound changes which have occurred in
the structure of production and employment.  In agriculture (about 7% of GDP
and over 50% of total employment in 1975) a system of "self-managed" govern-
ment-owned farms has been created and large-scale programs have been launched
within the framework of the "Agrarian Revolution" to redistribute private land
and cattle, establish cooperatives of viable size and support them with more
adequate social facilities, extension services and other inputs. The industrial
sector (hydrocarbons, manufacturing and construction), however, is where the
most important results have been achieved: following a decade of sustained
investment efforts, the sector now produces 58% of GDP and accounts for about
15% of total employment. After initial emphasis on heavy basic industries
(hydrocarbons, steel, plastics, fertilizers), efforts are being made to foster
the development of mechanical and electrical engineering industries manufactur-
ing capital goods for various sectors of the economy. Increasing emphasis is
now also being placed on light industries producing major consumer goods (food
products, textiles, footwear, furniture, electric and electronic appliances,



- 3 -
detergents, etc.), as well as on the development of other sectors, which have
lagged behind, such as transportation and telecommunications, housing construc-
tion and urban infrastructure.
Economic Development Strategy
2.04      In 1966, Algeria's Revolutionary Council defined three fundamental
goals which the country would pursue during the period to 1980:
(i) expand and reorganize the productive base so as to reach
a stage of self-sustained growth with full employment
around 1980;
(ii)  achieve economic independence, which implies that the
country would rely mainly on its own resources for
development, although international economic relations
could be expanded if based on mutual interest and respect
for Algerian sovereignty; and
(iii) improve income distribution, particularly among regions.
More recently, Algeria has also played a leading role in the attempt to define
a global economic strategy for the Third World aiming at a new international
economic order.
2.05      These goals still represent the basis of Algeria's long-term develop-
ment strategy, as reflected in the Four Year Plan 1974-1977 and in the recently
approved "National Charter". The main aspects of this strategy are:
(i) continued build-up of a diversified, integrated and geo-
graphically well-distributed industrial base, which is
viewed as the means of achieving the long-term growth
and full employment objectives;
(ii)  reinforcement of the new management structures of the
Algerian economy (central planning, public enterprises,
agrarian revolution, decentralization, workers' parti-
cipation in the management of public enterprises) to
strengthen Algerian control and improve efficiency of
investments and production;
(iii)  limited expansion and egalitarian distribution of personal
incomes so as to generate adequate national savings for
investment and avoid excessive recourse to external
sources; and
(iv)  rapid expansion of education and training to respond
quickly to the demand for skilled manpower and to create
a socio-cultural environment conducive to modernization
and development.



Over the period 1974-1977, the Plan projects an average annual growth of
GDP of at least 10%. In the longer run, an average rate of real growth of
about 8% p.a. seems feasible.
Manpower Requirements
2.06      The size of the education and training effort required to implement
this strategy is indicated by a comparison of projected manpower requirements
and the present capacity output of the education system. For the period
1973-1977 the Second Four Year Plan estimated the annual manpower needs (in-
cluding replacements) at about 16,000 middle-level technicians (level 4) and
about 62,000 skilled and semi-skilled workers (levels 2 and 3) which compares
with expected average annual outputs of less than 8,000 and 31,000, respec-
tively. As indicated in the table below, the average annual demand during the
period 1975-1985 is expected to be of the order of some 29,000 middle-level
techicians (level 4) and about 44,0(00 skilled workers (level 3) 1/ which
compares with a present annual capacity output of about 16,000 and 20,000,
respectively (Annex 3):
1/   More detailed manpower data are expected to become available upon
completion of the pre-investment studies financed by the second
education project.



-5
Output from
Institutions Additional
Present       Supported       Output
Capacity     by the First   from the
Projected     Output of the   and Second  Proposed Third
Average Annual  Education and    Education    Education
Needs 1975-85  Training System   Projects         Project
Middle Level
Technicians
(level 4)                29,000           16,400           400           4,500
of which:
Industrial       7,000- 8,000         3,700/1         400/3         3,480
Commercial      12,000-13,000         1,500/1           0           1,020
Skilled Workers
(level 3)                44,000           19,600             0             480
of which:
Industrial      21,000-22,000        15,000/2           0             480
Commercial      19,000-20,000         2,900/2           0               0
/1   This represents mainly the output from the Lycees Techniques, which how-
ever are expected to gradually become preparatory schools for university
education rather than skill suppliers for the labor market.
/2   Excludes output from the remaining Colleges d'Enseignement Technique
(about 15,000 enrolled in 1974/75) which are being converted into
Technicums or phased out.
/3   Capacity output from the two existing centers of the Algerian Petroleum
Institute after ongoing extension works are completed.
2.07      Given the planned pattern of industrial development, the specializa-
tions which are likely to be in greatest demand are mechanical, electricity
and electronics, welding and smithy, chemical, masonry, plumbing and car-
pentry among the industrial trades, and bookkeeping and secretarial among
the commercial trades. 1/ From the above, it is clear that unless the output
1/   For quantitive estimations of the structure of future needs by occu-
pational groups, see Ministere de l'Industrie et de 1'Energie, "La
formation professionelle des ouvriers qualifies dans le secteur
industriel". A valuable source of information on existing employment
structures in the industrial sector is provided in the series of
surveys of "Societes Nationales" conducted by the National Institute
for Industrial Development: INPED, Emploi et formation dans le
secteur industriel (several volumes plus a "Synthese").



- 6 -
capacity of the Algerian technical training system can be increased, shortages
of skilled workers and middle-level technicians will result on a scale which
will affect virtually all sectors of the economy--a condition which has al-
ready been a major cause of economic inefficiencies.
III. EDUCATION AND MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT
The Present Education System (Annex 2)
3.01      Education in Algeria is at a transition stage with major structural
and curricular reforms under way. The Ministry of Primary and Secondary Edu-
cation (MPSE) has responsibility for first and second-level education which is
99% public; the Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research (MHESR),
while having responsibility for post-secondary education as a whole, for the
present administers only the university system, which is fully public. Much
administrative authority and many planning functions have been delegated to
the 31 wilayate (provinces). Responsibility for training of craftsmen and
technicians is vested in a number oE ministries. Among the most important
programs are those administered by 'he Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs
(MOLSA), which operates a network of 36 vocational training centers and the
Ministry of Industry and Energy (MOtE), which operates vocational training
centers and Institutes of Technology designed primarily to satisfy its own
needs for trained manpower.
3.02      Before the 1974 reform, the education system was structured in the
French tradition: (i) a six-year p:-imary course normally starting at age
six, followed by a one-year post-prLmary course for those not admitted to
secondary school; (ii) a four-year Lower secondary course either in lyce'es
or in separate middle schools (offe:-ing general education or vocational
training), followed by either a three-year upper course leading to the
baccalaureat for the lycee students or a teacher training course; and (iii)
post-secondary courses of three to !;ix years duration at universities and
other third-level institutions. A structural reform of the system began
in 1974 and when completed in 1985 will consist of nine years' fundamental
polytechnic education in Grades 1-9 (a unified system of basic education for
everybody aiming to relate education more closely to training and employment),
followed either by three-year courses in lycees and technicums (a new type of
upper secondary technical school with a strong vocational bias), or by teacher
training courses; post-secondary courses will be provided in universities and
in the Institutes of Technology, most of which are expected to be gradually
absorbed into the reformed university system.
3.03      The education system has expanded rapidly since independence, es-
pecially in recent years. Primary enrollments (in public schools) increased
at an average annual rate of 7.3% from 1970/71 to reach 2,641,000 in 1975/76
(76% of age-group 6-11). Public second-level enrollments expanded during the
same period at a yearly rate of 16.2% to 502,000 in 1975/76 (16.4% of age-
group 12-18). Enrollments at the uriversities and post-secondary non-univer-
sity institutions (mainly InstituteE of Technology) increased yearly by about



17% and 48% from the 1970/71 low base to reach about 36,000 and 16,000,
respectively, in 1974/75.
Educational Development Strategy
3.04      Educational development strategy is aligned to national goals for
political, economic and social development and is based on major structural
and pedagogical reforms to be undertaken over three plan periods to 1985;
quantitative targets have been defined in detail for the Education Plan,
1974-77 and in broader terms for later plans.
3.05      The strategy is based on the following main policy objectives:
(i) Arabization, which entails the development of a socialist
system within Arabic-Islamic culture and fostering the
Arabic language as the main medium of instruction and com-
munication. Good progress has been made in pursuing this
objective and one-third of all pupils are now taught in
Arabic. In 1975, there were 50% more Baccalaureat candi-
dates in the Arabic option than in the bilingual option.
Algerianization of primary school teaching staff is almost
fully achieved (only 4.3% expatriates), but over 40% of the
16,000 secondary school teachers and about 53% of the 2,200
full-time university teaching staff are still expatriates.
Teaching salaries which are not competitive with the indus-
trial sector and the insufficient output from the university
system are among the causes of the lack of Algerian teachers
at the second level. As university enrollments and outputs
grow, it can be expected that this situation will gradually
be corrected, particularly if steps are taken by the govern-
ment to reduce the salary differentials with respect to the
industrial sector. On the other hand, given the rapid ex-
pansion of higher education, a high proportion of expatriate
teachers at this level is needed for some time yet.
(ii) Democratization, which is aimed at the reduction of inequal-
ities in allocation of resources as between levels of educa-
tion (including adult education) and between regions. Despite
strong government efforts, distributional inequalities are
still marked, both by sex and by region. Partly for cultural
reasons, the percentage of girls enrolled remains substantially
below the percentage of boys enrolled; national average at
primary level is 40% with a minimum of 30% in the Batna wilaya;
national average at second-level is 34% with a minimum of 21%
in the Oasis wilaya. Similarly, the percentage of school age
groups enrolled varies significantly among regions, particu-
larly between regions with a large urban population and regions
with predominantly rural population: the range of variation
is 94% in Algiers to 53% in Medea at primary level, and 26% in
Algiers to 9% in Medea at secondary level.



- 8 -
(iii) Structural reform. MIain inplications of the structural re-
form are: (a) an extension of basic education from six to
nine years for all primary school students; (b) reduction of
the lower secondary cycle 3y one year and its alignment to
first-level education; (c) phasing out of the wasteful grade
7 primary course and of tha inefficient and socially discrim-
inatory lower level vocatirnal schools (see (v) below); and
(d) elimination of the was:eful pre-university year. Through
orientation, intake of grale 9 leavers to general lyce'es will
be reduced from the presen: 70% to 40% by 1985 to allow in-
creasing intake to technicims where students will specialize
in fields directly related to employment. Almost all the
output from the technicums (95%) is expected to enter the
labor force as middle-leveL technicians (level 4). A new type
of specialized lycee (in addition to the general and technical
lycees) will also be developed for the more gifted students
who would proceed to highe: education.
(iv)  Curricula reform and re-orLentation.  Curricula are being re-
vised in an effort to make them more relevant to the needs of
the economy and society and to the realities of local environ-
ments. Curricula at all levels have tended to be elitist,
unduly selective and irrelevant. The overly literary and
academic bias in secondary education has resulted in too many
literary and not enough scientific and technological baccalau-
reates, and this in turn has been reflected in maldistribution
of enrollments still affecting the universities (Annex 2).
The most important aspect of the ongoing curricula reform
(which is rendering the cui-ricula more relevant) is the
strong bias toward sciences and technology. Action in this
direction is being taken tlhrough the expansion of practical
courses in grades 7-9 during the 1974-77 Plan period, the
development of a network oi 30 new technicums, the provision
of 525 additional sections (of which 230 are new) in vocational
training centers, the expansion of the Institutes of Technology,
and the development of at -east two "Universities of Science
and Technology". Even the general lycee curricula will be
influenced by this program and are expected to place greater
emphasis on science and technology subjects.
(v)  Reform of vocational and m.ddle-level technician training.
Traditionally, formal vocational training was provided in the
MPSE "Colleges d'Enseignement Technique" (CET) and in general
took the form of three-year courses after grade 6 or 7. On
the whole, these schools h<ive not been successful: the level
of entry was too low, curricula were out of line with indus-
trial needs and students were too young for adequate testing
of vocational aptitudes an(d skills. As a result, drop-out
rates were high, the percentage of candidates who obtained the
craftman's certificate was low and only a small minority of



- 9 -
these were able to gain employment in the craft for which
they had supposedly been trained. Similarly, experience
has been mixed with the traditional "lyc6e technique" as
the main source of middle-level technicians for the eco-
nomy. Curricula offered by these schools were a compromise
between pre-university education and skill training--the
result being that they have often been unsatisfactory for
either purpose. The reform will phase out the CET's, re-
orient the technical lycges to emphasize their component
of pre-university education and create a new type of
middle-level technician training ("technicum") extending
over grades 10-12 and strongly job-oriented. The training
of skilled and semi-skilled workers would be concentrated
in the vocational training centers administered by the
technical ministries, and primarily by the Ministry of
Labor and the Ministry of Industry.
(vi) Reduction of adult illiteracy. Despite a wide-ranging
approach (including correspondence courses and use of the
media) during the first Plan, adult illiteracy still stands
at the very high rate of 70%. Progress has been slow mainly
because of the greater emphasis placed on rapid development
of the formal system and certain inherent institutional
shortcomings. A target has now been set to reduce the rate
to 50% by 1981 and major responsibility for improvement
has been assigned to the National Literacy Center and the
National Center for Complementary Education (specialized
organizations being affiliated to the Center for Educational
Research) whose resources will be increased. These organi-
zations will benefit from technical assistance under the
second education project (Loan 1209-AL) for recruitment of
experts and award of fellowships for training abroad. A
comprehensive strategy for the reduction of adult illiteracy
has to be developed and unless there is a much stronger com-
mitment, achievement of the 1981 literacy target will prove
difficult. The Bank will continue to dialogue with the govern-
ment in this area, with a view to collaborating when appropriate.
Summary Assessment of Strategy
3.06      The programs of educational reform summarized above are education-
ally sound and in line with the socio-economic goals of the country's devel-
opment strategy. However, despite definite improvements being effected by
ongoing reforms, many serious problems remain such as: (i) incapacity of
the education system to respond quickly to demand for the skilled manpower
required by industrialization and rapid growth of the economy, (ii) algeria-
nization of secondary and higher education teaching staffs, and (iii) re-
duction of the high level of adult illiteracy. The most urgent problem
requiring solution is the provision of appropriate facilities for vastly
increased output of the required middle-level technicians and skilled workers
output capacity falls far short of present manpower requirements and many



- 10 -
additional facilities will be needed to meet projected demands (paras. 2.06-
2.07). This shortfall has already been a major cause of economic ineffi-
ciencies and could more seriously curtail the governmeiat's industrialization
policy, unless appropriate expansion in the technical training system is made.
Because of lack of success of the (ET and shortcomings of the lycee technique
(para. 3.05 (v)), reliance must be placed on a proposed new network of upper
secondary, job-oriented technicums for provision of the required middle-level
technicians and on vocational trair.ing centers for the preparation of skilled
workers.
Education Finance
3.07      Implementation of the educational development strategy summarized
above is expected to result in an increase in total enrollments from 3.0
million in 1974/75 to 5.7 million in 1984/85, or about 6.5% p.a. (Annex 4).
The financing of this expansion is likely to involve an average annual in-
crease of total public expenditures on education of at least 10% p.a. in
real terms, corresponding to about 9.0% of projected GDP in 1985 1/ (the
projected distribution of recurrent and capital expenditures by types and
levels of education is summarized in Annex 5).
3.08      While these percentages are higher than those found in most other
developing countries, they reflect Algeria's present efforts in education.
Between 1970 and 1973, public expenditures on education and training have
consistently been in the neighborhood of 9% of GDP, with recurrent education
expenditures absorbing as much as 27-32% of the central government's current
budget and capital expenditures averaging about 23% of the government's total
capital expenditures 2/. Following the increases in oil prices and their
impact on GDP, public revenues and Dublic expenditures, these percentages
declined somewhat in 1974, increasel in 1975 and are likely to be in 1976
about 8%, 22-24% and 22%, respectivaly.
3.09      In the medium-term, barring unforeseeable events in the energy
sector, it is unlikely that financiil stringencies will represent a major
constraint on the implementation of the education reform--managerial and
administrative bottlenecks, inadequate physical planning and limited imple-
mentation capability could prove to be more serious obstacles. In the longer
run, three major factors will probably influence the financial feasibility
of the country's education development strategy. First, continuity will be
required in the country's present development strategy which firmly supports
education while allowing only relat:Lvely modest increases in other social
1/   This assumes that GDP will growi at an average rate of 8% p.a. in
real terms between 1975 and 1985. If the GDP growth were slower,
the percentage would be proporlionally higher and could even raise
problems of financial feasibility.
2/   The differences with respect to the percentages indicated in
Annex 5.1 depend on the inclusion of recurrent expenditures on
training by Mfinistries other than MPSE and I{HESR.



- 11 -
sectors. Secondly, severe restraints will have to be exercised on the growth
of recurrent costs, and efforts will have to be made to eliminate duplication
and wastage associated with the present educational structures (among the
areas to consider are scholarship and boarding policies, deployment of teachers,
teaching loads and length of school year) 1/. And thirdly, the present policy
of trying to reduce the very high cost of construction per student place
through standardization of design and construction and careful planning of
school locations will have to be extended to all levels of education and
rigidly enforced.
IV. THE PROJECT
Project Scope
4.01      The proposed project would comprise:
(a) architectural design, construction, furniture and equipment for:
Estimated Estimated
Student Places      Annual      Annual
Institutions       Grades    Existing    New       Intake      Output
15 Technicums      10-12         -       16,200     5,400      4,500
2 Vocational
Training Centers    6+         -          792       500        480
(b)  twenty-one man-months of technical assistance for:
(i) a study of the optimum locations of future technicums
(10 man-months);
(ii) administrative training of technicum staff
(6 man-months); and
(iii) a feasibility study of applied system building
(5 man-months).
Technicums
4.02      The project would finance architectural design, construction,
furniture and equipment of academic and communal facilities for fifteen new
technicums for the MPSE, the first of a planned network of thirty, to meet
1/   The need to eliminate wastage which inflates recurrent costs is made
the more urgent in view of the need to avoid any increase and possibly
to reduce the present salary differentials between the education and
the industrial sector (para. 3.05 (i), above).



- 12 -
urgent needs for middle-level technizians in the industrialized areas of the
country or in regions where important industrial and commercial developments
are planned (Map No. 12377R1). Locations were decided by the MPSE in close
collaboration with the Ministry of Idustry and Energy and the State Planning
Secretariat, taking account of the g3vernment's policy of industrial decen-
tralization. The technicums would oFfer three-year courses following com-
pletion of fundamental education, in mechanics, electricity and electronics,
building construction, industrial ch2mistry, and commerce, with varying
degrees of emphasis in accordance with local conditions and needs (the full
range of specialisms is shown in Ann2x 6). Total enrollment would be about
16,000 (including some 6,000 boarder,) with an expected annual output of
about 4,500. It is intended that reEresher and upgrading courses would also
be offered in the evening as the neel arises.
4.03      The programs of study wouli consist of six semesters of 14 weeks
each with "stages" of three to four ,reeks to be spent in designated industrial
plants and offices during the second and third years. Curricula and syllabi
have been prepared in cooperation wi:h various government agencies and local
industries 1/ which would eventually employ the graduates; they appear
tailored to the functional contents of jobs in Algerian industry. Curricula
would be based on the modular system and provide an acceptable balance of
continuation education, technology aid workshop practice, comprising on
average 30%, 43% and 27% of curricullum time, respectively.
4.04      A system of continuous evaLuation with credits would be followed
and this would replace the traditional type examination. About 95% of the
graduates would enter the labor force] where, after further shop experience,
they would receive technician appoin:ments; the remaining 5% would be allowed
to proceed to further training in higher education. A tracer system to assist
in the fields of educational guidance, vocational orientation and career
evaluation is being developed and the government has provided an assurance
that information would be exchanged with the Bank at a time sufficiently in
advance of the opening of the technicums to permit the Bank to make comments
thereon. The results of tracer studies would subsequently be forwarded to
the Bank, as required for project evaluation.
4.05      The opening of thirty new I:echnicums - ten per year beginning
in 1979/1980 - would require a total of about 3,000 teachers: some 960 in
general, 1,380 in technical and 660 In practical (workshop) subjects (Annex
6). Thorough preparation and timely implementation of a realistic training
program to meet these requirements i; of major importance. While the needs
for general and technical teachers could be met through timely development
of existing sources, special arrangerients must be made to supply workshop
instructors. Training of the latter should commence with an intake of some
1/   Close links will also be developed between technicums and local
enterprises through visits of sl:udents for training purposes and
through employment of industria: technicians as part-time instructors.
Consultation arrangement between technicums and employers will be
flexibly organized and will not be institutionalized.



- 13 -
200 students in 1977/78. Adequate physical facilities to train the technical
teachers and workshop instructors required by the project technicums, are
available at ENSEP (Technical Teacher Training College), Oran, but additional
facilities will be needed as the technicum network develops further. Graduates
from the universities (with one year pedagogical training) could constitute an
important source of supply for general and technical teachers. In 1976/77,
some 1,250 students were admitted to new bachelor courses in mathematics,
physics and biology at the universities of Algiers, Oran and Annaba and intake
at ENSEP was increased from 140 to 300. The planned utilization of local
industrial technicians as part-time instructors in the technicums and deploy-
ment of instructors from the Colleges d'Enseignement Technique (C.E.T.) which
are being phased out will accord some alleviation, particularly in the first
few years.  A task force at the MPSE in close collaboration with the MOIE,
is studying means by which the teacher and workshop instructor supply may
be increased; among the alternatives under study are salary increases, addi-
tional fringe benefits and regulation of technical personnel entering industry.
An outline training program for technicum teachers prepared by the MIPSE, was
transmitted to the Bank. This program has been further developed and refined
along the lines agreed upon with the Bank and includes a training time-table
realistically phased to provide the teachers required for the scheduled
opening of the project technicums. Further program refinements (development
of syllabi, course administration, financial arrangements, etc.) would be
forwarded to the Bank by June 1977. The Government has provided an assurance
that they would take all necessary measures to implement the agreed program.
4.06      Five different prototype architectural plans, all acceptable to the
Bank, have been prepared taking account of physical and pedagogical adaptabil-
ity to allow for different local environments and wide-ranging curriculum
development. Detailed syllabi and equipment lists have also been prepared for
most specialisms. The government has provided an assurance that they would
transmit the detailed syllabus for management skills to the Bank by the end
of December 1977; in addition, detailed syllabi for proposed new courses would
be forwarded three months prior to their adoption, and proposals for course
deletions would be communicated three months before such deletion takes
effect. The government would also forward completed equipment lists with
quantities and estimated cost to the Bank within six months of the Loan
Agreement date.
Vocational Training Centers
4.07      As a first step toward a major expansion of the existing network of
vocational training centers, the project would finance architectural design,
construction, furniture and equipment for academic and communal facilities of
two vocational training centers for the MOLSA to be located in the Algiers and
Medea regions respectively, for the training of skilled craftsmen for some
fifteen different industrial and building construction trades (Annex 7). Each
center would have an annual intake of some 250 trainees, total enrollment of
about 400 (including 240 boarders) and annual output of about 240. Minimum
requirements for entry would be completion of primary education, with higher
standards where demanded by the nature of instruction given--such as for



- 14 -
drafting and certain electrical trades. The trainees would typically be in
the age group 17-35. With the exception of welding (eight months), the
courses would be of fifteen to eighteen months' duration with approximately
one-third of curriculum time devoted to drawing and technology and the
remainder to workshop training. Graduates would receive a "Certificat de
Formation Professionnelle" (CFP).
4.08      Instructors for all MOLSA vocational training centers are trained
at the MOLSA teacher training center at Kouba (Algiers), where 290 trainees
are at present enrolled and annual output is about 200. The courses are
of one to two years' duration according to entry qualifications and involve
workshop training in selected vocational training centers as well as general
and pedagogical training. The suprly of instructors is qualitatively and
quantitatively adequate to meet thE needs of the proposed training centers.
4.09      Adequate prototype architectural and site plans for both voca-
tional training centers have been prepared. The government has provided
assurances that they would forward completed equipment lists with quantities
and estimated costs to the Bank within six months of the Loan Agreement date.
Technical Assistance (Annex 8)
4.10      A program of 21 man-months of technical assistance would be provided
under the project for which expatriate consultants would be recruited in ac-
cordance with Bank procedures. Ten man-months would be devoted to a study of
the optimum location of future techiicums and the preparation of a school map
for upper seconday education. Whila location planning for the first tranche
of the thirty technicums was relatizely straightforward (para. 4.02), rational
location of further technicums being planned will become increasingly complex.
The future secondary school map (including geographical location of technicums
and lycees) would be prepared within the framework of national and regional
economic planning and take account of regional manpower requirements. Tech-
nical assistance would also be prov>ded for two experts for a combined total
of six man-months to train: (i) technicum directors in institutional adminis-
tration, and (ii) workshop supervisors in workshop management (including
equipment maintenance and stock control). A further five man-months of con-
sultant services would be provided for a technical and feasibility study of
the use of prefabrication techniques in school construction which would have
particular application to the future development of the technicums network but
would also have general application to other school building programs. To
meet the rapid expansion of the education system planned, to avoid bottlenecks,
and especially to check ever-increasing costs (para. 3.09), there is urgent
need for development of more rapid and less costly methods of school construc-
tion and this study is designed to rake a contribution in this area. In view
of the urgency of the matters proposed for study, the government has provided
an assurance that they would forward the terms of reference of the technicum
location study and the system building study to the Bank within six months of
the Loan Agreement date and the studies would be completed within eighteen
months.



- 15 -
Cost Estimates (Annexes 9, 10, 11)
4.11      The estimated total cost of the project is D.A. 453.2 million
or US$111.9 million equivalent. A breakdown by project item is summarized
below. 1/
% of
Base
DA Mfillions              US$ Mtillions       Line
Local   Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Cost
Physical Facilities:
15 Technicums            170.00   127.61   297.61  41.98   31.51   73.49   88.1
2 Vocational Training  21.07    18.84    39.91   5.20    4.65    9.85   11.8
Centers
Subtotal          191.07   146.45   337.52  47.18   36.16   83.34   99.9
Technical Assistance:        0.09      0.34      0.43   0.02    0.08    0.10    0.1
Base Line Cost   191.16   146.79   337.95  47.20   36.24   83.44  100.0
Contingencies:
Physical                  19.12    14.66    33.78   4.72    3.62    8.34   10.0
Price Increase            46.48    34.97    81.45  11.47    8.64   20.11   24.1
Subtotal           65.60    49.63   115.23  16.19   12.26   28.45   34.1
TOTAL PROJECT COST         256.76   196.42   453.18  63.39   48.50  111.89
4.12      Estimated civil works costs for the proposed project are based on
information obtained from government agencies and enterprises involved in the
construction industry in Algeria. Cost of equipment was estimated on the
basis of acceptable preliminary equipment lists provided. Furniture cost
estimates are based on reasonable CIF prices for each category of goods
adjusted upward to include cost of inland transportation and installation.
All estimates have been adjusted to reflect prices at the time of negotiations
(January 1977).
4.13      While unit costs of equipment and furniture are within reasonable
norms, construction costs per student place (which represent about 75% of the
total cost of a student place in the project schools) are rather high. This
is neither due to the space standards adopted, which are economical and in
line with similar Bank-financed projects, nor to the projected utilization
rates, which are reasonable,but rather to the inordinately high construction
costs in Algeria (Annex 9). Student-teacher ratios are realistic, represent-
ing an improvement on those in the lyc'ees techniques (Annex 6, Table 2).
1/   Estimated costs by type of expenditure are presented in Annex 10.



4.14      The project cost includes a contingency allowance for unforeseen
physical conditions equal to 10% of the estimated costs for civil works, fur-
niture, equipment and professional 3ervices, and 5% for technical assistance.
The price escalation contingency 1/ has been calculated, beginning January 1,
1977 through the project implementa:ion period; prices are expected to in-
crease by about 23% for civil works, 21% for furniture and equipment, 6% for
professional services and 18% for technical assistance. Accordingly, price
contingencies are estimated at abou: 22% of base line cost plus physical
contingencies (Annex 11).
4.15      The foreign exchange component is estimated at about US$48.5 million,
representing about 43% of total project cost.  It was calculated as follows:
(i) civil works 31%, 2/ (ii) furniture 65%, 3/ (iii) equipment 90%, (iv) pro-
fessional services 30%, and (v) technical assistance 80%.
4.16      When fully operational, the fifteen technicums and two vocational
training centers financed in this project would require about DA 80 million
yearly in recurrent costs, corresponding to about 1.0% of projected public
recurrent expenditures on education by 1985. In view of the high priority
of the proposed project, the government can be expected to meet these
expenditures as well as its share of capital costs.
Financial Plan (Annex 12)
4.17      The proposed loan of US$4E.5 million would finance all estimated
foreign exchange costs of construction, furniture, equipment and technical
assistance (for the latter, no UNDP financing is available) or 43% of the
estimated total project costs. Local expenditures would be financed entirely
by the government. The distributior by categories of expenditure would be as
follows:
1/   Based upon anticipated annual price increases of 12% for civil works, 8%
for furniture and equipment, and 8% for technical assistance. Because of
difficulties in forecasting future differences, the same rate of price
increases has been applied to fDreign and local cost estimates.
2/   This assumes that about one third of construction contracts would be
awarded to foreign contractors; if all were awarded to local contractors,
the foreign exchange component would be 27%.
3/   This assumes that about 50% of -ontracts would be awarded to foreign
firms and that the foreign exchange component of locally manufactured
furniture would be about 44%.



- 17 -
Government                    IBRD
Amount   Percentage    Amount   Percentage  Total
------------------ US$ Millions -----------------
Category
1. Civil Works                52.87       69           23.75       31      76.62
2. Furniture                    1.60      35            2.98       65        4.58
3. Equipment                    1.89      10           17.07       90       18.96
4. Professional Services        2.28      70            0.98       30        3.26
5. Technical Assistance         0.03      20            0.10       80        0.13
Base Line Cost             58.67       57           44.88       43     103.55
(includes contingencies
for price increase)
6. Physical Contingencies       4.72      56            3.62       44        8.34
TOTAL                    63.39       57           48.50       43     111.89
Implementation
4.18      Responsibility for project implementation would be assigned as
follows:
(a)  Technicums and Study on System Building:  The Directorate
of Construction and Equipment of the MPSE (Sous-Direction des
Constructions et d'Equipement). Close collaboration would
be maintained by this Directorate with CTC (Organisme de
Contr8le Technique de la Construction, a division for control
of standards of the Ministry of Public Works), as well as with
the wilayate concerned.  ETAU (Bureau d'Etudes d'Architecture
et d'Urbanisme, an architectural design and supervision divi-
sion of the Ministry of Public Works), has been assigned
responsibility for preparing the architectural designs for
the technicums.
(b)  Vocational Training Centers:  the Directorate of Vocational
Training of the Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs; the
Directorate of Construction and Equipment has been assigned
responsibility for preparing architectural designs and for
supervision of construction.
(c)  Technicum Location Study and Administration Training for
Technicum Staff: the Planning Directorate of the Ministry
of Primary and Secondary Education.



- 13A -
The Project Liaison Officer appointe(d for the first and second Bank education
projects would also provide liaison between the departments and agencies con-
cerned and the Bank for the proposed third project. Although responsibility
for project execution would be assigned to a number of agencies and/or depart-
ments, such an arrangement is regarded as efficient because the three groups
of project items can be implemented :Lndependently of each other, and because
the agencies and/or departments to which each group would be assigned are
experienced in supervising these actLvities.
4.19      Suitable sites for the project technicums and vocational training
centers have been selected and allocated for the project entities. The govern-
ment has indicated that all these sites are public property and would be
transferred to the user ministries prior to the scheduled commencement of
construction.
4.20      Prototype architectural plans for both the proposed technicums and
the vocational training centers have been prepared. These plans, together
with site plans, have been forwarded to the Bank and are adequate.
Procurement
4.21      Civil works contracts would be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in accordance w:th Bank guidelines. It is expected that
some two-thirds of the contracts would be awarded to Algerian firms as the
country has a developed construction industry capable of implementing the
proposed project.
4.22      Detailed lists of furniture and equipment would be presented for the
Bank's review prior to procurement. Consistent with appropriate technical and
procurement practices, furniture and equipment items should be grouped so as
to permit bulk procurement. Bidding documents would require suppliers to
provide initial training of key personnel in the use and maintenance of
sophisticated equipment. Contracts ifor furniture and equipment would be
awarded in accordance with Bank guidelines on the basis of international
competitive bidding, except for:  (a  equipment and furniture items which can
only be grouped in small packages (under US$50,000), (b) items which must be
compatible with other equipment procuLred under international competitive
bidding, and (c) items of such specic.lized nature that I.C.B. would not be
practicable. These items, whose total cost would not exceed US$7.0 million
(corresponding to about US$6.0 millicon of Bank-financed foreign exchange costs
or about 27% of furniture and equipment financing) would be procured under
normal government procurement procedu.res which are satisfactory to the Bank
and would include, whenever possible, price quotations from at least three
manufacturers or suppliers. Local mEnufacturers of equipment and furniture
would be allowed a margin of preference equal to the existing rate of custom
duties applicable to competing imports or 15% of c.i.f. price, whichever is
lower. Nearly all equipment is expected to be obtained from foreign manufac-
turers, while some 50% of furniture contracts are likely to be awarded to
local manufacturers or suppliers.



- 19 -
4.23      Construction is expected to begin about September 1977 and equipment
and furniture procurement are expected to begin about the same date; construc-
tion as well as procurement and installation of equipment and furniture are
expected to be completed in 2 1/2 years after the Loan Agreement date (Annex
13). An additional year would be required for the guarantee period, final
disbursements and closing of accounts.
Disbursements (Annex 14)
4.24      Disbursements would be made to cover 100% of foreign exchange costs
as follows:
(i) 100% of the foreign exchange cost of imported furniture
and equipment;
(ii) 44% of the total cost of furniture and equipment procured
locally;
(iii)  31% of the total costs of civil works;
(iv) 30% of the total cost of professional services; and
( v)  80% of the total cost of technical assistance.
These percentages would be adjusted to distribute the disbursements over the
implementation period. Surplus funds, if any, could be reallocated in accord-
ance with a program agreeable to the Bank.
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
5.01      The main benefits of the proposed project are expected to be the
following:
(i) by providing an annual output of some 4,500 middle-level
technicians and 480 skilled craftsmen, the project would
contribute to meeting urgent manpower needs (paras.
2.06-2.07) in the mechanical, electrical, construction and
chemical industries, and in commerce, thus supporting the
government's policy of rapid industrialization, industrial
diversification and technological progress;
(ii)  reduction of regional inequalities and support of local
industrial developments through systematic decentralization
of skilled training opportunities;
(iii)  development of a closer relationship between second level
education and industrial and commercial development, in line
with the government's policy to improve relevance of second
level education and reorient it toward science and technology;
and



- 20 -
(iv)  contribution to improved education planning and adminis-
tration through the provision of a program of technical
assistance including a study of the rational location
planning of technicums, a feasibility study on the intro-
duction of system building, and administration training
for technicum directors and workshop supervisors.
The project would thus further reinforce the expansion and reorganization of
technical education, already supported by the first two Bank-financed education
projects, while focusing on two sub-sectors (middle-level technician training
and craft training) and/or specialisms which were not included in the previous
projects.
5.02      The establishment of tha 15 project technicums will require some
1,500 academic subject teachers, technical teachers and workshop instructors
who are in scarce supply in Algeria. A task force at the MPSE is studying
this problem and a proposed training program for technicum teachers has been
forwarded to the Bank from this Ministry. The Bank is satisfied that the
measures proposed to train the required numbers of teachers and workshop
instructors for the project technicums are adequate. Even so, the degree of
commitment of the government to the agreed measures is difficult to assess
in advance, and there is a risk tnat implementation of key measures may be
delayed with consequent delays in the availability of the trained teachers
and workshop instructors in the nimbers required.
5.03      Because the project would be the first Bank-financed project of
this type with which both the MPSE and the MOLSA would be associated, 1/ and
despite the special attention whizh would be given by the Bank to brief and
assist these ministries during pr3ject implementation, some delays in project
execution may result from their uafamiliarity with Bank procedures as well as
from internal administrative constraints.
5.04      As the technicum is a new type of institution with which neither
Algeria nor the Bank has much previous experience, there is also a certain
risk involved on the pedagogical side which will require some extra monitoring.
5.05      In view of the considerable benefits expected, however, the project
is worth the risks inherent in an innovative operation of this kind.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following main
points:
1/   The only previous experience of either MPSE or MOLSA was with
Bank-financed technical assistance (Loan 1209-AL).



- 21 -
(i) all necessary measures would be taken by the MPSE to
implement and monitor the training program for technicum
teachers agreed upon with the Bank (paragraph 4.05);
(ii) the detailed syllabus for the technicum course in management
skills would be forwarded to the Bank before the end of
December 1977; detailed syllabi for any additional courses
proposed would be forwarded to the Bank not later than three
months prior to their adoption and proposals for eventual
deletions of courses not later than three months prior to
such deletion (paragraph 4.06);
(iii) the MPSE would exchange information with the Bank on the
development of its tracer system for technicums in the
fields of educational guidance, vocational orientation
and career evaluation at a time sufficiently in advance
of the opening of the technicums to permit the Bank to
make comments thereon (paragraph 4.04);
(iv) terms of reference for the technicum location study and
the system building study would be forwarded to the Bank
for comment within six months of the Loan Agreement date
and the studies would be completed within eighteen months
(paragraph 4.10); and
(v) suppliers would be required in the bidding documents to
provide initial training of key personnel in the use and
maintenance of sophisticated equipment (paragraph 4.22).
6.02      The project is suitable as a basis for a Bank loan of US$48.5
million to the Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria for a term of
17 years including a grace period of 3-1/2 years.






COMPARATIVE EDUCATION INDICATORS                                                    ANNEX  
**usflsut......... suswesssss.....
CFEBRUARY  ,0,177 
IGNP2  I I GNP   ix TOTAL:%  OF PUBLIC  :                                     PI    A,B* aa                            :0
I    CAPITAI DEVOTEDaPUBLIC  I EDUCATION    ELITER.  IPR.ICOHPLE- ISTU ,ISCM.TEACHiPRO1.GRESSI-  SEC. iSTU-
aAT   I TO EDU.: ExP. I RECURRENT    tACT               IEPNROLITIDON        mO,ENTSBLARY IN IO   RATE  :ENROLLIDENTS:HIGHER:
I         MARHIETI 2PUBLICIO)EVOEEDIEXIP ALLOCATED):  RATE :RATIO  IRATIESFORgOER                           IFRAON aPRO  OPI.:RATIO  20ER4  :ENR4LL:
S00 iPR ICESa  E000.       Y OU          TO!i       :(t OFS)a NET    PRI.SCM.ITEACITO GNP/ iTO SEC.   :NET   ITEACO   RATIO!I
VYERILLS.: CUSS)   ONLY) :EDU   sPR]. SEC   HI.:ADULST   (02                   tCV CLE(%IFR    1CAPITA   a M CtM 1    IER    I  M 
AD VANCEO0
AUS; TR"IA-      74    7.9   3,91n0        '. 3     9.9      470   290   220    99        9a        93        26         ?.0        99        St       29       4.0DO
CANADA           72   22.10 9.4900D        7.7    qO,4       30    lB    19      9R       A9        9R        24        21.1        99        R2        17      9.00u
GERMANY F,REP.7?   61.00) 9.3200           4.2    14.2       ..    7q.o  26      99       91        99         33        ...        99        01       22      17.OoCY
JAPAN     72  IAR.~~~~~~~3V  36300  '".    20.7      09    le    12      99       990        R9C       290       2.0         NRC       040      PVC    ?8.00D
NETHERLANDS    72 1  3.4  4, 3300          RS       9G       3  129       0      9         9        9         29         3.1        9         73        D      1.0
NONZEALAND    73    2.9I3.64               92      ..        39    P31   29      99       99        94        26         ..         0         67       19      24 00
NORWAAY           7?    1.      0 4,00     7o       32       SR    23    13      90   9   Il       49          20)       1.         49        To               it 100
500DEN           7I3  0.2 9,0)9            R.9    96.0       36    24    13      99       99        00         Il        . ..       30        09       IT      00.00
U..              72  99 .001 3,6'1D        6.3    22.7      26    39    22       OR       II        ..         26        ?..                  63        27     11.020
u. S . A .       7?, 210 .30 6,2000        6.')    13.01     ...  73-027         09       09   49              290       0.         . .       3         ji    29.00o
EUROPE
-G R  EEC E      71   a493T  1,870D        P.      1.        940   POT   100    A2A       930       ...        3py      ...         /0*        SRy     43)    11.00
IRELAND          72    ':.00  2.290)7    9.1        3.90'   430   420 133 y      9B       97        99*        39       ...9*                 79        I0      7.0UA
PORTUGAL         7?    9.0   1,4209140                                                              .....                                     699        .       760
SAI             7213'I.TT  1,2AP4                 92        9      2     So     94       90        ,          9        .                     204      30       6.
AFRICA
A-LGERIA ~       79   23.7       770       7.   . 'i ..      '420  30G   ter.   30        76        020       420        6 .1,0     090        17       20       0.00
BEN:9N           73    p,        I 20      0.3    32.0       '2 7  23    to      12       3204      704R       304      23. o4      0134        70      394      V.44CY
B0T3W,2N,,       7      o. 7     3) 0       ."    20.0  30        2PU    19      25       700       79         39        '.j        224        130      IA       o3oT
aUU              7       .         2       2.       a.9      '79 11    20        to       240x      307        30       1.           14         20      10       .0
CANEROON         73    o         I 90      9.9    2.1)       300   240   173Y             7 4         ..      910 I     . . .       . . .           9  PtY        ,OC 
,.4R.           7..   1.7      I bVYr    3. )    20.0      36    1 9    .OC                         S        6E        .            0         9~ P.Y           '.7
CHAD        ~~~ ~~79    .'4.0  0       3.I    2.        70    22             2        29303   3I          63009?   I'.           4         240Y  30         0.0240
C0400141         7'0  2.3    '491)         0.0        3      00    02    21      907     133        63 I       03        6(         '44        33A    22         30
EGYPT            70 3.0          240       9.3         .     29    16    204    40        7041W     49         20       ...         1,4        394      PM      11.03
ETHIOPI A        73   26 .0       'I)      3 .)    20.0      32 249    1          7       170       4P       i90         3.         b3          2       30       L. 20
GAB0N            73 A   0.    2,320        3.1 I    20.:6R  PS2   9    22I               144400    2SC         o16C      3.o          9       200       piCy    1.400
GHANA            71   9.3II    3o II        .17    24.44    342   1 2 03          6.          Cy   02          3003    ..             4        12        bCT    o.7440
04040  COAST   ~72   924 '  IP        6.13   24,7       2740   39   23         4     3          920 7      6       ..           ..        10       26       1.0
40634      79   12.0      2~~    ~     ~~7)  6.N27.0  63     22    12     00       73         ...       00        4.          14        12       23I          3 03H
LESOTHO          79      .       2103 I   .N.)p  p3.u       149   I2 8  21    4~I0       03        S 3.       32        7.0         41        20       2o       2.001
LIBREIA           79    13       '1I0      2'4    23.2       27    15   p0       73       94         ..        3          .           .         2       20       I.4A3
OADAGASC2        70       6      90       3. 2 p2,1          I3 1    24    2    AU       680       3o         6        IS'4                    90       P6      0.0
02146r           714    4.00     1200)    3.2    20 .9....... 25                        '360       60         S  70 TA             40'         00      P0       o.P,CY
MALI             74     3.3      270D      0.64   32.3       364   304 R 120    bC        lei       22A        04       3A14.-O    374         0* A    i7A      0 . 106*A
MAURITANIA       7"    12.20     20  0      .3,  1 2 1.U....... I 0                       290       ...        2'        ...        ...         3       70
000410100    77T?    0.011  "I1       ':00 C3.   62.70    721   20    0       0       06        99        3        ..          ..         2        0        .7C0
MOROCCO     7'   29.4~~~7   320o     9'      26.9      441  017      0      67      940       21I        373       . .'I 32 23*                   '1       2.:00
NIGERIA          7 1 71.20,   2200A    3.2    ...           `40* A '4 A  20,AIRC ... 39xy34C0V                           ...        . ..        A       200)    0 .3 7ECV
RWANDA           73    0.90 D     7oD      3P C20.12 3                                    92         ..       9          ..                     2       23       2.23C
SENEGAL          72   3Iton 0       24)I000 N22.0 S           RO2*         4     210      340       ..          6                               IX ..  2  24     I71C
S0044A LEONE   73    27          160o      3.4     23.4      31    36    3o      19?      34,9                3           4.0       6           3       Pt        .9
SOMALIA          7      9.32     20        3.2        SO.4   490   160   193     90       340        So        39       20.0        60                  19       0.10
SUD)AN           72   27.00r   lOT         49       32       "03   20    PA      2        I4        7          S         '.         29         2       P          .3
SNZLAND       79     uS       7         '29     2I        7     3     13       0       730       So        34         3.         4           9       22      2.00
TANZANI A        74  23.20    220          9.96   27.o       36    ... t22        3       444        ~        4           .          7          2      PC       u3
T UN IS3IA       7      9A 30    1 6 0 T   6.1    23.        37C   1 "31   20l    93,     72        92        4 1        6.0        31         2 4     2 1      3.00
UGANDAV          7'   2oUOT    IOO 9:n      .26   17.6C      Ou0   L 2P0 29      23*)    aOC        .         36         ..         24          400 2           U.500O
UPPER VLA        72    3.0        70       4.It')   239      69    2')     0               6            .      0        200         2                  23         ,04
ZAIRE            73   23o         '01413                      O     70    0       9       03        30         44         .         '13         a                U4 9.06y
CENTRAL_A-ERICA 090 THE C44100040
COSTA RICA       79     10       7I 0      9 .7    22.7      S7    Ps    22      49       P6C0 Y    o          20        3 .        905        2203    25      12.2103
DOMINICAN REP.7??       I  '2.4  SPr ?o    3.o    :3.4       oP 2  24    22      St       40        27        94         3.00r      63        23.9    24        7 .0 0
EL SALVATOR    79    3.70    3900          3.o   23.8       62     3    22      600      oSC       .           900      . ..       34         1300    PlC'    4.3540
GUAEALA          73      .2       3        1.    216.0       99     3    24      47       64        26        3          3.         09          0       0          0Y
HAII             7      400       93       09        6,6     62    12      a     204      22        2?        49         9.         90'I        3      P3        2.40
HONDURAS         72      .7       20       3.4      6.3D   63    23    24         2       42        24        3          60         23        24        20      30
JMAXICA          7?     29I      9)        6.SY   20.7       330   22Y    73    46       10600      ...        32         .,         ..       32X3    20         4.790
MEXICO      ~~~~7')  9600    9000     2.t,     9,3      99    24    22       76       71        31        416       3.          o          9       23       6.32C0
NICARAGUA        74    2.20    9000o    2.         232       62    2  13         97       69        21         37        2.0        03        27       20       7.00
TRINIDAD T. 72    1.00  1 23200n    9.21   TAR9             93    27    12      00       99X       PT         29        .11)       I'9        49      25       2.5bAY
SOUTH AMERICA
O0LIV2           76     .0      32SF      9,.0    17,9F........   34                      70       200       24        SF          ...        AR      ISD
BRAZIL           74 101.10)   7600         4,.3    22.00    42    2,1    37    79         000       ...       270Y       ...        ...        lAB       SO       .2
CH ILE           72   20.20)   7200        4.60   2064        60 20    o          ..     12;0:;Y Oa~,NB0
COLOMBIA         701  22.90)   0300D    /I.        209       39    la    20      73       67        Zo'        36        4.0        go         I7       10      4.00
ECUADO           72    6.70    4030D    0.7    27.70    '4900 121  laDY  69               72        ...        la        ...        ...       24        1*      4.9743
GUNA             74    2.7       3200D    9.N    9,70    07    is    13          8RI      920       39         33        6.10       20        620      2'.       1.10
PARAGUAY         74    2.60    374         2.4    22.4       99    14    22      Al       42        Po         30        4.9        65         17       12      5.00
PERU             7     1a9D      6200      14.9    20.20    90o   22    19,    72         00        Is4        3000      3.0        10        3D       2303   22.00
VENEZUELA        73   22.2   1, 630        4.6    t9,9       340   PRO   350    77A       42        ...       33         2.4        ...       33       ...    12.63C0



rr,MPARATIVF  EDUCATION  1401CATOOS    CCW O                                                        ANNEN  I    PAGE  2
.............. RR.saw ... 01111.2.1,1152
FF.KRUARY 4.1977
.................
----------------  ---- -----------------                            .......................................................................................
rNPI  R t  ',NP           TOTAj,4%   OF  PUBLIC  I                 I          I             [PRI.  RAV.RRI.   I                                ISEC
C  P I Y r   DFVOTFDlPiAL7  I VOUCATTON                 jLlfFA-  I PRI.  ICOMPLE-  iSTU                                            .1 I[C .  j3TU,  I               I
iT    I  -O  Erlljl               r?FCijRR(NT       3Ay          IENROLLITION            IDEN        AL'                 RATE  tENROLLJOENTSIHIGHERI
'iL
f    f `0      REX'  ;,LICITFD4   RATF  gRATIO  fRATE  FORSPER   iRELATION  IFROM  PRI.iRATIO  $PER   JENROLLs
T O           r%  Cll   t NET   IRRI.SCH.ITEACHi TO  GNP/  ITO  SEC.   I NET   IlEkCH-  RATIOt
YPf-ILLS,   (JSS)    N                a EDU,  I PR I . SEC . H I .a ADULTI I I  I%)   ICYCLFM   sER                   I CAPITA   I   c               I  W       IER
t                    I            r         I             I         I              I              I          I
C ? I       0           f o     t                                 2( 7           c a      t  (9)  i   ( I D I      I  ( I t        IC 1 2    g ( 1 3    t I 0
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - -  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
AqIA AND OCEANIA
;4     1                                            34P   23P   ISP          10        26          44          41          9. D          is            ax        ?I         I I 0 a
3ANQLkDCSH                                                   20",
73   714 l)        p,                                                       23         56X          . . .       48          . . .         . . .        23X       28          . . .
71   I i4         C, "      , I 2     1 0         2 PI   1; I      ?      82         q8 1         94          4 0        I 4 . 0        84           bic        26       2 0 . 0 o C
INDiA                7 1 ' A I9        1 2 10      , . 6                . .1   . . .   . . .    29        79X          . . .       43A          . . .         . . I       28X        2DAY      4 . 0 0 A Y
INDONF51A            7 1; I ;l -14 D   I SOD        I        11          6 3     11 I    I 4     62         6 3          40          32          li . 0         Q I         1 2        1 b        2 . 0 o
R A N              I I     PI         1 7 o                                    M       I?R      5 0        7 7         74A          32             0 8        BOA         24         5 2        0.32CY
8
R                            2 t,       6 1 C, V                22           . . .         . . .       26XCY   26            6.28CY
it'RI , N            -1                 Ill         7 .       Ofi          2     I       p I       q       9 Ix         7 6         18           5 . o         a a         sox        2 2        14 . 0 0
K 1 RF 4            7 s   3 9         I I 0       p ,       1bu P       6       5                9?D      104X          98          92           1 .           7 7         55X        1 6        7.8
1 C3A NO N          7 ?     2RD       R6 OD        3 .      ip, I       Q                      6 a        8 b         65           1 9         ?. .          63          2bu        25       2 3 . 0 0
""IL A y 3 1 4       17 1;   I I7      R, 70       6i           0       I       `       I       6 D 1,    96          9(          32           4 . OD        83F         44F        27F        3.OOF
0,' A N             7 2     06D    111, I (          11     'S .       Q 6                      2 0        24X         9 q         1 3          7 . 1)        . . .       u . 4 k     9         .
A K I 8 I A N      7 9    410        t I 11      I6       1 2                                             47X         90           3q          p . u         . . .        1 7 X      I 8       60 c
PfR`JA  N.G.         7 S     2b                       6.    ii          S P     1 e    q       52          7          73P         I I        II . n          90          12x?       24         o . 9 o ?
P11 I!, i p I NFS   7ii   I 0?          6 i                1! 11   I  7 S  I ,             8 7      1Q x                                                 . . .       46X                 21 . D O
p     2         R  I       I . I    Ib2                 I ,     I        I 1, A     96Y         72A         33                         99A         55 7 Y     2.         13. 25 Y
1 H A I L AND        7 1   39          P7,         i . ONF  fj . 7             9      t 9      M ,,      7X          qlc         3 2          I . oj        9 I c       2 1 x      2 R        2 . 0 C
r j Rel E 1        7 2   3 7W)    6 ) )C            .     I 3 f, p                    . . .    . . .     to9xcy        . . .       34DY        . . .         . . .        22x      27DY       5 . 3 1 6 Y
y F 4 E N            7 A    h .A        I 1"          9       14                  Ip   PI-        I 0        1 9 x       I a         36           S. 0          7 5           2 x      I 9        u . 05 8 y
YEMEN  P.r),R.   7P          1 , S     i I  LI       I A   I . 6      7       1 2      -       I 0        7OX         3 1         29         1 i, . 0        qq          1 2 X      2 0        0.08AY
--------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Su m - A `1 y I;R lEvEL 'PINC, 1)IJNTRIES;
L48ER OF  COUNIIIIE.                             7,       7 ;2       69     6 8     6 6      7                      5            7 7              2        5 a          7 8       7 4          7 3
------ -- ---------
qANGE                                                        6 -   (?.1-  (0-   'o-                                  I           I 9 -        c I . A -   r 7-         C , 4 -    C 0        c . 0 1 -
i    9       ,2      0                   9 4 x I    99  1        h9  I         25."        99)         7 5 . 0 I   4 3       2 3 . 0
Es                                                                        2                   E.          79           4 6            5          8 n         29         26         6.0
I Al li I                                         ;i                       11         7           Sil         I 9                        6 3         1 6        2 3        2 . 0 0
I                                                2          1 0         3 3            1          25            9         20            9
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
L A R LF                   t 9 1 0  DR  LiEFORE              M=CuRRENT PRICES                                      SOU P C E 9 I
MACNI r6'-Di: NIL  OR   Fcl_ lCIHLF  4=1 971                                   N=GOP                                                 - - - - - - -
QL)ESTjlNAPj_F                            C=1972                               PzINCLUDING  FOREIGN  AJO                               CIIL JMNSI I ANI) 2  O-OPLL) BANK  ATLAS
INCLUDES PART-TIME  STuDENTS  '1=1q73                                          QZCENTRAL  GOVT. ONLY                                                            OR  IRRD  MISSIONS
Cfj-RlNFD  -IT.  PRIMARY                  E= 1 9 7 11                          R=MINISTRY nF  EDUCATTOl (MOE) (ONLY                                3  T J 14  IRRD  MISSIONS
F=197-i                              3=MOE  AND  STATE  GOVT, nNLY                                                   AID/Cq  UNESCC)
r,=1976                              T=EXCLUT)ING  CENTRAL  GOV7.                                                    STATISTICAL
J=P-F.LIC  L)NLY                                                                YEAQBJCK
VrINCL,JDJN PRIVATE EXPENDITURE
X=11CLUDING OVERAGF0 STLII)ENTS
Y=uNESC7 SOLIRCES
- - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
CUPAqATII,E ECLC4TInN DAT APE J9CF!jL 'N THE EVALUA'InN CIF VAPIOS EDUCATI01 SYSTEMS aND ANALYSIS [IF RELATI,F STAGES F EDUCATTINAL
DV-'P-FN7 BETEEN  VAPIrl 3 COUNTIIFI, .!j.FVER,O'l THE  RAMS (IF  THE  RRESENT IATA,CPOSS-NATIONAL  COMPARISON  S.IULD  BE  APPWnACHED  olTH
GRE41 _AWI)N. AT  IRFSENTED  IN  'HE  ASOYE  TABLE  HAVE  HEEN  COLLECTF-0  LARGELY 4Y  TiME  8ANM  Mlggln',S  FROM  GOVER14FNT  S(IORCESi THE
;,'A'NDFJ ARE  STAFF  ISTINATE-   OR  nAlA F11M  JNESCO. EFFORTS  HAVE  6EEI, "AnE  TO  STANDAROT7E  DEFINTTICINS  ANO  JTMJN LI-ITS, TO  CHECK  7HE
"'F  7;,E  n&Th  NF.-Rl7 'FSr,S1lCH  FATA ARE  STILL  ImPFRFvrT  IN  5EVFRAL  RESPECTS  ANr  '14F  FtANK  IS  MORKING  7n  IMPRIVE  THEM
PR0',RE,S5!JE',l PN  TIE  PCCASION  1  [TS -ERATIDNAL   ORK, IN  THF  USE  (ir  THFSE  'ATA,  THE  F%1(ING  OUILIFICATI1115 SHOU!, , -E  HUR,E  Jl
MIN',:
I ) -LDUCATTIm` AS  DEJNF  IN  THE  TABLE  INCLIJOES  ALL  EDUCATION  AD  TRAINING, FORMAL  AND  NON-F04MAL I
2 ) -PRIARY  EDUCATTN  REIERS  TO  EDUCATION  AT  THE  FIRST LEVEL  AND  'SECONDARY' FDUCATInN  iZEFEPS  TO  ALL  EDUCATION  AT  7.E  SECONDARY
LEVEL PEGAROLESS DF TYPE (EC, GENEPAL, TECHNICAL, AGRICULTUQAL) I
j',-l'TEQACj RATES`(C7-L.h) ARE OFTEN COTAINEP FPO- COUNTRY CENSJSES. IN MANYCOUNTRIES THEY ARE 'INLY APPPOXIMATIONS AND IT IS
C)OtjTF  L  TAT  ANY   NIFPRH  DEFINITION  OF  %ITERATE' HAS REEN  FOLI.OWEI) CONSISTENTLYI
I  'POBLI CFXEW)ITUn   IN  EDUCATICIN;(COLS.3,14 AND  9) REFER  TO  iLL  CAPITAL  AND  RECURRENT EXPFNDTTLJRES DFVfITfD  TO  EDUCATIIIN  BY
PUBL:[ A,C GIIASI-PiRLIC AGrNC ES
C 5  ENROLi-FIT RA7111_-CjLS  7,  !? Al,,-  10) REFER  70  3CHOOt  YEAP  IND  -FAN  THE  PfRCENTAGF  OF  ELIGrBLE  CHILDREN ENROLLED  FULL-TI"
IN THES AIPPIIPRIATF SCH110L, R`1118.!C ANC) PRT.Tt 13Y LVEL. THFY ARE OFTEN StJBJECT Tn 4 .1DE MARrIN OF ERROR IN TE DEVELOPING
COUNTRIES  ).ING  Tn  VARIATIIIN  IN  THE  ACCURACI tF  BASIC  D04!,F. AGF-SPECIFIC  PnPULATION  AND  ENROLLMENTS). ENROLLMENT FIGUkES
FREQUENTLY  ARE  !G-ER  THAr, TE  NUmEEii OF  STJDETS  ACT JALLY  IN   SCHOOL. OVERAGED  STUDENTS  NHOSE  TNCLLlSlW4 19  IN11CAIED   RY
FOOTNOTES AL5rl CAN INFLATE IE R4TIOS,



ANNEX 2
Page I
ALGERIA III
THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SYSTEtl
A Review of Existing Programs
I. The Formal School System
Introduction
1.        In the last ten years, the Algerian Government has sought to de-
velop education and training resources which can perform an economic, polit-
ical and social function in the development of Algerian society. Thus,
urgency has been reflected in a very substantial expansion of the education
and training system, the dynamic search for and application of appropriate
reform measures, and the creative introduction of new forms and patterns of
education and training. As a result, a foreign, elitist and irrelevant edu-
cation system is becoming an instrument for the effective algerianization of
a modern industrializing economy, and the creation of a unified society im-
bued with a value system identified with the Arab culture and language, and
consistent with Algerian socialism.
2.        Human resource development strategy has, therefore, been determined
by this requirement of growth coupled with reform, with the result of linking
economic policies to social and politico-cultural progress. The objectives,
the content, the orientations, the structure, the organization and the admin-
istration of the educational system have been reviewed in this framework of
economic and social advancement. The system is in the process of transforma-
tion; problems of jurisdiction arise in this transitional period but the main
thrust is constantly to maintain momentum in the desired direction; issues
which may arise can be given more detailed consideration later, provided the
action taken will deal with a shortage area or clear a bottleneck.
Administration and Organization
3.        The Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education (MPSE) is respons-
ible for primary (grades 1 - 6/7) and second level education (grades 7 - 13)
and for training teachers for primary and middle schools (first cycle second-
ary). A certain degree of decentralization of administrative and supervisory
functions has been achieved as also of plan implementation. The planning
function of the HIPSE has been very competently carried out resulting in a
detailed short-term program, 1974-77, set in the perspective of 1985 objec-
tives and targets on a national, regional and district basis.
4.        The Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research (MHESR),
established in 1971, has jurisdiction over post-secondary education, but for



ANNEX 2
Page 2
the present administers only universities. It has not as yet been given the
resources to develop a full capability either in management or planning and
the urgency for action has not alLowed time for a comprehensive and planned
approach to developments at this Level. However, an important reform of the
administrative and organizational priorities and patterns is now underway;
a range of new courses is being introduced and curricula are under scrutiny.
5.        In view of the gestation period required for the formal education
system to respond to skilled manpower needs, ministries charged with respons-
ibilities for development in the productive sectors of the economy have
established and continue to estabLish institutions to train their own man-
power more rapidly and to their own specifications. As a result, the Minis-
tries of Industry and Energy, Labor, Agriculture, and others are now in-
volved in specialized training at higher, middle, skilled and semi-skilled
levels. The "Institutes of Technology" and the training centers so set up
have the significant advantage that their curricula are developed by the
users of the outputs of the instilutions.  Coordination and collaboration
between technical ministries conduicting post-secondary programs and the MHESR,
however, is still in a preliminarr stage.
Pre-school and Primary Education
6.        The MPSE since 1975 supervises pre-school education and collabo-
rates with firms and other organi:,ations for its development.
7.        Primary education, almost totally public, comprises grades 1 to 6;
entry age is six years. Enrollments (public) have increased rapidly from
1,851,416 in 1970/71 to 2,641,379 in 1975/76, an average annual expansion
of 7.3%. The proportion of girls enrolled changed only slightly over this
period, from 38% to 40%. Net enrollment ratio is 76% (1974/75, age group
6-11 years) but 11% of pupils are over 11. There is a wide range in part-
icipation rates between the wilayate. The repeater rate is high in grades
3, 4 and 5 at 13%, 12% and 14% respectively. Overall efficiency is rather
low with a ratio of 0.4; on average it takes about 9.4 years for course com-
pletion and 15 years to produce an entrant to second-level.
8.        There are 7,794 schools (public, 1975) and a heavy school building
program is being implemented during the 1974-77 Plan. Of the 60,179 teachers
employed, 4.3% are expatriates; pupil/teacher ratio is 41.5. Entry to second-
level education is by competitive examination, in which about half the pupils
are successful.
Second-level Education
9.        Second-level education fgrades 7-13), almost fully public, is
provided (1975) at the lower stage (grades 7-10), in 371 Middle Schools
and at the upper stage, in 97 General Lycees, 171 Technical Lycees, 5 Tech-
nicums and 26 Training Colleges (-'nstitut de Technologie de l'Education -
I.T.E). Middle schools enroll about three-quarters of all students; upper
stage enrollments are divided between General Lycees, Technical Lycees/



ANNEX 2
Page 3
Technicums and Training Colleges in the proportion 77%, 10% and 13%, res-
pectively. Enrollments at the second-level have increased very rapidly from
236,884 in 1970/71 to 502,255 in 1975/76, an average annual increase of 16.2%.
Main growth in this period was in general education, however, from 180,810
to 481,055 (including Middle Schools)--an average annual increase of 21.6%.
There was actually a decrease in technical enrollments from 47,741 to 12,391
due to the conversion of C.E.T.s (Colleges d'Enseignement Technique) to
Middle Schools in 1971/72, 1/ and training college enrollments increased only
slightly from 8,333 to 8,809.
10.       The proportion of girls enrolled increased during this time from an
average of 28% to 34% though the proportion in technical education remains
low at about 20%. Average participation rate (apparent) is 16.4% for the age-
group 12 to 18 years but ranges from 9.4% in Medea to 25.9% in the province
of Algiers. Of the 16,656 teachers employed, 40.5% are expatriates; average
student-teacher ratio is 25.2 (1975).
11.       Middle Schools provide general and polytechnic options leading
to intermediate certificates. General Lycees offer options leading to the
Baccalaureat in Arabic, humanities, mathematics and science.  Courses in the
Technical Lycees are more technically biased and include industrial, mathe-
matics, commerce and economics programs. The Technicum is a new type of
technical school having a strong vocational bias which is designed to meet
the manpower needs of local industry and may gradually replace the Technical
Lycee. The I.T.E. training colleges were established in 1970 to replace the
Ecoles Normales; they train primary teachers (instructeur and instituteur)
and middle-school teachers for both general and practical subjects.
12.       The efficiency ratio for Middle Schools, 1975, is 0.6; it takes a
student on average 7.3 years to graduate and 5.0 years to complete the course.
Efficiency ratios for upper-stage general and technical education are 0.46
and 0.42 respectively, and to complete the course it takes 3.7 and 3.8 years
respectively. Wastage rates are normal in the training colleges. Student-
teacher ratio in the middle schools, general lycees, technical lycees/tech-
nicum and training colleges are 27.9, 22.1, 13.4 and 11.1 respectively, in
1975/76.
Development and Reform of Education
13.       The four-year Education Plan 1974-77 (Plan Quadriennal) contains
the objectives and targets set for educational development and reform; these
have been accepted almost without change and incorporated in the national
Second Development Plan, 1974-77. Details of enrollment projections from
this plan are given in Annex 4.
1/   This reduction is more apparent than real since the polytechnic
middle schools might also be included under "technical".



ANNEX 2
Page 4
14.       Relevant development strategy elements in the Plan may be summa-
rized as follows:
(a) Structure: reform of the system to provide a compulsory nine
years of Fundamental Polytechnic Education followed by three-
year upper-stage courses in General Lycees, Technical Lycees
and Technicums, leading to the Baccalaureat, or by teacher
training courses for prinary schools (Annex 2, Chart 2). This
implies shortening of lover-stage courses from four to three
years (grades 7-9) and rapid development of the polytechnic
cycle, phasing out of lower technical and agricultural schools
and rapid build-up of tha technicums.
(b) Equity and relevance: iacreased participation towards universal
Fundamental Education; rl2duction of intake rate from grade 9
to the General Lyc'ees from the present 70% to 40% by 1985 with
increased orientation accordingly to the technicums; balanced
educational provision th-oughout the country.
(c) Pedagogical: common core Fundamental Education to include
optional practical elements appropriate to the aptitudes of
pupils, environmental reqluirements and opportunities; technicum
courses to be highly job--oriented.
(d) Political: Arabization of school courses and Algerianization
of the teaching force.
15.       The Education Plan, 1974--77 also proposes to reinforce existing
educational research agencies and 1o support new agencies for research on
curriculum development, design and production of teaching aids and further
development of norms and standards for school facilities. The Institut
Pedagogique National (IPN), under its new title, Center for Education Re-
search and Development, will play c major role in this matter, and will
incorporate the National Center for Science Equipment and the Norms and
Standards Unit which now has only Jimited scope and impact.
Higher Education (MHESR)
16.       Details on the growth of the university system are given in Annex
2, Table 3. Enrollments increased five-fold from 3,718 following indepen-
dence in 1962 to 19,311 in 1970/71; since then they have grown at an average
annual increase of 16.6% to 35,739 in 1974/75. 1/ Distribution by course of
studies is as follows (Annex 2, Tables l(a) and (b)):
1/   Including 261 students in ENSEP (Ecole Normale Sup"erieure de
l'Enseignement Polytechnique - Technical Teacher Training College,
Oran) but excluding 1,200 post-graduate students and 3,685 pre-
paratory students.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
Arts (including Education, ENSEP 261)        19,422   54.4
Sciences                                     15,156   42.4
Agriculture                                     500    1.4
Engineering                                     661    1.8
Some 25,000 students benefit from fellowships in Algerian universities
while 1,768 are on fellowships abroad, including 1,233 undergraduates (576
in Sciences and Mathematics and 657 in Agriculture) and 535 post-graduate
students (50% in Humanities and Economics). Housed in hostels are 15,931
students (2,471 girls): Algiers, 7,488; Oran, 4,495; and Constantine, 3,408.
Of the 4,041 full-time university teachers employed in 1974/75, 2,166 or 53%
are expatriates.
17.       In addition to the universities at Algiers (2), Constantine,
Annaba, Oran and Tlemcen, and ENSEP, higher education includes Institutes
of Technology established under various ministries since 1970 for mining,
petroleum technology, agriculture, commerce, planning, tourism, public works,
mechanics, topography, public health, telecommunications (Annex 2, Table 2).
The Institute of Technology breaks with the traditional educational pattern
in many ways: recruitment is not necessarily based on examination certificate
levels and credit is given for work experience, programs are prepared on the
basis of actual job requirements, the curriculum combines classroom and on-
the-job training, teaching methodologies are flexible, practical and student-
oriented, the academic year extends over eleven months and examinations are
geared to test professional competence rather than academic proficiency.
18.       The main objective of Higher Education as defined in the policy
statement on Higher Education of 1971, is the preparation of the cadres re-
quired for the realization of the targets of State plans. To accomplish
this the following reforms are being introduced: elimination of the waste-
ful university-preparatory year, lengthening the academic year from nine to
eleven months, introduction of a semester and credit system to improve flows
and increase output, utilization of a modular system built around integrated
and related clusters of common courses to allow horizontal and vertical
transfer and a certain flexibility on choice of final course, modernization
of educational technology, inclusion of Arabic studies for all students, and
organization of a period of on-the-job training for students, wherever feasible.
19.       A doubling of university enrollment from 40,000 in 1974/75 to
80,000 in 1980/81 is projected in the Second Development Plan, 1974-77, and
further enrollment projections to 1985 have recently been made as follows:



ANNEX 2
Page 6
Existing                                                     1975      1985
Algiers I                                                  18,078   18,000
Algiers II (Technological University)                       2,509   12,000
Constantine                                                 8,362   20,000
Oran (Technological University)                             6,589   20,000
Tlemcen                                                       201    8,000
Annaba                                                              12,000
New
Blida (Technological University)                                    10,000
Tizi-Ouzou                                                           8,000
Setif                                                               10,000
Batna (Sciences and Technicians)                                     4,000
Tiaret                                                               8,000
Sidi-be1-Abbes                                                       4,000
Mostaganem                                                           4,000
Achievement of these targets would seem very difficult, even with conversion
of existing Institutes of Technology, since detailed educational and architec-
tural briefs for universities to be developed for the period to 1980 are not
yet available. In any event, improved planning of enrollment structure,
study programs, physical facilities and staff development by the MIHESR is
required. In particular, further expansion of the system of Institutes of
Technology must be carefully planned and coordinated with the development of
university education. The governrment has accordingly decided that all of
these post-secondary Institutes w:ll be gradually transferred to become the
responsibility of the MHESR and w:-ll be absorbed into the reformed university
system.
II. Out-of-School Education
20.       Adult literacy in Algeria is estimated at 30% and raising this
level remains a major problem to be overcome. Account was taken in the Edu-
cation Plan, 1974-77 of the importance of this problem and of the lack of
progress made during the first plan. Development of out-of-school education
was envisaged within the context of permanent education to include both general
and vocational education. A wide-ranging approach to the problem was planned,
including the use of correspondence courses, radio and television. Major
responsibility for development of out-of-school education is assigned to two
specialized organizations: the CEntre National d'Alphabgtisation (C.N.A.--
National Literacy Center) and the Centre National d'Enseignement Generalise
(C.N.E.G.--National Center for Complementary Education). The institutions
will expand their functions and their means will be improved; they will also
be affiliated to the Center for Ecucational Research and Development for
greater efficiency. The plan target of achieving about 50% literacy by 1981
will, however, be very difficult to achieve.



ALGERIA
MINISTRY OF PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION
ADMINISTRATIVE ORGANIZATION
050 SOCAMENTArIoS  ~          TINT
AND EOROESDCCA REOAADAAAN OA                                                                                            C     R SECRI                                  EXRIIT .  I  F-ATION  ADO       D            O ADRIN
FLANNING ILDIISO  DP                                                                                                 A j                  E PA  INSTPAC ION O
NIIN CE EATA-                   DISO.IO_ONDSTRADIE                     D                      I                                         CO CAL COMMUNIT
| EDUC TION   ]  <  <                  SCHOLARSHIPS ANO      t                   l      DEP AT       t                             DEFARTMENT OF          j                       ES_ MA           <            |ElATONS  IISTRARAATIAT  N ANDNANP  AFINATNCE IA
-AL                                                                                                                                                                                                 ' ll  ll 
t DIVISION OFv rDIVISIDN DF EXTHA l = 1 r DAVISIC  CIVISIDN OF l T DIVISIDN DF CULTURAL | | DEVISIDNNORDINTETNANALA DIVISINNROREDEESDIDISID: DF SCHDO
TIVSIN OF EORGANIATO           DIVINIDAN CD SETTOES.         O IDIISIDN DERDUCA       .        CI|VISION OP ADMN|               IE  D ,IVIION OF EDCTLAIMIS IDO CIT                       EXAMINATIONS AND             RAINA   N  N                       ECUDAT,ANAL| t
|  AUO CDNTROL   l      GAT MACHEDU SYLACIASI          TIANAL ODRIVITIES            | STRR1 CICE PECSONNDL            INlSN FERSONNEL                ANC PENSIONS       |        |COMPETITIONS             ||COSRRTIRIONS                |                                                  , ANC



ALGERIA III
THE DEVELOPING STRUCTURE OF THE FORMAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING SYSTEM
PRE-REFORMf SYSTEMMiddle                                                                                             General  Lycee 1/                          Universities
Primary                                                                                1..T.E    T. E,  I. T. E. 2/
Technical Lycgee3
C. E.T. 4/Institutesof Technology
~~~~~~~~1                                  2        3 {
C. E. A. 51                                 Technicians
{ ~L
POST-REFORM SYSTEM                                                                                                  Lvccie                                      Univerities
Pro-School         Fundamental Polytechnic Education                                             Teacher Training  {I T.E )
Technicum 61                               Institutes of Technology
NOTES: {}
S Brevet D'Enseignement Moven
Tcncans
A Baccalaur6at
1/ General Lycee courses include options in Arabic, Humanities, Mathematics, Sciences
2/ I. T. E.: lnstitut de Technologie d'Education (Teacher Training);                                                                                     E. N. S. E. P. 7/
categories (a) and (b) for primarY teaching with one Year formal Training for (a) and two years for (b);                                  
category (ci for Middle Schooltahr. _3 
3/ Technical Lycee courses include options in Industry. Mathematics, Commerce and Economics
4/ C.E.T.: Colltge d'Enseignement Technique (Vocational School)
5! C.E.A.: Collge d'Enseignement Agricote (Agricultural School)
61 Technicum: New type upper secondary school with strong vocational bias to be financed by the 1. B. P. D.
7/ E. N. S. E. P.: Ecole Normale Superieure de l'Enseignement Polytechnique, Technical Teacher Training College, Oran
*The first education propect (Loan 913-AL)includes financing for: (  equipment of technician training centers for the Algerian Petroleum Institute at of
Setif and Arzew u iis suprlementary equipment for the Institutes of Mining and Metallurgy, Annaba, (iii) workshops and fied units for the Institute of
Agricultural Technology, Mostaganem. and {iv) technical assistance. The second education project (Loan 1209-AL) includes financing for the construction,                                                                r..M
furnishing and equipping of a new Institute of Electricity and Electronics at Tlemcen, and a program of technical assistance.                                                         World Bank - 16686



ALGERIA
EDUCATION PYRAMID 1974-1975, FORMAL SYSTEM
BY GRADE AND LEVEL OF EDUCATION'
Normal
School
Age     Grade
22
21          a
' Higher                                                                                         34,000 I  9,600
20 
19 
18 13                                                                                           14.182        5,562
BOYS                                                                                         GIRLS
17 12                                                                                         17.272           6.584
16 11                                                                                       26,311                10.664
_- _    Secondary
15 10                                                                              Si,                               24,048
14 9                                                                               49.38                              25012
13 8                                                                     60,761                                         32.355
12 7                                                                 85,674                    59,845         32,700
11 6                                   181,394                                                                                                    102,922
10 5                 222,045                                                                                                                                  136,644
_    PrimarV
9 4          239,366                                                                                                                                               1156,203
8 32      1                                                                                                                                                                 178,518
_ 266,1 67
7 2   258.278                                                                                                                                                               179,361
6 1  261,690                                                                                                                                                                    187,969
270,000  250,000            200,000          150,000           100,000           50,000               0               50,000           100,o00           150,000            200,000
Primary                       Primary                                                              jjjmeySecondary                           Higher
1/Includes ove aged students
ncludes Post-secondary students in training colleges for middle school teaching, but eocludes
Institutes of Technology with an estOmated enrollment of 16,000 11974/751
World Bank-16205                           rt >4
La tM



ANNEX 2
Table 1 (a)
ALGERIA III
Table 1 (a): Enrollment Distribution by Course of Studies and University, 1974/75
Percentage
Course of Studies    Algiers I  Algiers II  Constantine    Oran    Tlemcen  Total   Distribution
Law                    3,480       --           2,424        1,516       --     7,420        21%
Economics              1,486       --             769          674      --      2,929         8%
Humanities             3,117       --           1,769        1,296       --     6,182        17%
Applied Psychology       222       --            -                                222         1%
Journalism               268       --            --           --         --       268         1%
Political Sciences    1,027        --            --           --        --      1,027         3%
Commerce                 485       --            --           --         --       485         1%
Geography                244       --             384         --                  628         2%
Sciences               2,569      2,509         2,192        1,705       201    9,176        26%
Chemistry                111       --            --           --         --       111        --
Engineering              214       --            --           --         --       214
Architecture             447       --            --           --         --       447 S       2%
Agriculture              500       --            --           --         --       500         1%
Veterinary Sciences       45       --            --           --         --        45 )
Medicine               2,886       --                                                  )
Pharmacy                 329                      824        1,118              5,805 )      16%
Dentistry                648                                                           )
Optics                  --         --            --             19       --        19
ENSEP (Technical
Teachers)             --         --            --            261      --        261         1%
Total               18,078      2,509         8,362       6,589       201   35,739 11   100%
/1   Excludes 3,685 preparatory students. 1,200 post-graduate students (including law, 544;
economics, 287; sciences 90, medicine 279) and 1,768 students on fellowships abroad.



ANNEX 2
Table 1 (b)
ALGERIA III
Table 1 (b): Output from Universities, 1970 - 1974
1969/70      1970/71      1971/72      1972/73      1973/74
Law                       89           218          308          328          379
Economics                 73            87          176          187          266
Humanities               195           284          457          883          340
Sciences                  72           141          244          268          133
Medicine                  54            91          129          131          348
Pharmacy                  25            34           74          178           71
Dentistry                 26            72           65           67          141
Optics                     -             -            -            -            3
Engineering               65            91            0           94          122
ENSEP                      -             -            -            -           16
Commerce                  36            55           64           65           58
Architecture              37            23           17           24           18
Agriculture               21            21           38           48           14
Chemistry                 19            20           39           48           79
Geography                  -             -            -            -           30
Journalism                19            28           31           34           42
Psychology                43            19           45           41           35
Interpretation            23            31            -           28         n.a.
Political Science         14            30           50           22           73
Total              811         1,245        1,737        2,446        2,168



:4                &       n    -                                       -             4-    4
0.               K
K                         -3               -

o                 n-
0005    5        5-3
5          -3
3.3                                       C
S                                                  <.3              :4
.3                                                                                              -0                                                          5
a                                         a    r    a    C  a
-      0          -3                             non
01                -       -                                   COO       an           a       a    a                             0-    -    -<
C                                                                 C    -    Ona          6o:4    COO           CC         or  -
a                                   .t5     g            C      -           n-C        C0        an          0-0    C  C  -
o -                     300  o                         a              0  an                       ro C  C4ooon-                                         or C
-    C    00   00   *-o         o*.C    C  CC       3  -
C      0                                      0C0     OC          n                  0                                  C             C
n-                                               0-3                                 .0           or    Cr00.    CCC          000    0  13C          CO
C      n-a         -n         5               an-    on-          -                   00           no-                            0
o    o                                                 C              -      n           C                    C           no-.     C           0
-              o.     -           0                     C           10       -           C
on   00                                      C                                C                                 C             C      S           a
-                    a
0          000
-n    a                                       F                         4-      a          C       00    a
-                  -                                a
H                       p0      C    a       0    C   10      C        00     00          0       on   C       00  C        0             F     6
00                 C      Ca            Coon                                         0       0.                         ft-           I
S                             S                                         F                                        
O      C                                         14
5                                                                                                        a
0                            0
S    S
C    C                                                                                                                                                                            0-4
C    C                                                                                                                                                                           lo
CCC   C CCC          CCC                           C                          C    C        C  C       CC   000..  OCG   o
an-n-  On-CC  CC   n-n-CO         03   .C        Co    CC    an-an-         CC   n-       CC  a       n-n-  n-as   n-n-  n-n-    a  CO  CC    I 00
a                   000   000   0    0000          0  0    00           0      '0    000k          0    0
C    1.0            aaa   n.an.  a    aaa          a  a    an.          a    aa      an. a C       C.   n.      a  t        IC.  10.00   tt   it       I  I  I
C                   OCOC   COO   C    CCC          0  C      CO         C       0    0000          0    0       0  0        000   000   00   00        C  0  0
CO           C                                         C
a                   aaa   on0-00004    a0404    a  a    000-0                        aooo,oon      a    a       a  a        014  00014C  n-a  0014    a  a
a    OOa
C                      0.                                    0   0                                                  .             I  00
--                 C            -    --          -.           .n.-nOO       a.               -             ao-04
0414               C            04                           00                          -             a                                K
'O0        -a                         C..   0a
-          0                                          0
F                                                                                                                                                                                 I.-.
0414a04aaa.-an-04oC040                             0-      n-a04n-04          a    0-      a  04       n-a  CooCa  n-a  4-a    a  a  4-            F
-3             C         0<0        <                                        0          'C'*C  Cr00000  0<000
000                  110   .            -                                                                                 -  sg
CCC   CCC            ICC      C  C    CC           C       04    000CC        C    C           C       CC   - CC   CC   C
:ru0-0:w:  2  0021 O  C                                                                                     ObOOOoo
5
S
00=
>1                                                                                         -                    a   a  14-
104                                  n-a    a             0   C            04    0  00   00.                  04   COOn-an-.
-            a       04  -4       4-      0    00   14    -  0
-                                                           F
0    aSa



A10EI0A III
14 r ilene Gow, -h in FPDI Edcad---  (Prbli)
1970/71                        1971/72                                   1972f73                                   1973/74                                    1974/75                                    i975/7t
To-rl               U           F        PS -                                           I  otaL        L           F        To-d                 1           ,F        Total                _            F          To
1,851,416          1,246,575   771,516   2,018,091           1,351,062   855,031   2,206,893           1,448,201   928,143   2,376,344            1,514,614   984,991   2,499,605             1,589,619   1,.051,760   2,641,379
Secondary
190, 810           162,649    66,923      229,572            184,444    85,128       269,572           197,417    96,382       293,799            265,246   131,592       396,838             317,243      163,812     481,055
47,741             36,876    13,407       50,283             40,833    1. 785        55,618            52,642    19,907        72,549             10,923      4,043       14,966               9,933        2,458       12,391
r-acher lrOiig/2
I.1 -.7 )_8,333                                5,091      Z,J,4 1,040l-                             Z,f2b        0,1,8             5,007      2,050       _7 05                ,348      2c37        7,726                5,918       2,891         8,809
T-aI Secondary        736, 884           204,b616     3,084      287,700            230,079   102,239       332,318           255,066   118,339       373,405            281,517   138,013      419,530             333,094      169,161      502,255
Higher Ed..a.o
19,311                                    24,334                                     27,122                                    30,077                                     35,739
Lnstitute_ 0f Technology
3 320                                         5,000                                     10,280                                    15,700                                  _16,0O0
T1t01  H9har Ed-cti.o  72.631                                      29,334                                     37,402                                    45,770                                     51,739
Toyal all lezels
2,110,931                                 2,335,125                                  2,57b,6193                                 ,795,519                                  2,97,0L74
/1 In-lnd-og Techn-ca1 enrollmerts (1519 in 1975/76).
/2 1cloding Grade 14, Moddle -chool Teacher Ed a..io-    7, 3b5   1975/76,
/3 Excluding Preparror-  -nd G-odo-r sn-d-nts ,485 -0 2074/75,
Source:  alMinistr         1 of Primary and 5econdary Edoca..on .1niomraraons Saasca5nes, 1974/75).
b) 1BRD Mission, June 1976.



AN1,NEx 3
ALGERIA:  Projected Manpower Needs 1975 - 1985
by Type if Training Required
(Lavels 4 and 3)
Present Capacity        Suggested
Projected Average        Output of the        Direction of
Annuel Needs       Education & Training       Manpower
19,5-1985                System           Development-
Middle Level Technicians:           29,200                  16,400                  +
of which:  Agricultural              1,100                   1,200                  0
Industrial               7,500                   3,7001f               +
Commerical              12,500                   1,5001/                +
Health                   2,600                   2,500                  0
Primary Teachers
& Others              5,500                    7,500
Skilled Workers:                   44,500                   19,600                 +
of which:  Agricultural              1.700                   1,700                  0
Industrial             21.400                  15, 0002/               +
Commercial              19,900                   2,9001/               4
Health                   1,000                     ...                 +
Others                     500                     ...                 +
Source:  These projections reflect staff estimates based on published and unpub-
lished materials obtained from the Algerian authorities. The following
are the main sources of data: Unesco, Algerie - Besoins en main d'oeuvre
et developpement educatif ea Algerie (Paris, Octobre 1973); INPED - La
Formation professionelle de3 ouvriers qualifies dans le secteur industriel
(Novembre 1975); and Secretariat d'Etat au Plan - Enquete, Emploi et
Salaires (various years).
1/  Includes the output from the Lycees Techniques which, however, are expected
to gradually become preparatory schools for University education rather than
suppliers of skills for the labor market.
2/  Excluding outputs from the remairing Colleges d'Enseignement Technique (about
15,000 enrolled in 1974/75), which are being converted into Technicums or
phased out.
3/  The symbols (+), (0), and (-) indicate the need for expansion, invariance or
decrease, respectively. Differences of less than 10% between projected demand
and supply are considered insignificant, being within the expected margins of
errors of these types of projections.



ALGERIA III
ACTUAL AND PROJECrEL  ENROLLNIENTS 1974/75 - 1984/85
1974-75                                                                          1977/78                                             1984/85
Percentage                 -rachers                        Stadent/T-arh-r                          Percentage        Teachers                        Percen- tge      TeAchers
Enrollments   of Age Troop         Algerian      ELat-i-e         Totir            Ratio          Enrollmenes    of Age Grace          Requied       Rneollmentis     o  Age Creep       Required
/1                                                                                                 /1                                                  /1
A.  irinary  grades 1 - 6/7)                       2,499,605           67              57,590          2,589        60,179           42:1             2,878,000           75               76,000       3,769,000            1OO           102,000
B.  Middlr (grades 7 - 10 oct_1 1980;                 336,007          22              8,200           3.708        11 981           28:1               570,000            32              19,000        1,400.000            90            508000
gradre 7 - 9 thereaftee)
tOTrAL. FUNDAMENTAL EDUCATION                  2,835,612          60              65,790          6.297        72,0E7           39:1             3.448.000            73              95,000        5.160.000             97          152,000
C. Serondary (grades 11 - 13
until 1980; 10 - 12
thereafier)
Geceral                                           66,655                           1,182          2,250         3,4:2           19:1                100,000                            5,000             e.g.                            e.
Ter.ni-cl Lycees acd                 )             9,142                             207            382            389          15:1                  1,000                               200            na.                             e.g.
rechnircus                           )                                                                                                              40,000                             2,800             na.                             e.g.
Pricery Te-el-r Training                            7,726                             317           410            7t            11:1                 3,000                               400            n..                             e.g.
Others                                                                                                                                               10.000                               780            n.0.                            n.a.
IOIAI. SECONDARY                                  83.523           9               1 706          3,04          4.748            18:1                                 15               8.380          350.080             38            20,0
D. Higher
Uni-ersity                                      40,624 2                         1,875          2,166         4,041           10:1                64,000                             5,300            e.g.
Middle School    /2                                                                                                                                 5,000                               300           e.g.
Tegche- Educatier
:4                                                           /
e-titates of re-hlogy                           16_000                            na.            e.a.         1,5C3           10:1                20.000                             1.30D            e.g.
TOTAL H0GcHER                                     56,624          4                  :.            e.g.          5,541           10:1                89,000            h               6,900          150,000              7            11,600
Scarce   Mleistere des  Eseigemenent Primaire  -  Serondair, , Tf-or is..on. :t--Liq-r, A-ecr 19'..-1975;  ll Ple Qcadei--ccl 1974-1977; oission esrLaites 1984/85.
/1/  Age geoup 6 chreagh 13 until 1980/81; Lhec 6 thaogl  11 :gradrd    I - 6 o-1,, :.  rhr pcro-ta7   v-c 797'1K   orrrcspods te as et enrollmett ratio ef 677.
12   A.auees thAt  --ose   ill be exte-ded to rwo yearn a- - fOre  1980-1981
L Is-ledna prep-ratorv aid paat-g-adcete sitdeotr (4,885)Y
/4   Esnriate.



ANIEX 5
Table 1
ALGERIA: EDUCATION FINANCE
1. Central Government Expenditures on Education and Training, 1970 - 1975
(A.D. million; current prices)l/
1970     1971      1972      1973      1974      1975(provi-
sional)
Recurrent Expenditures
on Education                    997    1,271    1,497    1,735    2,002    2,654
Capital Expenditures
on Education                    730       648       662      852       906   L1212
Total Expenditures
on Education                  1,727    1,919    2,159    2,587    2,908    .2866
Recurrent Expenditures on
Education as a % of
Central Governnent Total
Current Expenditures           24.6      28.0      29.2     27.0      23.6      20.1
Capital Expenditures on
Education as a % of
Central Government Total
Capital Expenditures           37.2      28.7      23.6     22.9      21.9      22.0
Total Expenditures on
Education as a % of GDP         7.8       8.6       8.1      8.2       6.1       7.5
Source: Ministry of Finance; Staff Estimates.
1/ Payment orders as recorded by the Budget Directorate; functional classifica-
tion; recurrent expenditures on training financed by other than the Ministries
of Education were not available for all years and are excluded (the difference
represents about 10% of total recurrent expenditures on education).



ANNEX 5
Table 2
2. Ministries of Education Recurrent Budget, 1976 (A.D. million; current
prices)
A.D. Million          _
Primary                                   1,202.3            40.7
Secondary                                   699.2            23.7
Primary Teacher Training                      82.2            2.8
Higher                                       328.1           11.1
Adult and Non-Formal                          35.9            1.2
Scholarships and Pre-Salary:                 337.3           11.4
of which:  MPSE                              133.3            4.5)
MHESR                            204.0)          (6.9
Administration and Other
Expenses                                  268.7             9.1
Total                                  2,953.7          100.0
Source: MPSE and MHESR Operating Budgets for 1976; staff estimates.



ANNEX 5
Table 3
3.  Public Investment Plan 1974 - 1977
A.D. Billions
1973 prices                %
Industry                                     48.000                 43.5
Agriculture                                  12.005                 10.9
Water Supply                                  4.600                  4.2
Tourism                                       1.500                  1.4
Fisheries                                     0.155                  0.1
Economic Infrastructures                     15.521                 14.0
Education and Training                        9.947                  9.0
of which:  Primary                         (1.500) or 15.1%
School Canteens                (0.400) or  4.0%
Middle                         (2.454) or 24.7%
Secondary General              (0.937) or  9.4%
Vocational & Technical         (2.166) or 21.8%
Higher                         (2.260) or 22.7%
Other                          (0.230) or  2.3%
Social                                       14.610                 13.3
Administration                                1.359                  1.3
Pre-Investment and Miscellaneou,3             2.520                  2.3
TOTAL               110.217                100.0
Source:  II Plan Quadriennal 1974 - 1977



4. Projection of Public Expenditures on Education,1975 - 1985
Average Annual       Average Annual              Projected Public
New Student           Needs          Investment Required         Recurrent Expenditure
Places Required       1975-1985           (AD million;             on Education in 1985
1975-1985          (rounded)            1976 prices)         (AD million; 1975 prices)i/
Primary                         1,260,000           126,000                 612.4                        2,276
Middle                          1,070,000           107,000                 666.6                        2,634
TOTAL FUNDAMENTAL EDUCATION    2,330,000            233,000               1,279.0                        4,910
Secondary General                 134,000            13,400                 136.1                          537
Technicums and Vocational          90,000             9,000                 382.0                          388
Primary and Middle
Teacher Training                  9,000               900                  12.9                          269
Post-Secondary (all types)         85,000             8,500                 425.0                        1,908
TOTAL                           2,648,000           264,800               2,235.0                        8,012
or 7 % of GDPZ/
Source: Staff Estimates
1/ Assuming that the government will succeed in limiting the growth of unit recurrent costs to about 3% p.a.
2/  Assuming an average annual growth rate of GDP of 8% p.a. in real terms between 1975 and 1985.
(D- X-



ANNEX 6
Page 1
ALGERIA III
Teacher Training for Proposed Technicums
1.        The opening of thirty new technicums, ten per year during the
period 1979-81 (five per year Bank-financed), calls for the training
of large numbers of teachers in general, technical and practical
(workshop) subjects. The following tables show enrollment in technicums
and give an estimation of teacher requirements accordingly:
(a) EnrollmTents in Technicums
79/80     80/81      81/82      82/83      83/84
Year 1      1,800     3,600      5,400      5,400      5,400
Year 2        --      1,800      3,600      5,400      5,400
Year 3        --       --        1,800      3,600      5,400
Project (15)      1,800      5,400    10,800    14,400    16,200
Other (15)        1,800      5,400    10,800    14,400    16,200
Total             3,600    10,800    21,600    28,800    32,400
=         =
(b) Teacher Training Requirements
Total
Project
77/78    78/79    79/80    80/81    81/82    82/83  Technicums
General                  _         48        99      152       110        68       477
Technical and
Laboratory             __        69       141      217       158        98       683
Practical
(Workshop) Year 1        66       102        75       45        --        --
Year 2        33 /1    66       102        75        45        __
Output     Year 3        --        33        66       102        75       45       321
Tote1 output                                                                     1,481
(15 Technicums)
Estimated Grand Total                                                                     3,000
(30 Technicums)                                                                          '
/   A two-year course for a selected group to prepare for first opening of technicums.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
2.        Table (b) is based on an analysis of teacher requirements for
the project technicums. It is assumed that the universities may supply
the needs of geneTal and technical/laboratory teachers through a
one-year pedagogical training course for graduates; three-quarters of
practical teachers would be trained in a three-year course with the
remaining needs of practical teachers to be supplied on a part-time
basis from industry and commerce. Entrants to the three-year training
course would be required to possess a baccalaureat or equivalent qualifi-
cation, including industrial or commercial experience where appropriate.
3.        The table is based on a teaching week of 18 hours for all
subjects. This "norm", to which the administration is working, has not
yet been reached for workshop subjects and some lessening of workshop
teacher requirements may therefore be expected. The common practice of
"overtime" working may also lessen the number of teachers required.
Notes
(a) No allowance has been made for dropout in Table (b);
(b) The decision between "general" and "technical" subject teachers is
necessarily arbitrary to a certain extent.



Al.CERIA:  Technicums - Enrollment by Technicum and Course
Workshop         Metal        Manufacturing                                                                           Industrial Chemistry
Technoloev    Construction    Technolocv         Electro-                       Civil                                     a) Biochemistry       Chemical                                    Auto-diesel
Course:           (Fabrication   (Construction  (Construction   techics            ectronics   Enineering   Building    Hydraulics           b) Medical             Laboratory  Accountancy  Secretarial   Mechanics
m6canique)      mEtallique)    mlEcanique) 
Technicum:
Sidi-bel-Abbas         216                                            216          216                                                                                               432
Oran                                    432                                                         216            216           216
Arzew                  216              216
Relizane                                324                            324                                                                                                           432
Blida                                                                                                                                         162 + 162               324            432
Rouiba                 432              216                            216         216
Bouira                 216              216                            216         216                                                                                               216
Tizi-Ouzou                                                             324         324                                                                                               432
Sidi Aich                                                                                                                                     216 + 216               432            216
Bejaia                 216              216            216             216                                                                                                                                         216
Setif                                   432                                                         216            216          216
Chelgoum Laid                                                          432         324                                                                                                                             324
El Khroub                                                                                                                                     108 + 108               216            324           324
Guelma                 324              216                            324                                                                                                           216
Annaba                 432              432            216
Total      2,052            2,700            432           2,268       1,296              432            432           432          702 + 702               972          2,916           324             540
1of total    12.7               16.6            2.7            14.0         8.0               2.7           2.7           2.7          4.3  + 4.3                6.0          38.0           2.0            3.3



_LGERIA: Technicums - Student/Teacher Ratios and Use Factors
Course                Estd. Annual   Student/       Weekly            Use Factorb
No.   Level     Length   Enrollment       Output    Teacher Ratio  Periods   Classrooms  Labs/Workshops
Technicums                                       _
upper
Sidi-bel-Abbes      1   secondary   3 yrs.    1,080           300           11.9         31-36       0.88         0.78
Oran                1     "            "         "                          10.9         36-37        0.89        0.79
Arzew               1                  t "                                  11.6         27-36        0.82         0.69
Relizane            1                           "              I            11.4         31-36        0.83         0.68
Blida               1     "                                                 14.4         27-36        0.84         0.74
Rouiba              1                                                        9.6           36         0.85         0.78
Bouira              1                                                       10.5         31-36        0.85         0.72
Tizi-Ouzou          1                                                       11.9         31-36        0.81         0.73
Sidi Aich           1                                                       13.8         27-36        0.87         0.71
Bejala              i                            "1                          9.6           36         0.81         0.79
Setif               1     "                                                 10.9         36-37        0.89         0.79
Chelgoum Laid       1                  i t                                  10.1           36         0.84         0.74
El Khroub           1     "                                                 15.2         27-36        0.85         0.68
Guelma              1                  it                                   10.3         31-36        0.82         0.73
Annaba              1 "                                                     9.3           36         0.79         0.77
averages:        11.4                     0.84         0.74
Vocational Training Centers
post-
Zemouri             1   primary    8-24 mos.   396            237           16.5           40         0.75         0.71
Ain-Oussera         1                                                       16.5           40         0.76         0.75
Notes:
i.  Elementary drawing offices have been regarded as classrooms.
ii. Advanced drawing offices and typewriting rooms, both requiring special equipment and furniture, have been regarded as
laboratories.
iii."Bureaux d'etudes" (Vocational Training Centers) have been regarded as workshops.



ANNEX 7
Page 1
ALGERIA III
Vocational Training Centers
1.        The Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs (MOLSA) has a general res-
ponsibility for the training of semi-skilled and skilled workers for industry
and commerce. Formerly, the training was of short duration ("accelerated"
training) and was aimed at produc:Ing workers skilled in a relatively narrow
range of operations. There is an increasing tendency to lengthen the period
of training (up to two years) and to widen its basis in order that the worker
may be more adaptable to industrial or commercial change and may aspire to
more responsible posts at supervisory level. There is some danger, however,
that the needs of the less broadly trained worker may be overlooked in favor
of training at levels which are more appropriate to other institutions.
2.        The training is presently carried out in some thirty-six centers
located mainly in the larger centErs of population. The large centers are
necessarily polyvalent but many hcve smaller "annexes" serving the needs of
smaller communities within the san.e region; such annexes are generally mono-
valent and are mostly concerned with the building trades. An additional
twenty large centers, each with approximately 400 trainees, are planned for
the end of 1977.
3.        The Ministry also organizes short courses of two to three months
duration in "detached" centers:  these are of a temporary character and are
designed to meet specific industrial needs.
4.        The training of instructors is undertaken in a headquarters build-
ing at Kouba (Algiers). Admission to the courses requires a "baccalaureat
de technicien" or "brevet de maitrfse" (level 3) qualification together with
three or five years minimum industrial experience, respectively. The courses
are of one to two years' duration according to entry qualifications and are
undertaken partly within the pedagDgical center and partly within selected
vocational training centers in the Algiers region. Confirmation of appoint-
ment requires the satisfactory completion of one year of probationary serv-
ice in a vocational training center.
5.        The present enrollment ia Kouba and its attached centers stands at
290 of whom some 200 are expected Lo graduate. The Ministry has plans for
the creation of a new center coverLng the training of new entrants as in-
structors, 1/ the re-training of existing instructors, program preparation,
and pedagogical research. Other pLans concern the creation of technical
institutes providing for the trainLng of technicians in construction, and
mechanical and electrical maintenanice.
1/   The pre-investment study of this center is included in the Bank second
education project (Loan 1209-iL).



ANNEX 7
Page 2
6.        The Development Plan 1974-1977 shows the following estimated
growth in trainee places:
1975 - 12,000 places
1976 - 26,000 places
1980 - 50,000 places



ALGERIA
MINISTRY OF LABOR AND SOCIAL AFFAIRS
ADMINISTRATIVE ORGANIZATION
THE MINISTEH 
| SECRETARIY                             GENERAL
GENRA                                   INSPECTION
GENERAL DIRECTORATE FOR           DIRECTORATE FOR GENERAL            DDRECTORATE FOR LABOR                 TORATE FOR EMPLOY                  DIRECTORATE FOR                 DIRECTORATE FOR
F A L L O W A N ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DIRC                                                                                                                   .   .   'CtT   IES  
SOCIAL SECURITY                   ADMINISTRATION                     D         TERAO                   E AND HUMAN RESOURCES          F       SALARIES                        V      ONAL TRAINING
FLINOANCIA  SRJCIN,BDE
_    AFFAIRS                        AENDERORALMEAS                        RELATIONS                         PRGAMN                             DEEOMN-EE MN
5,~~~~~~~~1
PN"ONS  PERSONNEL AND      AIIOR                                                                                                RE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COSEARCH~ AND
AFAN.IRSL                      TRARYCNTROAN                         ACIEN
COMMLANTSAND<
ITRACTIVITIES                                                            NPCTO                           RAINAD                            EERC   N                           OCTOA
AGREEMENTS  -F.E7NEIL AIFAIRI]                              RFSE TTLEMENT                      PLANNING                             RAINING~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~<1015 sr~  132



ALG ER F       I
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART - VOCATIONAL TRAINING CENTER-
-INl$11N,    OF LABOIR AND SOCIA  AFFAIF1S
_~~~~~~~~~~~ _
ADVISORY COUNCIL       - _      DIHECTOR GENERAl
l_            _                                     r                 I   1
NASSISTANT D G3                                ASSISTANT D G. (ADMINISTRATION AND)
_ ITECHNICAL AND PEDAGOGI1CI                                        FINANCE)
DEPAHTMENT HEAD                                           ACUT
-|          ~~~SECTION                                            RSONNE
1           S~~~ECTION                                  _        110STEL
{   ;        ~~~DEPARTMENT HEAD                                          SLJPPLIES
LINDDJSTRIAL ENTERPRISE SECTION3
I BY DECREES  C F P 74/112 AND 115 DE fi5/01974
2 BRAN(.H FRAINING CENTER EXTERNALLY LOCATED
3, BRANCH TRAINING CENTER EXTERNALLY LOCATED IN AN INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISE            IN. n Rk- 16383



ANINEX 8
Page 1
ALGERIA III
Techrical Assistance
Pre-investment Studies
(a) Technicum School Map
1.        In view of the recent delegation of educational authority to the
provinces in Algeria, the preparation of a pilot school mapping study of
primary and middle school (fundamental) education for a daira in each of the
31 wilayate was considered a priority to provide a systematic assessment of
physical and pedagogical requirements, to identify investment priorities,
to establish a rational basis for location planning and to develop a school
mapping methodology adapted to Algerian circumstances. These studies have
just been successfully completed and will now be generalized throughout the
country. As a follow-through (recognizing the need to incorporate regional
planning and in view of the rapid expansion of a new network of technicums
which is planned) the preparation of a national school mapping study for
upper-stage education (including technicums and lycees) is a next priority.
While location planning for the lirst tranche of the thirty technicums,
undertaken by the MPSE in close zollaboration with the Ministry of Industry
(MOIE) and the Planning SecretarLat (PS), taking account of existing and
planned industrial projects, was relatively straightforward, rational location
of further technicums will becom2 increasingly complex.
2.        The study would be orginized from within the School Map Bureau of
the MIPSE and conducted in close -ollaboration with the MOIE and the PS, and
with the participation of the Wilaya Educational Directorates. It would be
prepared within the framework of national and regional economic planning and
of national strategy for educational development. The preparation of the
school map would have three main stages: (i) diagnosis of the school net-
work by wilaya as related to existing and planned industrial development
projects; (ii) prognosis, includ:ng an analysis of economic and social devel-
opment by wilaya, demographic analysis and population forecast, enrollment
projection and distribution by curriculum option; and (iii) proposals for
development of a network of technicums (including supply of various special-
isms) and lycees with geographical identification of locations, assessment
of teacher requirements, costs aud financing.
3.        The study, which would be conducted by an Algerian team, would
be completed within eighteen months of the Loan Agreement date. A foreign
expert (economist) would participate full-time over a nine-month period in
its preparation, and would be reEponsible for manpower, cost and financing
aspects; two school mapping expeits would join the team on four occasions
for three-day periods to animate and advise on technical aspects.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
(b) Applied System Building
4.        Because of the rapid expansion of the education system which is
planned, the Algerian authorities face a very heavy school building program.
There is need for analysis of more rapid and less costly methods of school
construction to avoid bottlenecks and check ever-increasing costs. The pro-
posed technical and financial feasibility study of the use of prefabrication
techniques in school construction would have particular application to the
program of technicun building to be undertaken in the medium term but would
also have general application to other school building.
5.        Preparation of the study would require:
(i) analysis and diagnosis of existing school building within the
context of the developing construction industry;
(ii) evaluation of the building program necessary to meet the needs
of planned expansion of the education system with particular
reference to technicums;
(iii) technical, cost and financial analysis of approaches to imple-
mentation of this building program with particular reference
to alternatives using standardized modular designs for semi-
prefabricated system building;
(iv) recommendations on the introduction of the preferred method
taking account of existing circumstances in the prefabrication
industry in Algeria.
6.        The Directorate for Construction and Equipment (Sous-Direction des
Constructions et d'Equipements) through its Director, would be responsible
for supervision of the study which would be completed as soon as possible
but within 18 months of the Loan Agreement date. It is envisaged that two
engineers from the consultancy group undertaking the study would spend about
one month in Algeria and thereafter would prepare their report during which
time some further visits might be made to Algeria (total: 5 man/months).
Administrative Training
7.        Because the technicums represent a new type of institution, train-
ing in institutional administration and workshop management is considered
necessary. Training would accordingly be conducted by two consultant-
specialists (for three man-maonths each) for selected technicum directors and
workshop managers, beginning in the school year 1978/79. The course would be
provided in close collaboration with an existing technicum (possibly in Oran
and in collaboration with the ENSEP).



ALGERIA III
Unit Capital Costs and Areas
Similar Bank
Gross      or IDA Financed
Buildi2g                          Cost per Student                            Area        Projects in
Cost/m                                (in US$)                                 Per        EMENA Region
Gross Area                   Site                                             Stud2nt   Area Per2Student
No.    Project Item          US$        Building   Development   Furniture   Equipment    Total           _nm              m
Technicums
1.01   Sidi-bel-Abbes         448         2,863           286           215            877      4,241       6.4
1.02   Oran                   448         3,279           328           91             'C 702    4,24       7.3
.03 OJ   Arzew                448         2,822           282           215           814       4,133       6.3
1.04   Relizane               448         2,904           290           215            825       4,234      6.5
1.05   Blida                  448         2,325           232           215            423       3,195      5.2
1.06   Rouiba                 448         3,279           328           215         1,089        4,911      7.3
1.07   Bouira                 515         3,627           363           215            866       5,071      7.0         (5.7-11.0)
1.08   Tizi-Ouzou             448         2,616           262           215            723       3,816      5.8
1.09   Sidi Aich              462         2,352           235           215            375       3,177      5.1
1.10   Bejaia                 516         4,015           401           215         1,114        5,745      7.8
1.11   Setif                  448         3,279           328           215            702       4,524      7.3
1.12   Chelgoum Laid          448          3,361          336           215         1,054        4,966      7.5
1.13   El Khroub              448         2,075           207           215            405       2,902      4.6
1.14   Guelma                 515         3,674           367           215            895       5,151      7.1
1.15   Annaba                 448          3,361          336           215          1,021       4,933      7.5
Vocational
Training Centers
2.01   Zemouri                408         6,329           633           300         2,480        9,742    15.5
2.02   Ain-Oussera            528         9,063           906           300         4,027       14,296    17.2          (9.2-15.9)    x



ANNEX 10
ALGERIA III
Project Costs by Type of Expenditure
Dinars (Millions)          US Dollars (Millions)    % of Base-
Local  Foreign   Total    Local  Foreign   Total   line Cost
Construction:
Academic and communal
facilities              155.35    69.80  225.15    38.36    17.23   55.59          66.6
Site development           15.54      6.98   22.52      3.84      1.72    5.56         6.7
Consultant architects'
fees                      8.67     3.71   12.38       2.14      0.92    3.06         3.7
Subtotal                179.56    80.49  260.05    44.34    19.87   64.21           77.0
Furniture:                    5.27      9.79   15.06      1.30      2.42    3.72         4.5
Equipment:                    6.24    56.17   62.41       1.54    13.87   15.41         18.5
Subtotal                 11.51    65.96   77.47       2.84    16.29   19.13        23.0
Technical assistance:         0.09      0.34    0.43      0.02      0.08    0.10         0.1
Baseline cost           191.16   146.79  337.95    47.20    36.24   83.44         100.0
Contingencies:               65.60    49.63  115.23    16.19    12.26   28.45           34.1
Total project cost    256.76   196.42  453.18    63.39    48.50  111.89



Ai(,LiRIA II
Cotinge cy Allowances
ConsulLant        Technical Assistance
Civil Works             Fulrniture             Equip.ent          Architects' Fees          Specialists             Total Project Cost
Local   Foreign        Local   Foreign        Local   Foreigln       Local   Foreign         Local   Foreign        Local   Foreign   Total
Contingencies (as % of
pro ject cost):
Unforeseen       1/                 10.0      10.0         10.0       10.0        10.0       10.0         10.0      10.0          5.0        5.0
Price escalation                    23,0      23.0         21.0       21.0        21.0       21.0          6.0       6.0         18.0       18.0
Total                             35.3      35.3         33.1       33.1        33.1       33.1         16.6      16.6         23.9       23.9
Project cost (without
contingencies):
Millions DA                        170.89     76.78         5.27       9.79        6.24      56.17         8.67       3.71        0.09       0.34       191.16    146.79  337.95
Millions US$                        42.20     18.95         1.30       2.42         1.54     13.87         2.14      0.92         0.02       0.08        47.20      36.24   83.44
.J Foreign exchange                        31.0                    65.0                   90.0                   30.0                    80.0                   43.4
Contingencies (amounts)
Unforeseen
Millions DA                       17.09      7.68         0.53       0.98        0.62       5.62         0.87      0.37         0.01       0.01        19.12      14.66   33.78
Millions US$                       4.22      1.90         0.13       0.24        0.16       1.39         0.21      0.09         0.00       0.00         4.72      3.62    8.34
Price Increase
Millions DA                       43.24     19.42         1.22       2,26         1.44     12.97         0.57      0,25         0.01       0.07        46.48      34.97   81.45
Millions US$                      10.67      4.80         0.30       0.56        0.35       3.20         0.14      0.06         0.01       0.02        11.47      8.64   20.11
Subtotal
Millions DA                     60.33     27.10         1.75       3.24        2.06      18.59         1.44      0.62         0.02       0.08        65.60     49.63  115.23
Millions us$                    14.89      6.70         0.43       0.80        0.51       4,59         0.35      0.15         0.01       0.02        16.19      12.26   28.45
1 Foreign exchange                          31.0                    65.0                   90.0                   30.0                    80.0                    43.1
Total project cost (includ-
ing contingencies):
Millions DA                        231.22    103.88         7.02      13.03         8.30     74.76        10.11      4.33         0.11       0,42       256.76    196.42  453.18
Millions US$                        57.09     25.65         1.73       3.22         2.05     18.46         2.49       1.07        0.03       0.10        63.39      4R 50  111,89
% Foreign exchange                          31.0                    65.0                   90.0                   30.0                    80.0                    43.3
1/ Price escalation computed on the basis of the following increases:
Civil works                    12% per year
Furniture and equipment        8% per year
Professional services           67. for total period to signing of construction contracts
Technical assistance            8% per year



ANNEX 12
ALGERIA III
Financial Plan
(D.A. and US$ Millions)
Government             IBRD                Total
D.A.      US$       D.A.      US$       D.A.       US$
Physical Facilities
1.1 Civil Works:
Local                     214.13   52.87          -        -       214.13    52.87
Foreign                      -        -        96.20   23.75        96.20    23.75
Subtotal                214.13   52.87       96.20   23.75      310.33    76.62
1.2 Furniture:
Local                        6.49    1.60         -        -         6.49      1.60
Foreign                       -       -         12.05    2.98       12.05      2.98
Subtotal                  6.49    1.60       12.05    2.98       18.54      4.58
1.3 Equipment:
Local                        7.68    1.89         -        -         7.68      1.89
Foreign                      -        -        69.14   17.07        69.14    17.07
Subtotal                  7.68    1.89       69.14   17.07       76.82    18.96
Services
2.1 Professional Services:
Local                        9.24    2.28         -        -         9.24      2.28
Foreign                       -       -          3.96    0.98        3.96      0.98
Subtotal                  9.24    2.28        3.96    0.98       13.20       3.26
2.2 Technical Assistance:
Local                        0.10    0.03         -        -         0.10      0.03
Foreign                       -       -          0.41    0.10        0.41      0.10
Subtotal                  0.10    0.03        0.41    0.10         0.51      0.13
Base Line Cost (including
price increase contin-
gencies)
Local                     237.64   58.67          -        -       237.64    58.67
Foreign                       -        -      181.76   44.88    181.76    44.88
Subtotal                237.64   58.67    181.76   44.88    419.40   103.55
Physical Contingencies
Local                       19.12    4.72         -        -        19.12      4.72
Foreign                       -        -        14.66    3.62       14.66      3.62
Subtotal                 19.12    4.72       14.66    3.62        33.78      8.34
Total Project Cost
Local                     256.76   63.39          -        -       256.76    63.39
Foreign                       -        -       196.42   48.50    196.42    48.50
TOTAL                   256.76   63.39    196.42   48.50    453.18   111.89



PROECT IMVRA'SllATiON SCHEDUL
1976                                            17                       I                                                                         979                          198D
i>        ~        ~          I          2            I                1                      ...1C         .           3           4            1          2           3            4
Hatn Activities                                              RcstonsiniRti)                                                      u 
T..hpi-vP
A. Fiften T.c.nhcok.
Prof..-et-il Stroice.                                    M.P. S,
Selection of Architect                                   STAU
sico Selection                                           ETAU                         _       t   .      _      U
Silt  Survey                                             ETAU                                                  , _
Prelivinary Design                                       ETAU
FiHal Des.ie .od Bidding Doc-etns                        ETAU                                                                                                                                                                                                   Cwli-n of Contue-
r n^_^t ^1 on s ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'-   ,,,  .P.U
Civil WC lkt
Bidditli and Ceo,iruction Iteard                         ETAD                                                                                         ________                                                                                                   Cot.spietiiq  of Coecteuc-
Coc,teu.RiRt,                                              Alvil Work Cnizrcacior                                                                                                                                                                               GeYa   urne
Gu-en-tee Period                                          Civil Work Contractor                                                                                                                                                                                   n
Funeitu-e ted  temnect                                   M.P.S.E.
Prep-rL-g M..ter LiSts                                    Equipeent SpeciaEli-ss                   . 
BLdding and C.HcrRc-  A-erd,                             M,F..E.                                                                                     .                                                                                                          CspEioi n    of Sepply
.nd Ies.-IWInn  fi
lI aefcturLt-is                                           Equip= et and F-roit-re                                                                                                                                                                                Furniture .nd Equipseeni
DelIvery end IT.t.llti..                                 tatotectccecl  nd Sopplie-
Teetttlice A*-Sft.nce
EtevemlSt                                                n. .i.fE                                                                                                tIIstSfslh,.uuffsIbsflunss.           Sn.
AdmieLSie tine                                          MvP,SiE fm flue..ni
ButiHdig SYtte                                           H.t.S.S.                                                                    e."TM.........h.......h...........
BuLldtai Sy-teiii  MI P,S E                                                                  nln                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(lncerniiient)
A    *                                          *                                A    *                                           *                        A.
Tect-tive Schedole of BAnk
Rivite:                                                                                                  evie   f Pe              P-rogic-oacd        Con RlrRciiocecvi-e   Co--iructioti-Roee  CoRtctRo-   Re-ie-  CRRll-ORtio- Recien                 Co-t-rocti- ReivLev
li.1i-ry Desuen           Final 
Fel1d         AR-w
Offi ce 



2              r              2          222                    2                     -          2 cn  nc0 ,0| 
00                _       0         00                 ;            0    2       0   :UvXtn
o   2           *     r2          2                         >        r               
O       _           r    0' :                                                  0   .    
2.    n.            o 
0                                             2'



ANNEX 14
ALGERIA III
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ Millions)
Accumulated            Undisbursed
Semester           Disbursement          Disbursements              Balance
Amount       %         Amount    _             Amount       %
First Year*
1              0.00       0.0          0.00       0.0         48.50    100.0
2               0.61      1.3          0.61       1.3         47.89      98.7
3             11.02      22.7         11.63      24.0         36.87      76.0
4             12.00      24.8         23.63      48.8         24.87      51.2
5             14.93      30.8         38.56      79.6          9.94      20.4
6               9.94     20.4         48.50    100.0           0.00       0.0
* Beginning from date of Loan Agreement



                                                                   -,-     b       9      7       '       >r-           ;tf           v-         to-               c<wv    S    pr    --vBA
(.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m 
A-rMFD/rERkANEAN 56A - *t ' GERI
'  ~~~~' w X~~~~~~~~~~ _~~~E \ edea < *+ _ + < > g K _ XhSTA>ITi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0'STrJ
A  idechei                                        .-E Bavadh  ,_-. .'  . gOE
\.                 J              /  /                    ,/ \Ab                                                                  -F.
<   (  w   I"                                                       X                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A L G E R I A
\  ~~~3>   /                                                         BerrianX ~~~~THIRD EDUCATION  PROJECT
(    {5Am Sefra   { f                                        Ghardtela 0                                                         *   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TECHNICUMS
32-                                                                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GOVERNMENT
VOCATIONAL TRAINING
*     IBRD PROJECT
Otargl. O_                            MAIN ROADS
SECONDARY ROADS
Th~ ttta dttete hn,nnttn ,tnn tnap Ac net  KILOMETERS          DESERTTRACKS
'    INTERMITTENT LAKES
Thn  e-nd,iesen Ao  accehptanc  by r- t                                                                                       _   _  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
World Baink and Its aftlnttes.                                          40                                                                                                            P 
-p4~~ .. ...p--k  



