CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1378 AL
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Third Education Project)
between
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC
OF ALGERIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated May 15, 1977


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 15, 1977, between DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR
REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).


﻿- 2 -
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein, subject,
however, to the following modification thereof (said General Con-
ditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,
as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):
"Section 9.02. Financial and Economic Data. The member
of the Bank which is the Borrower or the Guarantor shall
furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request with respect to financial and economic
conditions in its territory."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Technicum" means a new type of technical secondary
school, for grades 10-12, with strong vocational bias and designed
to train middle-level technicians;
(b) "Vocational Training Center" means an institution for
vocational training of semi-skilled and skilled workers (levels 1-2
and level 3, respectively);


﻿-3-
(c) "First Loan Agreement" and "First Project" mean, respec-
tively, the loan agreement (Education Project) between the Bor-
rower and the Bank dated June 19, 1973, as amended from time to
time, and the project described in Schedule 2 to such loan agree-
ment; and
(d) "Second Loan Agreement" and "Second Project" mean, re-
spectively, the loan agreement (Second Education Project) between
the Borrower and the Bank dated March 9, 1976, as amended from
time to time, and the project described in Schedule 2 to such
loan agreement.


﻿ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or re-
ferred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to forty-
eight million five hundred thousand dollars ($48,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil
works to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be
procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1980 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)


﻿-5-
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and one-half per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project through
the Borrower's appropriate Ministries, with due diligence and effi-
ciency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
educational, architectural and engineering practices, and shall pro-
vide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. 1a) The Borrower shall cause qualified staff
to be designated to perform the duties described is Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
(b) Except as the parties to this Agreement shall otherwise
agree, the Project Liaison Officer under the First Project and
the Second Project shall provide liaison between the Bank and the
Borrower's ministries, agencies and services responsible for carry-
ing out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 3.03. (a) In order to assist the Borrower: (i) in the
preparation of the design of the buildings and in the supervision
of the construction works included in Parts A and B of the Project;
and (ii) in carrying out Parts C, D and E of the Project, the Bor-
rower shall employ specialists whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions*of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Borrower and the Bank.


﻿-7-
(b) Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree,
(i) the proposed terms of reference, including detailed study out-
lines, for the specialists to be employed pursuant to paragraph (a)
above with respect to Parts D and E of the Project shall be remitted
to the Bank for review and comments within six months from the
date of this Agreement, and (ii) the specialists required with
respect to Part C of the Project shall be effectively employed
not later than eighteen months from the date of this Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall take all necessary measures
to complete the studies to be carried out under Parts D and E of
the Project not later than eighteen months from the date of this
Agreement or such other period as the Borrower and the Bank may
agree.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall exchange information with
the Bank on its tracer system established by the Ministry of
Primary and Secondary Education for the Technicums, in the
fields of educational guidance, vocational orientation and career
evaluation, at a time sufficiently in advance of the opening of
the Technicums to permit the Bank to make comments thereon.
Section 3.06. (a) Except as the Borrower and the Bank may
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall transmit to the Bank for its
review: (i) the detailed syllabus for the Technicum course in
management skills not later than the end of calendar year 1977;
(ii) detailed syllabi for proposed new courses not later than
three months prior to their adoption; and (iii) proposals for
eventual deletions of courses not later than three months prior
to such deletion.


﻿- 8 -
(b) The Borrower shall, not later than six mnths after the
date of this Agreement or such other period as the Bank may agree,
transmit to the Bank Ior its review complete lists of equipment,
including quantities and estimated costs, required under the
Project for the Technicums and the Vocational Training Centers.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take all necessary measures
to develop and implement its program for the training of teachers
for the Technicums included under Part A of the Project.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation.
(b) Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank:
(i) promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
progress reports, studies, contract documents and construction and
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifica-
tions thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request; and (ii) within forty-five calendar days
after each calendar quarter a report, of such scope and in such
detail as the Borrower and the Bank shall agree, on the progress
of the Project during such quarter.


﻿-9-
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project;
(ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project
and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan;
and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank all such information as the
Bank shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed out
of such proceeds.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire and make available before the sched-
uled commencement of construction all such land and rights in
respect of land as shall be required for the construction and
operation of the facilities included in Parts A and B of the
Project.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, except as
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, no lien shall
be created on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as se-
curity for any external debt, which will or might result in a
priority for the benefit of the creditor of such external debt
in the allocation, realization or d.stribution of foreign exchange.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any subdivision thereof and of any
entity owned or controlled by the Borrower or any such subdivision.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carry-
ing out the Project or any part thereof.


﻿- 11 -
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause the Technicums and
Vocational Training Centers provided under Parts A and B of the
Project to be adequately operated, and the buildings, furniture
and equipment included therein to be adequately maintained.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date August 15, 1977, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister responsible for Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minist're des Finances
Palais du Gouvernement
Alger
Algeria
Cable address:                Telex:
FINAN                         52062
Alger
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INTBAFRAD                     440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
64145 (wUI)


﻿- 14-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representativos thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in Algiers, Democratic
and Popular Republic of Algeria, as of the day and year first above
written.
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC
OF ALGERIA
By /s/ Mohamed Saddik Ben Yahia
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Munir P. Benjenk
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of ex-
penditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
Parts A, C, D, and E
of the Project
(1) Civil works               21,150,000          31%
(2) Furniture and             17,010,000         100% of foreign
equipment                                    expenditures or
44% of local
expenditures
(3) Professional services        870,000          30%
for Part A of the
Project
(4) Consultants' services        100,000          80%
for Parts C, D and E of
the Project
Part B of the
Project
(5) Civil works               2,600,000          31%


﻿- 16 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(6) Furniture and              3,00,o00         100% of foreign
equipment                                    expenditures or
44% of local
expenditures
(7) Professional                 110,000         30%
services
(8) Unallocated                3,620,000
TOTAL     48,500,000


﻿- 17 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase
or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy
of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 18 -
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such
Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall,
proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to another Category
and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other
expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then appli-
cable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under
such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or lim-
iting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the
Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following:
Part A:   The design, construction, furnishing and equipping of
15 Technicums.
Part B:   The design, construction, furnishing and equipping of
2 Vocational Training Centers.
Part C:   Administrative training of Technicum staff.
Part D:   A study of the optimum locations of future Technicums
not included in the Project.
Part E:   A technical and financial feasibility study of the use
of prefabrication techniques in school construction.
The locations and the detailed features of the facilities
to be provided under Parts A and B above are set forth in the
Exhibit hereto, as such Exhibit may be amended by agreement
between the Borrower and the Bank.
Part A of the Project is expected to be completed by September
1979, Part B of the Project by February 1979, Part C of the Project
by January 1979, and Parts D and E of the Project by September 1978.


﻿- 20 -
EXHIBIT TO SCHEDULE 2
Locations and detailed features of the facilities
to be provided under Parts A and B of the Project
Technicums
Total      Estimated      Estimated
Approximate  2   New        Annual        Annual
Locations    Gross area in m   Places    Total Intake     Output
106,700        16,200       5,400          4,500
Sidi Bel-Abbas     6,900        1,080          360            300
Oran               7,900        1,080          360            300
Arzew              6,800        1,080          360            300
Relizane           7,000        1,080         360             300
Blida              5,600        1,080          360            300
Rouiba             7,900        1,080          360            300
Bouira             7,600        1,080          360            300
Tizi Ouzou         6,300        1,080          360            300
Sidi Aich          5,500        1,080          360            300
Bejaia             8,400        1,080          360            300
Setif              7,900        1,080          360            300
Chelghoum Laid     8,100        1,080         360             300
El Khroub          5,000        1,080          360            300
Guelma             7,700        1,080         360             300
Annaba             8,100        1,080          360            300
Vocational Training Centers
Total      Estimated      Estimated
Approximate  2 New          Annual        Annual
Locations    Gross area in m   Places    Total Intake     Output
12,900           792         500            480
Zemouri           6,100           396         250             240
Ain Oussera        6,800          396         250             240


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                             (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 15 and November 15
beginning May 15, 1981
through   November 15, 1993                  1,795,000
On May 15, 1994                                   1,830,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 22 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amou,.t of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                         1.50%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                         3.00%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                         5.50%
More than eleven years but not
more than fifteen years
before maturity                         7.50%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                         8.50%


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the pur-
chase of goods or for civil works shall be procured in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in Part A of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the
Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.   The following shall apply with respect to the procurement
of furniture and equipment:
(a) Items of furniture and equipment shall be grouped so as
to permit such bulk procurement as shall be consistent with appro-
priate technical standards and as shall permit the most economic
method of procurement.
(b) Bidding documents shall require suppliers to provide,
at no additional cost, the necessary initial training in the use
and maintenance of sophisticated equipment.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
With respect to contracts for items of equipment and furniture
which are selected by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank
and which (.) cannot be grouped in bulk contracts costing the


﻿- 224 -
equivalent of $50,000 or more, (ii) must be compatible with
existing equipment procured following international competitive
bidding, or (iii) are of such highly specialized nature that
international competitive bidding would not be practicable, the
Borrower may award such contracts in accordance with its own
procurement procedures. Prior to awarding such contracts, the
Borrower shall to the extent feasible obtain price quotations
from not less than three manufacturers or suppliers. The aggregate
contract amount of contracts awarded pursuant to the provisions
of this Part B shall not exceed $7,000,000 equivalent.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance with
local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the
ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and sim-
ilar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall be excluded; and
(iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expen-
ditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of their
use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Algeria may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following pro-
visions:


﻿- 25 -
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be fol-
loved in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Al-
geria if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Algeria equal to at least 20% of the ex-
factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Algeria.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in eacn group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.


﻿- 26 -
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this fur-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of cus-
toms duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by Bank
1.   Review of lists of items of furniture and equipment.
Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank, for its comments, the lists of all items of furniture and
equipment, indicating their specifications, estimated unit price
and total price of each category of items. Items shall be indexed,
coded and numbered for identification with the institutions under
Parts A and B of the Project and the specific spaces within such
institutions for which they are required. The lists shall iden-
tify only those items or categories of items costing more than
$10,000 equivalent; the residual items shall be included in a
miscellaneous category, the amount of which shall not exceed
$1,000,000 equivalent.


﻿- 27 -
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts for (i) civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more, and (ii) furniture
and equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall be transmitted
to the Bank before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked.


﻿- 28 -
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execu-
tion and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of
such contrnct, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for
award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably re-
quest. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such de-
termination.


﻿- 29 -
SCHEDULE 5
Description of Functions to be Performed
in the Execution of the Project
The appropriate departments of the Borrower shall have the
necessary powers to perform or delegate the following duties:
1.   For the implementation of Parts A and E, and B, respectively,
of the Project:
(a) preparation and forwarding to the Bank of terms of
reference and arrangements for selection, briefing, coordination
and supervision of the specialists referred to in Section 3.03
of this Agreement as related to Parts A, B and E of the Project;
(b) arrangements for the review and approval of the plans,
reports, specifications and other materials submitted by architects
and other specialists;
(c) administration of contracts with architects, special-
ists and contractors;
(d) preparation of master lists of furniture and equipment
referred to in Paragraph D.1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(e) preparation of bidding documents, evaluation of bids
and awarding of contracts for civil works, furniture and equip-
ment;
(f) periodic inspection of all construction works;


﻿- 30 -
(g) maintenance of records, including financial records
for the execution of Parts A and E, and B, of the Project;
(h) preparation of progress reports, and forwarding there-
of, on a quarterly basis, to the Bank through the Project Liaison
Officer in accordance with Section 3.09 (a) (ii) of this Agreement;
(i) preparation of the comprehensive implementation schedule
of coordinated activities, and assignment of responsibilities for
carrying out all aspects of Parts A and E, and B, of the Project,
with the help of architects and related specialists;
(j) arrangements for the training of counterparts; and
(k) preparation of applications for withdrawals from the Loan
Account.
2.   For the implementation of Parts C and D of the Project:
(a) preparation and forwarding to the Bank of terms of
reference together with arrangements for selection, briefing,
coordination and supervision of the consultants referred to in
Section 3.03 of this Agreement as related to Parts C and D of
the Project;
(b) maintenance of records, including financial records
for execution of Parts C and D of the Project;
(c) preparation of progress reports and forwarding thereof,
on a quarterly basis, to the Bank through the Project Liaison
Officer in accordance with Section 3.09 (a) (ii) of this Agreement;


﻿- 31 -
(d) preparation of a comprehensive implementation schedule
of coordinated activities and assignment of responsibilities for
carrying out all aspects of Parts C and D of the Project;
(e) arrangements for the training of counterparts; and
(f) preparation of applications for withdrawals from the Loan
Account.
3.   For the implementation of the teacher training program referred
to in Section 3.07 of the Loan Agreement:
(a) continuous analysis of teacher requirements for Techni-
cums, updating of outputs from existing sources of supply and con-
tinuous review of above-mentioned training programs and timetables
for its implementation, in order to adequately meet requirements
in terms of accommodation, equipment, teacher trainers, capital
and recurrent costs and financing;
(b) continuous review of training courses, including details
of syllabi and curricula, certification procedures and selection
procedures for trainees;
(c) coordination of the teacher training program for Techni-
cums and maintenance of related records including financial records
for the program; and
(d) preparation of progress reports and forwarding thereof,
on a quarterly basis, to the Bank in accordance with Section 3.09
(a) (ii) of this Agreement.


