Document of
The World Bank    FILE C
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2786-SU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
FOR THE
NEW HALFA IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
April 24, 1980
This document has a rericted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS 1/
Currency Unit          =  Sudanese Pound (LSd)                  =  100 piasters
Official Market                                 Parallel Market
US$1.00  = LSd 0.50                               US$1.00  =  LSd 0.80
LSd 1.00 = US$2.00                                LSd 1.00 =  US$1.25
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 feddan (fd)          2           =  1.04 acres                =  0.42 hectare
1 square kilometer (km )           =  100 hectares              =  238 feddans
1 hawasha (haw)                    =  5 feddans                 =  2.10 hectares
1 metric ton (mton)                =  1,000 kilograms           =  2,202.6 pounds
1 kantar (seed cotton)             =  45.4 kilograms            =  100 pounds
(cotton lint)
1 megawatt (MW)                    =  1 million watts
ABBREVIATIONS
AfDF              -  African Development Fund
ARP               -  Agricultural Rehabilitation Program
BOS               -  Bank of Sudan
CPC               -  Cotton Production Corporation
EAP               -  Export Action Program
GOS               -  Government of Sudan
IFAD              -  International Fund for Agricultural Development
MAFNR             - Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Natural Resources
mOI               - Ministry of Irrigation
NHAPC             -  New Halfa Agricultural Production Corporation
(reconstituted in 1980)
PAPC              -  Public Agricultural Production Corporation
PEWC              -  Public Electricity and Water Corporation
PPF               -  Project Preparation Facility
TCU               -  Tenant's Credit Unit
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
1/   On September 16, 1979, the Government abolished a tax/subsidy procedure
previously used to arrive at the effective rate of exchange, and estab-
lished an official rate of US$2.00 per Sudanese pound. At the same
time, a parallel market rate of US$1.25 per Sudanese pound was estab-
lished. Valuation of all imports for customs purposes has been changed
to the new offictal rate (LSd 1 = US$2.00) from the old official rate
(LSd 1 = US$2.50).  See text (para. 19) for further discussion of local
rate system.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SUDAN
NEW HALFA IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMPARY
Borrower:           Democratic Republic of the Sudan
Beneficiary:        New Halfa Agricultural Production Corporation
Amount:             US$40 million equivalent
Terms:              Standard
Onlending Terms:   To NHAPC, at 9 percent per annum, for 20 years including
5 years of grace; to PEWC, at 12 percent per annum, for
20 years including 5 years of grace.
Project             The proposed project would, over five years, rehabilitate
Description:       the existing New Halfa Irrigation scheme by providing it
with the means to quickly increase and sustain agricultural
production through efficient use of available land, water and
human resources. Specifically, the project would include
agricultural machinery, workshop facilities and fuel storage;
road making and canal maintenance equipment; initial rehabil-
itation of the canal and road systems; motor vehicles and
telecommunications equipment; stores; field staff housing
and a training center; electro-mechanical equipment and a
mechanical delinting plant; training, technical assistance
and consultancy services; field health centers, rural water
supplies, and malaria and bilharzia control programs; cash
requirements to operate NHAPC in the first three years of
the project. Start-up, debt and cost recovery and realiza-
tion of projected yields are foreseen as major risks, but
adequate provision has been made in the project design to
accommodate these concerns.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Summary of
Prolect Costs: I/
Major Elements                                US$ Million              % of
Local     Foreign      Total   Total
Agricultural Machinery                2.8          9.8        12.6      12
Buildings, Storage, Plant
and Workshops                        6.3          6.7        13.0     12
Canal and Road Rehabilitation
and Equipment                        2.4          3.6         6.0      6
Motor Vehicles                        2.2          3.2         5.4       5
Electro-Mechanical and Tele-
communications Equipment             0.7          1.3         2.0      2
Training, Planning and
Technical Assistance                 0.2          1.4         1.6      2
Health                                2.4          1.9         4.3      4
Cash Requirements for
Project Years 1-3 2/
NHAPC Departmental Costs          15.7          5.3        21.0     20
Working Capital                    9.3          5.9        15.2     14
Canal Maintenance and
Irrigated Water Supplies         0.5            0        0.5       1
Subtotal                         42.5         39.1       81.6      78
Contingencies
Physical                              1.7          2.8         4.5      4
Price                                 9.3          9.6        18.9     18
Subtotal                        11.0         12.4       23.4      22
TOTAL PROJECT COST              53.5         51.5      105.0    100
Financing:                                   US$ Million
Local Foreign Total
IDA                                 7.5      32.5    40.0
IFAD                                5.0      10.0    15.0
AfDF                                1.0       9.0    10.0
Government                         40.0        -     40.0
TOTAL                        53.5      51.5   105.0
1/   Includes project induced duties and taxes.
2/   Net of cash inflows to the project of US$42.3 million.



- iii -
Estimated Disbursements:
US$ Million
IDA Fiscal Year:      1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986
Annual                 5.4    7.5   10.4    6.3    5.8    4.6
Cumulative             5.4   12.9   23.3   29.6   35.4   40.0
Rate of Return: Estimated at 75 percent
Appraisal Report: No. 2608-SU, dated April 24, 1980
Map: IBRD 14172, dated July 1979






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
FOR THE NEW HALFA IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit for the equivalent of US$40 million to the Democratic Republic of
the Sudan to help finance the New Halfa Irrigation Rehabilitation project.
The credit would be on standard IDA terms. Most of the proceeds would be
onlent to the New Halfa Agricultural Production Corporation for 20 years,
including 5 years of grace, with interest at 9 percent per annum; the
remainder would be onlent to PEWC for 20 years, including 5 years of grace,
at 12 percent interest per annum. The International Fund for Agricultural
Development (IFAD) and the African Development Fund (AfDF) have agreed in
principle to provide cofinancing totaling about US$25 million equivalent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic updating mission visited Sudan in November, 1978 and in
mid-1979; its report (No. 2652-SU) was circulated on October 24, 1979. Major
conclusions are reflected in this report. Summary tables of social, economic
and financial data are presented in Annex I.
Background
3.        Sudan, with an area of 2.5 million square kilometers, is the largest
country in Africa. It has a population of about 17 million and is classified
by the UN as a least developed country. Per capita GNP is estimated at about
US$320. Much of the country is unoccupied or very sparsely populated, and in
contrast to many developing countries, there is little population pressure on
presently developed land. Although a large part of the country consists of
desert or semi-desert, the Sudan nevertheless has great untapped potential for
agricultural development. Estimates indicate that about two-thirds of the
total land area is suitable for crop or pastoral production, and only a small
fraction of this land is under intensive use. The economy is heavily dependent
on exports of cotton, which is the major commodity produced on irrigated land,
and also groundnuts, sesame and gum arabic. The manufacturing sector is rela-
tively small and, apart from the processing of such agricultural commodities
as cotton, oil seeds and sugar, it is limited to the production of consumer
goods and building materials. There have been some exports of chrome ore
and further development of these deposits is taking place. A development of
potential significance to Sudan's prospects is the discovery of oil reserves
in the southwestern part of the country. Proven reserves are still not large
enough for commercial exploitation, however. The public sector has long been
1/   Part I is substantially unchanged from discussions of the economy in the
President's Report for the recently approved Credit for the Third Power
Proj ect.



- 2 -
important in the Sudanese economy. It embraces all modern irrigation facili-
ties, the railways and virtually all power and water supply. With the nation-
alization measures of 1970/71, a significant proportion of industry, commerce
and finance was also transferred to the public sector. Although some industrial
enterprises have been returned to the private sector, about half of the GDP is
still generated within the public sector.
Past Economic Performance
4.        While the basic physical and human potential of Sudan is consider-
able, its economic performance has been disappointing.  During the sixties
and early seventies, the economy grew by little more than the rate of growth
of the population. This was primarily due to the depressed level of invest-
ment, both public and private. While the Government was successful in
achieving a high growth rate of revenue, the rise in recurrent expenditure
absorbed most of it, and development expenditure decreased. The growth of
recurrent expenditure was caused in large part by increasing security expendi-
tures and transfers to local government. A protracted civil war in the south
also claimed considerable energy and resources. Public sector deficits were
increasingly financed through excessive credit expansion. Prices rose steadily,
and the external position was under pressure owing to the rapid growth of
imports and a stagnation of export volume.
5.        Following the Addis Ababa accord of 1972, which brought an end to
the civil war, the Government directed its attention more to the country's
development needs. For the first time, in 1973, the Government's development
objectives were stated clearly in an Interim Action Program, which aimed
mainly at removing the severe infrastructural bottlenecks, attaining self-
sufficiency in a number of consumer goods and expanding agricultural exports
to increase foreign exchange earnings. Prospects for financing this program
through external assistance looked very hopeful, particularly from Arab
oil-exporting countries which at the time regarded Sudan as the future
"breadbasket" of the Arab world. Government development expenditure did
indeed expand rapidly, from LS 50 million in 1973/74 to LS 185 million in
1977/78, and it was generally directed towards high priority sectors. Sub-
stantial amounts of foreign capital were forthcoming -- over the five years
1974-78 total commitments amounted to almost US$3 billion. In 1977/78, the
Government produced a new six-year development plan. Ironically, these
developments occurred at a time when other forces were propelling Sudan
towards perhaps the worst economic and financial crisis in its history.
Today, after several years of an accelerated development effort, leading to
an estimated average GDP growth rate of about 4.5 percent a year, the country
is financially much worse off than seven years ago when the development thrust
began.
The Current Crisis
6.        The most immediate problem facing Sudan is the crisis situation
with respect to the balance of payments.  Within two years, from 1973 to
1975, the deficit on current account increased from US$65 million to US$640
million and has not changed much since. In spite of high levels of external



- 3 -
aid commitments, disbursements actually declined between 1976 and 1978. Gross
official reserves have fallen from a level equivalent to two months' imports
in 1974 to only a few days worth of imports. Debt service obligations started
mounting, and external payments arrears accumulated to a level of about $1.2
billion in September 1979.
7.        The crisis is largely the consequence of inadequate economic manage-
ment policies compounded by external factors, such as the sharply increased
cost of petroleum imports, which have constrained Government's ability to
respond quickly with effective remedial action, once the decision to act
had been taken. For example, import prices rose by about 88 percent during
1973-78, and because there was no equivalent rise in Sudan's export prices,
the country suffered a deterioration in its terms of trade averaging about 3
percent a year between 1973 and 1978. Adverse developments in foreign trade
were accompanied by other disadvantageous forces -- reduced flows of external
capital after 1976, mounting debt problems and absorptive capacity difficulties.
8.        The rapid increase in the value of imports came about partially
because of the sharp increase in oil prices and the steep rate of interna-
tional inflation, particularly in 1974 and 1975, and partially because of an
increase in real terms, which was particularly large between 1973 and 1975--
perhaps 25 percent a year or more. Thereafter, imports in real terms increased
at a much more moderate pace of about 2 to 3 percent a year on the average.
Exports, meanwhile, declined in real terms by some 13 percent between 1970
and 1977. The decline was concentrated in cotton. In spite of an increase
in land under irrigation, the area of land under cotton (economically the most
remunerative export crop) fell by about 20 percent over the 1970-77 period.
At the same time yields decreased from 4.3 kantars per feddan to 3.5 kantars
per feddan. As a result, the volume of cotton exports in 1977 was about 35
percent lower than in 1971. Transport difficulties and other infrastructural
problems contributed to this decline, as did the increasing lack of maintenance
in many public irrigation schemes (a condition aggravated by the lack of spare
parts and other inputs) and the decision taken in 1974, after the sharp rise
in world prices of cereals, to expand the production of wheat and rice at the
expense of cotton. A particularly important factor, however, was the framework
of explicit and implicit disincentives to growing cotton (e.g., an unfavorable
exchange rate for the conversion of cotton export receipts; an additional
cotton export tax; the disproportionate share of production costs borne by
cotton in the public irrigation schemes).
9.        As indicated earlier, Sudan, starting in 1973, attempted to sharply
increase its development expenditures from a low and stagnating level. Ini-
tially, the rise in expenditures was financed by external capital but this
declined unexpectedly soon thereafter. For example, disbursements from public
loans dropped from $563 million in 1974 to $156 million in 1977. Increasing
problems of absorptive capacity and execution of projects contributed to the
slowdown of disbursements. Also, because of the accumulating arrears, external
donors became more reluctant to make new commitments.



- 4 -
10.       As a result of these developments, Sudan was left with a difficult
choice: either to cut back on projects just started or to maintain the
projects by running down foreign exchange reserves and borrowing from banks or
other sources abroad. The Government decided to try to sustain the development
effort by using reserves and by borrowing heavily on relatively hard terms.
Gross international reserves declined from $124 million at the end of 1974 to
$28 million at the end of 1978, enough for only a few days of imports. At the
same time, net foreign assets, which were already negative in 1974 (minus $138
million), fell to about minus $566 million at the end of 1978. As foreign
reserves ran out, the accumulation of arrears became unavoidable. Meanwhile,
external public debt service obligations increased from $55 million in 1973
to about $300 million in 1978. The debt service burden as a proportion of
exports of goods and non-factor services and remittances increased in those
years from 11 percent to 35 percent. The reasons were (a) the huge amount of
external borrowing in 1974-77 and (b) the fact that a large proportion of the
borrowing was on inappropriate terms (almost 70 percent of total new commit-
ments of $2.5 billion during the years 1974-77 was on hard terms -- averaging
7 percent interest and maturity of 9.7 years including 3.1 years of grace,
implying a grant element of only 11 percent). This unfavorable debt profile
has not only led to a very difficult debt service burden but has critical
implications for future debt service obligations (ref. para. 27).
11.       Sudan's balance of payments problems reflect a number of fundamental
deficiencies in economic policies and management as well as serious absorptive
capacity problems. The latter include infrastructural bottlenecks, which have
been aggravated by increasing shortages of skilled manpower and managerial
talent. The transport system, which in a country the size of Sudan is ab-
solutely crucial for effective development, remains inadequate and unreliable.
Because of the scarcity of foreign exchange, maintenance of the capital stock
-- infrastructure, generally, but also in the main public irrigation schemes
-- has been insufficient. These problems have been exacerbated by an exodus
of qualified Sudanese managers and craftsmen to the oil producing Arab coun-
tries. The weaknesses in economic management involve mainly: (a) incentives
for the productive sectors, both implied in the system of taxation and exchange
regime, and those applied through cost sharing arrangements; (b) resource
mobilization and allocation; (c) management of debt; (d) performance of public
enterprises.
12.       A major reason behind Sudan's current troubles has been the wide-
spread price distortions in the agricultural sector, which have hampered
expansion in output, particularly of cotton. This, in turn, has jeopardized
export performance (ref. para. 8). Until June 1978, the foreign exchange
rate remained unchanged at LS I = US$2.87. In 1972, an exchange tax/subsidy
scheme was put into effect, except for cotton, which amounted to a de facto
devaluation to LS 1 = US$2.50, coupled with an implied 15 percent export tax
on cotton. Nevertheless, after that the Sudanese pound became an increasingly
overvalued currency, as indicated by the excess domestic demand for foreign
currency, and the fact that the inflation rate in Sudan, averaging about 20
percent a year over the last several years, was about twice as high as in most
industrial countries. In such a situation, exporting sectors received less
for their output than they deserved. Imports tended to be artificially cheap
and were therefore encouraged.



- 5 -
13.       In addition to the problem of an overvalued currency, the system
of explicit and implicit disincentives to growing cotton helped make the
situation worse. For example, under the historic profit sharing formulae,
which have remained in existence in the main irrigation schemes, the expenses
of the schemes were deducted from the proceeds of cotton sales.  This remained
so after the introduction of other crops, and expenses for these crops were
borne by cotton alone.  Profits on other crops, however, accrued entirely
to the tenant. Thus the tenants had a strong disincentive against cotton,
despite the fact that the country's international comparative advantage is
greatest in cotton.
14.       The structural weakness in Sudan's public sector finances became
increasingly pronounced during the course of the 1970s. Sharp increases
in expenditures were not matched by increases in revenue. In particular,
development spending trebled between 1973/74 and 1977/78 while net external
financial flows declined. The sharp rise in public sector recourse to the
domestic banking system constituted the primary cause of a rapid acceleration
in the growth rate of the money supply, which peaked at 43 percent in 1976/77.
The rapid buildup in inflationary pressures resulted in an acceleration of
price increases from 6 or 7 percent in the mid-1970s to over 20 percent in
1977/78 and 1978/79.
15.       Most of the increases in current expenditures have been for social
and community services, transfers to local government and general administra-
tion. Most expenditures of local Government, for example, are financed by
transfers from the central Government budget and accounted for 25 percent of
total central Government current expenditures in 1978/79. Transfers in the
past tended to be allocated on the basis of budgetary deficits of the local
authorities rather than on the basis of a fixed transfer formula. Efforts
have recently been made, however, to improve these budgetary procedures. The
sharp increases in general administration expenditures are due in large part
to wages and salaries of civilians in the central government, cost of living
subsidies and extra-budgetary expenditures. On the revenue side, tax revenues
have increased over the past few years, but this has been possible only
because of frequent introduction of new tax measures, rather than structural
changes; the tax system per se is relatively inelastic. The main reason for
this is that taxes are based heavily on foreign trade, and the pound value of
exports and imports lagged behind GDP in current prices.
16.       Another contributing factor to Sudan's current crisis is the poor
performance of the public enterprises, which dominate all non-traditional
activities in the country and contribute more than half of GDP. These
enterprises have not generated anticipated profits or contributed to economic
development as expected. Instead of yielding surpluses, they have relied on
the central Government and domestic borrowing to cover their deficits. Public
enterprise deficits are estimated to have averaged more than US$50 million a
year over the last five years. A study of the public enterprises was carried
out in 1977 by a team consisting of Government, University of Khartoum,
private sector and Bank Group representatives; the final report was issued in
April, 1978. The main shortcomings of the public enterprises, as portrayed
in the report, included poor management, inadequate internal organization and
control, contradictory and unclear objectives and often changing relations
with ministries and departments.



-6-
Policy Changes
17.       Against this background of serious payments imbalances and general
economic crisis in Sudan stemming from structural maladjustments in production
and trade, the Government in the last two years has taken several significant
decisions aimed at re-establishing financial equilibrium and restoring the
economy's development momentum.
(a)  Financial Stabilization and IMF Agreements
18.       In June 1978, a stabilization program was announced as part of an
agreement with the IMF that involved a drawdown of 51 million SDRs from two
support facilities -- the first credit tranche and the trust fund. The
agreement included a devaluation of the Sudanese pound, effectively by 25
percent, and declarations of intent by the Government to keep deficit financing
within certain limits and to limit short and medium term foreign borrowing.
Also, the Government announced that the pricing system in the irrigated
agriculture sector would be reformed and that land and water charges would be
imposed on most crops. In May 1979, agreement was reached on a set of policy
actions to be taken by Government in order to obtain access to resources under
the Extended Fund Facility (EFF) for a period of three years in an amount
equivalent to SDR 200 million. The policy actions involve essentially an
extension of those agreed as part of the Fund standby in June 1978. Simul-
taneously with these developments, the Government has taken steps -- abolition
of the cotton export tax, institution of land and water charges, revamping of
agricultural production relationships -- which should help considerably to
recast the pattern of financial incentives in the agriculture sector along
lines that are consistent with Sudan's comparative advantage in international
trade.
19.       On September 16, 1979, the Government enacted additional significant
measures with respect to the exchange rate system. These were as follows:
(i) establishment of an official rate of US$2 per Sudanese pound, with valua-
tion of all imports for customs purposes changed to the new official rate;
(ii) abolishment of a special incentive rate for remittances and establishment
of a parallel exchange market with an initial rate of LSd 1 = US$1.25; and
(iii) agreement to allow residents and nonresidents to have current accounts
with Sudanese banks denominated in foreign exchange. Under the new system,
some 90 percent of exports, 70 percent of imports, and all official invisibles,
cash loans and debt service were to have come under the official rate while
all other transactions would be under the parallel market rate. Recently,
however, Government has decided to apply the parallel market rate to increas-
ing quantities of imports, including most of the inputs to be procured under
the proposed New Halfa project.  Thus a dual rate system has been used in
determining project costs. It is believed that the availability of domestic
accounts denominated in foreign currency will encourage the flow of private
sector funds to the Sudan, especially from expatriate Sudanese working abroad,
for the funds may be used freely for transfers abroad or for sale in the
parallel market. Also, the Government has agreed to give holders of these
accounts preferential treatment in the granting of import licenses for goods
financed in the parallel market.



20.       The Executive Board of the IMF approved these changes on September
21, 1979, and in addition, approved (i) a drawdown of a second 15 million SDR
tranche under the EFF (the first tranche of 15 million SDRs was provided in
May, 1979); and (ii) a purchase by Sudan of about 17 million SDRs under the
first credit tranche. In November, 1979, the Executive Board of the IMF
approved purchases of 36 million SDRs under the Compensatory Financing
Facility, largely on account of the decline in cotton export earnings.
(b) Export Promotion and Public Investment Programs
21.       An essential ingredient in the Government's stabilization program
is a concerted drive to generate greater foreign exchange revenue through
increased exports.  This is being carried out under a new Export Action
Program (EAP), initiated in mid-1979 and now formally endorsed by Government.
The EAP is designed to raise the volume of cotton exports at an average rate
of 7 percent per annum during the period 1979-91. Investments and actions
towards this goal would also contribute to larger exports of groundnut and
sorghum, since these crops would also capture some of the benefits of the
program. The EAP comprises (i) a series of urgently needed investments aimed
mainly at satisfying immediate requirements for spare parts, replacement
equipment and inputs of various types, principally in the major irrigation
schemes where the chief export crops are grown (proceeds of the recently
approved Agricultural Rehabilitation Program (ARP) (Credit No. 1000-SU)
would help fulfill this aspect of the EAP); (ii) a series of rehabilitation
projects to be carried out in the 1980's, also in the irrigated subsector (the
proposed New Halfa Irrigation Rehabilitation Project would be the first of
these); and (iii) policy and other actions such as institutional reform and
revision of cost recovery systems intended to provide a conducive framework
for accelerated production. Some of these actions have already been taken,
others are being implemented as part of the ARP Credit, still others will be
done in the context of the planned rehabilitation projects.
22.       Simultaneously with the EAP, the Government has reduced the overall
development program, as reflected in the six year plan, to a more realistic
framework consistent with expected external and domestic financial resources.
The Government last year completed such an exercise for the period 1978/79-
1980/81; it is called the Three Year Public Investment Program, and was
formally endorsed by the Government at the time of the submission of the new
1979/80 annual budget. The program is now being updated to cover the years
1980/81-1982/83. A central objective of the new program is to redirect
emphasis to those development activities that hold greatest promise for
increasing exports and revenue. To that end, a new interim strategy has been
adopted which sets essentially two criteria for the selection of development
projects: (i) concentration on the completion of ongoing projects, partic-
ularly those in the most productive sectors; and (ii) limiting new undertakings
to those that rehabilitate existing production schemes or that help alleviate
the major infrastructural bottlenecks. This change in emphasis represents a
significant redirection in Sudan's development effort. The revised three year
program provides for a substantial reduction in the total investment that had
been envisioned in the plan for the three years; it also readjusts priorities
within and between sectors. Bank staff have reviewed the new program, and
consider its size and composition realistic and appropriate.



-8-
(c) Public Corporations
23.       For more than a year a special inter-ministerial committee has
been discussing the recommendations of the study group on public enterprises
(ref. para. 16); recently, the Government has begun to take some action to
help remedy the situation. For example, in September, 1979, the Government
announced the abolition of a cumbersome and overly centralized corporate setup
in agriculture, and decided to replace it with more autonomous agricultural
entities. Organizational changes are expected shortly in the industrial
and commercial sectors as well. This is only a beginning, however, with
more reforms expected and needed in the near future.
(d) Management of External Debt
24.       As indicated earlier (ref. para. 10), Sudan's external debt burden
has been quite heavy for a number of years. The total disbursed outstanding
external debt at the end of 1978 amounted to more than US$2 billion and
scheduled debt service payments (principal and interest) for 1979 were almost
US$300 million. Until very recently, the authority to engage in foreign
borrowing and the administration of foreign loans was scattered among many
different ministries and agencies. The absence of a central authority or
unit which had a complete picture of the total debt and which could render
sound judgments on the appropriateness of various foreign borrowing options
further compounded the external debt problem. This inefficiency has now been
ameliorated through the decision to vest sole authority for foreign borrowing
with the Ministry of Finance. Also, a new debt management unit in the Ministry
of Finance became operational in 1979.
25.       Equally significant, however, are the recent moves to deal with the
severe debt and arrears problems. On November 12 and 13, 1979, a Paris Club
meeting was held on the rescheduling of Sudan's debt. Participating countries
(Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands,
Switzerland, the United Kingdom, the United States) and the Government reached
agreement on (i) a rescheduling or a refinancing of amounts falling due
before October 1, 1979 and not paid (arrears); and (ii) a rescheduling or
a refinancing of amounts payable between October 1, 1979 and June 30, 1981
inclusive and not paid (future debt service obligations). This will apply
to loans from governments or public agencies which had original maturities
of more than one year and which were concluded before January 1, 1979.
26.       The conditions of payment of the arrears are a 7 year payment
period with no grace, according to the following schedule: 7 percent of
the arrears to be paid in 1980, 7 percent in 1981, 14 percent in 1982, 14
percent in 1983, 17 percent in 1984, 20 percent in 1985 and 21 percent
in 1986. The conditions of rescheduling of future debt service payments
are as follows: 15 percent of these obligations will have to be paid as
scheduled originally, and the remaining 85 percent will be rescheduled or
refinanced with a 10 year payment period, including 3 years of grace. Interest
rates are now being established at bilateral negotiations. According to
preliminary estimates, the Paris Club accord involved rescheduling of about



- 9 -
$350 million worth of arrears (out of a total of about US$1.2 billion) and
about $150 million of future debt service obligations. The Government is also
currently negotiating with a consortium of commercial banks in an effort to
achieve additional refinancing.
27.       While the Paris Club agreements were more generous in terms of period
and percentage of debt service covered than other such Paris Club agreements
and will reduce the country's financing gap to manageable proportions in 1980
and 1981, they still fall short of resolving Sudan's medium term external
payments problems. Even if all external debt not covered by the Paris Club
were to be rescheduled on the same terms as those agreed by the Club in
November, Sudan's debt service ratio for 1980 would be 20-25 percent; more
conservative estimates of the rescheduling terms indicate a debt service
ratio of around 35 percent. Under either set of assumptions, there would be
a substantial improvement compared to the ratio of nearly 50 percent that the
nation would probably otherwise have faced. As part of the effort to help the
Government obtain the foreign assistance required to maintain the development
effort, the Bank Group convened a meeting of the Sudan Consultative Group in
Paris from April 9-11, 1980.
28.       The Bank/IDA share of Sudan's debt service is 3 percent and of debt
outstanding is almost 9 percent. We estimate that the Bank/IDA share of debt
service will remain at 3 percent in 1985 when the Bank/IDA share of debt
outstanding would be about 10 percent.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE SUDAN
29.       World Bank Group commitments to Sudan to date total US$673.4 million.
Of this, US$32.7 million are IFC commitments. There have been eight loans
(two on Third Window terms) and 24 credits for a total of 28 projects.
Nineteen projects and one technical assistance project, funded by UNDP and
executed by the Bank, are under implementation. About 45 percent of the total
Bank/IDA lending has gone into agricultural development: three irrigation
projects; three rainfed mechanized farming projects; three smallholder develop-
ment projects, two in the southern region and one in the west; a livestock
marketing project; an agricultural research project and the recently approved
Agricultural Rehabilitation Program. Projects in other sectors include:
three power projects, two education projects, two highway projects, a domestic
aviation project, four railway projects, a port project, a technical assis-
tance credit and two credits to the Industrial Bank of Sudan. Annex II con-
tains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as
of March 31, 1980 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
30.       Physical progress in implementing development projects in Sudan has
been poor, and is becoming worse as a result of the economic crisis. Many
projects have difficulty in getting key materials--cement, fuel, timber,
of which there are periodic shortages. Belated delivery of equipment and
supplies due to transportation difficulties also affects most projects. The
continuing drain of skilled manpower from Sudan to neighboring countries,
where job opportunities are better, takes its toll on effective preparation
and implementation of projects. Relatively frequent changes in ministerial



- 10 -
appointments also create problems. Beyond these difficulties there are other
shortcomings traceable to inordinately cumbersome Government procedures. For
example, there have been protracted delays in getting parliamentary ratifica-
tion of agreed development projects and, subsequently, in obtaining legal
opinions from Government. There have also been inordinate delays in meeting
effectiveness conditions, mainly because of problems in establishing new
institutions or project accounts, hiring key staff, completing necessary
legal documentation or concluding required cofinancing arrangements. These
problems have been brought repeatedly to the notice of Government authorities,
and efforts are being intensified to help resolve them.
Strategy
31.       Bank Group lending continues to emphasize agricultural and infra-
structural investments. For the near term, and in accordance with the Govern-
ment's current economic and development objectives, more importance will be
placed on the rehabilitation and intensification of existing irrigation
schemes and on helping to alleviate key infrastructure bottlenecks. The
objective here will essentially be to help the country generate increased
export earnings to support the recovery effort. The emphasis in Bank Group
lending will be in support of those activities that contribute prominently to
the rehabilitation of the economy, in particular those that help increase
exports and expand government revenues. In the interim, less emphasis will be
placed on equity considerations or on regional balance in investment programs.
Goals of more equitable distribution of benefits will be sought through
adjustments in the taxation system and through more rational revenue allocation
mechanisms. Investment in more directly productive activities will neverthe-
less continue to have important equity consequences as well -- e.g. to the
extent that large irrigation schemes along the Nile can be rehabilitated to
expand production, increased seasonal job opportunities will result for
thousands of laborers from other parts of Sudan.  Moreover, recent experience
has demonstrated that projects that were designed in large part to help meet
equity, as well as productive and regional balance goals, will very likely
take much longer to implement because of problems of inadequate infrastructure,
lack of skilled manpower, absence of reliable institutional support.
32.       This lending strategy is fully consistent with the Government's
policies, as reflected in the new Export Action Program and the Three Year
Public Investment Program (ref. paras. 21, 22). An agricultural rehabilita-
tion program credit, with the objective of helping the country generate
increased export earnings in order to help carry it through the stabilization
period, and a third power project have recently been approved. The presently
proposed project, intended to improve overall production in the New Halfa
scheme, Sudan's second largest irrigation project, represents the Bank Group's
first effort in rehabilitating an existing irrigation scheme. Rehabilitation
of pump scheme projects on the Blue Nile and White Nile have recently been
appraised. Other projects under consideration include rehabilitation of the
Gezira irrigation scheme (Sudan's largest), an agricultural services project,
a second technical assistance credit to emphasize project implementation, a
second port project, a water supply project and a river transport project.



- 11 -
Previous Bank Group Lending in Agriculture
33.       Since the first loan of US$15.5 million was approved in June 1960
for the Managil Irrigation Project (an extension of the Gezira scheme), the
Bank Group has approved a total of 13 lending operations totalling US$290
million for agriculture in Sudan. These operations have touched virtually
all subsectors: Irrigation (the Managil, Roseires and Rahad projects, the
last involving two separate credits totalling US$62 million for a new cotton
and groundnut scheme); Rainfed mechanized farming (one loan and two credits
totalling US$32.3 million, the most recent approved in July 1978); Smallholder
Development (a credit of US$17 million for the Savannah Development Project;
two projects in the Southern Region involving credits of US$10.7 million and
US$15 million, the most recent approved in May 1979); Livestock (a Credit of
US$25 million approved in June 1978); Research (a credit of US$15 million
approved in July 1978) and the recently approved Agricultural Rehabilitation
Program (US$65 million equivalent) Projects in the agriculture sector have
experienced the same kind of implementation problems described earlier (ref.
para. 30). However, because agriculture is the backbone of the economy, the
problems of foreign exchange scarcity, inadequate maintenance, lack of spare
parts and equipment, and poor infrastructure support tend to be particularly
acute in this sector.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
34.       The agriculture sector in Sudan contributes about 40 percent of the
country's gross domestic product, is the source of virtually all exports, is
the main source of employment for over two-thirds of the labor force, and
provides inputs for a large proportion of industrial activity. The Bank last
year completed an agricultural sector survey (Report No. 1836a-SU of May 18,
1979).
35.       Cotton is the major cash and export crop, accounting for some 52
percent of all exports in recent years; groundnuts, sesame, and gum arabic
follow at 18, 9, and 6 percent, respectively. Recent crop diversification
has also concentrated on import substitution, with considerable expansion in
wheat and sugar output, in part at the expense of cotton.
36.       Incomes are low in the agricultural sector.  Of Sudan's total
population of about 17 million, an estimated 65 percent, or some 11 million
people, live in rural areas at or below the absolute poverty level of US$80
per capita. To augment their incomes, many small subsistence farmers hire
themselves out on mechanized or irrigated tenancies to harvest cotton, ground-
nuts, sesame and cereals. They form a highly mobile labor force of about
one million people. Even so, labor shortages have occurred in recent years.
Although the rural population is growing at about 300,000 per year, it is
not clear whether this will be sufficient to avoid future shortages. A key
factor will be the ability of the modern sector to pay the going market wage
rate for unskilled labor.



- 12 -
37.       While the data are incomplete, it is estimated that perhaps 10 to
15 percent of total Government revenues are directly attributable to taxes
from farmers as producers. (The contribution of direct and indirect taxation
on agriculture is estimated at some 50 percent, however, if revenues generated
from import duties made possible by agriculture export earnings are included.)
Although these revenues increased from ISd 23.5 million in 1970/71 to ISd 40
million in 1975/76, budgetary support to agriculture increased even faster,
from LSd 29 million to tSd 77 million over the same period. However, much of
the increased budgetary allocation was to make good parastatal losses (which
averaged ESd 23 million annually over the same period), rather than to operate
and maintain projects which suffered accordingly.
The Irrigated Subsector
38.       Over the last 50 years, Sudan has developed over 4 million feddans
of irrigated land, principally from the Nile waters; it has a5complished
this by using 16.8 km /year of water of its share of 20.35 km /year as
measured at Sennar under the 1959 Nile water sharing agreement with Egypt.
39.       Sudan's agricultural development has for many years largely depended
on its irrigation sector, which produces over 50 percent by value of the
nation's exports. Over the last decade, the area of irrigated land increased
on average by 3.5 percent a year; at the same time, the area devoted to
cotton, Sudan's most remunerative export crop, fell by nearly 20 percent.
Average cotton yields declined from 4.3 to 3.5 kantars of seed cotton per
feddan, and the total volume of cotton exports fell by 35 percent from 1971
to 1977 (ref. para. 8).
40.       It is apparent that the performance of existing schemes has suffered
from the overall economic malaise in Sudan and higher priority given to develop-
ment of new schemes. Sudan's economy should now be reaping considerable
benefits from its previous irrigation investment, but Gezira, the Pump Schemes
and New Halfa are all performing below expectations and require additional
funds to cover their budget deficits. This is largely due to low productivity,
and static or declining yields. Technical and institutional constraints have
been the major contributing factors. These have included the absence of land
levelling or drainage, insufficient water, spare parts and other inputs and
increasing neglect of maintenance, as well as a profit-sharing system which
stifles farmer incentives resulting in significant misallocation of scarce
resources. The Government recognizes these problems and as part of the new
Export Action Program and current Three Year Public Investment Program (ref.
paras. 21, 22), has embarked on a new strategy of rehabilitating/modernizing
existing irrigation schemes and reforming marketing and incentive policies.
The Project Area
41.       The New Halfa irrigation scheme, the second largest in Sudan extending
to almost 500,000 feddans with a net irrigable area of about 400,000 feddans,
was constructed in the mid-1960's with funds received from Egypt in compensation
for land flooded by the High Aswan Dam. The objective was to provide new
settlements and employment opportunities for the families from the Wadi Halfa



area near the Egyptian border whose villages had been inundated in the after-
math of the dam construction. The scheme is located on the Atbara River in
Kassala province (see map) and grows principally medium staple cotton, wheat,
groundnuts and sugar. The climate is semi-arid with an annual rainfall of
250-500 mm, which peaks in the summer months of July and August.
42.       When the resettlement of the 7,000 Halfawyeen families was completed,
the remaining tenancies (some 15,000 out of 22,000) were allocated to local
pastoralists. The population in the project area is about 300,000, of whom
68,000 are Halfawyeen, 148,000 nomads, 50,000 migrant laborers and 34,000
inhabitants of New Halfa town. The rural population is distributed over about
25 planned villages and many spontaneous settlements. Some of the tenants,
primarily the Halfawyeen, have organized themselves into cooperatives, 67
in all, to provide services for their members and some contract services to
others including the nomads. At existing low yields as in 1978/79, it is
estimated that about 80 percent of the tenants would have received less than
US$750 annually after repayment of debt but before paying labor--that is, on
a per capita basis, about 80 percent of the tenant population would have had
to live at or below the absolute poverty level had they been solely dependent
on their tenancy. Most tenants necessarily have other sources of income--the
Halfawyeen their freehold land and paid employment, and the nomads their
livestock and off-tenancy rainfed sorghum.
43.       The scheme's agricultural affairs are managed by the New Halfa
Agricultural Production Corporation (NHAPC) which has been under good manage-
ment over the last few years. Until mid-1979, it was one of eleven agricultural
production subsidiaries of the Government-owned Public Agricultural Production
Corporation (PAPC). As such, NHAPC lacked the financial and physical resources
as well as sufficient autonomy to make the policy and management decisions
required to operate the scheme efficiently. PAPC has since been dismantled
(ref. para. 23), and NHAPC has been reconstituted as an independent major
public corporation. Although the New Halfa scheme was developed on a sound
agronomic base some fifteen years ago, it has begun to deteriorate in recent
years for a variety of reasons -- the poor overall economic situation in
Sudan, the failure of NHAPC to provide required services to maximize crop
areas and yields and the resultant inability of tenants to settle their debts.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background and Project Description
44.       The proposed project originated from a request in 1976 by the Sudan
Minister of Agriculture for Bank Group assistance to arrest the deterioration
in the New Halfa scheme and to help to make it more productive. It is the first
of a series of existing irrigation schemes proposed to be rehabilitated under
the Export Action Program (ref. para. 21). A main objective of the program is
to achieve a quick and cost effective means of increasing production of the
major export crops--particularly cotton and groundnuts. An initial identifi-
cation mission proposed an examination of the scheme by consultants, and in
December, 1977, Agrar-und Hydrotechnik (Germany) was selected by Government



- 14 -
using funds under the Technical Assistance project (Credit 614-SU). The
project was appraised in November/December, 1978. A post-appraisal mission
visited the scheme in September/October, 1979. The staff appraisal report
(No. 2608-SU, dated April 24, 1980) is being circulated separately to the
Executive Directors. The Credit and Project Summary is at the beginning of
this report, and the Supplementary Data Sheet is Annex III. Negotiations
were held in Washington from April 9-14, 1980; the Government Delegation was
headed by Dr. El Fatih El Tigani, Deputy Undersecretary, Ministry of National
Planning.
45.       The project would, over five years, rehabilitate the ongoing New
Halfa scheme by providing it with the means to quickly increase and sustain
agricultural production through efficient use of available land, water and
human resources. This would be achieved through the provision of:
(a) agricultural machinery, workshop facilities and fuel
storage;
(b) buildings comprising field staff housing, stores and
a training center;
(c) road making and canal maintenance equipment;
(d) initial rehabilitation of the canal system and
reconstruction of the road system;
(e) motor vehicles;
(f) electro-mechanical equipment for the dam;
(g) telecommunications equipment;
(h) a mechanical delinting plant for one of the ginneries;
(i) a training program, including staff and supplies;
(j) technical assistance and consultancy;
(k) health programs, comprising rural water supplies,
field health centers, and malaria and bilharzia
control efforts; and
(1) cash requirements to operate NHAPC in the first three
years of the project, including the Corporation's
departmental costs, working capital for farm inputs
and cash advances to tenants for land preparation,
and canal maintenance and irrigated water supplies.
46.       To expedite project implementation, an advance of $530,000 from the
Project Preparation Facility (PPF) was approved to hire financial consultants
and a procurement officer and to procure urgently needed spare parts.



- 15 -
Proj ect Costs
47.        Total project costs including contingencies are estimated at US$105.0
million with a foreign exchange component of US$51.5 million, or about 50
percent of the total. The total project cost includes import duties and other
taxes, estimated at US$10.5 million. Cost estimates are expressed in February
1980 prices, and are based on recent quotations and appraisal estimates.
Contingencies represent 22 percent of baseline costs.A physical contingency of
10 percent has been included for all items, with the exception of the cash
required to operate NHAPC for the first three project years. Price
escalations for all components have been estimated using international price
inflation percentages, because it is expected that any discrepancies between
international and domestic rates of inflation will be offset by changes in
exchange rates. An international inflation rate of 10.5 percent was used for
1980/81, 9 percent for 1981/82, 8 percent for 1982/83 and 7 percent thereafter.
48.        Included in the total project cost is some US$36.7 million for the
cash requirements of the project in its first three years of operation (base-
line cost); this is made up of US$11.2 million in foreign exchange and US$25.5
million in local costs. These cash requirements are necessary because the
serious deterioration in the scheme, compounded by the economic/financial
problems in Sudan generally, has resulted in critical shortages of operating
funds for NHAPC and this problem, in turn, has been largely responsible for
the decline in land area under production and the overall inefficiency of
operations. In sum, there has been a circular pattern of deterioration which
the proposed project, through provision of cash requirements, among other
interventions, will attempt to break. By year four of the project, and there-
after, improved yields expected from cotton and other crops will generate
higher revenues, benefiting both tenants (by increasing their ability to
repay cash advances and loans in kind) and the newly reconstituted NHAPC.
Project Financing
49.        It is proposed that financing of the project be shared as follows:
US$ Million              % of
Agency                            Local  Foreign  Total   ProJect Cost
IDA                                7.5      32.5    40.0          38
IFAD                               5.0      10.0    15.0          14
AfDF                               1.0       9.0    10.0          10
Government                        40.0        -      40.0         38
TOTAL PROJECT COST              53.5      51.5   105.0         100
The proposed IDA credit of US$40.0 million would be on standard terms to the
Government, and would finance 38 percent of the total project cost.  Some 81
percent, or US$32.5 million, of the credit would help finance foreign exchange
requirements, and the remaining 19 percent, or US$7.5 million, local costs.



- 16 -
All co-financing has either been approved or arranged in principle, with IFAD
providing US$15.0 million equivalent and AfDF US$10.0 million equivalent on
terms similar to those of IDA. AfDF would finance, on a parallel basis, a
package of agricultural machinery and a portion of the spare parts needed over
the five years of the project. IDA and IFAD would jointly finance most of the
remaining direct investments in machinery and equipment, vehicles and spares,
civil works, materials, and technical assistance and consultancy services,
and a small portion (foreign exchange) of the Corporation's initial operating
costs (ref. Schedule 1, Draft Development Credit Agreement). A proposed con-
dition of credit effectiveness is that all conditions of effectiveness of the
AfDF and IFAD Loan Agreements be fulfilled by the Government (ref. Section
6.01 (a), Draft Development Credit Agreement). The Government would finance
the remaining US$40.0 million equivalent, or some 38 percent of project costs,
including local duties and taxes of US$10.5 million.
50.       As mentioned above (ref. para. 49), it is proposed that US$7.5
million, or 19 percent of the IDA credit of US$40.0 million, be used to
finance local costs. In addition, US$5.0 million equivalent of the IFAD loan
and US$1.0 million equivalent of the AfDF loan would be for local costs.
Local cost financing by IDA is justified for the following reasons: (a) New
Halfa, the second largest irrigation scheme in Sudan, has in the recent past
accounted for some 30 percent of the country's medium staple cotton, 20
percent of its groundnuts and 15 percent of its wheat. The overall level of
deterioration across the scheme has reached such proportions in the last
couple of years, however, that only about half of the net irrigable area has
been brought under cultivation, and less still brought through to harvest.
Some 50 percent of project costs are local costs, primarily due to the large
cash requirement of the project in its first three years of operation, until
the scheme gets back into full production. Rehabilitation of the scheme is
thus not possible without substantial local cost financing; (b) Under its
current stabilization program agreed with the IMF (ref. para. 18), Sudan is
limited to certain credit ceilings which bear directly on the Government's
ability to provide local cost financing for priority projects like New Halfa.
However, since New Halfa is the first of the irrigation schemes to be
rehabilitated under the new Export Action Program, which is designed to raise
the volume of exports, particularly cotton, and to help the country free
itself from the present economic crisis situation, sources of local cost
financing other than the Government must be found; (c) In view of the
relatively low foreign exchange component, we have requested our cofinancing
partners to consider some local cost financing and they have complied--for
example, one-third of IFAD's contribution of US$15 million equivalent is for
local cost financing; (d) In addition to assisting the long-range economic
stabilization and development of the country, the project will, at the same
time, serve a large number of very poor beneficiaries whose per capita incomes
are well below the national average. At the low yields prevalent in 1978/79,
for example, some 80 percent of the tenant population at New Halfa would have
been living at or below the absolute-relative poverty level of US$80-100 per
capita based on their tenancy incomes alone, forcing them to seek off-tenancy
activities like paid employment and grazing of livestock in order to survive.
51.       Onlending Arrangements.  The Government would onlend US$1.3 million
of the credit to PEWC to purchase and install certain spare parts and to
obtain consultancy services necessary to bring the electro-mechanical equipment



- 17 -
at the Khashm el Girba Dam, which serves the New Halfa scheme, into good
working order; the proposed onlending terms are the same as those for the
recently approved Third Power Project, namely 12 percent interest per aninum,
for a period of 20 years, including 5 years of grace and would be reflected,
for the purpose of this project, in a Subsidiary Loan Agreement (ref. Section
4.01 (b), Draft Development Credit Agreement). The remaining proceeds of the
Credit (US$38.7 million) would be onlent by Government to NHAPC, as specified
in a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and NHAPC (ref. Section
4.01 (c), Draft Development Credit Agreement). The funds would be onlent to
NHAPC at an annual interest rate of 9 percent and would be repaid in 20 years
including 5 years of grace; this interest rate is in line with that normally
charged for advances to public agricultural entities by the Bank of Sudan. Debt
servicing would commence, therefore, in year 6, just two years after NHAPC would
be expected to realize its initial excess of cash inflows over outflows.
Ratification of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements is proposed as a condition of
effectiveness (ref. Section 6.01 (b) and (c), Draft Development Credit
Agreement).
52.       NHAPC, in turn, would onlend about US$31 million of overall proj-
ect proceeds to agricultural cooperatives and tenants. Of this total, about
US$1.0 million would be onlent to cooperatives for the purchase of replace-
ment tractors, disc harrows and ridgers. Credit terms and conditions would
be similar to those used by the Agricultural Bank of Sudan -- a cash down
payment and repayment of the rest in not more than five annual installments.
Interest would be charged at 12 percent per annum (Section 2.12, Draft Project
Agreement). The remaining US$30 million would be onlent to tenants for farm
inputs, agricultural services and labor and would be extended under terms
consistent with a Tenants' Lease Agreement (Section 2.13, Draft Project
Agreement). The general principles to be embodied in the agreement, including
provision for an interest rate of not less than 12 percent per annum from the
date of provision of loans to tenants, are set forth in Schedule 1 of the
Draft Project Agreement. Further operational details on the Tenants' Lease
Agreement, including remedies or sanctions to be applied by NHAPC in the
event of serious or protracted default by tenants (ranging from written
warnings to eviction), were discussed at negotiations. Subsequently, Govern-
ment confirmed approval of a draft Tenants' Lease Agreement which had been
drawn up in consultation with the Association. The Government has also con-
firmed that Corporation Regulations will be issued for the newly reconstituted
NHAPC and will include, among other things, provision for the Tenants' Lease
Agreement.
53.       Responsibility for administering and recovering loans to coopera-
tives and tenants would rest with a new Tenant's Credit Unit (TCU), reporting
directly to the Director General of NHAPC. Government has agreed to employ
consultants under the project no later than September 1, 1980 to advise
on the establishment of the TCU and its operating procedures. Government
has also agreed to set up and staff the TCU no later than January 31, 1981
(Section 2.11, Draft Project Agreement). The 12 percent interest rate for
funds onlent by NHAPC to cooperatives and tenants compares with an inflation
rate in Sudan that is currently estimated to be about 20 percent for 1980/81
and is estimated to decline to perhaps 8 percent by 1983/84. The proposed
onlending rate is higher than that currently charged by the Agricultural
Bank of Sudan (7 and 9 percent respectively to cooperatives and individuals);
commercial bank rates are in the range of 12 to 14 percent.



- 18 -
54.       A special project account would be opened and Government has agreed
to arrange for a line of credit from the Bank of Sudan to NHAPC through
this account of not less than two million Sudanese pounds to meet initial
project expenses (Section 4.02(a) , Draft Development Credit Agreement).
Confirmation by Government that this has been done is proposed as an
additional condition of effectiveness (Section 6.01(d), Draft Development
Credit Agreement). In addition to these arrangements, Government has agreed
that during project execution it would, every quarter, transfer funds to the
project account in accordance with the financing plan and cash flow
projections embodied in the project's annual work programs (Section 4.02(b),
Draft Development Credit Agreement and paras. 60, 61 below).
Project Implementation and Detailed Features
55.       NHAPC would be the main implementing agency.  The Government has
recently reconstituted it through a special Establishment Warrant, which
is generally acceptable to the Association. In addition, Government has
agreed to issue separate Corporation Regulations covering such project-specific
matters as the Tenants' Lease Agreement, annual work program and cost recovery.
The main differences between the present and new constitutions for NHAPC are
that the Company would: (a) operate under its own Board of Directors instead
of a Management Committee and be responsible directly to the Minister of
Agriculture; and (b) be empowered on behalf of Government to grant and
administer Lease Agreements which control occupancy, land use and cost and
revenue sharing. The Chairman of the Board/Director General of the recon-
stituted Corporation has recently been appointed; it is proposed that appoint-
ment of the Financial Controller be a condition of effectiveness (ref.
Section 6.01(e), Draft Development Credit Agreement), and that any subsequent
appointments to these positions be done in consultation with the Association
(ref. Section 4.09, Draft Development Credit Agreement and Section 3.03, Draft
Project Agreement).
56.       NHAPC would administer the scheme through its Director General
operating three departments: Agricultural Operations, Engineering, and
Administration Departments. The Agricultural Operations Department would
retain primary responsibility for all field operations, implemented through
six agricultural divisions, further subdivided into 19 Blocks. The Corporation
would continue to determine the overall crop rotation and specific crop to be
grown in each hawasha, as well as the agricultural operations to be carried
out by tenants and their timing, including execution of operations by force
account if necessary. Provision of farm inputs, plant protection services
and agricultural extension and training in the cultivation of the main crops
would also be administered by the Agricultural Operations Department. The
Engineering Department would be divided into three engineering divisions,
mechanical, civil, and agricultural, and a ginneries division, each with
respective responsibilities. Operation and maintenance of machinery services
would be progressively decentralized as the staff housing and repair facilities
are developed by the project at each Block headquarters. Each Block-level
unit would be managed by a Block Inspector, who would be responsible to the
Manager of the Agricultural Operations Department for all activities in his
block. Each Block would comprise a team of about 90 people including agri-
cultural, irrigation, clerical, workshop and general staff who would receive



- 19 -
technical direction from their parent departments. Finally, the Administration
Department would have the usual personnel and social services, supplies, and
finance divisions.
57.       In addition to these three existing departments in NHAPC, a special
unit, the Tenant's Credit Unit (TCU), would be established (ref. para. 53).
The TCU would report directly to the Director General, but would work closely with
his deputy, the Financial Controller and the Manager of the Agricultural Opera-
tions Department. It would be responsible for overall administration of the
Corporation's loans to cooperatives and tenants to ensure their recovery.
58.       Other Implementing Agencies.  The Ministry of Irrigation (MOI) is
responsible through its Department of Dams for releasing water into the main
irrigation canal, and its Department of Irrigation Services for the operation
and maintenance of the canal system up to the field output pipe from the minor
canals. These functions have been exercised by MOI on all irrigation schemes
in Sudan for many years. The reservoir at the Khashm el Girba Dam, serving
the New Halfa scheme, would be managed by MOI in accordance with regulations
acceptable to the Association. Periodic safety inspections in accordance with
sound engineering practice would be required to determine whether there are
any structural or maintenance deficiencies (ref. Section 4.03 and Schedule 4,
Draft Development Credit Agreement).
59.       The Public Electricity and Water Corporation (PEWC), a Government-
owned public utility company, generates electricity using water provided by
MOI's engineer at the Dam and from its diesel generators. PEWC would: (a)
use project funds provided by the Government to purchase the necessary spare
parts and put all electro-mechanical equipment presently installed at the Dam
in good working order by December 31, 1980; and (b) assemble the component
parts of the new 3MW diesel generator recently delivered to the Dam and put it
in working order by December 31, 1981, using project funds to procure needed
spare parts (ref. Section 4.04, Draft Development Credit Agreement).
60.       Annual Work Programs.  The principal mechanism for implementation
of the project would be a detailed annual work program, prepared in draft by
NHAPC, reviewed and confirmed by a high level project steering committee and
submitted to the Association for approval (ref. Section 4.10, and Schedule 4,
Draft Development Credit Agreement). The objective would be to facilitate a
full annual review of progress in project implementation jointly by Government
and IDA and to make possible technical, financial or institutional modifica-
tions or adjustments of the project as experience is gained. This is parti-
cularly important with respect to cost recovery aspects (ref. para. 64).
61.       The annual work programs would provide a detailed description of
the work to be performed for the ensuing fiscal year including (a) the sched-
ules of activities, equipment requirements, staffing needs and training plans;
(b) a budget for the period including proposed capital and recurrent expendi-
tures as well as a comparison of the proposed investments with actual expendi-
tures for the previous year; (c) a financing plan and detailed quarterly cash
flow projections; (d) supporting information on the Tenants' Lease Agreement,
the cost recovery system and performance of other public agencies involved



- 20 -
in the New Halfa scheme. The proposed programs would be submitted by NHAPC no
later than April 1 each year to the project steering committee (ref. Section
2.01, Draft Project Agreement). Government has confirmed establishment of
the steering committee which is chaired by the Minister of Agriculture and
comprises representatives of the Ministries of Finance, National Planning,
Irrigation, NHAPC and the Bank of Sudan. The committee is empowered to
approve the annual work programs on behalf of the Government for the New Halfa
project. After review, the committee would submit the program to the Associa-
tion each year not later than May 1 (ref. Section 4.10, Draft Development
Credit Agreement). Criteria to be used in evaluating the proposed work
programs are set forth in Part C, Schedule 4, Draft Development Credit
Agreement. The Association would, within three weeks of receipt of the
proposal, inform the Government and NHAPC of its acceptance of, or comments on,
the proposed work program. The first work program, covering the period ending
June 30, 1981, would be submitted to the Association within two months of
effectiveness of the Credit. Subsequent programs would be submitted by May 1,
covering the year commencing the following July 1.
62.       Staffing, Technical Assistance and Consultancy.  NHAPC in the past
has had a strong cadre of well experienced staff capable of developing the
project with a minimum of external assistance, although high staff turnover
is prevalent as in most public corporations in Sudan. To assist NHAPC in
implementing the project, specialist staff would be provided to establish a
Procurement Unit and a Development Planning Unit within the existing Technical
Planning Office of the Corporation. The Procurement Unit would comprise an
internationally recruited procurement specialist for two years together with
local support staff, in order to institute procurement procedures acceptable
to the Association and arrange for timely delivery of goods and services.
Government has already hired the specialist using funds from a PPF advance
(para. 46). The Development Planning Unit would comprise four internationally
recruited staff: an agricultural economist, an agriculturalist, a field
water management specialist, and a financial advisor, for a period of about 3.5
years, together with local support staff (ref. Section 2.03, Draft Project
Agreement). A total of 209 man-months of technical assistance would be
provided under the project at an average cost of about US$9,000 per man-month.
63.       Training and Health.  Facilities provided by the project would be
used to develop a training program under the direction of a senior mechanical
engineer, supported full time by an agricultural instructor, two mechanical
instructors, and junior staff. Part-time lecturers would be provided from
the Corporation's staff and visiting specialists provided by the project.
Courses would cover in-field operational and mechanical engineering skills as
well as workshop skills.  Agricultural field training would continue under the
agricultural extension division within the Agricultural Operations Department.
General disease, malaria and bilharzia control provided by the project would
be implemented by NHAPC, and the required staff would be made available by the
Government (ref. Section 4.07, Draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 21 -
Cost Recovery
64.       The long established cost recovery system which prevails on public
irrigation schemes in the Sudan has three basic elements. First, costs and
revenues of the cotton crop are shared between the tenant and the corporation
through a mechanism known as the joint account. Second, the cost of inputs
and other direct services provided by the corporation for the cultivation of
other crops are charged to tenants through individual crop accounts. Third,
the corporation recovers its management and other indirect costs for all crops
from its own share of the net proceeds of the cotton crop. This arrangement
had its origin in the earlier dominance of cotton in the cropping pattern of
irrigation schemes and the fact that cotton has been (and remains) the only
crop marketed through the public corporations. However, in practice, the
system has resulted in a bias against cotton since cotton effectively has had
to carry the burden of all land, water and management ch.rges on all crops.
This problem has been mitigated somewhat through the abolishment of an export
tax on cotton and adjustments in the exchange rate (ref. para. 19); nonethe-
less the basic difficulty remains. Furthermore, because crops other than
cotton are marketed privately, the corporations have had to resort to cotton
revenues as the only source from which to recover costs against other crops.
The situation has been particularly adverse at New Halfa where groundnuts and
wheat have from the beginning played an important role in the cropping pattern.
The result has been to depress cotton production to a level at which its
revenues have been insufficient to meet the Corporation's and tenants' costs,
leaving the tenant to rely on his return from groundnuts and wheat for income.
Any correction to the system thus has to both remove the bias against cotton
and develop a system by which costs charged against other crops can be
recovered against the revenues of those crops. The resolution of such issues
on a broad (irrigation sub-sector) basis is being sought through a special
study to be conducted under the recently approved Agricultural Rehabilitation
Program; the study is intended to bring the cost recovery systems into line
with a set of underlying principles for the public irrigation schemes of
Sudan. Further modifications, if any, to the existing New Halfa system,
beyond those proposed here, would be contingent upon the outcome of this
study, which is to be completed to the satisfaction of the Government and IDA
by September 30, 1980.
65.       Pending the findings of the study, the project proposes to retain
the basic concept of the joint account as it is presently practiced at New
Halfa.  However, it would be modified to ensure that:  (a) the full cost: of
producing each crop is charged against that crop, or in the case of cotton,
charged against revenues generated by that crop; (b) tenant incentive to grow
cotton is enhanced by whatever amounts need to be reallocated in order to
ensure cotton revenues are only used to meet cotton costs; (c) all production-
related project investments are recovered over the life of the project;
(d) the introduction of increased tenant charges does not exceed the ability
of the average tenant to repay (ref. Section 2.10 and Schedule 2, Draft
Project Agreement).
66.        Specific charges to be applied and payments to be made by tenants
would be formulated by the NHAPC and embodied in both the Tenants' Lease
Agreement and the proposed annual work program. Any costs not recovered
would be capitalized and recovered during subsequent years along with



- 22 -
interest at 12 percent per annum. In the event of circumstances beyond
the control of the project that might threaten to jeopardize the financial
viability of NHAPC and/or tenant incentives, NHAPC would be required to
request the Government to provide adequate financial subventions to it in
order to offset such effects (ref. Schedule 2, Draft Project Agreement).
As indicated earlier (para. 53), the TCU would administer the cost recovery
system on behalf of NHAPC.
67.       The overall effect of the above modifications would be to achieve
virtually full cost recovery over the 20-year life of the Project. The full
cost of producing each crop would be charged to that crop and collected in
cash, or in the case of cotton, charged against revenues generated by that
crop. However, because cotton profits (losses) would continue to be shared,
the relative profitability of cotton vis-a-vis the other crops would remain
muted -- but to a lesser extent than before, and tenant incentive to grow
cotton would be enhanced. After paying all hired and tenant labor at the
going market wage rate, the average tenant's net return would progressively
increase to over LSd 500 per cropping season.
Procurement and Disbursement
68.       Procurement of all goods and services financed by IDA would be in
accordance with World Bank guidelines. Contracts exceeding US$100,000 for
the supply of machinery and equipment, vehicles and civil works construction
in the project headquarters area would be subject to international competitive
bidding (ICB). The items would be aggregated for tenders in order to attract
major contractors and suppliers. Civil works would qualify for 7.5 percent
domestic preference under ICB procurement; domestic manufacturers would qualify
for a preference of up to 15 percent (ref. Parts B and C, Schedule 3, Draft
Development Credit Agreement). The field areas building construction program
is dispersed and the work is unlikely to attract international bids. It would
be implemented by NHAPC using local competitive bidding or force account; the
largest contract is not expected to exceed US$1.0 million. Contracts for less
than US$100,000, but in aggregate totalling no more than US$3,000,000, would
be procured through local competitive bidding in accordance with Government
standard procedures, which are acceptable to the Association. Provision of
technical assistance and consultancy services would be in consultation with
the Association for all positions financed out of the IDA credit. Critical
spare parts would be purchased from the sole or principal manufacturer of the
equipment; other spare parts would be purchased through competitive bidding.
For contracts under US$10,000 and totalling not more than $200,000 in the
aggregate, comparative shopping or purchasing off the shelf would be used.
IFAD procurement procedures would be essentially the same as those of IDA.
Procurement of equipment and spare parts financed by AfDF would be based on
its procedures.
69.       Disbursement of funds from the proposed IDA credit and IFAD loan
would be administered by IDA. Withdrawals would be apportioned by IDA accord-
ing to agreed ratios (ref. Section 3.04 and Schedule 1, Draft Development
Credit Agreement). Disbursement of funds from the IDA credit would be on the
following basis:



- 23 -
(a)  100 percent of foreign expenditures and 70 percent of local
expenditures for civil works (US$11.2 million);
(b) 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 40 percent of
local expenditures for machinery and equipment and spares
(US$9.4 million);
(c) 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 20 percent of local
expenditures for vehicles (US$2.9 million);
(d) 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 25 percent of local
expenditures for insecticides (US$0.5 million);
(e) 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 90 percent of local
expenditures for seeds, fertilizer, other farm inputs
(US$6.9 million);
(f) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for consultants' services,
health operating costs and NHAPC operating costs (US$5.9 million).
US$2.7 million of the Credit would remain unallocated, and US$0.5 million
would be used to repay the PPF (ref. para. 46). Disbursement would be fully
documented. Disbursements for the health facility and rural water operating
costs, and civil works if undertaken by force account, would be made against
statements of expenditure, the supporting documents for which would not be
submitted for review, but retained by the Corporation for inspection by IDA
missions.
Accounts and Audits
70.       NHAPC would have its initial accounts audited and the financial
report submitted to the Association no later than December 31, 1980 (ref.
Section 4.02, Draft Project Agreement). Subsequently, NHAPC would keep
a comprehensive set of accounts, including a separate set of accounts for
the expenditure and recovery of project funds; these would be audited annually
and submitted to the Association within nine months of the end of the fiscal
year. NHAPC would also keep separate accounts for the provision and recovery
of loans extended to tenants and cooperatives, and would have them audited
for submission to IDA within three months of the end of each fiscal year (ref.
Section 4.03, Draft Project Agreement). PEWC would also keep separate accounts
for the expenditure of project funds and would have them audited annually (ref.
Section 4.05, Draft Development Credit Agreement).
Environmental Impact
71.        Pest control by spraying cotton with insecticides has been practiced
extensively in the Sudan for over 30 years. Application is normally carried
out by aerial spraying by relatively experienced contractors with well main-
tained equipment, using techniques which minimize drift and, therefore, risk
to people in the area. Government has agreed that all pesticides would be
subjected to rigorous field tests for their environmental effect and that
their importation and use would be carefully controlled (ref. Section 4.08,
Draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 24 -
72.       Since the main vector of malaria in the project area is now resistant
to the chlorinated hydrocarbon group of insecticides, the relatively high cost
alternative Malathion, coupled with the on-going anti-larval measures, would
be used in the project. Neither of these alternatives present adverse en-
vironmental effects.
Benefits, Justification and Risks
73.       The proposed project, the first rehabilitation of an existing
irrigation scheme under Sudan's new Export Action Program, would raise yields,
bring 173,000 feddans of currently uncropped irrigable land into production,
create an additional annual demand for labor of 5.6 million man-days and
generate additional foreign exchange from the incremental production of cotton
and groundnuts. Prices for the medium staple cotton grown under the project
have, in fact, firmed up during the past few months, and recent Bank staff
studies show that real cotton prices can be expected to rise in the longer
term, reflecting in part, increases in the price of petroleum-based feedstocks
for competing man-made fibers. Moreover, improved scheme, water and crop
management should ensure more efficient utilization of the dwindling supply of
water available for irrigation in the New Halfa scheme. Average tenancy cash
returns would rise from LSd 60 in cropping season one to about LSd 500 in
cropping season five, after paying all family and hired labor and all loans
and charges due the Corporation. Primary project beneficiaries would be the
22,000 tenants, the Corporation and Government. Secondary project
beneficiaries would be the 50,000 migrant laborers, paid by tenants, private
groundnut merchants, cooperatives and their staffs as well as other
inhabitants of New Halfa.
74.       The economic rate of return is estimated at 75 percent over a
20-year project life. This reflects the existence of sunk costs estimated at
about LSd 12.5 million, and the ability to increase cropping intensity from 48
to 87 percent and more than double the physical output by the end of cropping
season five. The economic analysis is based on export parity prices for
cotton and groundnut, import parity price for wheat and farmgate price,
converted to border price equivalent, for fodder. Project intervention is
focused on rehabilitating a scheme which in recent years has lacked both
physical and financial resources. The investment required to rectify the-
lack of physical resources corresponds to all project investments other than
the Corporation's cash requirements in the early years of the project, while
that required to rectify the lack of financial resources is estimated on the
assumption that the Corporation would be funded in project year one to a
level commensurate with the funding received in the preceding two years.
The local cost component of all investment has been converted to a border
price expressed in US dollar equivalents using the ratio of the parallel to
shadow exchange rate of 0.7. A 20-year project life has been assumed.
Sensitivity testing of the economic rate of return gives the following results:
(a) assuming a one-year delay in the realization of expected benefits, the
estimated rate of return would drop to 50 percent; (b) assuming a 25 percent
reduction in benefits and 25 percent increase in costs, the return would drop
to 45 percent; and (c) assuming the above delay and reduction in benefits and
increase in costs, the return would drop to 30 percent.



- 25 -
75.       Start-up, debt and cost recovery and realization of projected yields
are the major risks. In an effort to minimize these risks, a PPF has been
provided, NHAPC has been reconstituted, annual work programs will be prepared
and approved, including cost recovery and financing arrangements. This should
impart a strong complement of discipline and accountability.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
76.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Democratic
Republic of the Sudan and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between
the New Halfa Agricultural Production Corporation and the Association and the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the
Articles of Agreement of the Association, are being distributed separately to
the Executive Directors. Special features of the Development Credit Agreement
and the Project Agreement are referred to in Section 3 of Annex III.
77.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
78.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by Moeen A. Qureshi
Washington, D.C.
April 24, 1980



-26_                                                ANNEX I
Page 1
TABLE 3A
SUDAN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AypERACES
LAND AREA (THOUsAND sq. E.)SUDAN                                              - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL           2505.8                                                    SAME        SAME      NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL     315.0                                 MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INColE        INCOME
L960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /a
GNP PER CAPITA (USs)                  150.0       180.0     320.0            306.1      467.5       1097.7
ENERGY C0NSULPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL FQUIVALENT)      52.0        130.0     143.0             80.6      262.1       730.7
POPU'LATION A.M VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,  ID-YEAR (MILLIONS)      11.3        14.1      16.9
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 10.0         16.0      20.0             17.1       24.6        49.0
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (EILLIONS)                       31.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         89.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2135
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. ot.                        5.0          6.0       7.0             18.4       45.3        44.6
PER SQ. M. AGRICULTURAL LAND      37.0         46.0      54.0             50.8      169.0       140.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT )
0-14 YRS.                         44.3         45.3      45.0             44.1       45.2        41.3
15-64 YRS.                         53.0         52.0      52.0            52.9        51.9        55.3
65 YRS. AND AOVE                    2.7          2.7       3.0              2.8        2.8          3.5
POPULATION IROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              1.9          2.3       2.6              2.7        2.7         2.4
UR 0 AN                                         6.9       6.9              5.7        4.3         4.5
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     45.0         45.0      45.0             46.3       39.4        31.1
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     25.0         21.0      19.0             17.2       11.7         9.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                ..         3.4       3.2              3.1        2.7         2.2
FAMILY FLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..          ..        ..
USERS (PERCENT OF LARRIED WOKEN)    ..           ..        ..               ..       13.2        34.7
FOOD ANO NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71.100)          86.5        100.0     103.0             94.3       99.6        104.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
rALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   81.0         72.0      88.0            89.5        94.7       105.0
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          55.0         63.0/h    65.1             55.8       54.3        64.4
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          ..        23.6      23.1             17.9       17.4        23.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     46.0         38.0      31.0             22.3       11.4         8.6
4EALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT 3IRTH (YEARS)    39.0         43.0      46.0            47.0        54.7        60.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             ..        132.0/g      ..               ..       68.1        46.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..           ..      46.0             20.3       34.4        60.8
URBAN                                ..          ..      49.0             53.9       57.9        75.7
RURAL                               ..           ..      45.0             10.1       21.2        40.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                *-        16.0      22.0             22.5       40.8        46.0
URBAN                                                                     62.5       71.3        46.0
RURAL                               ..            ' .        -            13.9       27.7        22.5
POPULATION PER P9YStC!AN         31000.0      13660.0    9760.0          17424.7     6799.4      2262..
POPULATION PER NMaSI7G PERSON     2940.0/f    1940.0    1260.0           2506.6      1522.1      1195.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            1000.0       930.0     960.0            502.3      726.5       453.
UR RAN                              ..           ..     260.0           201.4       272.7       253.1
RURAL                               ..           ..    2580.0           1403.6     1404.4      2732.4
ADMISSIONS PER iCSPI-AL BED            ..          ..      16.9             23.4       27.5        22.1
hOUS IYC
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..          5.1         .             4.9         S.4         5.3
URBAN                                ..         5.7/i       .             4.9         5.1         5.2
RUPAL                                ..          ..                       5.5         5.5         5.4
AVERACE WUNUER OF PERSONS PER ZOOM
TOTAL                               ..           ..        ..               ..         ..         1.9
URBAN                               ..          2.5/i      ..               ..         ..         1.
RURAL                                ..          ..        ..               ..         ..         2.5
ACCESS TO LETRICITY (PERCEYNT
OF DWELLINCS)
TOTAL                                ..        26.4/i      ..               ..       28.1        50.0
URBAN                                ..          ..        ..               ..       45.1        71.7
R'RAL                                ..          ..        ..               ..        9.9        17.3



- 27 -                                            ANNEX I
'TAB   3A                                         Page  2
SUDAN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFrENCE GROUPS (A%DJUSTED AVPAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) M
SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECEYT     GEOGRAPHIC   IXCOME        LNCOKE
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE lb       REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /a
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED E2IROLLMNT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                  25.0        33.0      39.0             59.0       82.7        102.5
MALE                 35.0         41.0      49.0             64.2       87.3        108.6
FEMALE                L4.0        26.0      30.0             44.2       75.8        97.1
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  3.0         7.0      13.0              9.0       21.4         33.5
MALE                  5.0          9.0      18.0             12.0       33.0         38.4
FEMALE                1.0          4.0       8.0              4.4       15.5        30.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (I OF SECONDARY)   3.0          1.4L/      1.0/j. k        7.0         9.8        11.5
PUPtL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            41.0        47.0      39.0             42.2       34.1         35.8
SECONDARY                          20.0        17.0      22.0             22.9       23.4         22.9
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        13.1        15.0/1    20.0             20.8        54.0        64.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          1.4         2.0        ..              4.0        9.3         13.5
RADEO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          1.0        79.0        ..             44.3       76.9        122.7
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..         2.9       6.0              2.9       13.5         38.3
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
DITEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   4.0          ..       8.0              5.6        18.3        40.0
CIEMMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.8           ..        1.4             0.4        2.5          3.7
LABOR FORCE
-oTAL LA0OR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      3700.0      4500.0    4733.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    9.6        10.2      10.6             31.9       29.2         25.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              85.7        82.0      7o.0             77.6       62.7         43.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 6.2          7.8      10.0              7.9       11.9         21.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                33.0        32.1      31.5             40.8       37.1         33.5
KALE                                 59.1        56.9       55.8            53.9       48.8         48.0
FEMALE                                6.4         6.6       6.7             25.6       20.4         16.8
ECONOMIC DEPEhDENCY RATIO               1.4         1.5        1.8             1.2         1.4         1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HICHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   20.9/u         ..        ..               ..       15.2         20.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  50.17;       49.2/n      ..               ..       48.2         52.1
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    5.0/u        5.1/n      ..               ..        6.3          3.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.97W       14.57        *-              *-       16.3         12.6
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..     137.0            187.6      241.3        270.0
RURAL                               ..           ..      80.0             96.8      136.6        183.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..     115.0            138.4      179.7       282.5
RURAL                               ..           ..     100.0             71.0      103.7       248.9
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSLOLTE
POVERTY IYCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..          ..        ..             34.5       24.8        20.5
RURAL                               ..           ..      85.0             48.7       37.5         35.3
.Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    -he adjusted group averages for each iadicator are population-.eighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless othervise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c  Africa South of Sahara;   /d  Lower Yiddle Income (S281-550 per capita  1976);   /e  Intermediate Middle
Income (5551-1135 per capita, 1976);  /f  1962;  /R  1970-73 average;  ;h  1972; 7i  1965;   /i Begin-
ning 1970, the duration of general secondary education was reduced from 8 to 6 years; /k Includes programs
of 5 training centers operated by Dept. of Labor and 17 short-term centers operated by Min. of Youth and
Sports;   /1  1966;  /I  1963. Odurman (urban);  /n  1967-68.
Most Recent Estimate of GYP per capita is for 1978.
August, 1979



-28 -                                                              ANNEX I
~~, ~~~~ ~Page 3
D.000: AltRaO   tO. data 0? d.mm fr- 0000o  g00W.U31  Jo45   th.  smt ..Oholt.tIo  -08 rlibl.h, it -001  .1a0 ho 00td t0.t they oaf Ot 0. ioteo-
~-_I17   .~a.pwh1. boom.s  of to. 1,2k of .00st 00d 058 d.finition  ad0 cmcopo s08 bd W   tffo0t 0000t01.. n1. Ooleotift th.. dtn.. Th. dot. -r, oo.th.lo-e,
-ofoj to dwoorib. amdoer  of mait08o   i08Iot. tr,mf,   od e         t00105 OortOl  m'.r0 diff -m00. b0000 t-        a'i
Th. f80t8wP09t8   o   -0  1081000o? w00 PO0Iaaom'Oigktd g00.tri4  was,  t01280   h. 00r000  vO.ms of ths id8loatoo.r   01 t 0000 popfi.tsd 
-tyi    EV9!F                 to 1..k or 0.0. groop .og*   .f .2.1 lodloto.- foe C.Pit.1 00.091g 0il loPortso  .00 of 000d00too of A.....  0 IJt.r  nd horet.
11apo-1,i Wai0(, lw-  bi.tb.%..ibn 00  Pbo.%rY tw 0th.,  oUSto7 group. r.  pp2Ai0-01t00   0 ri. 00.   01th000  00o1..i   of th. -t-0   -L10... ad
-o    .  PW-2so  etoy.   It.  oos                f oo.rIO           Uo         t?.M00 .aloshltofdt                                           -ti1-otolfe    00 t00  b.0 ho OOo..d
(tb--d .q.ka.)                                                               Ace.., okr. U0.l(.00 o-f pwob.     o0.obo  0   no 
Toted. Mae-. or. o       ias(m I.Qd  00  wn ind eas'u .0.   fp.9.(001 orrb,, .0  ;M T,1   V.oodb   00c 01p.90.0
-   0o  e.-ot "..tI'..t   of  u.oo.t-.J  '.   _.  t.o,00l14            poo.go.f th01r  -.p.etio  pop2a.tio-  1hoot. 010p0.1  -y L-01d.
0.bO-00.7for ooop, p.stor-   . inoOs   k. tob1000'.       orr.. 0.' t4h. ooU.otin .08 di.p-..1, nith or  ithost tro.t-t, of W-    -   t.o.0
.U. folio..                                                                           -08 eat.Mot.r by  ot--.o-ha  .y.t-  or th. 0-  of pit p00100 00d ,..11
ELM.Wrl'        - GI0 ? o..oPit.  muOt-t ot 0.0.000 00.100  Wl*0                  pm1too.o.i0.                 Popn.tlo   010d0.8 by -..h.  of pr-ti.g p01i05
0000000000- a.thd u. VwA  B.00 Atlu  (1976-78 b-osi),                                                - .000  00 uA10.ity 10.1I.pb 10
1960, 1970, 00d 19,78 dORa.                                                           900.1.or3.o   o.o Pp.00odit.   yooo   fp0000   01
OOMN C   E   AprTIA-  ses    ' ti   of ~o.11..r mw8 din. (O0,800  000000  P9000010ab 0000, '.d -.0.00t  .1r...
..oeoo  sa  '.  oo.., mo.... ~  ~o-  05.101000?  00000.d9   - tota         _ _0'. *08 rrl. - P0p0iotiOO  (totol, orIo,
00.000.1anItrlolty) in kALop   of ooo1 "".geaa   pm  oqt.; 196o                        "0 o.J8vI.  ytorropoloo"o    fhola  bdO  0i1.ible  L.
1W   '.d 1978 . dt..                                                                    0.b110 '.d 00-t. g0.-r.1 ad opooioiod 1000p10.1 .0d rhb.blit.ti..0000
R..pit.ia 00  o5t0li10w0t. pw-.o0ly otffd0 by at 1-at 000 pby.i.ioo.
t.t.h i.h.t. P-07088s P01000po11  000tdil .- r  or. 000 i-ldd8. Rwol
m;UVII& P-NO   M77.3 ion.)- As of .1017 1; 1960, 1970), .a8                     h.ptoIo,~ r, 0010,0  heath .0d R"loal 00t0r. 000 p                  otly  t.tf rd
1977 dt..                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~by .*   -io0a   (bat by . -f101 ..1 ..tsot, 0000,  idoifo, 000.) Ohi.h off.,
0m010-I~AI     a?00Mt of total  - 0.0  of o?h.o- total03 90wovmtl0;                  10-ptimt0 -.odatloa .0d pr01d. . IOted  -og. of 080 f.olitie..
df.r- doo.teo.   _.; io,19     0r9o  o front o~.h111ity of dat.                     A0l                              001oOO   f 081010  to or d100000(0. f00
I)7tO..popo10tio  by 0. and 0.- .d thol. 000 ity0 008 fe-tility                iO00e  10  of 0000010(o..  obu.e)d  -tt.  orb-.  -0 000  -
0...00.000   Paco.ta fo, r 000.11   0.0.  .1     ot0oAb,oeldooitofagoof                                          f Oodoid,o-p   50  .0o 11014 q0tO 
,-'.1.oo.a lito 000t.000  at birth too..oioa alto   -tr07,                          t0.ir001. -.a.o.  A b.-ardO   or lodger my or my 000 b.  clooold 10 th0
P0r _9(10  in-  I00-1, 00d f-l*  lf.f  0P000t00  otobli.i010  *0                    10.000ld for ."tit.t0-1 0ur.070*o
77.5 Yoor0   70. p.0.0000   for fortlity rot. al0h.  00 ..1.                     8.00.. btoofP0000  P0                   total ob'. and ra.1 - 00A00g. -.0.-
a.o-J.o  dloot i. t  frtUity 000rd101  o to0-   1-01 '.d pot                       ofp000p0  00t  11.Ob.  0  0001  -00071d C000010.t                   . -io.f
f..Ay ploafra porfo-.oc.. loch 00-nt07 is 00.0 .f..d  -0  of th...                  a59000.7            li..1g. -cld.  Mo-Porfho.t stroture  and --Ocpt.d Porte.
0..- o1o00.of 00.r.110  .0  fortiity tof. for 0V020t10                            A00... tOa fl.to'et   p..t  fd.i0e    total. 1- oro .da -oe1 - C.o-
00.otbo.   p00pb0t0' - t*."tl0onc7 p0p0Lt000  toro1 00  groto                        total,  rb'., '.0  -0.1 doolIog. -oOp-tiooly.
00000 th. birth M.0 10 Oqoa to tho d40th rat., 00.100 to. a..
000000-  r0    0 0004.00t. 011i. 10 000100d only aftor fertity eat..           IATI0N
d-0.00. to tO. 00p1.000t 100.1 of 001% 000 0.900020i0  0.t*, Wm                RA8.l0td Cooll-A0 Rct00
moO  000 i010  of   ro .910.  it-.1f .otly.  M0.00.010.07 905-                   P040001. total 00.1 000 f 0.1.   G 1000  total, .L.1 000 food. eoorOll
it01 . 0    -   .00?= 41V1.0d 00 ths 0040 of ths p00J00td  h.otrto                a0of11goat th. pr100ry 1.001 00p-ret0(0  of  o...peoti- priaar
of tho P0.010t100 in tOo y-a  2O, .0  th. rt.0  of 00l11.0 of ffrOllity              '.0100pOp0ti0...; 000-011  000010.. oOild-O   gd0 6-11  -.r  000
".0 to rpl-  -mot 1-01.                                                              .0.1*t.  for d1ff.-t0 1eagtho of p0000.7 eo-o.tioo; for 000t0010  0101
700  00.10.0   0010000  1, r00000  - Th. y0.-  b0' 0ttic-y po90.10t1.                   0ir.000  08000010  t.-oU00-t .00  05000  100 p.-t0 010- 0000 popilo
Mla  005 boo 0008                                                                     .00100 or  D.-0   ho  ftfi.l.1 .00001 0(0.
P0001.t000 D-ity0                                                                       0.00847  0001      tl. 00.100d f mole   C.000000Wt            V   000d0
P-os.  o    - 8Y..  90900.000  000  -.qor  k01-00   (102 hootr.a) of                    *dot00rql0o            100too  year of p00-00  pi-.0y m000000010;
000.1  0..                                                      ~~~~~~~~~p-oodo. genor  000i.0100     00 0.00r troilg iotr-toot- Co, pop,1o
o.r00  0.  t0o1.a0 1.00  - C.a0t8 00 .00   for- roa.oO  1.0d                       -s."..  of 12 to 17 ya.-  of 0(0; ooopo.eo0000aeg--roIy
tvrl. 01( s  0              2o - )oom) - Chlldro  )O-lJa yoooo)  ortud.-ou.             900001000  00oloO.t.000  o00000)-VaonllottOo                                ol
15-640 y-a.)  -0 otlr0  (05 7000  00d 000) 00 fOo?0t00  of 08d-70                      0000.10.1  1000400r       0000   0000  0100h 0p0000  iOd.pOad-tIV  00
p09o0.1; 1~,1970, '.8 1977 00..-                                                    doprtmota of 00000004  10-000,100.0
t001000  000-00 Ros  p0000  -  0 .1   - As.L ceO  rt.. of total aid-                 POoil-00r  MaI  - 0ri'7,  and 000000047 - T0001  t.Ooot.oo-o1.nd i0
700  popasi.000 or  9000   90-0              1970-77.                                   pri..ry .d8 0..00000    _n0   dioldedbyaoO rof te.o.-  10 th,co,.
P00,010ti0  G0.b   .0      qF000  -or.. - A-m-'1 (000  r.0.. of orb.                      opoodiog lo-1..
P000.I010- for 195                                                                    A 90-0  .81701.t01  lito.y00   000)-100008.1    10to.100000)0
C.W.  irthRt.  ~r t~-d)- 80.-0  1100 birth. per tb..od of aid-                    aPm000(  of totl  t01  Po900t on 0(00    y- fr. ad  o.
700_ p09010ti00 1960, 1970, .d 1977 dt..
Cr.d. D-thto99I0y(50( 00             .o.. .0000toOa.o  of ald-Y'ea                  Cal0EmP7i1U
2!1iw95x 0iiA1977 0.t..                                                     Po.le   as(pr00a.   00100        0.00000   070.   0000
Uw0.0 Ope,OOtORate t0A0mrg. 30br0 of d.0ght.Oo 0  000 11 boo..-nglt  h   obt p000                                               0.b00010000   000000  and 1il tory
1000  001  908000  900100 if 00    pOi.00p000t 0(000100
.p._ifi. f0t11i0y oat-; _.0.y1 fl1_.o.yo  ao0.5001.  J. 1960,                       hol   .Oor   prtoo'dpoo.ti..) - All typo, of  -000--0 for -di0
1970, '.0 1975.                                                                       000,0.t   ooa   010potboood of ypoNlti..o;  -jd- -.o1                      ... .oolod
?.o10 P1ao1,  - AeoOOop r.  al A tb.a.10.     A - Anooo oU.W    of                00000.. in --0tri.. and 00 fO-r   h-o -Ogi,t-tOo  of 00110 Sot. 00  i0
acopto ! fgblrt-'oo.Ote   d0,0.. sodo  Ma."  ..of -t.-iol finily                      .070t0  d.t. for 00000  7y-0  0y 010 00  -opmblo0.0  010otori-o
91.0010  p00(0'.                                                                      abli.hdb 110.-00g.
0001.7 P10oloO-  100   Droto   000   00)-P.rOotwg  of -rolid                          MV aUi-lr   pLootV thuad o         toulni     - TV  - rci-er  Ior b-ooc-t to genera
of obi-boaio  0(   150  Too.-  U000  birth-oootrl d-a.lo..joiop?00.0   noloO    .010000 o.Oen                                             1-0001000   0 00010000
00 .11 -,,iO       0 in sm   00500.                                                   00d L. 7000  000  rgi00.t000i  of TV  etl..oa  In effet.
7~0179T7~~Wodantioo p.r Coelt (1,0-75.-10) - 108d. of p.r ..pOO.                 0d0000  priOily to -.0rdOg g-ir0  M00    t1  0.000  t  e117
oooaol p00000000.0 of .11 food od~ ~~itOo. P0000000  -010. 0..d '.8         if it app._.  t 100_0 rOo_ 0000.00
f.od-d'.0 000  0-1000  70-  00400.  C--diti.  0000  p01000  (0080                  Cio.0  A000.1- 100t08d00   or 0.pit. 00Y-a  - 0B00d 00 t00 0...0 b       f 00ti010
(e.. -ogro.oto.ted of 00g") 00100 or  .8001, ad  nt0..1  000in.10                 -Id. d-rOg th0 7000,  aoludlng  d8.1000-  to drio--- 010.00 -d1 1b0l
(0.. 00f. ad tea ar  -o1o8dd). Aaog.(t  p-d80t010  of .a-h 0000y                  010..
i. 10.d0 00 '.0000    nrog  p008,0d-  prOo- .0g10..
NO .-it0. 0007 of o.lolo            -t000  0f r00010b00-0t.) - C.Optd0 f-o         A0  01
_,0(0 qo010  of '.t food 0Oppl.. -01101           -tro0y, p-.o 0p10         Ttl  10000l IL00        --0ood.) - Oo-o.icOlly 0001- p-0000, i.olod!o  .0.0
per dy. A-iI1b1I ppo  00ri0.. 0d0-01  p                tdloIo, iObort. 10-          fOOO  00 Y00p -0 W0t -o00 in  M... noel-.,  t00.000,  tc-  DefOn ti.ns
000 d0 .00  00.(0  00 "k .001  .0oppll.. .1.ol0   -ni.1 f.00, ..0d.,           La 00000.-t00001.  -r  00t  -oOpaol-0
4000110   40  L. food yo_o..i(g, _.  I0..  00 L.di.tribti.tl. Soqoiro(-  o.o Oot) - 000.1.  b.000  f.-  - p-0000g(  of total lobor f00..
moo. o.o  00000  bly MA  b000d 00 phy.iologi.al 0..84 fOr -00.1                     ei=   toroooo-t  - LOo . 0,0 f-   J0. fr g, fO.-try, Waotig 00d
'.100t0 .08 h.01to   -id-10r0g  -Oi-o.a 1 t00(000t0, body 001500,                   rlobig-0P -retg.g   of 00001 1.b0 f00.-
diri40  100b,ti-O  of p0p.1.aoa, 008 .11-0045 10 P00000  for               Ld00try0 (0000.00) - L000  f-o-o- in0 01010.,  -t0roOon   Olfotro
0.0 -ah0.00  10-lve.                                                           e.10trlOlty,  `.0  00  0   0000000    tOta  1010  foC
P.ocaita  .001   fpotMiyo   erO.     00000.. oofre                                  ariipooodt.(0oott 001.01.. .0  -.01      ollaloa
oopbt o00.0091  of ood p0 da. 0.0 000l1  of food 1. d8.0.00 .ot100700t                      000  00F.., d.900tO00,01 ...       l'no.oa 1.00100r I      p 70r
ahoy. Roq1lrmot. for. . .-t000000. .o.tb]Abd bY U011A yr-.id. fo .                   -t.00(0  of t0t01, -L. and fof1o  pop.latiOn.; 0) al  ogee0o-Peon ly;
Otim  .1.1.00-   of 60 gr0   of          "t00   re." p.o day .08 20 groi  of        1960, 19170, and 1975 data.  Trh... ure 11D1  paOOOcp.tloO  rat.  rf tolg
70..0  t-.dord. or  10.0  00.0  000.0 of 75 gra-  of 0o.01 pr0t01. .nd               -ref ta000000  -0 0..
23 gom   of anl-a  pro0.10 -00 a-erg. for 000  -Ird, p-p ..ed by PAO.             U  . IL       ooA-   Rt01  - 0R00 of pop701t010  0060r 15 000 05 000 000  to
10 the T1,ild World 0000 Sorooy.                                                   01, 1.r0 fOn  00  g.0 g0oop of 15-oil f-~.
Per o0oo0000  001  too. '.100.1 wo  pi-.  - Prot01. .opyp1  of food
M0110  Ia -0) Vrt0.1tY7 R.00(o "    oo.`00 (  A- 000.1 d0000. p000000 th..             NR.t'.   of 1    r1W ,...  . (0000~ Co   4  000 ki0d) - 0.0.1i-.d by 000.00.
to 0(  goop 1~1 Y-'., tn0110.  10d i.1 t    0(0:!  grop; for -.t 00.1j-             500,p 00t, ri     t_ot  0000        0 .0 10Porten, .0  00000.  40 p-rcat
090000 000010  000 0d 00  tot. 0.idf-2i.010..                                         of 00-.00100.
life foOt.o   0000t      h(er.    A-orgo 0.00r of Y0-0  of lIt.                       12400.td Ab..lt. P0.rty loo lee-I0 00Opit.) - oobo  aod   -L~0 
o10log at b1000; 1900  1570, and 1977 . dot.                                          01*0100, p-0.r0  00000  Oo1 10 than1000IrO 01,1, on_           o  aT   -01.0
afatOralyt _o (. 0t00.00) -O.0.-1 00.t0  of iof'.. udr -o.                      ootoltioOolly 0104.0  d1.t plo  e.etia1 .on-food  rqoreooo.oot
y.r ofoo  0   0040  li          irt00..                                               affrdable.      4
A-oo. to Safe  ..   0000o   oa.Oo       0.    r'. Vt                 loa              p.15a0t0   el.tloe  -000   Inca- L.01 (U0  per 0.010 .. -   b'. an -rra1
3800)peoplettl   r',sd0.100   e40 e000   o000  rolOle   t000   oo.. le-.  1-                                            s 00-01 O! f000(00.1
.af. eate  ."091. (1.01080  t-otd orfoo  0t.000 onr oatOd but                         p.00001 n000  of tbe  -0t00. Urb'. 1001 10 d-i-de fr 000 tOo  1ra  1...1
0000.0-0000  fltor   tho -0 than Po  poototod bo000010, oprlogo,                      0000 084j0000t f0- h1i00  00t of 10i15 i0  rb'. o.. -
_d8 ..00.i t olII-) 0 Poroatgeo of 00.10 o.p.otlOo poooalotlo.. r.                  1.0ti0000 00.1t0100010   100100  000t            000 1 0-01 .. rot        r' and
an orb'         Pblia0.1   fortain or t000."df  boted nt .000.                         no  Ptront  fP t0,loo   Ob. n   oa)00argloo.70'
00000.No. 001.007b               _i 0 ..0010 d0 -0 0015 000010 r.-..bl1
_reo*  of 0000 h-..  . t   -rL. o. ... .o...b0010000.  -Id loply
t0.t tho hoo-i.sslf  00 ro   of t:. h-0.1010d d0 000 bo." to op00 a                                                          000       d 0  S-id Dt0  D10010
dlpnoOo.0Por of t0. d.p in f.OfhlOg too f'.117,  -t-o .08                                                      _Oo10 0001721 J _0 toJ_ oona  loporon
A00019'79



-29 -                               ANNEX I
Page 4
SUDAN - COUNTRY DATA
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN 1974/75 lf                                    ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.         Z                               1972/73-1977/78 (estimates)
GDP at Market Prices          4,338.4        100.0                                          4.5
Gross Domestic Investment        761.0         17.5
Gross National Saving            230.5          5.3
Current Account Balance        -530.5        -12.2
Exports of Goods, NFS            486.5        11.2                                         -2.0
Imports of Goods, NFS         1,041.5         24.0                                         10.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1974/75
Value Added-                  Labor Force/                    V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.          %               Mln.       %                     US $          %
Agriculture                     1,681          41.2              3.25      68.7                    517         59.9
Industry                          657          16.1              0.30       6.3                  2,190        253.8
Servicer                        1,745       . 42.7               1.18      24.9                  1,479        171.4
Total/Average                4,083        100.0              4.73      100.0                    863       100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government - 1978/79
CLSd. Mlni.)                         % of GDPiI
Current Receipts                     520                                 14.6
Current Expenditure                  607                                 17.0
Current Surplus                      -87                                 -2.4
Capital Expendituresa4               198                                  5.5
External Assistance (net)             91                                  2.5
Sept.
MONEY. CREDIT AND PRICES                1974           1975         1976         1977         1978        1979
(iillion LS outstanding end period)
Money Supply                           277.1          329.5        412-<l       588.7        750C6       903.2
Bank Credit to Government              130.9          199.5        293.6        487.7       592.8        685.6
Bank Credit to Private Sector          141.9          296.6        250.9        287.6       366.2        432.0
0?ercentages or Index Numbers)
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index testimates)         26.0           24.0         10.0         17.0         25.0
Bank Credit to Public Sector            37.1           52.4         47.2         66.1        21.6
Bank Credit to Private Sector           43.6           45.6         21.4         14.6        27.3
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
1/ This is the last year for which reasonably reliable GDP data by expenditure are available.
2/ Total labor force; umemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation. "Unallocated" consists
mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
3/ At market prices.
4/ Expenditures from Development Budget (includes some capital expenditures by other public entities).
Not available
Not applicable
EA2DB
February 1980



ANNEX I
-30-                                  Page 5
SUDAN - COUNTRY DATA
TRADE BALANCE AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS ESTIMATES                                            MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1975/76-77178)
1975   1976   1977   1978                                            US S Mln.
(Millions US $)
Cotton                      294.0       52.0
.xports Goods, NFS              515    696    782    800                   qum Arabic                   33.4        5.9
Imports Goods, NFS            1202  1,304  1,492  1,550                    Groundnuts                   99.6       17.6
Resource Gap                   -687   -608   -710   -750                   Sesame                       50.2        8.9
Livestock and Products       20.7        3.7
Interest 1,LT Debt              -57    -65    -84    -80                   Other                        67.2       11.9
Other Factor Payments             1    -34    -29    -25                      Total                    565.1      100.0
Transfers                       102    188    296    330
Current Balance                -641   -519   -527   -525
Public Grants                    32      21      20     30               EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1978
Public MLT Loans, disb.         489    493    156    265
Public  LT Loans, amort.        -79   -119.  -141   -150                                                       US $ Mln.
Tota1 Public, net               442    395      35    145
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed        2,075.5
increase in Arrears               5    245    445    270                  Non-Guaranteed Private Debt              ..
Total Outstanding and disbursed
Change Net Foreign Assets                                   /
increase)      362    104      -       73              DEBT SERVICE RTIO FOR 1978
Errors and Omissions b/        -168   -225    47        37                 Public Debt, incl. guaranteed         35.0
Non-Guarantecd Private Debt
Gross Reserves (end year)        36      24    23       28                 Total Outstanding and Disbursed
RATE OF EXCHANGE  c/                                      IBRD/IDA LENDING, (Nov. 30, 1979) (Million US 9):
Annual Averages   End Period                                             IBRFD      IDA
1977    1978   Aug 79  Sep 79
Outstanding and Disbursed         82.4      144.3
Official:                                                    Undisbursed                       32.0      200.6
LS1   US$            2.872   2.662   2.500   2.000        Outstanding ircl. Undisbursed  114.4         344.9
Effective:
LS1 L US$            2.500   2.225   2.000        -
Parallel market:
LS1 - US$              -        -       -      1.250
a/ Includes use of IMF resources.
hi Includes short-term and private capital movements.
c/ Prior to September 1979, the official rate differed from the effective rate by the amount of export tax/
subsidy charges. After September 1979, these were abolished and a parallel market rate was established
for transactions other than a linited category including goverrient purchases and a few "essential" items.
not
EA2DB
February 1980



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS - SUDAN
(as of March 31, 1980)
Amount (US$ Million)
(Net of cancellations)
Credit No.       Year    Borrower   Purpose                  Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
Six Loans and five Credits fully disbursed:                  127.2  77.2
Credit 311       1972    Sudan       Mechanized Farming II           11.3       5.0
Credit 331       1972    Sudan       Highway I                        7.0       0.4
Credit 364-1    1975    Sudan        Rahad (Supplement)              20.0       7.2
Credit 457       1974    Sudan       Railways III                    24.0       2.8
Credit 547       1975    Sudan       Education II                    10.0       5.5
Credit 564       1975    Sudan       Power II                        23.0       1.2
Credit 589       1975    Sudan       Industrial Bank of Sudan II   7.0         2.5
Credit 614       1976    Sudan       Technical Assistance             4.0       1.7
Credit 643       1976    Sudan )                                      9.0       8.6
Loan 1287T       1976    Sudan )    Domestic Aviation         20.0    -        20.0
Credit 718       1977    Sudan        Savannah Development           17.0      17.0
Credit 727       1977    Sudan )                                      8.0       5.3
Loan 1467T       1977    Sudan )    Railway IV                12.0    -        12.0
Credit 781       1978    Sudan       Port                            22.0     20.2
Credit 782       1978    Sudan       Livestock Marketing             25.0     24.5
Credit 804       1978    Sudan       Mechanized Farming III          16.0      15.9
Credit 834       1978    Sudan       Agricultural Research           15.0     15.0
Credit 882       1979    Sudan       Highway II                      41.0     41.0
Credit 904       1979    Sudan       Southern Region
Agriculture Project          15.0      14.0
Credit 1000      1980    Sudan 1/   Agricultural Rehabilitation
Program                      65.0     65.0
Total                                                   159.2 416.5    284.8
of which repaid                                       79.9   6.8
Total now outstanding                                    79.3 409.7
Amount sold                                   5.8
of which repaid                             5.8         -      -
Total held by Bank & IDA 2/                              79.3 409.7
Total Undisbursed                                        32.0 252.8    284.8
1/   Not yet effective.
2/   Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
A. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of March 31, 1980)
Fiscal                                                    (Amount in US$ Million)
Year                  Obligor                            Loan   Equity   Total
1964 and      Khartoum Spinning & Weaving Co.
1972         Textiles                                    1.9    0.3       2.2
1976        Cotton Textile Mills                          8.7    1.3      10.0
1978        Seleit Food Production Ltd.                  11.2    1.2      12.4
1978        Gezira/Managil Textile Co. Ltd.               6.7    1.4       8.1
Total gross commitments                     28.5    4.2      32.7
Less cancellations, terminations
repayments and sales:                     6.9     -        6.9
Total commitments now held by IFC           21.6    4.2      25.8
Total undisbursed by IFC                     4.0    0.6       4.6
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
The Bank and IDA have so far made eight loans and twenty-four credits
to the Sudan. Disbursements are either in progress or about to commence for
the following projects.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
Credit No. 547   Second Education Project:  US$10.0 million Credit of
May 16, 1975; Effective Date: September 30, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The first education project (Credit 122) has been completed and
undisbursed funds ($200,000) have been cancelled. The second project is some
25-30 months behind the original 1975 appraisal schedule. The delay is due
to the lack of a viable construction industry, transportation difficulties
and weakness in project management. Some change in project scope has been
necessary in surmounting these difficulties. Physical execution of the
project is improving, with the award of the bulk of the construction contracts,
although transportation remains as a constraint.   Close monitoring of the
project is to continue.
Credit No. 311   Second Mechanized Farming Project; US$11.25 million Credit
of June 12, 1972; Effective Date: April 24, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Since October 1977, the total number of farms allocated has remained
stable at about 245 (88% of appraisal estimate), although steps are now being
taken to bring this up to the full 280. The road construction program has
made little progress due in part to difficulties in getting spare parts for
MFC's heavy equipment. Repayment of loans by farmers at Umm Seinat has
improved but remains unsatisfactory at some 22%. Explanations given by
management include adverse climatic conditions and unwillingness by farmers to
repay loans received. Repayment at Habila is said to be satisfactory however
- more than 95%.  The Tozi Farm Machinery Training Center has made some
progress. Management is now concentrating on an implementation schedule for
disbursing the remainder of the Credit.
Credit No. 364   Rahad Irrigation Project; US$62.0 million Credit of March 30,
and            1973 and July 11, 1975; Effective Dates:  August 29, 1973
364-1           and November 17, 1975; Closing Date:  June 30, 1980
The Rahad Irrigation Project commenced agricultural production
in 1977 with cotton grown over 50,000 feddans (15 percent of the total
project); cotton yields for the first year were already close to the appraisal
estimate for full project development. Major project civil works have now
been substantially completed on some 206,000 feddans, with 154,000 feddans
under cultivation; both are short of the planned target of 300,000 feddans.
Further delays are expected in project implementation in light of continuing
managerial, financial and logistical problems. A revised allocation of funds
to priority activities is being considered, with a perhaps necessary reassess-
ment of project size or deferment of some less essential project components.
The project is undergoing careful review in an effort to identify mechanisms
to minimize the risks to this and other projects in the agricultural sector in
the future.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
Credit No. 718   Savannah Development Project; US$17.0 million Credit
of June 24, 1977; Effective Date: August 31, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Due to organizational delays and logistical and financial con-
straints, this project as well as the parallel ODA/Abu Dhabi Fund-supported
Southern Darfur project, may be unable to be Implemented as envisaged at
appraisal. The Government proposed that both projects be rephased, reduced
in scope and consolidated into a single operational unit. Details on this
proposal have been finalized, and are now under consideration along with other
alternatives.
Credit No. 331   First Highway Project; US$7.0 million Credit of September 29,
1972; Effective Date: February 6, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
Due to escalation of costs for equipment purchases and feasibility
studies, the project's scope had to be reduced to keep it within the original
credit amount. Major components of the project have been completed; progress
on the balance of the project and compliance with the covenants of the Credit
Agreement are proceeding satisfactorily.
Credit No. 457   Third Railway Project; US$24 million Credit of
January 31, 1974; Effective Date: July 29, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Procurement, installation and construction for Sudan Railways
Corporation has largely been completed, as has procurement for the Sea Ports
and River Transport Corporations. The first phase of the Railway Training
School started operating May, 1979. The project should be completed by June,
1980. Locomotive availability rose from 50 percent last year to 57 percent
in October, 1979, and is expected to rise to 73 percent by February, 1980.
Improvement in locomotive and wagon availability led to an increase of 16
percent in freight traffic in the first five months of FY 1980 as compared
to the same period last year. Progress toward the operational objectives for
the railway has been slow due to technical and managerial constraints but is
now improving.
Loan No. 1467T   Fourth Railway Project; US$12.0 million Loan of July 8, 1977
and          and US$8.0 million Credit of July 8, 1977; Effective Date:
Credit No. 727   January 12, 1979.  Closing Date:  December 31, 1982.
Procurement under the project is progressing well, with nearly
two-thirds of the credit/loan already committed. Rapidly rising prices, along
with a protracted delay between signing and effectiveness of the project, may
necessitate some reduction in project scope. Co-financing is being provided
by the Kuwait Fund, Arab Fund, Abu Dhabi Fund, and European Development Fund.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
Loan No. 1287T   Domestic Aviation Project; US$20.0 million Loan of
July 7, 1976 and US$9.0 million Credit of July 7, 1976;
Credit No. 643   Effective Date:  January 11, 1977; Closing Date:
September 30, 1981
Management problems have resulted in delays in project implementa-
tion. The project is now moving forward, but has encountered serious financial
problems. Tenders for construction of the three airports came in at levels
far above the appraisal estimate. Potential changes in project scope are now
under consideratton.
Credit No. 589   Second Industrial Bank of Sudan Project:  US$7.0 million
Credit of November 11, 1975; Effective Date: April 16, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Funds under the first Industrial Bank of Sudan project (Credit 447)
have been fully disbursed, and the credit was closed on June 30, 1979. Under
the second project (Credit 589), US$5.3 million has been committed and US$4.4
million disbursed. There have been problems with overall management respon-
sibility and effectiveness within IBS and doubts about IBS' future role in the
industrial sector. These issues have been brought repeatedly to Government's
notice but no appropriate action has been taken. Consequently, consideration
of a proposed third line of credit for IBS has been postponed indefinitely.
The IBS issues will be discussed again with Government at the next Project
Implementation Review in Khartoum, at which Bank staff will be represented.
Credit No. 564   Second Power Project; US$23.0 million Credit of June 25,
1975; Effective Date: October 29, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Contracts for supply, erection and commissioning of generating
plant, transmission lines and ancillary equipment were placed mostly accord-
ing to the program, but delays in award of contracts for civil works at the
Burri diesel station, Roseires hydroelectric station and delayed mobilization
by PEWC's staff for civil works at the Juba diesel station are likely to
delay commissioning of various components of the Project by about two years.
The project cost estimate is now 53% higher than at appraisal and the Govern-
ment has received a loan of US$9.5 million from the OPEC Special Fund to help
meet the foreign exchange cost overrun. PEWC has increased its electricity
tariffs by 100 percent and its water supply tariffs by 200 percent. The
Government changed the composition of PEWC's board of directors, removed
PEWC's departmental managers from the board and replaced them with the
ministerial under secretaries related to PEWC.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Credit No. 614   Technical Assistance Project;  US$4.0 million Credit of
April 7, 1976; Effective Date: October 5, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project, supported by IDA and the Kuwait Fund, is helping to
finance preparation studies of high priority projects to facilitate Sudan's
public investment. The Project Preparation Unit has been established, but is
only moderately effective. Overall project progress has been good, however.
Credit No. 781   Port Project:  US$22.0 million Credit of June 9, 1978;
Effective Date: February 2, 1979. Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project provides for expansion of the capacity of the existing
berths in Port Sudan and mechanization of cargo handling and movement, improve-
ment of layout and working surfaces, and improvement of bulk, container and
roll on/roll off facilities, as well as management assistance and training.
Design of project civil works has been completed, and the contract for con-
struction awarded, with work scheduled to begin in early 1980.
Credit No. 782   Livestock Marketing Project:  US$25 million Credit of
June 16, 1978; Effective Date: July 9, 1979
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The Project provides market and transport infrastructure, technical
assistance, a headquarters building and additional staff for the Livestock
and Meat Marketing Corporation (LMMC), which is implementing the project.
Construction of the LMMC headquarters is 50 percent complete, and selection
of sites for 13 markets and 10 holding yards has been finalized. The Sudan
Railways Corporation has contracted to purchase livestock wagons, vans and
underframes, and bids for locomotives are now being evaluated.
Credit No. 804   The Third Mechanized Farming Project:  US$16 million
Credit of July 13, 1978; Effective Date; August 13, 1979
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
The project objectives are to (a) help present users of mechanized
farming methods become more productive, and (b) support programs designed
to develop mechanized farming methods for smallholders. These objectives
will be pursued through improvement and expansion of the extension activities
of the Mechanized Farming Corporation (MFC), programs of adaptive trials and
related research, access road building, importation of spare parts for the
mechanized dryland farmers and reorganization and strengthening of the MFC.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 7
Credit Nlo. 834 Agricultural Research Prolect; US$15.0 million Credit
of July 27, 1978; Effective Date: March 21, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30. 1985
Over a six year period, the project would develop the research
capability of the Agricultural Research Corporation (ARC) in Western Sudan,
implement research programs in this region and strengthen ARC's new Khartoum
headquarters. The research program would be concerned with integrated live-
stock and crop production systems, pure livestock production systems and water
and land use management. USAID is co-financing the project, and a contract
has been signed with the Consortium for International Development for the
provision of a technical assistance package.
Credit No. 882   Second Highway Project; US$41.0 million Credit of
March 16, 1979; Effective Date:  January 23, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project would facilitate the transport and export of agricultural
production through construction of the Jebel Aulia to Ed Dueim road along the
White Nile; improve accessibility of currently settled but isolated areas;
provide access to new areas of agricultural development; develop appropriate
organizational, planning and technical skills in the Roads Department of the
Southern Regional Ministry of Communications, Transport and Roads, particularly
with respect to highway maintenance; and provide detailed engineering for
future priority roads. The contracts for road construction and supervision
have been let, and are being finalized; selection of the consultants for
technical assistance to the Southern Region is underway.
Credit No. 904   Southern Region Agriculture Project:  US$15.0 million
Credit of May 11, 1979; Effective Date: February 14, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The present project, a follow-up to the earlier rehabilitation project
(Credit 476), would assist the Southern Regional Government to implement part
of its regional agricultural development program by strengthening agricultural
services, planning capacity and management and improving physical infrastructure.
Credit No. 1000 Agricultural Rehabilitation Program: US$65.0 million
Credit of March 25, 1980; Effective Date: Not yet effective,;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
The objective of the project is to provide foreign exchange financing
for high priority imports (spare parts, fertilizers, etc.) to help increase
utilization of productive capacity in the irrigated agriculture subsector from
which Sudan derives the bulk of its foreign exchange earnings. The project
will also encourage macro economic and agriculture sector policy and institu-
tional reforms and provide financing for technical assistance to help implement
the program. An EEC Special Action Fund Credit of about US$11 million will
supplement the program.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 8
Technical         Planning Assistance and Training:  US$1.8 million Credit;
Assistance        Effective Date:  July 1, 1977;  Termination Date:
December 30, 1980
This technical assistance project, funded by the UNDP and executed
by the Bank, provides the services of seven advisers to the Ministry of
National Planning to assist in national, sectoral and annual planning and
improved project identification and preparation. The advisers have encoun-
tered some difficulties in trying to introduce appropriate systems for annual
planning and monitoring, as required by their terms of reference, but other-
wise the project is making satisfactory progress.



- 39 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
SUDAN
NEW HALFA IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time Taken to Prepare Project:  10 months
(b) Preparation by: Agrar-und Hydrotechnik GmBH (consultants)
(c) Initial Discussions with Association: May 1, 1976
(d) First Bank Mission: February 2, 1977
(e) Appraisal Mission Departure: November 17, 1978
(Post-Appraisal: September 20, 1979)
(f)  Completion of Negotiations:   April 14, 1980
(g) Planned Date of Effectiveness: Ninety days after signing
II.  Special Bank Implementation Actions
A PPF (IDA Credit No. P080-SU) of US$530,000 was approved on
October 15, 1979, to cover the foreign exchange cost of a financial
consultancy, procurement specialist, and spare parts for the New Halfa
scheme.
III. Special Conditions
Proposed conditions of credit effectiveness:
(a) Fulfillment of all effectiveness conditions of the IFAD
and AfDF Loan Agreements (ref. para. 49).
(b) Ratification of Subsidiary Loan Agreements between the
Government and NHAPC and the Government and PEWC,
satisfactory to the Association (ref. para. 51).
(c) Opening of a Project Account by the Government with a line
of credit of not less than ESd 2.0 million (ref. para. 54).
(d) Appointment of a Financial Controller of NHAPC, in
consultation with the Association (ref. para. 55).



- 40 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
Other major conditions include:
(e)  The Government, through a Project Steering Committee, to
prepare annual work programs to be submitted by specific
dates for Association review and covering an agreed range
of activities (ref. paras. 60, 61).
(f) NHAPC to hire consultants not later than September 1, 1980
to advise on the establishment of a Tenant's Credit Unit
which would be set up and staffed prior to January 31,
1981 (ref. para. 53).
(g)  NHAPC to onlend up to US$31 million equivalent to coopera-
tives and tenants on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association (ref. para. 52).
(h) NHAPC to recover the costs of all goods, services and
credit provided to tenants and ensure that Tenants'
Lease Agreements are entered into and kept current with
each tenant (ref. paras. 65, 66).



35- 30'       \                                                       15'45'                   3` 45           Agricultural Administrative Areas                 15.so3                        3 6 00'                         SU  DAN                       15-15.                JULY 19179
\9\D\       <                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DEBAIRA SECTION    EL-SEDARA SECTION  RAIRA SECTION                                New  Halfa Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
\                <                                                  ~~~~~~      ~     ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~I Forns  7 U.m-R.h.u  8 El-Suf,. El G. d,d,
\    \    u   \   X    i    >_   k                                  ~~~~~~      ~     ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 H.gi,  10 Um-G.,q.u,  9 El Srab.w  El-0m                Agricultural Administrastive Areas:          - M o in  ccnal
<X91\ \< _ % ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K14 Ghr.rshi                                                11           S           aooSruo17 El-S.b..t Shorg        -                -Section boundaries                               B_Eranch canals
\\   \X\>  ><  >   SASARAIE  SECTION  DEMIAT SECTION 13 El Srzboot Ghorb Proposed spine r5,o..t G.rb                                                      Popose  spin roa        M      i     n      o    r     Mnor cnnal
\  >    \>   +   fe ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ --2\  %                                4 El~~~SSAAI  SECTinoN  D4El-hIA     L           SAITOA SECTIION                               Existing roads (approximate alignment)  - - -  -          Drcins
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                  ~ Rs                                                                                                               OAb Pro  posed base radio-telepone station                    Proposed dispent rsariens
Z A I R E   / p@; KENYA |   1 sa3a   95;15                                           IS-IS                 35-30                                               accef ?ancA Df Such                      35-45                             \ \t~~~~~ropsed  adi-telphoe sustaion
18



