RESTRICTED
Report No. TO-659a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
CHILE
August 21, 1968
Projects Department



Currency Equivalents:
Currency Unit       _   Escudo (E0)
US$1. 00            =   E05 (1967)
E°1 (1967           -   US¢20
EO1 million (1967)  =   US$200, 000
Fiscal Year
January 1              December 31
Units of Weights and Measures: Metric
Metric: British/US Equivalents
1 Kilometer (km)    =   0. 62 miles (mi)
1 Meter (m)         =   3.28 feet (ft)
1 Hectare (ha)      =   2.47 acres (ac)
1 Liter (1)         =   0. 22 imp. gallons
=   0. 26 gallons (US)
1 Metric Ton (m ton) =  2204 pounds (lb)
Abbreviations Used in the Report:
MOPT                -   Ministry of Public Works
and Transport
Vialidad            -   Highway Department
IECO                -   International Engineering
Company (Consultants, U. S.)
Dorsch              -   Xavier Dorsch (Consultants,
Germany)



CHILE
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
TABTE OF CONTENTS
Page
SUMMARY                                               i-ii
1.   INTRODUCTION                                      1
2.  B3ACKGTROUND                                       3
A. General                                         3
B. The Transport Sector                           3
C. Transport Coordination                          6
3.   THE HIGHWAY SECTOR                                7
A. The Highway Network                             7
B.  Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic    8
C. Highway Administration and Management          9
D.  Highway Planning, Design and Construction    10
E.  Highway Maintenance                          11
F. Highway Finance                               12
4.   THE PROJECT                                      114
A. Description                                    14
B.  Cost Estimates and Financing                  17
C.  Execution                                     22
5.   ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION                            24
A.  Four-Year Highway Maintenance Program         24
B.  Feasibility-Studies and Detailed Engineering 26
6.   CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS                   27
This report was prepared by Messrs. R. Alexander and
A. Parmeggiani (engineers), and M. Karcher and
G.J. Roth (economists).



Table of Contents - continued
TABLES
1.   National Highway Network as at January 1, 1968
2.   Motor Vehicle Fleet, 1960-1966
3.   Motor Fuel Consumption
4.   Expenditures on Highways since 1962
5.   List of Equipment to be Procured and Cost Estimates
6.   Vialidad Personnel Requirements
7.   Status and Description of the 13 Roads Identified
for Feasibility Study and Detailed Engineering
8.   Project Cost Estimates
9.   Estimates of Traffic, Capital and Recurrent Costs,
and Savings in Vehicle Operating Costs
CHART - Organization of Vialidad
MAP (3): Chile - Main Highway Network



CHILE
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
SUIIMARY
i.        The Government of Chile has asked the Bank to help finance a pro-
ject comprising: (a) a four-year program, to be implemented with the help
of consultants, to improve highway maintenance; and (b) additional consulting
services (i) to continue and complete the supervision of highway construction
started under a previous IDA project, (ii) to carry out studies for a new
highway construction program, and (iii) to advise on transport coordination
and investment planning. The project is the second for highway maintenance
and would continue the assistance provided under a Bank loan (287-CH) and
an IDA credit (4-CH) that were made simultaneously in 1961; the Bank also
made a Technical Assistance Grant in 1966 for highwray planning and feasibil-
ity studies.
ii.       The four-year maintenance program was developed from a master plan
which was prepared and partially implemented under the first highway main-
tenance project. The new program commenced in January 1968, but its success
depends largely on obtaining more maintenance equipment and the continued
help of consultants. The program provides for further improvement of
maintenance operations, additional maintenance and shop equipment, expanded
workshop facilities, the training of local personnel, and consultants'
services. The Bank would provide US$10.2 million equivalent towards the
foreign exchange component of the program's capital cost, while the Govern-
ment would finance the remaining US$3.6 million equivalent of such component
together with the local capital cost (estimated to be US$3.2 million equiv-
alent). Over the four years of the program (1968-71) the Government would
also provide a total of about US$131 million equivalent to meet recurrent
maintenance expenditures.
iii.      The estimated benefits of the maintenance program, in terms of
reduced vehicle operating costs alone, yield benefit/cost ratios ranging
from 1.12 to 1.45, which amply justify the program.
iv.       In addition to the maintenance program, the project includes
consulting and expert services for construction supervision, feasibility
studies and detailed engineering and transport planning. The construction
supervision is in respect of 850 Ian of roads which were started under
Credit 4-CH and which will be completed in 1969-1970; the continued services
of the consultants already employed for this work would be financed from
the loan. Other consultants were engaged in 1967, with the Bank's prior
approval, to review and/or carry out feasibility and engineering studies
of 610 Im of roads, most of which were assigned high priority in the
highway studies earlier financed under Bank Technical Assistance. Lastly,
the Government would engage an expert to advise it on improving transport
coordination and investment planning and to formulate the terms of reference
for a comprehensive survey of transport policies and planning. The total
cost of the additional services outlined above would be about US$2.7 million
equivalent, of which the Bank would finance the foreign exchange component,
estimated at US$1.4 million.



- ii -
v.        The financing of the consulting services for road maintenance and
construction supervision is now provided under Credit 4-CH until its
Closing Date of December 31, 1968. The proposed loan would finance these
services from its effective date. Assuming that the loan would become
effective in November 1968, the funds remaining in Credit 4-CH at that time,
estimated to be about US$50,000 equivalent, would be cancelled. The Bank
would finance retroactively the foreign exchange costs incurred for the
feasibility and engineering studies prior to the effective date of the loan;
the total amount of such retroactive financing would be about US$380,000
equivalent.
vi.       The Highway Department (Vialidad), assisted by consultants, would
be responsible for the execution of the project, and is considered capable
of doing so.
vii.      In view of Chile's balance of payments prospects and external
debt situation, a suitable term for a proposed loan of US$11.6 million
would be 20 years including a 5-year grace period, although on the basis
of the economic life of the maintenance equipment to be procured under the
program, a shorter term would be warranted.



CHILE
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND IHGIMGHY 14APITENANCE PROJECT
1 I1a1TRODUCTIOV
1.01      In 1967, the Chilean Government requested a Bank loan to help
finance (a) a four-year program, to be implemented with the assistance of
consultants, to improve highway maintenance, and (b) additional consulting
services (i) to continue the supervision of highway construction initiated
under Credit 4-CH, (ii) to carry out studies for a new highway construction
program, and (iii) to advise on transport coordination and investment
planning.
1.02      This would be the fourth project of the Bank and IDA in the
transportation sector in Chile and the second for road maintenance. The
first two investments were made simultaneously by IDA and the Bank in 1961,
after a severe earthquake which devastated Chile's southern region: they
were a loan of US$6 million equivalent (Loan 287-CH) for the purchase of
urgently needed road maintenance equipment, and a Credit of USt19 million
equivalent (Credit 4-CH) to reconstruct and improve about 3,900 kom of
secondary roads, estimated to cost US$53 million equivalent. Responsibility
for the execution of both projects was vested in Vialidad, and consulting
services for both were provided by the U.S. firm International Engineering
Company (IECO) and financed under Credit 4-CH, In 1966, the Bank made a
Technical Assistance Grant of US$210,000 equivalent to provide consulting
services for (a) a highway planning study embracing some 200 roads, total-
ing 6,000 km, to determine construction priorities, and (b) feasibility
studies of seven other roads, totaling about 300 km. IECO completed this
work in 1967.
1.03      Procurement of maintenance equipment under Loan 287-CH was ini-
tially delayed because of the poor performance of Vialidad's maintenance
organization and the absence of a master maintenance plan. However, by
196h a plan acceptable to the Bank was available, and the procurement of
equipment, which only partially fulfilled the plan's requirements, was
completed at the end of 1966, Implementation of the plan on a reduced
scale began in 1965 with the assistance of IECO, but was delayed by an
earthquake and floods in 1965-66. The main object of the proposed project
is to continue the improvement of maintenance operations initiated under
the first highway maintenance project.
1.04      Bidding procedures, progress and quality of construction in res-
pect of the project financed under Credit 4-CH were initially unsatisfactory.
In 1963, the Association partially suspended disbursements, and, together
with the Government, sought ways of remedying the situation. Performance
improved as a result of the measures taken, which included stationing of
a Bank staff member in Chile to assist on a day-to-day basis. Disbursements
were fully resumed in 1964, and the Closing Date was extended by 3 years to



- 2 -
December 31, 1967. The earthquake and floods of 1965-66 damaged a number
of roads in the project, delayed progress and increased construction costs.
To overcome these new difficulties, the Government and IDA agreed in 1967
to reduce the project by 1,200 Im to those works already contracted (2,700
km), to apply the Credit allocation for construction to the roads scheduled
for campletion by the end of 1967 (1,850 Iam), and to finance exclusively
with Government funds the remaining project roads (850 km) which are sche-
duled for completion during the 1969-70 construction season. The Credit
was fully disbursed by its Closing Date, except for US$174,000 for consul-
ting services. IDA agreed to the use of this balance to continue consul-
ting services for supervision of construction and for advice on maintenance
operations through December 31, 1968 or until the proposed loan becomes
effective, whichever date is earlier, The proposed loan provides for a
further extension of these services.
1.05      The highway studies financed under the Technical Assistance Grant
helped identify a new road construction program comprising thirteen roads
(610 km) which the Government wishes to initiate in 1969 with the help of
the Bank. With the Bank's prior approval, Vialidad engaged a German consul-
ting firm (Dorsch) to accelerate the preparation of a suitable project.
The work, which is progressing satisfactorily, involves carrying out or
updating feasibility studies, and supervising or completing detailed engi-
neering for those roads which are justified for construction starting in
1969-70. The proposed loan provides for these services including those
rendered prior to its effective date.
1.06      Financial assistance for highways has also been given by the
German Government, which recently made a loan of about US$1 million equiva-
lent for the purchase of maintenance equipment for the master maintenance
plan. In addition, the Inter-American Development Bank made a loan of
$15 million in 1967 to help improve the Chilean section (200 kIm) of an
international road linking the port of Valparaiso with the Argentine city
of Mendoza.
1.07      This report was prepared by Messrs. Alexander and Parmeggiani
(engineers), and Karcher and Roth (economists) on the basis of information
obtained during the course of supervision of the above Loan, Credit and
Grant, and of an appraisal mission in March 1968.



- 3 -
2. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Chile extends over a narrow coastal strip, about 4,250 km long,
from the border with Peru in the north to Cape Horn in the south. Its
greatest width is 330 km. The Andes mountain range forms the eastern
boundary with Bolivia and Argentina.
2.02      The Northern Region, famous for its rich nitrate fields and copper
mines, is an enormous expanse of desert land, except for a few irrigated
valleys which support agriculture. The mild Mediterranean-type climate and
soil conditions of Central Chile are ideal for a wide range of crops, The
Southern Region is well suited to agriculture and cattle raising. Farther
south, the Andes M4ountains are penetrated by numerous fjords; the area has
a rugged terrain, good only for sheep grazing.
2.03      Chile's population of about 9 million has been growing at a rate
of 2.3 percent p.a. It is largely concentrated in the Central Region,
which has almost 50 percent of the population within a 160 km radius of the
capital city of Santiago.
2.04      Agriculture employs about 27 percent of the working population,
but contributes only 10 percent to the gross domestic product (GDP).
Mining, manufacturing and construction, with about 26 percent of the labor
force, contribute 41 percent of the GDP. Trade and services account for
the rest. GD? in real terms has been increasing at an average of 5 percent
annually between 1960 and 1967. In 1967, the per-capita GDP was about $450.
B. The Transport Sector
General
2.05      Although most of Chile's economic activities, aside from nitrate
and copper mining, are concentrated in the Central and Southern Regions
extending from the Province of Aconcagua to that of Llanquihue (Puerto
Montt), Chile maintains a vast tansportation system involving large dis-
tances from the northern border with Peru to the southern most tip of the
continent. It follows that traffic densities outside the Central and
Southern Regions are generally very low, and, because of Chile's elongated
shape, the modes of transport are almost always in close competition with
each other. Thus, great care is required in planning investment and in
formulating regulatory policies to meet the transport needs at the lowest
possible cost and to avoid costly duplication.
Highways
2.06      The highway system, described more fully in Chapter 3, is fairly
extensive and adequate for current needs in terms of overall mileage. In
general the quality and design standards of the roads constructed prior to



1960 were poor. From 1960 to 1968 the total length (including trails) in-
creased by only three percent (from 56,800 Im to 58,600 km), but there was
marked improvement in quality and standards. About twuo-thirds of the system
is not adequately maintained which, combined with the other deficiencies
in the network, causes vehicle operating costs to be high.
2.07      Estimates of total ton-km moved by road transport are few but
divergent. For 1966, they range from about 3 billion ton-km for both urban
and intercity transport, the official figure used by the National Planning
Office, to about 4.2 billion ton-Im for intercity traffic alone, as estimated
by the Ministry of Public Works and Transport (i,l0PT). The corresponding
estimates of passenger-Im on the highways in 1966 vary from 4.2 billion to
6.9 billion.  The higher estimates were arrived at by kMPT after an exten-
sive traffic study over a one-year period in 1966/67, the first of its kind
in Chile, and are probably most representative.
Railways
2.08      The railway network consists of about 10,000 Ian of track, of wrhich
over 80 percent belongs to the Chilean State Railways (CSR). CSR's southern
network is broad gauge, wihile the northern network and the three auxiliary
networks (Arica-La Paz, Pueblo Hundido-Iquique, Transandino) are meter
gauge. Freight traffic has been increasing steadily since 1961 at an
average rate of 8,5 percent per annum. In 1966, the total freight traffic
amounted to 2.2 billion ton-Ion, of which the southern netwiork carried about
75 percent. The average length of haul is about 300 kn on the southern
network, as compared with only 60 kI on the northern network. Freight
traffic densities are generally light; in 1966, they averaged 337,000 tons
per route Im per annum0 Passenger traffic, although fluctuating from year
to year, has exhibited a slow growth over the past six years. In 1966, it
accounted for 31 percent of the revenues on the southern network, but only
7 percent on the northern network.
2.09      In general, freight rates and passenger fares have not kept pace
with the increase in costs, so that revenues have been insufficient to
cover even working expenditures, and CSR has had to rely on substantial
Government contributions to meet deficits and capital outlays. In 1965,
revenues fran traffic amounted to only 54 percent of working expenditures;
by 1967, the proportion had improved slightly to 63 percent. In both
years, the Government's contribution towards working expenditures repre-
sented about US$40 million equivalent. While the Government has been slow
in authorizing tariff increases by CSR, it is open to question whether a
considerable part of the traffic would not be diverted to road transport
and other modes, were CSR to charge rates and fares that would be in line
with present recurrent and capital costs, However, there is scope also for
reducing CSR's costs through improvements in operations and closing down
a number of uneconomic lines and services.



- 5 -
2.10      In 1965, at Government request, the Bank financed the services of
three railway management experts to advise the Government and CSR on measures
to improve operation and administration of the Railways. They presented
general recoinmendations and defined the scope of further detailed studies,
now being undertaken under a UINP Technical Assistance Grant of $911,000,
with the Bank as Executing Agency. The assistance prov.ided under the grant
calls for the preparation and the implementation of a plan of action for
improving the organization, finances and operations of CSR.
Pipelines
2.11      Pipeline transport began to play a tangible role in 1960, when the
105 km pipeline from the Concon refinery (near Valparaiso) to Maipu (near
Santiago) went into operation. By 1967, there was an additional 483 km of
pipeline from Maipu down the Central Valley to Chillan and Concepcion.
Petroleum products transported by pipeline more than trebled from 65 million
ton-km in 1960 to about 200 million ton-km in 1967. The Government plans
to extend the system by 350 km southward along the Central Valley at an
estimated cost of US$6 million equivalent. This will divert some tanker
traffic from the highways.
Coastal Shipping
2.12      In terms of ton-km of goods transported, coastal shipping is the
most important mode of transport in Chile, with over 8 billion ton-km of
freight traffic in 1966 as compared with 2.2 billion ton-km carried by the
Railways. Although the tonnage moved amounts to about half of that carried
by the Railways, the long shipping distances, which average 1,750 km,
explain the difference in terms of ton-km. Between 1960 and 1966, the
freight transported by nine companies, which together account for about 85
percent of the total tonnage moved by coastal shipping, increased by 9.3
percent per annum, from 2.7 million tons to 4.6 million tons. The share of
general cargo declined substantially from 26 percent to 12 percent, while
liquid bulk and mining ores increased from 53 percent to 73 percent. South
of Puerto Montt, where land communications are almost non-existent, coastal
shipping provides the only access to the cattle and sheep ranches of the
Magallanes and Tierra del Fuego.
Aviation
2.13      Airways play a minor but important role in providing fast, reliable
service throughout the country. The state-owned airline (LAN-Chile) carries
over 90 percent of the domestic air-passenger service and about 45 percent
of the air-freight transport. Between 1960 and 1966, the average annual
growth rate of air traffic was about 6.5 percent for passengers, and 18.5
percent for freight, although the volume, about 24 million ton-km in 1966
remains very low. The Government plans to further develop air transport
through acquisition of additional airplanes and improvement of airports,
and has employed consultants to assist in preparing an investment plan.



- 6-
C. Transport Coordination
2.14      Coastal shipping, road transport and railways provide the bulk
of transport services in Chile. Given the size and configuration of the
country, they are bound to compete for traffic, particularly on the longi-
tudinal route. Traffic volumes in Chile are still comparatively low, so
that costly duplication in transport infrastructure should be avoided when-
ever possible, and the total transport bill to the economy should be mini-
mized through pricing policies based on costs and coordinated investment
planning.
2.15      Up to December 1967, the two Government agencies most directly
responsible for the administration of the transport system were under two
separate ministries, namely, the Subsecretariat for Transport in the Min-
istry of the Economy, and the Directorate General of Public Works in the
Ministry of Public Works. In December 1967, the two agencies were merged
into one ministry, the Ministry of Public Works and Transport (MOPT). The
Subsecretariat for Transport is in charge of operational policies, such as
licensing and regulating coastal shipping and road passenger transport,
reviewing the budgets of the state-owned transport corporations (Port Authorityy,
Coastal Shipping Company, Railways), and submitting proposed tariffs for
ports, coastal shipping, railways, and bus passenger transport to the
Ministries of Finance and Economy for approval. The Director General of
Public Works is responsible for investments in highways, ports and airports.
A Transport Planning Committee, whose permanent members are the Minister of
Public Works, the Minister of Economy, the Undersecretary of Transport, the
Director General of Public lWorks, and the Director of the Naticnal Planning
Office, was established in October 1966 to coordinate the activities of the
various governmental agencies concerned with transport matters, but has made
little progress towards its objectives.
2.16      MOPT is aware of the need for better coordination and contemplates
setting up a sectorial planning office within the Ministry that would under-
take studies for future policy and investment decisions. MOPT has indicated
an interest in obtaining assistance from the Bank in initiating such studies.
Early expert advice is vital if such a sectorial planning office is to become
effective, and should be provided to MOPT by an experienced and independent
transport expert. His task would be to review the present Government organi-
zations dealing with transport administration and planning, and the policies,
criteria, and procedures currently used for coordination among the various
modes of transport. He would then make recommendations (i) for establishing
an effective organization to coordinate transport and (ii) for improving the
collection of pertinent economic and technical transport data. Finally he
would formulate terms of reference for a comprehensive survey of transport
policies and planning in Chile to be undertaken by consultants. The Govern-
ment has agreed to appoint a qualified transport expert for the task deseribed
above for a period of about 18 months, and provision is made in the proposed
loan to finance the foreign exchange cost of the expert. The expert would
report directly to the Minister of Public Works and Transport and have free
access to all offices within MOPT and other Government agencies concerned
with transportation and planning.



- 7 -
3. THE HIGHWAY SECTOR
A. The Highway Network
3.01      The highway network is built around the Longitudinal Highway,
which lies in the central valley and is the southern end of the Pan American
highway. The Longitudinal Highway is paved over its 3,200 km length and
connects the main inland urban centers. Short transversal roads from the
Longitudinal, some paved but most with gravel or earth surfaces, serve the
ports and the Andean valleys. In the last seven years the Government has
concentrated its efforts on realigning and paving the Longitudinal and on
improving and reconstructing major transversal roads in the south, under
Credit 4-CH. This program, now largely completed, has given the economically
productive South a reliable connection with the rest of the country. The
approximate composition of the national network in 1960 and 1968 is given
below.
National Road Network (km)
1960                         19685
Longitudinal Transversal     Longitudinal Transversal
Highway        Roads         Highway       Roads
Paved                  1,525         1,920          3,215        4,050
Gravel                 1,935        18,750            -         23,590
Earth                    -          28,100            -         23,190
-rails                               4,,600                      P,570
3,h60        53,370          3,215Y      55,4oo
56,830                        55,615
1/ Reduction in length due to realignment.
In addition, there are municipal (paved) and local (earth) roads constructed
and maintained by the local authorities. The most important highways are
indicated in the attached Maps; Table 1 gives a breakdown of the national
network in 1968 by region, type of road and surface.
3.02      The Longitudinal Highway, most roads constructed since 1960 and a
few constructed prior to 1960 were built to two-lane standards which are
suitable for near-future traffic. The remaining roads vary in width from
one to two lanes. Their riding surfaces require better maintenance and some
upgrading, and they contain numerous sections of poor alignment. The latter
deficiencies are most common for the transversal roads in mountainous
terrain. Maintenance will be improved under the proposed project and the
more serious deficiencies are scheduled for correction under Vialidad's
future construction programs.



- 8 -
B. Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic
3.03      Chile's motor vehicle fleet increased from 126,000 to 216,000
vehicles between 1960 and 1966, at an average rate of 9.4 percent annually
(see Table 2); light vehicles and buses increased by 11 percent on the
average every year, while the number of trucks increased at the considerably
slower annual rate of 4.6 percent - mainly because of import restrictions -
so that the proportion of trucks in the vehicle population decreased from
28.4 percent in 1960 to 21.8 percent in 1966. Buses now represent about
5 percent of the total fleet.
3.04      Over two-thirds of the passenger cars are registered in the adjoin-
ing provinces of Santiago and Valparaiso. Light and heavy trucks and buses
are more evenly distributed throughout the country, with about one-half
registered in Santiago and Valparaiso. In 1966, over half of the fleet was
more than six years old.
3.05      Passenger cars, vans and light trucks are now assembled in Chile;
in 1967 twelve assembly plants produced about 13,000 vehicles, a doubling
of the 1962 level of production. Plans for 1968 and 1969 call for the
assembly of 20,000 and 34,000 vehicles, respectively.  At least half of the
components are required to be of Latin American origin. Imports of fully
assembled passenger cars are prohibited. Imports of trucks are permitted
only in the case of trucks and chassis for use in mining, construction, and
lumber industries, as well as for transportation of liquid gas and refrigerated
goods.  To accelerate the development of the remote provinces of Tarapaca,
Atacama, Chiloe, and Magallanes trucks imported through the free ports of
these provinces are not subject to import duties. Otherwise, import duties
amount to 80 percent if the vehicle is imported through cooperatives, and
160 percent if not.
3.06      Between 1960 and 1966, gasoline consumption increased at an annual
rate of 8.2 percent, while the consumption of diesel fuel by road transport
increased at the somewhat higher rate of 9.5 percent p.a. (see Table 3).
This reflects a shift from gasoline to diesel engines in trucks and large
buses, as well as a trend toward smaller private cars.
3.07      Although no firm data on receipts from road user charges could be
obtained, Vialidad estimated that in 1967 taxes on the use and ownership of
vehicles (excluding import duties) amounted to about US$34 million; receipts
from tolls represented US$5.2 million. Thus, it appears that even without
taking into consideration import duties collected on vehicles and parts,
payment by the road users in 1967 far exceeded the maintenance expenditures
of about US$22 million, and covered a substantial part of road construction
costs, which amounted to about US$h5 million.
3.08      Intense competition apparently exists in the trucking industry,
especially from truckers who import their vehicles free of duty (see para 3.05)
and do not operate them in the province of import, as well, as from numerous
one-vehicle owners. A draft law controlling entry into the industry was
passed by the House of Representatives and will be presented to the Senate
later this year. The Subsecretariat for Transport is also considering a



licensing system that would restrict the use of trucks on long distances and
protect the railways from road competition. These proposals, which present
serious implications for the future, should be examined by the transport
adviser and studied under the proposed comprehensive survey of transport
policies and planning (para 2.16).
C. Highway Administration and Management
3.09      Responsibility for the design, construction and maintenance of the
national highway system is vested in Vialidad (see Chart), which is the
most important of the seven branches of MOPT, the Government's executive
agency for public works.
3.10      Vialidad personnel are in general competent, but the organization
is understaffed because of low salaries and competition from private industry.
The present management is conducting an active recruitment program to over-
come this deficiency; however, for the near future Vialidad will have to
continue to make use of consultants. The management has also started to
implement certain organizational reforms suggested by the consultants, IECO.
3.11      An important measure which has been largely responsible for accel-
erated improvements in Vialidad's management and administration in recent
years was the establishment of a Coordination Office in 1963. This office
was staffed with a handful of experienced and energetic engineers, who were
given the responsibility for the execution of externally financed highway
projects. The first head of the Office has since become Director of Vialidad,
and several engineers first assigned to the Office have now been placed in
key positions throughout Vialidad.
3.12      The regulations which prescribe limitations of size and registered
weight of vehicles, which allow 9 metric tons per single axle, are satis-
factory; however, regulations covering overweight vehicles, fines and safety
require improvement. Enforcement of existing vehicle weight and dimension
regulations is virtually non-existent due to the lack of sufficient weighing
scales and to the fact that the Chilean police force is not cooperating. fully.
Vialidad is keenly aware of this problem, and, with the assistance of IECO,
is considering ways to improve the situation, one of which is a draft law
giving Vialidad the responsibility for organizing the enforcement of vehicle
regulations by the highway police and for establishing the level of fines
to be charged for violations. The responsibility for the latter now lies
with the Congress and the current levels are far too low to be effective and
cannot be changed without a new law. Vialidad has also developed a satis-
factory plan for the placement of fixed and portable weighing scales at
strategic points throughout the country; about six portable scales were
recently purchased and provision has been made in the proposed loan to com-
plete the procurement of all necessary scales. Vialidad expects that full
enforcement can be achieved in a period of about four years. The Bank will
be kept informed of the status of the measures now under consideration and
any additional measures that may be proposed to achieve the goal of full
enforcement in four years.



- 10 -
D. Highway Planning, Design and Construction
3.13      Planning of roads is the responsibility of the Planning and Traffic
Section, under the Highway Design Department of Vialidad.   In the past,
planning was haphazard and incomplete. This situation has improved consi-
derably over recent years, due to the advice provided by the consultants
under the various Bank/IDA financed projects, combined with increases in
budgetary allocations for planning. The 6,000 Ian highway planning study
under the Bank Technical Assistance Grant determined the relative economic
importance of some 200 road sections and provided a useful long-range tool
to select priority roads for pre-investment study; some of these are to be
studied under the proposed project (para 4.09).  This Section completed the
first comprehensive country-wide traffic survey in 1967, and has established
a satisfactory plan for collecting traffic data; however, it needs more
office and traffic counting equipment, which it will use initially in connec-
tion with the feasibility and detailed engineering studies that are included
in the project (see para 4.10).  This equipment will be financed under the
loan.  This Section will maintain a suitably staffed and eqLipped office to
collect and analyze traffic and cost data for the purpose of planning road
investments.
3.14      The Highway Design Department does the engineering of roads and
the Bridge Department is responsible for the engineering of bridges. In
the past, road and bridge contracts were let without complete detailed
engineering, with the result that construction costs frequently far exceeded
budget estimates. The completeness and quality of engineering has improved
consid6rably due to the advice given by foreign and, more recently, local
consultants, However, the Design Department needs additional surveying,
office and soil testing equipment to perform its tasks more effectively.
This equipment, which would be initially used for the feasibility and
detailed engineering studies (see para 4.10), will be procured under the
loan.
3.15      The Construction and Bridge Departments of Vialidad are respon-
sible for supervising road and bridge construction respectively. All works
are done by contractors under unit price contracts awarded after competitive
bidding; in the case of externally financed projects, competitive bidding
is on an international basis. In the past, the Chilean construction industry
was capable of undertaking only small specialized types of work, but it has
grown with the construction of the Longitudinal Highlway and the Credit 4-CH
road project. There are now about six major contracting firms, each able
to handle works of the order of $3-5 million per year. The Credit 4-CH
project also attracted a few large international firms which are now opera-
ting in Chile on a permanent basis. The Construction Department, assisted
by IECO, has established a network of testing laboratories throughout the
country which have improved Vialidad's ability to control the quality of
works performed and to obtain data for design purposes. In addition, the
emphasis now given by Vialidad to complete engineering of projects before
tendering has relieved the Construction Department of the necessity for
frequent correction of engineering deficiencies during construction.



E. Highway Maintenance
3.16      Vialidad carries out highway maintenance throughout the country
almost exclusively by its own forces, controlled directly from headquarters
in Santiago, Prior to the improvements resulting from the first highway
maintenance project, coordination and control facilities of the Maintenance
Department were ineffectual. The field offices in the 25 provinces were
largely independent and carried out their operations in a random fashion.
Cost accounting was grossly inadequate, workshop and repair facilities were
in urgent need of improvement and expansion, and maintenance equipment was
seriously lacking.  Under the first maintenance project, Vialidad, assisted
by IECO, prepared a five-year master maintenance plan in 196h, which was
partially implemented using equipment provided under Loan 287-CI; however,
this equipment was insufficient to meet total needs. The 1964 plan, which
the Bank found acceptable, established the requirements for equipment,
personnel, shops and funds, and indicated suitable standards of maintenance
for earth, gravel and paved roads under varying traffic volumes and climatic
conditions, the output of equipment under average conditions, the need for
trained equipment operators and mechanics, and the number and location of
workshop and repair facilities to maximize equipment utilization.
3.17      Vialidad concluded that it would be too ambitious an undertaking
to implement the entire plan without first establishing a sound organiza-
tion, training key personnel, and trying out the plan on a smaller scale
so that proven results could be applied throughout the country. As a first
step, pilot maintenance programs were set up in four provinces during the
period 1965/66 and a large part of the equipment purchased under Loan 287-CH
was allocated to them. However, progress was delayed due to the severe
floods and the earthquake which occurred during the same period; a large
part of the maintenance effort, by necessity, was diverted to effect emer-
gency repairs to damaged roads. Despite these difficulties and the lack of
equipment to meet all maintenance requirements, significant improvements
were made in organization and operations under the first highway maintenance
project. Since the first year of the five-year master maintenance plan
was completed only in mid-1967, Vialidad and the consultants updated the
plan using the experience gained from the four pilot provinces and prepared
a new four-year maintenance program (1968-71).
3.18      Three zonal offices have been set up in the Northern, Central
and Southern Regions to coordinate groups of provinces with general direc-
tion given from Santiago. The Office of Statistics, Coordination and
Control, recently established within the M4aintenance Department to follow
maintenance in the pilot provinces, has worked effectively and is gradually
introducing testedorgaiizational improvements in the other provinces; a
major remaining task is to improve the present method of recording mainte-
nance expenditure, which is not yet suitable for maintenance budget planning
or for construction programming. Regular training courses for mechanics
and equipment operators have been organized by Vialidad during the last
three years and have eliminated the earlier shortages of such personnel.



- 12 -
A program for constructing and improving workshops for all areas is well
underway (see Maps for location) and these shops can now handle the mainte-
nance of and most repairs to present equipment holdings. All these measures,
taken under the first maintenance project, have been largely effective in
standardizing maintenance methods, in rationalizing operations and in pre-
venting the deterioration of the roads in the four pilot provinces. The
level of maintenance in the other 21 provinces has also improved but is
still unsatisfactory due principally to the lack of equipment.
F. Highway Finance
3.19      All highway expenditures are financed out of annual budget appro-
priations and revenues collected on toll roads. From 1962 through 1966,
the investment in highway construction (Table 4) increased every year in
real terms and reached a figure of about US$60 million in 1966. In 1967,
it decreased by about 25 percent to US$45 million as a consequence of the
Government's decision to restrict expenditures on highway construction and
to increase those in the industrial sector and for health, education,
housing and comrnunity programs. The slowing of construction investment
was also influenced by the Government's wish to complete feasibility and
detailed engineering studies before embarking on large scale highway pro-
grams. Vialidad is presently completing only past construction commitments
which comprise the road program initiated under Credit 4-CH, the improve-
ment of the IDB financed road from Valparaiso to the Argentine border,
a major tunnel (Lo Prado) midway between Santiago and Valparaiso, and a
continuing paving program (started in 1967) to upgrade selected gravel roads
with an asphalt surface treatment. This latter program wa! a consequence of
IDik's recommendation undeif Credit 4-CH, that roads vith lo0 traffic volumes
should not be paved -ith corncrete (the common practice) but with a low-cost
asphalt treatment,
3.20      Shortages in funds have often delayed payments to contractors.
This has been due largely to construction expenditures having exceeded
budgetary allocations because of poorly engineered projects (para 3.14) which
required costly revisions during their execution.
3.21      The Government has recognized the importance of highway maintenance
and has been increasing allocations for it since 1963 (Table 4). In 1963,
maintenance expenditures were about US$13 million, and in 1967 about US$22
million. The 1968 budget allocation for maintenance is about US$32 million,
an increase of nearly 50 percent over 1967, and sufficient to cover the
estimated first-year cost of implementing the four-year maintenance program.
Although accurate data are not available, the average annual maintenance
expenditure per kilometer of road including allowance for the use of equip-
ment was estimated to be about US$280 equivalent in 1963, about US$450 in
1967, and is projected to average around US$650 during the four-year mainte-
nance program, which is more in keeping with the needs.



- 13 -
3.22      Vialidad's annual budget is included in that of MOPT. Although
the Ministry of Finance provides the funds to cover I4OPT's budget, Vialidad
on occasion receives somewhat less than its designated share due to internal
transfers to other MOPT activities. This situation, when it occurs, makes
it difficult for Vialidad to complete its programs on schedule. The Govern-
ment has agreed to provide sufficient funds for the execution of the project,
as indicated in para 4.22.



4. THE PROJECT
A. Description
4.01      The project consists of:
(i) a four-year highway maintenance program to be implemented
with the assistance of consultants and providing for the
continued improvement of maintenance operations, the pur-
chase of additional maintenance, shop and other equipment,
the extension and improvement of workshops and the training
of personnel; and
(ii) additional consulting and expert services (a) to continue
the supervision of construction works initiated under
Credit 4-CH; (b) to prepare a new highway construction
program, the services to comprise the carrying out or
updating of feasibility studies of thirteen roads (about
610 kmn) and the review and completion of detailed engi-
neering and bidding documents for those roads which are
justified for construction starting in 1969-1970; and
(c) to advise on transport coordination and investment
planning.
(1) Four-Year Maintenance Program
4.02      Vialidad maintains about 54h,000 km of road, excluding trails
(Table 1). About one-third of this total is now adequately maintained.
The condition of the remainder is poor owing to the lack of sufficient
maintenance equipment.
4.03      The four-year maintenance program prepared by Vialidad and the
consultants for the period 1968-71 has updated the requirements to complete
the implementation of the master plan (para 3.17). The equipment, facili-
ties and consulting services to be provided under the project would conti-
nue the improvement of maintenance operations by allowing Vialidad to
extend the good results obtained in the four pilot provinces to the remain-
ing 21 provinces (para 3.18). The wearing surfaces of most roads would be
reinstated, thus enabling routine maintenance to be carried out, Roads
which are now impassable for long periods in the rainy season would be kept
open; deferred maintenance would be reduced, and reconstruction of roads
would be postponed by preventive maintenance.
(a)  Maintenance Equipment and Personnel Needs
4.04      The updated list of major maintenance equipment (Table 5) realis-
tically reflects the requirements. About 60 percent of the present equipment
fleet was purchased with Loan 287-CH and the German loan (para 1.06); the
remainder is 10 to 18 years old. The replacement value of present holdings



- 15 -
is estimated at about $10 million; one-third represents obsolete equipment
to be replaced during the execution of the program under Vialidad's own
capital budget. The additional equipment to be financed by the loan would
bring the value of the fleet to about $19 million, which in relation to
the 54,000 km road network is appropriate. Based on the experience of the
pilot program and the utilization of the equipment procured under Loan
287-CH, Vialidad has established seven years as the average economic life
for new equipment.
4.05      The project includes the purchase of a small stock of spare parts,
mainly motors for reconditioning some old equipment still in ot'herwise
good condition. Vialidad will purchase additional spare parts from local
suppliers as required; these purchases would also be financed under its
own capital budget. Suppliers are required to maintain an adequate stock
of spare parts as a condition of award of equipment purchase contracts;
this arrangement is presently being used with success. The project also
includes the procurement of machinery for the expanded workshop facilities
(para 3.18) and miscellaneous equipment for controlling maintenance opera-
tions such as vehicles, conmunications equipment, central and field office
equipment, and weighing scales (para 3.12).
4.o6      Vialidad's annual personnel requirements for the four-year program
are shown in Table 6. Although total annual expenditures for personnel
will remain relatively constant (US$10 million), the number of engineers,
technicians and administrative staff will increase by about 20 percent,
that of skilled workers will remain unchanged, and the number of unskilled
workers will decrease by about 10 percent. The programmed increase in
supervising staff is essential to effect the improvements envisaged under
the program.
(b) Consulting Services
4.07      Vialidad is satisfied with the services provided by IECO under
the first maintenance project and proposes to expand and extend them
through a contract amendment. The existing contract expires on June 30,
1969 and the amendment, which was approved by the Bank during negotiations
provides for services for the four-year maintenance program from June 30,
1968 to mid-1971. Provision is made in the second project for a consultants'
team comprising of about five experts for varying periods to cover cost
accounting, management, organization, planning, equipment and workshop
operations, etc. In addition, the consultants would train selected Vialidad
personnel. Vialidad intends to train abroad key maintenance personnel
according to a program to be worked out with the consultants, and to
contract with this personnel for a minimum service period of two to three
years, Adequate provision is made in the project for the training program.



- 16 -
(2) Additional Consulting and Expert Services
(a) Continuation of Credit 4-CH Supervision
h.08      Construction of the remaining 850 Ian of roads that were started
under Credit 4-CH will be completed during the 1969-70 construction season
(para 1.04). Vialidad wishes to extend the services of IEC0, the supervi-
sory consultants, until these roads are completed; the financing of consul-
ting services is provided under Credit 4-CH until December 31, 1968, the
Closing Date of the Credit, or until the proposed loan becomes effective,
whichever date is earlier. IECO is helping Vialidad control construction,
expand the network of field testing laboratories, train supervisory staff
in quality control techniques, implement the asphalt paving program (para
3.19), and review payment claims and contract revisions, etc. The continua-
tion of these services is considered necessary to further strengthen
Vialidad's technical capacity and to ensure that the remaining construction
will be carried out to uniform high standards. IECO would provide about
six experts for varying periods, experienced in soils, materials, construc-
tion, and cost accounting.
(b)  Feasibility Studies and Detailed Engineering
4.09      The Government wishes to undertake a construction program begin-
ning early in 1969, for which it intends to request Bank financing, and
has proposed that consulting services to help prepare the program be in-
cluded in the project. The program would comprise up to thirteen roads
(610 km) which appear to have the highest priority (see Table 7 and Maps).
The total construction cost of all thirteen roads has been estimated by
Vialidad at roughly US$40 million equivalent, of which the foreign exchange
component may be about 50 percent. Nine of the roads (476 km) were identi-
fied under the 1966 Bank Technical Assistance Grant, and the remaining four
(134 km) were subsequently identified by the Government. In 1967 Vialidad
assisted by local consultants undertook engineering studies for some of
these roads, By November 1967 the Government decided to accelerate the
preparation of the proposed construction program, and with the Bank's
approval engaged the services of a German consulting firm (Dorsch).
4.10      Under its contract, Dorsch is: (i) to undertake, update or complete,
as necessary, the preliminary engineering and economic studies for all
thirteen roads, and select those that would be justified for construction
starting in 1969-1970; and (ii) subsequently, for the roads selected in (i),
to review the engineering studies already completed, establish adequate and
uniform standards for detailed engineering and tender documents to be
completed by Vialidad and local consultants, and coordinate the work of the
local consultants.
4.11      Dorsch's work is progressing satisfactorily; however, there are
prospects that the detailed engineering of sane roads will be completed
only after the December 1968 expiration date of the contract. In addition,



- 17 -
it cannot be ruled out that the quality of work performed by the local
consultants may not be adequate, and that delays i all be encountered in
completing the detailed engineering. FolloiLng the Bank's recommendatiorb
the Government agreed to amend the Dorsch contract to enable the firm to
follow the engineering work through to completion and, if necessary, to
complete the detailed engineering in order to meet the Government's time-
table for preparing a suitable construction project. Provision for Dorsch's
services (including the possible extension of time and additional detailed
engineering work) is made in the project. The equipment required by the
Design Department of Vialidad for its engineering work (paras 3.13 and
3.14) will be procured under the loan.
(c) Transport Expert
4.12.     As indicated in para 2.16, MOPT wfill engage a qualified transport
expert for about 18 months to provide advice and recommendations on establish-
ing an effective sectorial planning office and on improving transport
policies and planning. The expert will also define the scope of a much
needed transport survey, with particular emphasis on those areas where
additional detailed studies are required, including the preparation of a
five-year investment plan for the transport sector. The Bank will assist
IOPT in selecting a highly qualified expert and in drawing up terms of
reference for his services.
B.  Cost Estimates and Financing
(1) Four-Year I-Iaintenance Progr
4.13      Estimates are given in Table 8 for the capital and the recurrent
expenditures over the four-year period of the maintenance program, 1968-
1971; these estimates are summarized below. The Bank would finance the
foreign exchange costs of new equipment, workshops, consulting services,
and training abroad of local staff; the Government would finance the
local costs of these items, the foreign exchange cost of the replacement
of obsolete equipment as well as all recurrent costs.



- 18 -
Four-Year Maintenance Program-Cost Estimates
(millions)
Bank        GoveriLment
Financing     Contribution       Total
Foreign Escudos
US$ Equiv. US$ Equiv.          US$ Equiv.
1. Capital Expenditures
New equipment and spare parts    8.60        -       -       8.60
Replacing obsolete equipment
and spare parts                 -        3.10     -        3,10
Workshop facilities              0.10        -     12.8       2.66
Equipment to control operations  0.10        -      -        0.10
Consultants and local staff
training                     0.30        -      1.7      o.64
Contingencies                    1.10      0.50     1.5      1.90
Subtotal                  10.20       3.60   16.0     17.00
2. Recurrent Expenditures-/
Operating expenditures (Fuels,
lubricants, repairs)                     -    153.6     30.72
Personnel                                    -    213.2     42.64
Supply and haulage of materials              -    213.2     42.64
Community maintenance programs               -     33.5      6.70
General overheads                            -     39.5      7.90
Subtotal                               -    653.0    130.60
(a) Capital Expenditures
4.14      The equipment costs (Tables 5 and 8) are based on average C.I.F.
quotations obtained in March 1968 and conform with the prices paid for
similar equipment purchased under Loan 287-CH, The estimated annual cost
for the replacement of obsolete equipment and spare parts is shown in Table
8. The costs for consulting services have been based both on the experience
gained from Credit 4-CH and on the types of qualified personnel required
to assist in such fields as management, cost accounting, etc. The foreign
exchange component of cost for these services (as well as for the additional
consulting services mentioned in paras 4.18 and 4.19 below) comprises
salaries of foreign personnel, international travel, home office overheads,
profit, and minor miscellaneous items. The foreign exchange costs for
training six to eight Chilean personnel abroad is estimated at US$50,000
1/ The foreign exchange component included in the recurrent expenditures
has not been estimated separately.



- 19 -
equivalent and would cover international travel, overseas living allowances
and schooling. Provision has been made for a 2½ percent contingency
allowance per year for price escalation on all equipment purchases, and
a global 10 percent contingency allowance on all items for needs that might
arise during the execution of the project, such as additional equipment to
cope with unforeseen growth of traffic, possible extension of consulting
services, etc. The cost estimates are considered realistic and appropriate.
(b) Recurrent Expenditures
4.15      No reliable records were kept on recurrent highway costs until
improved maintenance was introduced in the four pilot provinces under
Loan 287-CH. The annual estimates of recurrent costs for the four-year
maintenance program were based on cost information obtained from one pilot
province over a one-year period and from the other three for a period of
less than one year; these datawere applied to the remaining twenty-one
provinces. Although necessarily approximate, these estimates are considered
to be conservative and representative of conditions to be found in the
country; some adjustments may be required as inproved maintenance and cost
accounting systems are extended to all provinces.
4.16      In line with the emphasis recently put by the Government on
community programs (para 3.20), the four-year program includes the cost of
continuing a social experiment aimed at improving local earth roads by
communal effort. Upon request from various small communities, Vialidad
provides a few pieces of equipment and technical assistance for the initial
maintenance of "pioneer" type earth roads that are of importance to the
community. The community contributes materials and voluntary manual labor.
This work is done mainly during holidays and weekends and does not inter-
fere with Vialidad's normal maintenance operations.
4.17      The average annual recurrent expenditure for the four-year mainte-
nance program (1968-1971) would be about E° 163 million (US$32.6 million)
and would be met from annual appropriations in the General Budget. The
estimated expenditure for 1968, the first year of the program, is about
E° 152 million (US$30.4 million), which wolId be more than fully covered
by the EO 162 million (US$32.4 million) allocated for maintenance in the
approved 1968 budget. This allocation was made on the Government's expecta-
tion that the loan would be made in early 1968.
(2) Additional Consulting Services
(a) Continuation of Credit 4-CH Supervision
4.18      The estimated costs for these services are based on those for the
same services under Credit 4-CH; these are given in Table 8 and summarized
below. The Bank would finance the foreign exchange component of these costs.
A contingency allowance of 10 percent is provided for additional services
that may be req .ired during the execution of the project.



_ 20 -
(T h o u s a n d s)
Bank       Government
Financing    Contribution       Total
US$ Equiv.      Escudos       I1S3 Equiv.
Continuation of Credit             200            600            320
4-CH Supervision
Contingencies                       20             50             30
TOTAL           220            650           350
(b) Feasibility Studies and Detailed Engineering
h.19      The estimated local and foreign exchange costs of Dorsch's services
in connection with the studies for the new construction program are based
on actual contract prices. The consultants have estimated the additional
costs of extending their services to review and/or complete detailed engi-
neering after December 1968, when their present contract lapses (para 4.11).
The cost of the extended services, which assume that about 50 percent of
the detailed engineering would have to be completed by Dorsch, is considered
to be reasonable and is included in the project to ensure the timely
preparation of the Government's proposed construction program, Costs are
given in Table 8 and summarized below, along with the costs of field and
office equipment required by the Highway Design Department of Vialidad
(para 3.13 and 3.14).
(T h o u s a n d s)
Bank       Government
Financing    Contribution      Total
US$ Equiv.     Escudos        US$ Equiv.
Feasibility studies and             410         2,250             860
review of detailed
engineering
Extension of services to           490          2,750           1,040
review and/or complete
detailed engineering
Miscellaneous equipment            100            -               100
for Highway Design
Department
Contingencies                      125           575              2h0
TOTAL        1,125         5,575           2,2h0



- 21 -
(c) Transport ixpert
4,20      The estimated local and foreign exchange costs of the transport
expert's services (para 2.16) are given below and in Table 8, and are
considered to be appropriate.
(T h o u s a n d s)
Bank       Government
Financing    Contribution        Total
JUS$ 7quiv.     Escudos         IrJ$ Equiv*
Transport Expert                  50              250             100
Contingencies                      5               25              10
TOTAL          55              275             110
(3)  Cost Summary
4.21      A summary of the project cost estimates, indicating the Bank's
participation and the Government's contribution, is as follows:
(14 i 1 1 i o n s)
Bank         Government
Financing     Contribution      Total
Foreign  Escudos
TJS$ Equiv.  UST Equiv.        US$ Equiv.
(a) Capital expenditures
of the project
Four-year maintenance          9.10      3.10     1L.50       15.10
program
Additional consulting and      1.25       -        5.85        2.I2
expert services
Contingencies                  1.25      0.50      2.15        2.18
TOTAL (a)      11.60      3.60     22,50       19e70
(b)  Recurrent charges of            -         -      653.00      130.60
the project _L/
17 The foreign exchange component included in the recurrent expenditures
has not been estimated separately.



- 22 -
4.22      The Government has confirmed that it will meet the local cost of
the capital expenditures, the foreign exchange cost of replacing obsolete
equipment and spare parts, and all of the recurrent expenditures under the
four-year maintenance program. In view of the probable need to adjust the
recurrent cost estimates from year to year in line with actual experience
and rising cost levels in Chile (para 4.15) and of the financial strain to
which Vialidad is sometimes subjected due to internal transfers of iYOPT
allocations (para 3.22), the Government has also agreed that, prior to
finalizing its budget for 1969 and based on the experience gained during
the execution of the program, the draft maintenance budget for 1969 (and
subsequently for the years 1970 and 1971) will be submitted to the Bank
for review, supported by the consultants' recommendations and by Vialidad's
detailed estimates itemized as in Table 8.
(4) Disbursements
4.23      On the assumption that the loan would become effective in November
1968, Bank disbursements are estimated as followJs:
1968    1969    1970    1971    Total
Forecast loan disbursement         0.6      10.6     0.3    0.1     11.6
(US$ millions)
The 1968 disbursement includes retroactive financing of the foreign exchange
costs incurred for the services of Dorsch from November, 1967; such retro-
active financing is estimated to total about US$380,000 equivalent. Any
surpluses in the loan account upon completion of the project would be
canceled.
C. Execution
4.24      Responsibility for the execution of the project would rest with
Vialidad assisted by the consultants IECO and Dorsch. In addition, assis-
tance on transport coordination and investment planning and on defining
the scope of a future comprehensive survey of transport would be provided
by a transport expert to be engaged by the Government. An appropriate
period for procurement of the project items mentioned below would be about
three and one-half years, including about six months for final disburse-
ment applications to the Bank.
4.25      Road maintenance and most miscellaneous equipment (Table 5) would
be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance
with the Bank/IDA Guidelines through separate contracts for each type or
each group of similar types of equipment. Many orders would be well over
US$100,000 in size, and several between US$500,000 and US$2 million. It
would not be appropriate to request such international competitive bidding
for the purchase of all the workshop and miscellaneous equipment because
of the many low-cost individual items (mainly under us$5,ooo) and the



- 23 -
maximum gross amounts involved (US$100,000 for workshops and U.S-100,000
for control of maintenance operations). 'When the cost of an item is not
more than E° 50,000 (US$,10,000 equivalent), Vialidad is authorized to
purchase on the basis of the lowest of a limited number of quotations; this
would be an appropriate procedure and ceiling figure for the purchase of
individual items of miscellaneous equipment or group of similar items of
equipment ih a single contract.
4.26      The general conditions for bidding and the technical specifica-
tions for most of the equipment have been prepared wit.h the help of the
consultants (IECO), and are similar to those employed for Loan 287-CH.
The technical specifications for most of the workshop and the miscellaneous
field and office equipment to be purchased are available, and the remainder
will be prepared with the assistance of the consultants. About half of the
equipment is scheduled for delivery early in 1969, the bulk of the remainder
by mid-1969, and a small amount (about US$300,000) in 1970-1971.



-- 24 -
5. EC0NM4IC JUSTIFICATICN
A. Four-Year Highway M4aintenance Program
Objectives
5.01      The objectives of the proposed maintenance program are to reduce
the total cost of road transport in Chile. This is important because of
the dominance of road transport in the total transport system. In terms
of passenger-km it ranks first by an important margin over railways. In
terms of freight ton-km, it ranks second after coastal shipping, although
close to the combined public and private railways.
5.02      The total expenditures on highway maintenance will increase
under the program; however, the savings expected are sufficient to reduce
the total cost of road transport. The main benefits will accrue to the
road users in the form of reductions in vehicle operating costs and, to
the Government, in savings on reconstruction expenditures. These benefits
would be reaped ultimately by the public as consumers of transport services
through lower tariffs and improved services, and, as taxpayers, through
either lower taxes or increased Government services.
Assumptions
5.03      In the absence of reliable data on traffic growth over individual
highway sections, Vialidad assumed a uniform growth of traffic of 5 percent
per annum over the seven-year period starting in 1968. This may be accepted
as conservative in view of the overall growth rate of the vehicle fleet,
which averaged 9.4 percent between 1960 and 1966, and of the yearly increase
in gasoline and diesel oil consumption by motor transport (estimated at 8.2
percent and 9.5 percent, respectively).  In line with this traffic forecast,
Vialidad further assumed that earth roads with traffic volumes of over 70
vehicles per day would be upgraded to gravel roads, and gravel roads would
be given a bituminous surface treatment as traffic volumes exceeded 200
vehicles per day; these assumptions are reasonable. The road network, whose
total length would remain constant, would improve as follows between 1968
and 1974 (see Table 9 also).
Highway Network
Type of Road                            Length in Km
1966        1974
Paved                              7,260      12,160
Gravel                            23,590       21,200
Earth                             23,200       20,690
TOTAL        54.°5o       54,050
5.04      As part of the proposed maintenance program, recurrent maintenance
expenditures will rise by 40 percent in the first year from a level of about



- 25 -
US$21.8 million in 1967 to about US$30.4 million in 1968; then gradually
increase to US$37.6 million by 1974 in order to keep pace with growing
traffic. The estimated average recurrent cost of maintenance by type of
road is shawn below; since Vialidad's cost accounting procedures are still
in a rudimentary stage (para 4.15), these averages are subject to variation,
although the total recurrent costs are found to be reasonable.
Estimated Average Recurrent Cost of Maintenance
(in US$ per km per year)
1967     1968     1971     1974
Paved Roads             800    1,000    1,065    1,100
Gravel Roads            550      785      865      900
Earth Roads             155      200      235      250
The incremental recurrent maintenance expenditures under the proposed
program are given by the difference between the estimated costs for each
year of the program and the 1967 actual costs which would represent the
likely level of yearly expenditures if the program were not implemented.
5.05      The breakdown of capital outlays totaling US$15 million equiva-
lent between 1968 and 1971 appears in Table 8. Additional capital expendi-
tures estimated at US$6.7 million would be required during the three
following years, mainly for spare parts and replacement of obsolete equip-
ment. In Table 9, yearly capital outlays are broken down by type of road
according to Vialidad's estimates. A salvage value is computed on the
basis of a useful life of the equipment of seven years and a straight-line
depreciation method.
5.o6      Reductions in vehicle operating costs from the improved level of
maintenance were conservatively estimated on the basis of information
compiled by IECO in the Highway Planning Study financed by the Bank's
Technical Assistance Grant, and on information relating to similar projects
financed by the Bank.
Savings in Vehicle Operating Costs
(in US cents per vehicle-km)
Trucks and Buses     Light Vehicles
Paved Roads                    0.5                0.12
Gravel Roads                   2.0                1.0
Earth Roads                    1.5                0.8
These estimates of savings in vehicle operating costs are generally low in
absolute levels as well as in relation to the total vehicle operating
costs, reflecting the partial improvement of the highway network under the
first highway maintenance project. They amount to about 10 percent savings
on vehicle operating costs (net of taxes) for vehicles operating on earth
roads, about 15 percent on gravel roads, and less than 5 percent on paved



- 26 -
roads. They represent the minimum benefits expected from the new project.
Important savings in reconstruction expenditures will also be realized, but
have not been quantified.
Results
5.07      A summary of the yearly capital outlays, the incremental recurrent
expenditures, as against the savings in vehicle operating costs resulting
from the improved level of maintenance is given in Table 9. In order to
evaluate the economic attractiveness of the maintenance program, the present
value of the savings is compared to the present value of the cuobined capital
outlays and recurrent expenditures, using a discounting rate of 12 percent.
The benefit/cost ratios thus obtained are:
Benefit/Cost Ratios on Improved Maintenance Program
(196d-1974)
Paved Roads             1.42
Gravel Roads            1.12
Earth Roads             1.45
5.08      These results indicate that, on the basis of conservatively esti-
mated savings in vehicle operating costs alone, the benefits of the program
exceed the costs by 12 percent to 45 percent, when discounted at a relatively
high rate, thus amply justifying the improvement in maintenance.
5.09      In addition, it should be noted that the project would not only
reduce present vehicle operating costs, but also prevent them from increasing
in the future, as Vialidad could not cope with maintenance requirements
resulting from the growth in traffic without the additional equipment
financed under the loan. These benefits and the savings in reconstruction
costs, although very real, have not been quantified, but further contribute
to making the project economically justified.
B. Feasibility Studies and Detailed Engineering
5.10      The thirteen roads to be studied for feasibility and detailed
engineering were selected largely from roads identified under the Bank
Technical Assistance Grant, and make up a new road construction program for
which Bank financing may be requested in 1969. These roads are related to
important developments in agriculture, forestry and mining as detailed in
Table 7. The consultants' preliminary estimates indicate that the construc-
tion of these roads could yield returns ranging from 10 percent to over 30
percent. These are sufficient to warrant further investigation of the roads.



- 27 -
6.  CONCLUSIONS AiD RECamENDATIoNS
6.01      The four-year road maintenance programii, which is the further
development of assistance provided earlier by the Bank and IDA in the highway
sector, will greatly improve road transport in Chile. The program is soundly
conceived, both technically and administratively. In relation to the addi-
tional costs involved, it would yield substantial benefits through lower
vehicle operating costs, and would lessen the capital outlays which would be
needed to reconstruct the system if the program were not carried out.
6.02      In addition the project provides for the continuation of ccnsulting
services to supervise the construction of roads initiated under Credit 4-CH
until their completion in 1969-1970. These services would ensure that the
works are executed to acceptable and uniform standards. The project also
provides for other consultants to make studies of a new road construction
program, developed largely from Bank-financed highway studies, for which the
Government intends to seek Bank financing, and for the services of a quali-
fied transport expert to advise PiOPT on organizational and technical improve-
ments in transport coordination and planning.
6.03      The cost estimates for the project and the four-year maintenance
program are realistic and are based on recent experience with similar works
and consulting services in Chile.
6.04      In view of Chile's balance of payments prospects and external debt
situation, a suitable term for a proposed loan of US$ 1v.6 million would be
20 years including a 5-year grace period, although on the basis of the econo-
mic life of the maintenance equipment to be procured under the program, a
shorter term would be warranted.
August 21, 1968



TABLE 1
C H I L E
SECOND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
National Highway Network as at January 1968 1/
(Length in Kilometers by Type of Road and Surface)
R e gi o n
North 2/     Central 3/      South4// Austra3i/     Totals
Longitudinal Highway
Paved, concrete         68           429               698                 1,195
Paved, asphalt      1,810            209                 -                 2,019
Totals               1,878           638               698                 3,21b
Transversal Roads
Paved, concrete        112         1,0h6                307                1,465
Paved, asphalt       1,275           636               675                 2,586
Gravel               2,470         8,41o            12,710                23,59o
Earth                6,500         6,910             9,780                23,190
Trails                 560         2,170             1,840                 h,570
Totals             10,917         19,172            25,312                55,40l
Grand Totals       12,795         19,810            26,010                58,615
1/ The total 2ength of the network should be adequate for the next seven years;
howiever to satisfy traffic requirements during this period, about 2,700 km of
earth roads will be improved to gravel road standards, and about L,900 Ian of
gravel roads will be upgraded with bituminous surface treatment.    Some of these
improvements were contracted locally in 1967, and the balance is to be included
in Vialida.' s future construction program.
2/ Provinces between and including Tarapaca and Coquimbo.
3/     'l1 "             "          Aconcagua and Nuble.
7!/     I f                         Concepcion and Llanquihue.
7/     t'        "     "      "     Chiloe and Magellanes.
Source: Vialidad



TABIE 2
CHILE
SECOND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJICJJT
Motor Vehicle Fleet, 1960-1966
Cars and          Vans and              Trucks and
Year       Station Wagons    Small Trucks    Buses    Trailers     Total
1960          57,578            27,094       5,515     36,144      126,331
1961          58,824            29,577       6,679     h0,o80      135,160
1962          72,570            43,o95       8,7h2     43,569     167,976
1963          83,h54            43,246       9,149     44,205     180,054
1964          89,090            44,113       9,310     45,506     188,019
1965          98,5O0            47,427      10,707     46,100      202,734
1966         108,137            5o,719      10,316     47,4371/    216,609
g   The capacity of the various trucks and trailers was distributed
as follows:
Capacity, Tons          %           Number
1.0 - 4.9            20           9,490    r9
5-o - 7.4            43          20,400 ? 17
7.5 - 9.9            21           9,960    o
10.0 - Over           16           7,587   I0
s00         147,h37
Source: Vialidad



TABLE 3
CH ILF,
SECOND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Motor Fuel Consumption
(thousand cubic meters)
Year                       Gasoline                   DieselI/
81 Octane  93 Octane   Total
1958               598                   5 598     Not available
1959               624        -          624       Not available
1960               670        40         710             265
1961               744        63         807             293
1962               797        91         838             341
1963               312       107         919             363
1964               855       124         979             382
1965               892       145       1,037             419
1966               954       187       1,141             458
1/ Amount used for motor vehicles was estimated by Vialidad
from gross consumption.
Source: Vialidad



TABLE 4
CHILE
SECOND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Experditures on Highways since 1962 1/
(in millions of 1967 Escudos_7/)
Year          Construction          Maintenance             Total
1962               185                   76                 261
1963               223                   66                 289
1964               257                   72                 329
1965               282                   90                 372
1966               303                  103                 496
1967               224                  10s9                333
1968               240*                 162*                402*
1/  Including administration and overheads
2/ Five 1967 Escudos = One US Dollar
3/ Excludes equipment purchases
7 Amounts allocated in 1968 General Budget
Source: Vialidad



n ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 1 0 N0 N  4  ODN  °8  A°N |88 
tli
5 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ .   . . . . . . . . . . . .  8. 88[888  18 S 
e~~~~~~~~~~~~  . . . . . . . . . o8  . . 08  . . 888.O OO 
O~~~~~~  A 
e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   A A 



TABLE 6
CHILE
SECOND HIGHWAY PItMINTETNICE PROJECT
Four-Year Maintenance Program, 1968-1971
Vialidad Personnel Requirements
Number of Personnel
Headquarters (H), Regional (R)
Categories              1967        1968        1969         1970         1971
(H)    (R)   (H)    (R)  (H)    (R)   (H)    (R)  (H)    (R)
Engineers             9     63     9      63   9      78   11     88    11    99
Technicians           2     78     2      93   2      98     3   101     3   106
Administrative       35    638    38     667  36     713    36   724    37   745
Skilled Workers       6   2574     6    2630   6    2590    6   2604     6  2604
Unskilled Workers    13   3567    12    3348 12     3292   11   3179    11  3179
Source: Vialidad



SECOND R1IGAY MALIfNTkjCZ PRDJtCT
New. bind Conetrutios ProJ*ct proposed oy Ooeeroint, for Ioiti.tion Lm 1%99-70 (1)
Shatus sod Description of the 13 Road. Ida.tifled for PeasbiOlity Study mud Detailed &mgius.ring
Prelateiary
How     Status of E0ginsar-        Walk to to Perforad by the        Notleates of      gEtimmed        Preltimnar
L,aath (9)            dot.if ed ing,% Cowleted (3)            Consul~tant  Doroob             .kily Traffic   Total Co...tr.   Rate of Ret-rn
Coast.                                                        1:1jr!t Stde                    or 1                   Cost in us$     is 1stimst.d
and     Psyls    Total        (2)      Preli-    Detailed   lF.                    He [ee                            Millions         by Dor.chReak
PevieN    Omi.Y                          is'.Y       t.l      of Prall.. Uosomio     Co.p1eta        1966   1990      gquinivilet         (%
Rogrg.    Studies  If Maeo-aary
hmiNotiom
I.Merei Agri.cuttsre Dwwy.1s~mn
1. Pqreoj-inte                             70       70        14cH       60          50           1        Mew            1            90    230        1.4,            10-20          Sotios completed sith grw.1 surfaeo 1m 1965 wAr Crft% 6k-M .8
ove requires upgradsd serfsee da to traff ic greoth.
2. P.dregos-villarrioa            11                11         6811       Q           0          I          He.           I           280    4,90       0.1,            25-30          Ad.jeanat to ftc1i.o finiabsd in 1965 undwr Crdit 6b-   . m wll
co.plat,. link to  ilk p.odonl.g are"a.
1. tllapsl-Loo Villos            20        34.      56          PS       50          50          1          11.0          1           200    630        1.3             25-30          Lmrg. Irrigation scbeme La andrway I. tlb mtm.
4. Iogala.-Puo..hCac11                     21       21,         PS       70          70          I          HIe.          I           U10   4,30       0.7             15-20          Copper mining  lso haa iportaso. in the sos..
5. La S.-.,- v- illlar
..  Sect.   L. serece-vi.was  41  iLl  PS  60    50           1                                   4~~~~~~~~100  1,31,0  1.1.         10-30         A   -~r of small copper alms    arm located in ths arma.
0.. Smotlon Vicuna-krillbar   24,               21,          PS        20         20           0         N..           I
r)e-elPoot of Sagmo Bot
and Cellulose Industries
0. Clo-ti toln-I,an Can..
(Celiulose)     15                ~~~~11,      PS        20          0           5         N-e           I           210    4,80        0.8             1Q-20         M". sellulsee plooa -sa   beio4 constructed In areo, .8 Governet
*hs further d-v.loy-t pluns.
7.  Doet.loSoJve                                                                                        eiuivs                                                                          rigi-al feasibility study mast be reciswed end    pdated 0.. to large
(Collulos.)                  7        72       79          FS        90         70          5     (See Ronaro.)      1           260    670       14.1,             15            traffic greoth, obverammoetscrebdl             a.p    as inc-
j-ct1on sttb abed 6.
C.Ge tro-Ga-3  fabian                  42        1,2         PS       00          0           1         Neyu                       200)   530        0.7              25-30         Will provids link 'to sugar plant osar San Carlos and acoess to On-
(sagar Best)                                                                                                                                                                      tanalvely outitshed mArOMmmbl lobs.
Tf.lseopmet of Other Cdedotri..,
Mai.nly Iliolog
3. nActooi.-Padr. Ilurtado
a.Section San untiooio-                                                                                                                                                           Selected baOCosm of incre.ased traffic0 from copper refinery mmd
61 P5100                 58                58        Goat.       10          5           1         mIe.u                   2,000  7,60)       13.1              12-15         I.ncreased sgriooltorml production.
e.Sectio  El Pmlco-Psdre                                                                          Re-leo,?Avise                                                                  Original femaibi-lity stedy most b. reelawed and updated Ga coa-
Hurtado                           29       29          rs       90          85          I     (Sm. Remarks)      x         6,0003 20,6(03       8.5              25          jbontion with. Rood$        be~,Olow mod re1,.N  inecessar.
0. rm- Afltbon-Cmea BI-.o
u.Ssotioo Sa" Antonio-                                                                                                                                                            Eat4bian of Rousd 9.& so1sted by Go",.rt ohiob mIsc        r.
Algorroto                        29        29        00-t.      60         60           1           e..                    1,000  3,600        1.6           o-er 3D          never reoreation traffi 1. N  the ooast.
0.  Soction AIS -rre-b.-C-e                                                                         Re-Is, Novie                                                                     Original faelabiliLt  tWly must No r-1-m4     -d pdanad J. oo
3locm                             34,      36          Ps        70         70          I     (Se. Remarks)      I            00    68          2.2              15           36fttlo    with Maode 1I.5. .8t 9.&%b ab010.
1. Pmpof-Lm lagun                20                 20        00,1.        0          0           1         Neu                       220     750        0.8          o-x- 30          Copper refieery traffio and heav   recreation trafflc to the c*o.t.
2.   valla-.P.omo                51,                51,         PS        70         4,0          i         Hoe.                      110     4,90       1.14           15-20           Shorter csoneotio. Notwoeo prioipsl omal. serIng nds.ral ore t.mff 1.0
3. Pomse-Azdecollo                         27       27         ovt.        0          0           I         N                          1486   370        1.1              10            GoSorot pluns to help severa.l private mime to oinsmlidate spars-
tion for inoreaing eff iciency amd productot. Smprwoimat to road
Ospodndt On Increased production.
Totals                 208      1,02      610                   64          1,5%                                                               1,0.0
(1) Two stadls were complobd in 1967 by US ososotant., IO, undr a Bank Technical A.aiatabc. Grant (BTA): a highway planning otdy (PS) of 6,000 ua. of ..lacted ..oads to deterbmi               rel.ti'e priorities for construction bined so~     li
inforstbm    ao .osts, benefits wan  ".oosecs, and field r.ocouaisesnce; mfeasibility study (FS) of 300 gco   of feleot*d roads tamed 00 costs developed from proliilary engineering oari1,d out to an     curmoy of 20%, mad M ~Ado     a    I
mad os1colatlans of meonmic benefits. The 0oernmmst then prpepred m tentati-e constructic. programa to b. lo.iti.tod ln 1969-70, cosprsing wss of the roads otdld -nder the 9TA Greant, oo            sections. wbi1b -r 41fs1eon      I,o
to.e rad completed unoder the Credit 4-Ct pojonet, med mos. additional sections shich had hot Soon utuded lefore out uhlh ha.. eoonoic isportanc..
(2)  Th. ymbols used demote the following, 6811     related t. roads comp.Ited ,inder the Credit L,-CH project.
PS- selectad fr.. tb. 6,0 90 kmighwasy Plisnig Study financd under the 9Th.
FS - sletotd fro. the Feamiullity SWdy of 300 us financed under EBTA.
Govt. - selected by the Go,srs.t so hacig so-oom         leportuoce Out  itohout prior studies.
(3) SInce the oospleti-n of th0 B1TA stbdie,       Vialidad asiutetd by local... o  Ioutant  h..  M.drtake. pr.li.,loary and detailed enginecring of none of the road -etioou-  Ths utotu  of S-ch engineerIng ent Hos-er 1967     is ledinated In tho
appropriate colus....  go further detailed engineering of road -eotion.10     he b  p-rford .otil their econoic Jutifi-ution   is establi.hed by the  oolt-ot-      There-fter Vlolidud .od local oon-lt-ute will -o.plet. the detailed
segizo,rin1g;  Dorsoh oill r-e.e thin -egineoriog through ecopl,tioo mod nooplete it of ce-eesry.P



TABLE 8
SICOND HIGHWAY IIAINTPiANCE PROJECT
Project Cost astioutes (in millions oi 19o7 ascudos and US$ eouivalent)
1968                    lye6o                    1170                    1971              Total 1968-171           Total 1968-1971
Government     Bank      Go-vernment     BanK     Goovernment    Bank     Gove-nsent     Bank      Government       Bank     Government and  Bank
US$  E      ~~US$D                                            US0$S; Tj:  US4C      US$ i. Uh St        k       US$             US$
Cacital Exoenditures
A. For Four-Year Plaintenance Proeram
New ilaintenane Euugpe    u.OOen                                                                                                0.07                       8.20            8.20
mzlacement O   oome equ00
spare partEs                    '. '-S                                                 1.20                     l.2tu                    3.10                             3.10
Sparc parts, nainly to renabilitate
existing equipment                                                             0. 0 .0                                                                                    0
Worksriop machinery                                                             U.10                                                                       0.10            0.10
Extension to vsrkshop facilities               -.8                                                ..                     1.5                      12.8                     2.56
Mliscellaneous maintenance control
equipment                                                                      o. u                                                                       0.10            0.10
Consultants                                    0.2 2   .0$               0.o    0.' 0.2                 .07             0.2    0.03                1.3    0.25            0.50
Training of local staff in Chile
and abroad                                   0.1                      :!.2    0.l              V.1     0.01                                       0.4    0.05            0.14
Contingencies!/J/                              0.S             0.10     O5.       0      !.2      V 2u '  3.04   0.20    0.2               0.50     1.5    1.10            1.90
Sub totals                -        5.6    0.05   G.c, j          _., D.,                    ..       - 1.&    1.]    0.10      3.60    16.0   10.20           17.00
B. For Additional Consultine Services
Continuation of Credit 4-
CH supervision                               0.2    0.05                                                                                          0 0.1  o.u3  0.6  0.20  0.32
Feasibility studies for 13
and detailed engineering >/W                 3.3    0.50              1. i    vj                                                                  5.0    I .oo/W         2.00
Transport expert                                                        U       0? O-            U.1    O.ul                                        0.3    0.05            0.10
Contingencies2/                                0.3    0.05              0.      U 0.'                   0.01                                       0.6     0.15            0.28
Sub totals                -        3.8    o.60              2.i     0.75                    0.0.'                                       6.5    1.4O            2.70
Totals, Capital Expenditu res         -        9.4    0.6S     u.60     7.     10.'5    i.40      .4    0.30     1.60    1.9    0.10       3.60    22.5   11.60           19.70
Recurrent Sxpenditares for Maintenance Proeram
Equip.sant operation (fuel, oils and          33.2                     35.5                     ! a.o                   ! 4.3                     153.6                   30.70
repairs)
Personnel    Headquarters                      0.7                      0.7                      3.d                     0.8                        3.0                    0.60
Regional                         52.6                     5i.7                      52.7                    52.5                     210.2                   42.05
Supply and haulage of naterials               50.0                     ,-.6                     56.7                    55.9                      213.2                   42.65
Cossmunity maintenance program                 7.0                      3.                       9.u                      9.5                      33.5                    6.70
General ovarneads                              a.5                      J*5                     10 .                    11.0                       9.                      7.90
Totals, Recurrent Kxpenditures        -      152.0                                  -                             -__.- 6 8.0I7.      7° 653.o                           130.60
/ 2½ percent contingency allowance per year for pri<e escalation on ecoipmont Purchaset.
?j A global 10 percent oDntingency aaliwance to covcr untoreseen :.eeds Auring tot  ro3e2
j/ Includes purchase of field and oflfice equi-nent for Hignwa; DesiLn .)epa.sr:ment', estiurmed at U 14jL0,-uiC equivaltrrt.
L/ US$i10,000 equivalent for feasibility studies and review of detalled cnelneer'r.: arl 0S&'.1,00 e<uivalent lor extenoion of seices to review detailed engineering and/or conplete
it, ii necessary.



C H I L E                                    TABLE 9
SECOND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Estimates of Traffic, Ca-pitaland Recurrent Costs, and
Savings in Vehicle Operating Costs
1968    1969    1970     1971    1972    1973    1974
Highway Network (an) 1/
Paved roads                7,265   8,363   9,063   9,763  10,663   11,263  12,163
Gravel roads              23,590  23,2h2  22,909  22,209   21,859  21,509  21,209
Earth roads               23,190  22,1hO  22,073  22,073   21,723  21,373  20,673
I.   Traffic Volumes
(million vehicle-lan)l/ 2/
Paved roads                2,325   2,550   2,725   2,925    3,150   3,355   3,610
Gravel roads                 748     697     689     661     639      589    .589
Earth roads                  238     218     209      222     223     224     219
II. Capital Outlays
(million 1967 EO) 3/
Paved roads                 1.17   11.4o    2.58    2.4L     2.90    3.16   (6.81) 4/
Gravel roads                3.93   38.16    7.79    6.61    6.85     6.71  (17.26) 17/
Earth roads                 0.80    7.7L    1.58    1.28     1.2L    1.13   (3.58) 17/
III. Incremental Recurrent Costs
(million 1967 EO) 3/
Paved roads                11.30   17.60   22.50   26.95    32.55   36.05   41.85
Gravel roads               27.05   27.40   30.65   30.50   30.65    30.70   29.90
Earth roads                 4.70    5.05    5.90     7.50    7.65    8.10    7.45
IV.  Total Incremental Costs
(million 1967 EO)
Paved roads                12.h7   29.00   25.08   29.39    35.45   39.21   35.0o
Gravel roads               30.98   65.56   38.44   37.11   37.50    37.41   12.64
Earth roads                 5.50   12.80    7.L8    8.78     8.89    9.23    3.87
V.   Vehicle Operating
Costs Savings
(million 1967 EOT
Paved roads                22.57 6/        39.65   42.56    45.83   h8.82   52.53
Gravel roads               34.90 Z/        48.22   h6.28   44.72    41.22   41.20
Earth roads                 9.11 6/        12.00   12.75    12.80   12.90   12.57
1/ Based on information supplied by Vialidad.
7/ Assuming a uniform rate of traffic growth of 5 percent p.a.
3/ The distribution of costs by type of road is approximate.
/ Net of salvage value based on 7-year straight-line depreciation.
g/ For unit savings in vehicle operating costs, see para 5.06. The estimated proportion of
light vehicles in the total traffic on paved, gravel and earth roads is 55 percent,
60 percent and 50 percent respectively.
6/ Assuming that only two-thirds of the savings in vehicle operating costs will materialize
in 1968, since the bulk of the new equipment will become available in 1969 only.



CHILE: SECOND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF VIALIDAD
DIRECTOR
{  ADMINISTRATION       {COORDINATION OFFICE
ACQUISITION AND CONTROL
ACCOUNTING                                                                                          OF ASPHALT FOR HIGHWAY
PAVING PROGRAM
OFFICE OF STATISTICS,
BRIDGE DEPARTMENT ^                  HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION       MAINTENANCE        COORDINATON ANC
DEPARTMENT             i---    D      ND C     ON I                        DePARTMENT             DEPARTMENT      CONTROL FOR 4 -YEAR
(INSPECTION)                 ~~~MAINTENANCE PROGRAM
[:NORTHa        SOUT
EOUIPMENTJ
VARIOUS SECTIONS                                              I IDIVISI l                                   D  ON
( PLANNING AND TRAFFIC,  L_*IDVSO
DESIGN, LAND ACQUISITION, |I                                            .    VROSSCIN
L  ~  ~  VROU     ECTIONS
ETC. )         |                                             _ _ _       ( LABORATORY, ETC)
_                       | WAREHOUSE          CENTRAL
ZONAL OFFICES (31 )
l                 ZONAL SHO~~~~~~~PS(3I
V.olicdad is studying the advisability of ehminoting the Bridge Deportment   PROVINCIAL  OFFICES 125)
by incorporoting its design and inspection functions with those of the
Highway Design and Construction Departments.                           I                                          V
April, 1968                                                           1BR3HOPS
DISTRICT OFFICESj
(RESIDENT OFFICES)                                                                   i
|  FIELD PERSONNEL 
April, 1968                                                                                                                                      IBRD- 3833,



C HILE                                                             MAP I OF 3
SECOND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
NORTHERN & CENTRAL REGIONS
/  a                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LEGEIND
P     E    R    U                                                           0,,  t: :; t  ;  _7, /,,   PRINCII'AL ROADS Ol: NATIONAI HIGHWAY NETWORK
L. .1.  i                      xP c~\         SECUAD                        Paved, concrete or asphalt
ratsa  ))t      toaue,o aCUADo,:, - .>rl                    G,_                            Gravel or stabilized base
/,( Pu'lr- u,. lJ                                B rb 2,  ,q J a Z I-L         -      Earth roads
a.ICA                                                    1 UP1./0. 00.                             Roads pr.posed far new construction
ApiMP                                                                           pragram to be, initiated in 1969-70,
orher1.                                                for whi Ch fea sibility s tudies and
COOsa ~coriu   . ,         Central R I          '                                     detailed vengincering arc included in
Regien  ~~~~~~~~~                     thce project
)~'  Chilcayn.                                                            M _  thc po j cc ¢I  I  J  iAINTLNANCE WORKSHOPS
C~  rO ,<JCCac So b.M\ .HAP Z             joIpo  _                 *        Central
2  C ...... 1~Southern Region                                         Zonal    xist 'ng
p. cahipc,r                             ''0Znl,vit
Psaaoguod--0\k  1p .     °,Chispa °                  / .  o R                          0         Zonal, ,nder construction
Neqooirv  ,PC;o,mia. (                 0   r                            ICOPIAPOI    Provincial, under expansuon
n   uo   ;...opsr     .                     ,~                                  -     I g ,  RAILROAI)S
IQUIOUE                                                        MlAP N                      -    INI'LRNATIONAL BOUNUARIES
-b-eicon     -                                 .t Suhern 
v,,uq T l lau                          a S u s trtal  Regions    -. -. -. PllOVINCIAL,  BOUNDARIES
Poear,,0,0     \\                r 
0       50     Igo       10    200
KILOMETERS
dpm qIA,,o                                                                                                  Sa S
__~~~ SJosX dblAb.t/  j                      /            >7                         Poso Son~~~~~~~~~~~~~70010
0,:             arTOCOPILLA   [Ore  ,I,                                                                 CoPIAPO                       (
<    {      g   \    >>roool~~caaces,  eoaosoaron             .1                                     * te i,:: L:L,ro.)
'_  A41 ll + 4 /  I... 2 0   en   >   >A                        T      C    A  M   A
tt.                                                                                              a.00*on  rotacoo  Crl°l°   -  La Jono /
|ANTOFAGASTA|  /Y                                                                                       00 LL 0.  i  so R ALLC
0gwi                TIlo.,ao v.0S0CoIO    , -g ..tcoo.oe                  no,q coa|
,                T......              ,.                  -   - ...,,' , , ,
Porsnsg                   ><,~~~~~NPrrs eomCon                      r~.          t              5',brc
5 7   1 .           ~ ~~~~1 ,        n o   1   e n . .  
C- 1   c.t. Ino  >                     <         O   LA SERENA
oonnimgo    osaa&
t  ,,  \t  C  A  M  jA  \ Poso Son   (9               CtC Coviio9Qlom-~~~~~~~~~~~~n,acolrnuleono
-i/  \   z  <  \ > -  oVA L L E           C ,
IL-E 1968                                                                IBhD-2172RI
Ala
CD                 C,er. sCa.  
- . ~  Ira
0aaAc   I-
JUNE   1968   jerr  aRo Ia172RI"



C H I L E                                     MAP  OF 3
SECOND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
CENTRAL & SOUTHERN REGIONS
5EE MAP I FOR LEGEND
6 U A~~~~~~~A
$   A   I  ;ohue   >                        ,    C,0  1050 00 IS  oO
A jC 0 N> CU AC U A
sCowsblanco mc Sx\l Los i5 I / ~~~~~~l I Z / . / 1 CA,  0p100.lb 
Alsornbo H   4   ) - I A G O   l  LEf3UtApPno Os A  C   Coq.s UAOC  /  ,, ,  - 6   /   F  
VALPARAISO
SFN ~ ~ ~ ~  ~   A ANT   POIA00                                   -       ' 
I',~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
L v                    _, _ . . . / d/ ) <  FAm  V   LVbo,IOCA/= Vs
° < < - 'oL Elrco 40,c  ¢
/,                  comoree ) ;' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Pebu-  e n C,G  '  L,0,o, s 0 L
RANCAGUAurgos  "'''"E.-)              0   OO0AO,0V0
C O; \s *1> ~~~~~~~~~~ Dlf5eO 9 _ ~~~~~~VALDIVIA /bPo;. 
Cuwrchut S tE ~~~~~~~~~~~~~A                     C u 1, CCosrOA0 L
HimouSH                   R              ,                      ;q}%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E
C~~i/                             t  L 
R ...~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1AD27R



(0f=,3O  / 
A tic          At 
CdH . E
SECOND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Qz /                 SOUTHERN & AUSTRAL REGIONS
A  eNTINA  --
'P~4
mi.~~~~~~~~~ 
j'/        H        J    __.
- v2
19ts                                            BK"2 i 711 ¶
Wi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~              4
1- ~C                                          ---
1  -                   0                            Se&U   t
Ul|^LS1R
7              (.  I~~n_______________________
~~~~~~~~3\  %rs >                                                    U 



