Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
.Report No. P-3748-CHA
REPORT AND RECONMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$220.0 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A
RAILWAY PROJECT
March 7, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency - Renminbi (RMB)
1 Yuan (Y) = US$0.50
1 Yuan      =  100 fen
(as of March 1984)
FISCAL YEAR (FY)
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
m       =  meter (= 3.281 feet)
km      =  kilometer (= 0.621 mile)
tkm     =  ton-kilometer (= 0.621 ton-mile)
pkm     =  passenger-kilometer (= 0.621 passenger-mile)
CTK     =  Converted ton-km, traffic unit (1 pass-km = 1 ton-km)
mt      =  million tons
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
CIF     =  Cost, insurance and freight
MR      =  Ministry of Railways
NMP     =  Net material product
PBC     =  People's Bank of China
PCBC    =  People's Construction Bank of China
RRAs    =  Regional Administrations
SAA     =  State Audit Agency
SFYP    =  Sixth Five-Year Plan



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CHINA
RAILWAY PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:         People's Republic of China
Amount:           $220.0 million including capitalized front-end fee
Terms:            20 years, including 5 years of grace, at standard
variable interest rate.
Project
Description:   As part of China's regional rail development program, the
project would help remove some existing capacity con-
straints of the railway network, particularly in linking
the mines of Shanxi province to major industrial centers
and ports in Eastern China. The infrastructure features of
the project would cover two railway lines (Xinxiang to
Yanzhou and Datong to Taiyuan) and would include: laying
of single and double track; construction of a bridge,
connections to other lines and yards, and additional
crossing stations; lengthening of existing stations; line
electrification; and other upgrading work. Through pro-
vision of equipment, technical assistance and training, the
project would also assist the Ministry of Railways in
expanding and improving electric locomotive production.
The project is expected to contribute to the Government's
overall plan for increased energy supply to support
economic development in China.
All project components involve proven technology that has
been in extended use in China or in other parts of the
world; technological risks connected with the project are
therefore small. In addition, MR has successfully comr
pleted similar projects for a number of years and has
competent expertise; risks from inadequate project imple-
mentation and operation are therefore negligible. The con-
straint placed on development by the tight energy situation
guarantees that all efforts will be made by Government to
increase production of coal as well as develop the trans-
port capacity to distribute it where needed. The risk is
therefore very low that the rate of return would fall below
the overall estimated ERR of 19%.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:
Local     Foreign      Total
--------$ million----------
Infrastructure subprojects:
Xinxiang Connections                       37.5        10.6        48.1
Xinxiang-Heze New Line                    128.7        28.2       156.9
Yellow River Bridge                        66.6        43.2       109.8
Heze-Yanzhou Upgrading                     47.3        29.6        76.9
Yanzhou Connections                        24.3         9.9        34.2
Datong-Taiyuan Upgrading                   41.2        41.2        82.5
Datong-Taiyuan Electrification             38.1        44.2        82.3
Electric Locomotive Factory:
Modernization                              25.0        16.4        41.4
Technical Assistance and Training            -          1.3         1.3
Base Cost                             408.8       224.6       633.4
Physical contingencies                     17.0        15.6        32.6
Price contingencies                        16.0        10.2        26.2
Total Project Cost /1                  441.8      250.4       692.2
Front-end Fee                             -          0.5        0.5
Charge on use of foreign exchange   100.4            -        100.4
Total                              542.2       250.9       793.1
Financing Plan
Government/MR                             542.2        30.9      573.1
IBRD                                         -        220.0      220.0
Estimated Disbursements:       IBRD FY:   1985    1986    1987
- ------$million----
Annual                                     45      125      50
Cumulative                                 45     170      220
Rate of Return:                19%
Staff Appraisal Report:        No. 4560-CHA, dated March 7, 1984
/1 Import taxes and duties are not included in project costs, as the
Government does not intend to charge such taxes and duties on
imports attributable to this project.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED IDA CREDIT AND AN IDA SPECIAL FUND CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A RAILWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the People's Republic of China to help finance a Railway Project.
The loan, for $220.0 million, would have a term of 20 years, including 5
years of grace, with standard variable interest.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An introductory economic report, entitled "China:  Socialist
Economic Development" (No. 3391-CHA), was distributed to the Executive
Directors on June 1, 1981. A country economic memorandum, entitled "China:
Recent Economic Trends and Policy Developments" (No. 4072-CHA), was
distributed to the Executive Directors on March 31, 1983. Basic data on the
economy are given in Annex 1.
Background
3.        Following a period of major institutional changes in the 1950s,
including land reform and the eventual establishment of communes in rural
areas and the extension of public ownership to cover almost all of the modern
sector, development efforts in China have been directed toward the major
objectives of industrialization and poverty reduction. Despite sharp oscil-
lations in policy and political upheavals like the Great Leap Forward
(1958-61) and the Cultural Revolution (1966-76), China has made substantial
progress toward achieving its objectives. Industrial growth since 1949 has
averaged more than 12% p.a. (compared with under 5% for agriculture); the
current share of industry in GDP (around 44%) is similar to the average for
middle-income developing countries; and the country now produces a far greater
variety of industrial goods than most other developing countries. Per capita
GNP (with adjustments for international comparability) grew at 2.5-3.0% p.a.
in 1957-81, significantly above the average for other low-income developing
countries. In terms of basic education, nutrition and health the Chinese
population is much better off than its counterparts in other low-income
developing countries.
4.        However, China remains a very poor country, with a GNP per capita of
only $300 in 1982 and about 200 million people or 20% of the population with
unacceptably low incomes. The economy is also inefficient: past growth has
come mainly from massive mobilization of resources. For a country that faces
significant domestic resource constraints, inefficiency is a particularly
serious problem.



- 2 -
5.        To address these problems and ensure rapid growth and improvements
in living standards, the Government initiated a program of reform and
adjustment in 1979. Economic reform, aimed at improving the efficiency of the
economic system, involves: (a) restoring and improving the quality of central
planning and policy coordination; (b) devolving more decision-making authority
to lower level units; (c) establishing more direct links between incomes and
the performance of economic units and individuals; and (d) relying more on
market mechanisms and economic instruments and less on administrative
directives, to influence economic activity. Structural adjustment, aimed at
speeding improvements in living standards, has involved readjusting the
relative shares of consumption and investment in national income, some
sectoral and subsectoral readjustments, and greater emphasis on foreign trade.
In 1981, problems with inflation and large budgetary and current account
deficits resulted in short-term stabilization temporarily receiving the
highest priority, but by 1982 the Government was again pushing ahead rapidly
with adjustment and reform.
Economic Reform
6.        Reforms have now affected all sectors of the economy and institu-
tions from the central government down to rural households. A major govern-
ment reorganization has strengthened the core planning and management agencies
(especially the State Planning Commission and the State Economic Commission)
and reduced the number of commissions, ministries and agencies under the State
Council from 98 to 52. Reorganization within ministries also has occurred,
while that of provincial and local governments is now under way. Economic
management has been decentralized: provincial and local authorities have been
given more autonomy in investment decision making and use of credit to finance
investment has increased; provincial and local governments have been granted
greater budgetary flexibility and more incentives to expand revenues and/or
economize on expenditures; and ministries, new local trading companies and
some enterprises now have authority to engage directly in foreign trade.
7.        Reforms have been most far-reaching in rural areas, where introduc-
tion of various types of the "production responsibility system" has given
small groups and households more autonomy in production and investment
decisions and linked incomes directly with output. By the end of 1982, 92%
of production teams in China had implemented such a system; 78% had imple-
mented a household responsibility system, whereby collective ownership of
farm land and major equipment is maintained but plots of land are contracted
out to individual households, which can retain whatever they produce beyond
their obligations to the state and to the collective (which account for about
one third of production). The number and types of rural markets have also
increased.
8.        Economic reform has not proceeded as far or as fast in urban areas,
but significant systemic changes have occurred. Reforms in the management of
state enterprises have aimed at improving incentives through profit retention
schemes and more flexible payment and employment practices. There have also
been experimental changes in the organization of state enterprises, a greater
variety of marketing channels, some price flexibility and adjustment of



relative prices, and greater autonomy for state enterprises in production
decisions. The scope for cooperative and individual economic activities has
also been enlarged.
9.        Many economic reforms, especially those in rural areas, have
already had a positive impact on efficiency, while others will take longer to
have a significant effect. There are also some emerging issues with economic
reform that the Government will need to address. In rural areas, there is a
potential conflict between enhanced economic incentives and equity in income
distribution, continued provision of basic services, and mobilization of
labor. In the state enterprise sector, many units are still inclined to
overinvest and overproduce, since substantial decentralization of decision
making and control over resources has not been accompanied by necessary
reforms in the pricing system. More use is being made of the market, but
information and transport systems are still weak, markets are fragmented and
competition is limited. It has also been difficult to develop effective
indirect fiscal and monetary policy instruments.
Adjustment, Stabilization and Growth
10.       During the past four years, the Government has followed a strategy
of setting relatively modest targets while implementing economic and admin-
istrative measures that contribute to adjustment and stabilization as well as
to economic growth. The various measures have included: major increases in
agricultural procurement prices; strict controls on many other prices;
rationing and other administrative measures to improve efficiency of resource
use; cutbacks in state capital construction investment; fiscal measures to
limit the budget deficit; increases in interest rates; moderation of currency
and credit expansion; and the introduction of an internal settlement rate for
foreign exchange transactions and other measures to encourage exports and
economize on imports.
11.       These economic and administrative measures, combined with systemic
changes, have played an important role in the impressive performance of the
Chinese economy in recent years. Gross agricultural and industrial output at
constant prices grew by 7.3% per year between 1978 and 1982 - agriculture by
7.5% and industry by 7.2% (heavy industry by 3.4% and light industry by
11.8%). Net material product (NMP) at constant prices grew by an estimated
6.3% p.a. during the same period. Net investment has stagnated in real terms,
while material consumption grew by over 9% p.a. between 1978 and 1982. The
share of investment in NMP was reduced from 36% in 1978 to 29% in 1982.
Domestic consumption of energy rose by less than 2% p.a. during 1978-82.
12.       Structural adjustment and rapid overall economic growth, combined
with a low population growth rate (1.3% p.a. between 1978 and 1982), have led
to rapid increases in per capita incomes. In urban areas, real per capita
incomes increased by 4.8% p.a. between 1978 and 1982; in rural areas the
real increase in per capita incomes was about 12% p.a. While more
prosperous areas and households may have benefitted the most and income
differentials at a local level may have increased, many poor areas and
households have also enjoyed substantial income improvements.



-4-
1:3.      The high rate of investment in 1978 and the low returns to much
of this investment made a cutback in the investment rate a priority for the
adjustment program. But achieving such a cutback has proved difficult.
Decentralization of investment decision making has permitted a rapid growth
in investment financed from retained earnings or local resources. As a
result, most of the cutbacks in investment have been in large centrally
ffinanced projects (in 1981 even the priority sectors of energy and
transportation were affected), though some of these were revived in 1982.
14.       Government policy measures have helped restore domestic economic
stability by lowering the rate of inflation from 6% in 1980 to 2.4% in 1981
and 2% in 1982, and by reducing the budget deficit (adjusted to eliminate
financing items) from 7% of NIP in 1979 and 5% in 1980 to less than 2% in
1981 and 1982. The restoration of fiscal stability was achieved mainly by
sharp cuts in expenditures on investment. Subsidies (mainly on daily living
necessities) rose dramatically from about 7% of total expenditures in 1978
to 26% in 1982, when they were 9% of NMP.
15.       China's external position has also changed greatly in recent
years; the current account deficit of $2.4 billion in 1980 was converted
into a $2.0 billion surplus in 1981 and an estimated $6 billion surplus in
1982, an improvement far greater than anticipated. The real growth of
merchandise exports has been very impressive, averaging over 15% p.a. during
1978-82, mainly because of a rapid growth in manufactured exports. The
growth rate has been declining steadily, however. Meanwhile the volume of
imports declined in both 1981 and 1982, due in part to the lagged effect of
contract cancellations and suspensions, but also to delays in equipment
deliveries and to problems in obtaining high technology goods. A
substantial increase in imports is expected in 1983 and 1984 as China
expands its investment program and imports more machinery and equipment.
16.       A major consequence of the Government's conservative balance of
payments strategy has been reduced foreign borrowing. In 1980 and 1981 the
Government cut back sharply on interbank borrowing and in 1981 and 1982 took
advantage of the unexpectedly strong current account position to repay
commercial bank and other loans. In 1981 China's debt service ratio was 7.8%,
due in part to accelerated loan repayments. At the end of 1981 total reserves
(excluding gold) were $5 billion; by the end of 1982 they had increased to
o-ver $11 billion (equivalent to about seven months of 1982 imports).
Medium-Term Prospects
17.       During the remainder of the 1980s, the Government's efforts to
improve living standards should be helped considerably by continuation of a
relatively low population growth rate; by opportunities to make greater and
more efficient use of foreign technology and capital; and by the possibilities
foDr improving efficiency through economic reform. Rapid and equitable econ-
omic development is constrained by a number of factors, however. There are
serious shortages of skilled manpower (current enrollment in universities and
technical and vocational schools is one quarter of the average rate for other



developing countries). With limited possibilities for expanding the culti-
vated area and with cropping intensities and yields already quite high, the
growth rate for agriculture is unlikely to average more than 3-4% p.a. during
the 1980s. Energy availability will continue to constrain industrial growth,
and there are capacity constraints in the transport and commercial sectors.
Large investments will be required in energy and transport at a time when
competing demands from other sectors, especially housing, are very great,
domestic revenues have not been growing rapidly, and decentralization has
weakened government control over investment.
18.       In recognition of these difficulties, the Government's Sixth Five-
Year Plan (SFYP) (published in December 1982 but covering the period January
1981 December 1985) emphasizes continuation of the program of "adjustment,
reform, consolidation and improvement of the national economy." The plan
period is essentially viewed as an interim period during which the foundation
will be laid for more rapid economic development under subsequent plans.
Modest targets are set for production and income growth (4% p.a. for gross
agricultural and industrial output and for NMP), consumption is expected to
grow faster than investment, prices will be kept basically stable, the budget
deficit will be kept low, and a significant expansion in foreign trade is
forecast, with imports growing more rapidly than exports. Priority will be
given to measures improving efficiency rather than maximization of output, but
the Government expects most production targets to be surpassed, as they have
been in the first two years of the SFYP.
19.       Reform implementation will be speeded up during the next three
years. Rural reforms will be broadened and strengthened, with the production
responsibility system extended to new spheres of activity, new types of orga-
nization (including joint ventures between rural and urban units) encouraged,
and the administrative functions of communes separated from their economic
functions. In state-owned industry, taxation will replace profit remittance
as the primary means of raising government revenue, industrial administration
will be streamlined, and more inefficient enterprises will be closed down.
The commercial system will be reformed and cooperative and individual
commerce, particularly in rural areas, will be promoted. In investment
planning, the Government is striving for more effective implementation of
existing administrative regulations, but improving the structure and
efficiency of investment will be a long and difficult process, dependent very
much on progress on other aspects of reform. Measures to introduce formal
economic analysis (including use of shadow prices) into investment decisions
and to make producing units more economically and financially responsible for
their decisions through appropriate pricing and incentive schemes are
especially important. Price reform itself is recognized as being crucial, but
in view of the complexities and magnitude of the changes required, the
Government has decided that it cannot implement comprehensive price reform
until after 1985. However, appropriate upward or downward adjustments in the
most distorted prices are being made, and the prices of many minor commodities
are being allowed to fluctuate according to market conditions.
20.       During the remainder of the 1980s, China's development and moderni-
zation programs are expected to result in rapid growth of imports of capital



- 6 -
and intermediate goods. By the late 1980s, some imports of energy are also
likely to be necessary before new domestic energy production capacity is
established. China's temporary current account surpluses are expected to
change quickly to moderate deficits. But the overall rate of import expan-
sion, the size of the current account deficit, and the magnitude of foreign
borrowing requirements are very sensitive to assumptions about economic trends
and the effectiveness of government programs. For example, even a slight
acceleration of economic growth without significant improvements in effi-
ciency, especially energy efficiency, could result in large current account
deficits and debt management difficulties by the end of the 1980s. In fact, a
relatively high rate of economic growth of 6-7% p.a. during the rest of the
1980s (which is the growth rate used in the projections in Annex 1) will
prDbably be feasible only if major improvements in energy efficiency continue.
21.       China's access to concessionary capital to finance its development
and modernization program is limited: apart from Bank Group funds, a signi-
ficant amount of concessionary capital is likely to come only from Japan and a
few other bilateral donors and will probably average only $500-600 million a
year during the 1980s. If China is to maintain a reasonable growth rate and
manageable debt service payments, it will need to obtain the necessary foreign
capital at an average interest rate below the market rate. China also has a
strong claim to concessionary lending because it is still one of the poorer
countries in the world.
22.       For China, as for many other developing countries, the 1980s will
be a difficult decade. But looking further ahead, China's economic prospects
appear favorable. By 1990, most new entrants into the labor force will have
received some secondary education, and the skilled manpower deficit will have
been reduced. Further progress will have been made in tapping China's large
energy potential and in using it more efficiently. Continuation of recent
manufactured export trends should generate additional foreign exchange,
enabling the Government to use foreign capital more freely and be less
concerned about its terms. If the country's immense wealth of human talent,
effort and discipline can be combined with policies that increase the
efficiency of resource use, China will be able to achieve continuing
substantial increases in the living standards of its people. Whether this
potential can be realized, however, will depend crucially on the success of
the Government's program of reform and adjustment in the 1980s.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CHINA
23.       In view of the particular circumstances of China and the economic
transition now under way, the Bank's relationship with China should have
several broad objectives. Firstly, the Bank should offer China its consider-
able development experience and institutional knowledge. Moreover, working
with the Bank represents one means for China to re-establish its position in
the world community after its lengthy isolation. Secondly, the Bank should
assist China in removing the major constraints on development the shortages of
energy, transport infrastructure, skilled manpower and modern technology.



- 7 -
Even more important, the Bank should help the authorities to use these and
other inputs more efficiently, by improving project analysis and investment
control, as well as overall economic management and planning. Finally, the
Bank should help the Government identify ways of reducing China's remaining
poverty. Since the Government has been successful in meeting the basic needs
of most of its people, these efforts should concentrate on the poorest rural
areas.
24.       Since China's change of representation in the Bank Group in May
1980, 12 projects involving lending of about $1,214 million have been
approved. Three have been in education (University Development, Agricultural
Education and Research and Polytechnic/TV University), three in energy (Daqing
Oilfield Gaotaizi Reservoir Development, Zhongyuan-Wenliu Petroleum and Lubuge
Hydroelectric), three in agriculture (North China Plain, Heilongjiang Land
Reclamation and Rubber Development), one in transport (Three Ports), one in
industry (Industrial Credit), and one in technical cooperation (Technical
Cooperation Credit). Annex II contains a summary statement on these loans and
credits as of September 30, 1983.
Economic and Sector Work
25.       The Bank's economic and sector work was initially designed to pro-
vide a basis of knowledge on the development and functioning of the Chinese
economy. This work resulted in completion of a nine-volume introductory
economic report in June 1981. A follow-up country economic memorandum
(Report No. 4072-CHA) analyzing developments over the past two years was
distributed to the Executive Directors on March 31, 1983. In addition, the
Bank has undertaken studies in several areas important for our understanding
of the Chinese system, including rural finance and urban planning and
management in Shanghai.
26.       Other economic work is designed to assist China in its present
effort to promote efficient use of investment resources, and more generally
to introduce new methods of economic management and planning. As preparation
for the Industrial Credit Project, an appraisal manual has been developed
with Bank assistance by the new financial intermediary, the China Investment
Bank. The Bank is now helping to develop a similar manual for the
Agricultural Bank of China. A program of economic research on China's
development problems, aimed at the application of advanced analytical tech-
niques, has begun in collaboration with Chinese economic research insti-
tutions in the areas of enterprise incentives and analysis of structural
change.
27.       Sector studies will help inter alia to identify and prepare future
investments. Some have been included in Bank Group-financed projects, e.g.,
agricultural development in Shandong Province under the North China Plain
Project, containerization under the Three Ports Project, and agricultural
manpower and research under the Agricultural Education and Research Project.
A health sector review is reporting on rural health care delivery systems
and health manpower development.



-8-
Near Term Lending
28.       Work has begun on a range of projects, with emphasis on improved
management and efficiency as well as on technical assistance and training.
Several are in the key sectors of energy and transportation. In energy, the
Bank's efforts will help to increase the supply of fuel and power. Future
petroleum projects will, like the first three, emphasize the introduction of
modern technology, staff training and studies. Other operations are likely to
continue support for electric power and involve the development and management
of large underground coal mines in Shanxi province. In transportation, work
is proceeding on two railway projects and a second ports project to provide
additional capacity at several major ports.
29.       In view of China's shortages of manpower with higher or technical
education, the Bank will continue its support of education through a second
agricultural education project and another university development project.
Support of agriculture would continue through projects to provide rural credit
in two provinces with emphasis on improved project appraisal and institution-
building, further assistance in agricultural research, and assistance in
forestry. In industry, further loans will be made to the China Investment
Bank mainly for modernization of light industries and export projects, and
there will be projects for technical renovation and modernization in indus-
tries such as fertilizers and machine tools. In health, a project will help
improve rural health care services and medical education. Bank assistance is
also planned for a water supply project.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. The Transport System
30..      Like other centrally planned economies, China's economy is very
"transport intensive." With the same land area, US freight traffic is only
four and a half times the freight traffic of China for a GNP nine times that
of China. This intensity of transport is explained mainly by two factors:
(a) the historical emphasis on heavy industry requiring movements of ores,
steel and other products; and (b) the high level of energy consumption per
unit of output in China's industry (energy use per unit of GDP is two and a
half times that of other LDCs).
31.       Investments.  Over the period 1949-79, some Y 110 billion, or 17% of
all new investment coming under the heading "State Capital Construction," went
to transport. In comparison with other countries, transport investments
appear somewhat on the low side. In the first two decades after liberation,
the railways absorbed well over 50% of all new investments in the transport
sector. Most railway investments went to construct new lines to the interior,
while the northeast plains and coastal areas have 80% of the railway's freight
traffic. As a result, major capacity constraints developed and are now par-
ticularly evident in coal transport.



32.       Because of the recent expansion of external trade, increasing
emphasis has been given lately to the development of ports and ocean ship-
ping. Many berths were constructed in the 1970s in China's 15 major ports.
Investments in the shipping fleet have also been large, averaging about
Y 500 million p.a. since 1976. By contrast, investments in inland waterways
and roads over the past 30 years have been modest. Nevertheless, an average
25,000 km of road has been added to the network annually since liberation,
much of it at rather low standards.
33.       Traffic Trends.  Domestic freight transported in 1981 reached
852 billion ton-km (t-km), a 12-fold increase since 1952, or an average annual
rate of almost 9%, systematically higher than the growth of domestic pro--
duct. The relationship of freight growth to overall economic growth is,
however, less than that experienced by some other low income LDCs, which
reflects the development policy emphasis given to regional self-sufficiency
rather than to interregional trade in foodstuffs and consumer goods. The
modal split has moved toward a more balanced use of modes, but the railways
still handle 67% of traffic versus 82% in 1952; this predominance is expected
to continue for quite some time.
34.       Passenger traffic reached 274 billion passenger-km (p-km) in 1982,
an 11-fold increase since 1952 and an average annual growth rate above 8%.
Since 1978, growth averaged 12% p.a., well above twice the overall rate of
economic growth. This illustrates the potential demand for travel as income
grows. It is likely that this growth would have been even higher if it had
not been constrained by the limited capacity, particularly of the railways, to
offer more passenger services. The modal split has shifted more rapidly than
for freight toward the road mode, and the railways now handle less than 60% of
the traffic versus over 80% in 1952.
35.       Railways and Energy Transport.  Coal provides over 70% of the energy
consumed in China and as a result of economic reforms, production has increased
rapidly from 550 million tons (mt) in 1977 to 666 mt in 1982. The recently
released 1981-85 plan target is for 700 mt by 1985. The railways play a key
role in the distribution of energy, mainly coal. In 1981 the railways trans-
ported 412 mt of coal and this traffic accounted for 32% of the total t-km
performed that year. However, transport bottlenecks developed in railways and
to a lesser extent in ports. Despite lower total production in 1980 and 1981,
a stockpile of over 10 mt has accumulated in Shanxi Province alone because of
lack of rail capacity. Some of these stocks are being lost due to spontaneous
combustion. Recent production statistics for 1982, up 7% from 1981, indicate
that the situation has probably worsened recently.
36.       Shanxi is endowed with one third of all coal reserves in China, and
is also more accessible to consuming areas that other coal rich areas in the
remote northeast or Inner Mongolia. In 1982, coal production in Shanxi
reached 144 mt, 20% of the national total. Mine developments presently under
way and planned are expected to bring production over 150 mt by 1985/86 and
possibly near 200 mt in the early 1990s. This includes a mine that will 'be
developed under a proposed Bank project. Railway capacity to move coal from
Shanxi to industrial areas and ports on the east coast is presently limited to
less than 90 mt p.a. The Ministry of Railways (MR) has launched a major



- 10 -
:investment plan on seven routes to increase their capacity to over 150 mt p.a.
by 1986. The proposed project is a direct contribution to the capacity
increase of two of these seven lines.
37.       Other Transport Modes.  Port traffic grew rapidly in the 1976-81
period, reflecting the economic opening of China to foreign trade. Annual
growth averaged 11.3%. Domestic coastal shipping and inland water transport
also increased substantially. As a result, ports became congested despite
commendable efforts to achieve high productivity. A major effort to modernize
ports started in the early 1970s and continues with particular emphasis on
container and bulk terminals, the latter mainly for coal. The Bank's first
transport operation in China was the Three Ports Project (Loan 2207-CHA,
1982), which includes a coal berth at Huangpu.
38.       The highway network comprised about 897,000 km in 1982, of which
about 151,000 km were asphalted. Road pavement standards are low and the
extent of the paved network is limited. Road maintenance, however, is well
organized and currently absorbs much of the attention and resources of the
provincial and other road authorities. Except for Western China, the highway
network is still very much a system of feeder roads to the railways. Never-
theless, motor traffic on the national highways since 1978 reportedly has
grown at a very high overall annual average of 15%.
39.       Transport Issues and Objectives in the 1980s.  The Sixth Five-Year
P!Lan 1981-85 (SFYP) approved in December 1982, includes Y 27.5 billion (16.2%
of the total) earmarked for transport sector investments. The railways would
get 63% of this amount. The plan document does not directly mention issues in
the transport sector, but a number of other recent publications give a fairly
consistent picture of some key problems. The most important sectoral issues
at this time are: (a) the capacity constraints both for freight and passenger
movements; (b) the appropriate economic role of the various modes and in par-
ticular the modal allocation of short distance traffic; (c) the management of
the transport system including policy, planning, coordination and pricing; (d)
the choice of technologies for infrastructure as well as vehicles; and (e) the
training and development of staff in all the above matters.
B. The Railways Subsector
40.       Long-term Bank Objectives.  The Bank's long-term objective is to
assist MR in introducing such changes in policies, institutions, infrastruc-
ture, motive power and rolling stock, terminals, and operations that are
necessary, for the railway to meet, in a cost effective manner, the increasing
demand for railway transport generated by growth in the economy. The vehicle
for this dialogue in the longer term would be railway sector lending opera-
tions focusing on specific issues, such as relieving regional transport
infrastructure bottlenecks, modernizing motive power technology, improving
manufacture and maintenance of motive power and rolling stock, improving
terminal handling operations and modernizing education and training. The
proposed project is a first step in the introduction of such sector lending
operations, and would involve the removal of important bottlenecks for trans-
porting coal from the Shanxi coal fields to the coast, as well as some initial
activities involving costing, manpower planning, education and technology.



- 11 -
41.       Organization, Management and Staff.  The railways of China are the
major carrier in the modern transport sector and have their own Ministry.
Operations are largely in the hands of 18 regional administrations (RRAs).
Each administration, headed by a General Manager, is made up of eight depart-
ments and three or more operating subadministrations. Altogether MR employs
2.7 million people, of whom 1.6 million are involved in the transportation
function. The others are engaged in industry (MR operates 68 factories pro-
ducing locomotives, rolling stock, etc.), capital construction (new railway
track, bridges, electrification, workshops, housing, etc.), education and
other activities.
42.       Education and Training.  This is a very important function of MR
which operates over 2,000 schools with 100,000 teachers and staff. At the top
of the system are 10 universities of which seven are technical, two medical
and the last a teachers' college. Most universities now also have graduate
programs. There are also eight research institutes. For high school
graduates who cannot enter university, MR operates over 60 Intermediate
Technical Schools with two-year programs and Technical Workers Schools to
train locomotive drivers and other trade workers. In addition, MR operates
middle and primary schools with enrollment exceeding one million. Outside
this formal education system, MR has 20 Staff Training Colleges for in-service
training. The problems encountered by MR are similar to those of others
dealing with education in China. Programs need modification to reflect the
technological changes which are accompanying for example, the gradual switch
from steam to diesel and electric traction, with emphasis on management and on
economic and financial analysis. Most teaching materials now in use were
written in the 50s and 60s and need upgrading. Also, education and training
are too narrowly specialized and MR wishes to move to more comprehensive
training to increase the flexibility of future staff assignments. A second
railway project now under preparation may include an education and training
component to address some of these issues.
43.       Railway Facilities.  The railway system in China has more than
doubled in size since 1949 from 22,000 route-km to about 50,000 km of which
8,300 km were double or multiple track and some 1,700 km electrified at the
end of 1981. Further double tracking and electrification are in progress.
44.       The locomotive fleet consists of about 10,000 units, 75% of which
are steam, 22% diesel, and 3% electric. Demand for electric locomotives will
increase rapidly to some 120 locomotives per year by 1985-86. This project
includes urgently needed equipment to increase production capacity from 40
locos p.a. to 120 locos p.a. A second project now under preparation will
focus on improving locomotive technology with the assistance of an inter-
national panel of specialized consultants. In 1979, the freight car fleet
numbered 259,000. In recent years, rolling stock acquisitions have generally
kept pace with traffic growth except in 1981, reflecting the overall economic
slowdown experienced during that year. Passenger coach acquisition has
increased over the last few years, following the rapidly rising demand for
passenger travel. It is, however, still below MR's estimated need of at least
1,200 coaches p.a.



- 12 -
45.       Traffic and Operations.  China has the third largest freight railway
system in the world after the USSR and the USA. Freight traffic has grown
from about 100 million tons in 1950 to over 1 billion tons in 1981 while ton-km
grew from 39.4 billion to 570.2 billion or at an average rate of 9% p.a.
Recently, freight traffic has grown less rapidly, averaging about 5.7% p.a.
since 1977. Ten commodities: coal, timber, iron and steel products,
construction materials, petroleum, grain, non-metallic ores, fertilizer,
metallic ores and cement (in that order) account for about 75% of the
ton-km. Average transport distance has increased continuously from 395 km in
1950 to 544 km in 1981. The global freight traffic forecast included in the
SFYP is for 666 billion ton-km in 1985, a 3.0% p.a. growth over 1980. The
strong 1982 growth more than compensated for the 1981 stagnation making the
combined two-year growth 8%, somewhat ahead of the forecast. Passenger
traffic has grown from about 150 million passengers in 1950 to 950 million in
1981, while p-km grew from 21.2 billion to 147 billion or at an average rate
of 6.5% p.a. Passenger traffic exploded since 1978, increasing 44% in four
years and putting heavy demand on the existing equipment as well as on line
capacity. The growth of passenger traffic is exceeding forecasts and it is
clear that passenger traffic will continue to be determined more by the
capacity provided by the railways than by the market's demand.
46.       Operations are efficient and show a high level of track and
equipment utilization. Traffic density is the second highest in the world
after the USSR. It averages 11.9 million net t-km per route-km for freignt
and 3.1 million p-km per route-km for passengers. Freight car turnaround time
(at 3.0 days) is extremely low and it is difficult to see further savings
here. The number of freight cars per train has remained relatively constant
at around 35 cars. This is largely a consequence of the length of passing
loops which are 650 m for 75% of the stations and 850 m for the rest. A
number of station lengthening programs is under way to allow operation of
longer trains in the future.
47.       Planning and Investments.  Coordination of railway investment
planning is the responsibility of the Planning and Statistics Bureau at the
Ministry's headquarters. The emphasis of the SFYP is to increase the coal
carrying capacity from western provinces to the east coast. A secondary
objective is to relieve capacity constraints on lines of the eastern seaboard
and in particular to develop more passenger transport facilities. Railway
investments have fluctuated considerably over the past 30 years, somewhat in
tune with general economic development. After a rapid buildup in the 1950s,
investments fell off considerably in the early 1960s. They gradually
increased again to reach their highest levels during the Fourth Five-Year Plan
(1971-75), averaging almost Y 3.5 billion p.a. In recent years, they have
fallen off again, particularly in 1981 when MR was allocated less than Y 1.5
billion for investments, as a consequence of economic retrenchment and
reformulation of Government economic policies.
48.       The Ministry of Railways has four general design institutes which
are adequately staffed with competent staff. Over the years, these institutes
have designed a large number of civil work projects, such as new tracks, track
doubling, tunnels, buildings, small and medium-size bridges. The designs are
well adapted to labor-intensive construction methods which are adequate in



- 13 -
China. In addition, there are two other institutes specialized in both design
and construction of electrification and major bridges, respectively. The
Electrification Institute has prepared all electrification projects to date
(about 1,600 km) on the basis of technology widely used in developed
countries, i.e. 25 KV-50 Hz. The Major Bridge Institute has designed and
executed a number of very large projects including the Nanjing Bridge (14 km
including approaches, with a double railway track on the lower deck and a six-
lane highway on the upper deck) and seven other large bridges over the Yangtze
River. All these projects are of a high technical standard.
49.       The Ministry of Railways has five construction bureaus in charge of
track and general civil works, a factory construction bureau and a tunnel
construction bureau, all of which have experienced, skilled and management
staff (unskilled labor is recruited locally for each project). The
construction quality is good. The projects have generally been completed on
or ahead of time, and cost overruns are the exception.
50.       Tariffs and Costs.  Rates and fares were not changed between 1967
and December 1, 1983, when freight tariffs were revised. This revision con-
sisted mainly of: the doubling of the minimum distance charged, from 50 to
100 km; and a 23% rate increase covering 75% of freight, including bulk
commodities like coal, cement, oil, and fertilizer. The current average
freight haul of about 550 km corresponds to an average net receipt (after
sales tax) of Fen 1.43 per ton-km, which compares favorably with the average
operating cost of about Fen 0.94 per ton-km, leaving a wide profit margin of
52% above operating costs. For passengers, the average distance traveled is
156 km, and the average gross revenue per passenger km is Fen 1.46 as compared
to the estimated average cost of Fen 1.08, i.e. a profit margin of 35% above
operating costs. Consequently, railway operations are highly profitable.
51.       There is a substantial amount of costing data available at
administration and subadministration levels, but little of these are developed
at MR level, where "gross" costing is the rule. The Ministry of Railways
acknowledges that the findings of their comprehensive costing studies carried
out some 15 to 20 years ago (and on the basis of which the still prevailing
tariff structure was fixed) are outdated. Under the proposed project, MR will
carry out a comprehensive railway costing study (para. 58).
52.       Budget, Accounting and Audit.  The Ministry of Railways' financial
procedures are recorded in a comprehensive "Manual on Railway Finances". The
annual recurrent budget is prepared at subadministration and administration
levels and ultimately finalized at the MR level. The annual capital budget is
prepared at the MR level within the global allocation of resources earmarked
by the State Planning Commission. Since 1983, MR is to pay to the State (a)
sales tax set at 15% of gross operating revenue; (b) income tax set at 55% of
net profits; and (c) the share of after tax profits it is not allowed to
retain. The same system applies to the Zhuzhou factory, but the sales tax
rate has been set at 5.3%. The State uses part of the proceeds of the tax to
finance railways and factory investments.
53.       The Ministry of Railways' accounting procedures are generally satis-
factory. The Ministry of Railways is using a double-entry accounting system



- 14 -
on an accrual basis; the dual recording concept is applied although the debit-
credit technique has been replaced by an "increase-decrease" system. The most
unusual feature of both MR and the Zhuzhou factory is the dual system of
depreciation, which comprises a basic provision of 3% and an additional
"provision for major repairs" which grew from 1% in 1979 to 3.5% (2.5% for the
Zhuzhou Factory) in 1982. The handling of this provision as a component of
depreciation is debatable since maintenance should normally be charged to
working expenses. This dual system is based on the cumulated historic gross
value of depreciable fixed assets instead of taking into account the actual
economic life of depreciable items. This handling of depreciation distorts
the true earning position of MR and the Zhuzhou factory. There are other
shortcomings in financial procedures like the lack of long-term financial
planning and insufficient use of data processing.
54.       Audit.  The Ministry of Railways has a "Financial Checking Division"
which performs internal auditing; it also checks the correlation of revenue
and expenditure with planned allocations. The People's Bank of China (PBC) is
MR's paying and collecting agent and keeps a close record of MR's budgetary
allocations including their subsequent adjustments. The People's Bank of
China's inspectors regularly check the use of funds by MR. The People's
Construction Bank of China (PCBC) fulfills a similar role for investment
funds. The Ministry of Railways produces an annual report which is sent for
review to the Ministry of Finance within five months after the close of the
fiscal year. The Ministry of Finance issues a Certificate of Approval. The
above-described control system is satisfactory for project implementation.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
55.       In July 1982, the Government requested Bank assistance in financing
urgently needed rail investments necessary to transport the increasing coal
production. The proposed project was prepared by the Government and Bank
staff; it was appraised in March/April 1983. A Staff Appraisal Report
(No. 4560-CHA, dated March 7, 1984) is being distributed separately. Supple-
mentary project data are given in Annex III of this report. Negotiations were
held in Washington on February 13-17, 1984 with a Government delegation led by
Mr. Luo Qing, Deputy Director, External Finance Department, Ministry of
Finance.
56.       Objectives.  This project would make a direct contribution to the
Government's overall plan for increasing the supply of energy which is
urgently needed to support economic development in China. It would also
provide assistance to MR for expanding and improving electric locomotive
production and for long-term design upgrading in electric locomotive
technology, which could eventually be implemented in a subsequent project.
Capacity wise it would help remove some of the existing constraints of the
railway network to move coal between the mines of Shanxi Province and major
industrial centers and ports in eastern China. This work forms part of a
regional plan of construction and upgrading on seven different lines and three
ports and is expected to be completed by 1986.



- 15 -
57.       Description.  The project consists of priority infrastructure
investments on two lines and provision of equipment, technical assistance and
training for improving electric locomotive production as follows:
(a)  Xinxiang to Yanzhou Line (305 km).  A new line, between Xinxiang and
Heze in Henan and Shandong Provinces, will close the gap between the
coal production areas of southern Shanxi and the line presently
being built between Yanzhou and the new east coast port of Shijiusuo
(both are under construction with Japanese financial assistance and
completion is expected by the end of 1985). The existing line
between Heze and Yanzhou will be upgraded.
(b)  Datong-Taiyuan Line (355 km).  This line is located in Shanxi
Province and links Datong, the largest mining center in northern
Shanxi, with Taiyuan, the provincial capital, also a major mining
and industrial center. To increase its capacity, this line will be
double-tracked on 127 km and electrified. All (34) existing
stations will be lengthened from 650 m to 850 m and four new
stations will be added.
(c) Electric locomotives: Manufacture and Technical Assistance. There
is a need to eliminate short-term production constraints and to
improve the quality of locomotives at the Zhuzhou electric locomo-
tive factory. This project would therefore include provision of:
(i)  equipment (machine tools, etc.) needed to increase and ipmrove
production of electric locomotives of the present design
(Shaoshan Types I and III) to meet the forecast of 120
locomotives per year in 1986 and thereafter; and
(ii)  technical assistance and training in areas of:
- general mechanical and electrical technology and practices;
- use and maintenance of the more advanced equipment referred
to in (i) above; and
- specialized technology and management practices.
58.       Costing Study.  To update and improve its costing system, MR will
undertake a costing study. The aim of the study will be to improve the
existing costing methodology and thereafter install a costing system that will
improve railway operations and management. This study will be performed in
separate phases over several years (ending December 31, 1989), since some
adjustments are generally necessary after an initial period of implementa-
tion. It will be carried out by a team to be organized by MR and staffed by
representatives of MR administrations, subadministrations, and institutes or
universities. After completion of each stage, reports will be prepared and
submitted to the Bank for an exchange of views with the study team and MR
(draft Loan Agreement, Section 4.05 and the letter supplemental thereto).



- 16 -
59.       Execution.  Civil works, track laying and installation of electrifi-
cation equipment (substations, catenary, signalling and telecommunications)
will be executed under the management and supervision of two construction
bureaus, the Electrification Bureau and the Major Bridge Btureau, of the
Ministry of Railways (paras. 48 and 49), using local labor mobilized by
provincial authorities. This is a common procedure that works well in
China. Completion of construction/upgrading of the rail network would be by
end 1986, with electrification of the Datong-Taiyuan line by end 1987. The
Zhuzhou Factory modernization plan would be substantially completed by 1986,
with the last machine tools installed in 1987.
60.       Costs and Financing.  Estimated project costs are based on final
engineering for infrastructure works, updated to March 1984 prices. Physical
contingencies of 5% are included for infrastructure works, which is adequate,
given the conservative quantity estimates used. Annual price contingencies
were applied to local and foreign costs as follows: 7.5% in 1984, 7% in 1985,
anid 6% in 1986 and 1987. The estimated project cost, including contingencies,
the charge on the use of foreign exchange under Government's internal settle-
ment rate system, and the capitalized front-end fee of US$0.5 million is about
US$793 million, of which about US$251 million is the estimated foreign
exchange component. The Government has requested a loan of US$220 million
which would cover about 88% of the estimated total foreign exchange costs.
The proposed Bank loan would finance selected materials and equipment for
infrastructure works, equipment for the locomotive factory, technical assis-
tance and training. The Ministry of Railways will finance other materials,
equipment and construction costs.
61.       Financial Performance.  With very favorable working and operating
ratios, MR has consistently earned substantial profits averaging well above
US$1 billion per annum equivalent over the past eight years. Similarly, the
return on average net fixed assets in use was 5.7% in 1981, or 8.4% after
adjustments for some special features of MR's accounting procedures. These
indicators, however, do need to be treated with some caution, since the
understanding of Chinese accounts is still incomplete. In particular, asset
revaluation does not seem to have been undertaken very systematically (partly
because the inflation of costs has historically been very low - probably less
than 1%. p.a. 1952-1980). Nevertheless, there is little doubt that the
financial position is a very healthy one compared to almost any other among
the world's railways.
62.       This satisfactory position is likely to continue with little risk of
deterioration in the medium term.  Applying similar adjustments to reflect
western accounting conventions, a forecast of MR's income accounts was made.
The results of the exercise show that MR would, over 1983-87:  (a) maintain a
good earnings position with working and operating ratios estimated respec-
tively at about 33% and 54% in 1987; (b) improve the return on net assets in
use to over 10% by 1987; and (c) experience pre-tax profits rising to over
Y 4 billion per annum (more than US$2 billion equivalent) by the mid-1980s.
One of the important factors is the increase in freight tariffs just made
(para. 50 above); retained profits (after taxation and additional remittance
of income to the State) are expected to increase from about Y 600 million in
1983 to Y 850 million in 1984. Thereafter, MR should be able to maintain a



- 17 -
level of retained profit of between Y 800 and Y 850 million, while remitting
profits and taxes to the State that would easily finance its investment
requirements and debt service. Agreement was reached at negotiations that MR
would consult with the Bank (a) semi-annually on project financing and
disbursements; and (b) annually on railway finances and financial performance
and procedures. The consultations would be based on the updated data
concerning the railways' operations and finances as published in various forms
on a periodical basis (draft Loan Agreement, Section 4.04 and the letter
supplemental thereto).
63.       Implementation of the project is also expected to be beneficial in
financial terms, although for want of adequate traffic cost and revenue data
relating to particular sections of line, the impact can only be quantified for
the Zhuzhou factory, the rate of return of which is expected to grow from 26%
in 1982 to 31% in 1986. During this same period, net fixed assets will more
than double and the net worth of the factory increase by 94%.
64.       Audit.   At negotiations an assurance was obtained that audited
statements covering: (a) Profits and Cost and Fund Balance Statements covering
the subadministrations concerned with the project and the Zhuzhou factory; and
(b) an extract from the Improvement and Construction Fund Statement identify-
ing project financing and expenditure would be furnished to the Bank no later
than 6 months after the close of the fiscal year (draft Loan Agreement,
Section 4.02). Initially, the Ministry of Finance will issue Audit Reports in
accordance with methods and procedures acceptable to the Bank until the New
State Audit Agency (SAA) is in a position to issue acceptable audit reports.
65.       Project Completion Report.  Agreement was reached during negotia-
tions that MR will prepare a Project Completion Report covering both the
infrastructure and factory components of the project. This report should be
submitted to the Bank no later than six months after the loan closing date
(draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.04).
66.       Procurement and Disbursement.  Procurement of selected materials and
equipment for infrastructure works and equipment for the locomotive factory
(totalling about $217 million) will be subject to international competitive
bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank guidelines for procurement. Small items
of equipment, mainly hand tools and measuring aids, worth less than US$100,000
per contract and totalling not more than US$1.0 million, will be purchased on
the basis of quotations from at least three suppliers in accordance with pro-
cedures acceptable to the Bank. Procurement under ICB will be divided into
about 30 packages, ranging in value from US$300,000 to US$40 million. In bid
evaluation, Chinese manufacturers will be allowed a preferential margin of 15%
of the CIF cost of competing imports, or the relevant prevailing level of
customs duties, whichever is lower. For items not financed by the Bank,
Government procurement procedures, which are acceptable to the Bank, will
apply.
67.       Disbursements would be made as follows:
(a) 100% of the CIF cost of imported equipment and materials;



- 18 -
(b) 100% of the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured equipment and
materials;
(c) 100% of the cost of technical assistance and overseas training.
Domestic transport from port or factory would not be eligible for Bank
financing. Any savings under the loan would be cancelled unless otherwise
agreed with the Bank. To facilitate disbursements against the cost of
overseas training, a revolving fund would be established with an initial
deposit of US$200,000 equivalent to about three months of expected
expenditures.  A disbursement schedule is given in the Loan and Project
Summary. Disbursements are based on the assumption that the proposed loan
would become effective by June 1984.
68.       Benefits.  The project would make a direct contribution to the
Government's overall plan of increasing the supply of energy necessary for the
sustained development of China. The project is part of an urgently needed
rail developme-nt program to move coal from Shanxi to east coast ports and
cities. The net value added of coal production generated by the overall
energy and transport development plan is the main benefit of the project.
Coal being the main source of energy in China, the benefits of the project
would accrue widely throughout the economy. The project would also contribute
to the improvement and expansion of electric locomotive production in China.
69.       Xinxiang-Yanzhou Line.  The existing line from Yanzhou to Heze is
presently a branch line with traffic in the order of 3 mt p.a. near Yanzhou
dropping to about 1 mt p.a. near Heze. The project line upgrading plus con-
nection to Xinxiang will have a capacity of about 22 mt p.a. The benefits are
in terms of value added to coal which will be using the line. Included in the
cost streams are the required investments in (a) coal mines, estimated on the
basis of information from the proposed Bank coal development project, (b) the
proposed project, (c) the new rail line between Yanzhou and Shijiusuo, and
(d) the new port of Shijiusuo. The latter two items are presently under con-
struction with assistance from Japan. The economic rate of return of the
entire set of investments above, which includes the proposed project, is 17%
with a 25 year period for benefits. While the life of the mine, rail and port
investments is much longer than 25 years, benefits beyond the 25th year would
increase the rate of return only marginally.
70.       Datong-Taiyuan Line.  Present traffic on the line ranges from 8 to
10 mt p.a. near Datong and Taiyuan to 5 mt p.a. through the central and more
mountainous section. In addition to freight, there are some 10-12 passenger
trains per day on the line, and the northern and southern sections are virtu-
ally at capacity with their single track steam operation (7 to 10 mt p.a.).
Major mining development projects are about to start along the line, and by
the mid-1990s, traffic is expected to exceed 30 mt p.a. on the northern
section, reach 19 mt p.a. on the southern section and some 12 mt p.a. through
the mountains. Costs and benefits are similar to those of the Xinxiang-Yanzhou
line above, and the economic rate of return is estimated at 19% over a 25-year
period for benefits. The alternative of providing the necessary capacity
increase with diesel rather than electric traction has been considered and
rejected as more costly. Also the lines at both ends of the proposed project



- 19 -
are already electrified, so operationally it also makes sense to have the
middle section under the same type of traction.
71.       Zhuzhou Locomotive Factory.  This proposed component would assist
the factory in increasing its output to meet the overall demand for electric
locomotives which will be needed by the proposed project as well as other
electrification projects presently under construction. The proposed factory
modernization will have the following benefits: (a) reduced production cost
of locomotives; (b) savings in the cost of locomotives (which otherwise would
have to be imported); and (c) reduction in repair and maintenance costs of
locomotives.  The benefits in the first full year of operation are estimated
at almost twice the investment costs. This is because the project is a
marginal investment in a factory which is already established. The return of
the project is thus very high.
72.       Overall Evaluation and Risks.  Overall economic evaluation shows
that implementation of all project components is well justified and should
proceed without delay. The average economic rate of return (ERR) of the three
project components above accounting for over 99% of total project costs is
estimated at 19%. All project components involve proven technology that has
been in extended use in China or in other parts of the world; technological
risks connected with the project are therefore small. In addition, MR has
successfully completed similar projects for a number of years and has compe-
tent expertise; risks from inadequate project implementation and operation are
therefore negligible. The constraint placed on development by the tight
energy situation guarantees that all efforts will be made by the Government to
increase production of coal as well as develop the transport capacity to dis-
tribute it where needed. The risk is therefore very low that the rate of
return would fall below the estimate above.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
73.       The draft Loan Agreement between the People's Republic of China and
the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4 (iii), of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distri-
buted to the Executive Directors separately.
74.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III. Special conditions of effectiveness are the approval by China's State
Council of the Loan Agreement and the establishment of the Revolving Fund.
75.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



- 20 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
76.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
March 7, 1984
Washington, D.C.
i



- 21 -                                                       ANNEX I
Page I of 6
CHINA, PEOPLE-S REP. OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
CHINA, PEOPLE'S REP. OF*              REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERACES) /a
MOST                      (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
/b          ,  RECENT               L OW INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960'       197rib   ESTD4ATN-        ASTA & PACIFIC          ASIA 6 PACIFIC
AREA (TSAM SQ. M)
TOTAL                              9561.0      9561.0       9561.0
AGRICLLTURAL                       3176.3      3213.0       3182.9
GNP PER CAPITA (UsS)                    40.0/c      90.0       300.0               276.7                    1028.6
END= CDNOWPION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      340.0       427.0       618.0               398.4                     792.8
POPILATION AND VIETD'STATTSTICS**
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 683400.0   838900.0   991300.0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)        18.4/d        ..        20.6                21.5                      32.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                           1197.7
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                             1434.6
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                             2040
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. 1C.                        71.5        87.7       102.5               161.7                     260.7
PER SQ. KOM. AGRI. LAND           215.2       261.1       307.8              363.1                     1696.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (%)
0-14 YRS                          38.9        37.7        32.2                36.6                      39.4
15-64 YRS                          56.3        57.2        62.4               59.2                       57.2
65 AND ABOVE                        4.8         5.1         5.4                 4.2                       3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                               1.7         2.1          1.5                1.9                       2.3
URBAN                                ..          ..          ..                 4.0                       3.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)         38.9/e      34.1        20.9                29.3                      31.3
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)         23.77e       9.8         7.8                10.9                       9.6
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               2.8Te       2.6         1.4                 2.0                       2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)            ..          ..
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)           ..          ..        74.0/f              48.1                      46.6
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OP FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                          ..       100.0       117.0               111.4                     125.2
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)       78.8/e      88.7       107.0                98.1                     114.2
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           49.47w      53.0        65.0                56.7                      5J.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           ..        12.7        15.0                13.9                      14.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE**        26.1/e      10.7         7.2                12.2                       7.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)**      40.5/       57.9        67.2                59.6                      60.2
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER TNOUS)**     165.O0/      90.0        71.0               96.6                       68.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                                ..          ..          ..                32.9                      37.1
URBAN                                ..          ..          ..                70.8                      54.8
RURAL                                ..          ..          ..                22.2                      26.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(7 OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..          ..          ..                18.1                      41.4
URBAN                                ..          ..          ..                72.7                      47.5
RURAL                                ..          ..          ..                 4.7                      33.4
-                  POPULATION PER PHYSICLN            8330.0/h    3800.0/h    1920.0/h           3506.0                     7771.9
POP. PER NURSING PERSON            4020.0      2840.0      1890.0             4797.9                     2462.6
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            1040.0       760.0       490.0              1100.6                    1047.2
URBAN                             210.0          ..       160.0              298.4                      651.1
RURAL                           10140.0          ..      1010.0              5941.6                    2591.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..          ..          ..                  ..                      27.0
BOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..          ..         5.2
URBAN                                ..          ..         4.2
RURAL                                ..          ..         5.5
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                ..          ..
URBAN                                ..          ..
RURAL                                ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (X OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..           .
URBAN                                ..          ..
RURAL                                ..          ..          ..                  ..
______ - ----  -   ____           ___________________ ------------



- 22 -                                                          ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
CHINA. PCOPLtS REP. OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
CHIA, PEOPLCS REP. OF                   REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /L
MOST                       (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
/b          lb  RECENT  lb           LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCQtE
1960-       1970- EST2tAT15             ASIA & PACIFIC           ASIA * PACIFIC
EDUCATIO'***
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                   t09.0        110.0        117.0                96.1                      101.2
MALE                       ..           ..       126.0               107.8                       106.0
FEMALE                     ..           ..       106.0                82.9                        97.5
SECONDARY: TOTAL                    21.0         23.0         34.0                30.2                       44.9
ALE                        ..           ..        40.0                37.3                        50.0
FEMALE                     ..           ..        27.0                22.2                        44.6
VOCATIONAL (2 OF SECONDARY)              ..          ..          2.2                 2.3                       18.5
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIYARY                                ..          ..         26.0                34.6                       32.7
SECONDARY                             ..           ..         17.0                18.4                       23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (2)                43.0/d        ..         69.0/i              53.5                        72.9
cotsnN1EoU
PASSENGER CARS/THO(tSAND POP             ..          ..           ..                 1.6                        9.7
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP             ..          ..        150.6                96.8                      113.7
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP                ..           ..        15.8                 9.9                       50.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST-) CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAPD POPIILATION                ..          ..           ..                16.4                       54.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA          ..          ..           ..                 3.6                        3.4
LADM  PONC***
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOOS)         319589.0/.  377495.0    463348.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    38.3         38.0         37.2                33.3                       33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                 ..           ..         68.9                69.0                       50.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                     ..          ..         18.7                15.8                       19.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                46.8/1      45.0         46.7                42.5                       38.6
KALE                                 55.9Th      54.5         57.0                54.4                       50.7
FEMALE                              37.07e       35.0         35.9                29.8                       26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              0.9LI        1.0          0.8                 1.0                        1.1
I11O. DISTIBUTZON
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCCOE
RECEIVED BY
NIGHEST 52 OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..          ..         12.5/k              16.5                       22.2
HIGNEST 20  OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..          ..         39.37k              43.5                       48.0
LOWEST 202 OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..          ..          6.87N               6.9                        6.4
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..           ..        IS.47k              17.5                       15.5
GlRTT TAT CdtOUlS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..          ..           ..               133.9                      194.5
RURAL                                 ..           ..           ..               111.6                      155.0
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCCIE
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
UR8AN                                  ..          ..           ..                 ..                       178.0
RDRAL                                 ..           ..           ..                 ..                       164.8
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCO}E LEVEL (2)
URBAN                                 ..           ..           ..                43.8                       24.4
RURAL                                 ..           ..           ..                51.7                       41.1
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are poputatlon-wigbted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries a.otr  the
indicators depends on availability of data and Is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, Data for 1960- refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; -Data for 1970- between 1969 and
197t; and data for "Most Recent Eatiute" between 1979 and 1981.
tc  Interpolated 1957-62 data; /d 1964; /e 1955-65 averae; /f Percentage of women of reproductive age; LI 1955-64
average; /h Senior doctor of western ndlelne; /1 1982; 7i 1957; /k Distribution of people ranked by households per
capita income.
* All population and vital statistics are Bank estimates vhich differ froe Chinese official statistice.
*** Formal education only; non-formt enrolltmnt is substantial.
* Definition and coverage differ from those of Chinese official statistics.



- 23 -                                                                                    ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
DEFINITIONfS OF SOCIAL INDIICATIOR
otes..:  Although if,. dote .r  drast fromnure  generally judged the most authoritative end relibhlo, It should als  he noted tho1tOhoy say not hoitrato.l
comparble heosn  of the look of stssdaodietd defin1ittun   .ed ounepte used by diffarent  ontotesin Lnolletting the data.  Tto dot ore,  -oenbles, oseful to
desortho orders of magottde, indiotot trends, and ohreoteirie cernaio  ejnr difetenoec  eteen ronoetris..
The reforeo  group. err (I) the  -in  oouooy groop of the sobjoco  --ooy asd (2) a ocuory grop no    oesa   ihe   nrgojom   thou the ....onry groop ofth
sajet o-try (enopt for "Mtigh tte'Oil fpooteren grouP Acere "Middle trou-  North  Melti. sed Midd-le  atb                 tooe   oau  o   togrncocloa
af-fjetties),  In the referenoc group doto the  -vroge  Or. ppulation neightd a-ithent!oLasfreahidctrne   hr   iy  hunjtt  ofI the ,h-ouutties in
gerhoe dco fe- uhet indicator.  Sioot the toverega of -utries .              he.eioto..epnd.n the u-ilabltyo  dutu ndti   c                      fo,oaion must ho
exerised In reluting a-rges of onec inditon- to anoher.  These  -vagS.  are only useful in coparIng nhe valu  of iueldi-ta-or a                       t  o    -mg the o..untry ted
MEL1 (then-ad sq.Im.l                                                                              Puuou  o _ Phyicin  Pnpltloo, divided by unebee of ornoticteg
-1  Toe   su rfntx aren onmrising teed area ae d inlandetrl 1960,                               prysiLan    ui iAtu    sdical irhool at tnntvrsity level
1970 ned 1980 dano.                                                                           PonieptNoosIng Person - Ppolation dinided by nabho  of protticing
.      toton-Enloeu f agrtucoro  are ond temporarily or persaucoy                          sol  ted female grodnete nurse   .. J.-ltaione   practical tose  sd
or crops,% -psaarn.     schtneki'toho gardous or to"iu  felice; 1960,                            nur.lIg a..cllfarce-
1990 an  1910 dots.                                                                           Potultn        Optsl Sod   t.tntl. urban. ued rued1 - Pnpolatton (total,
urhon, and rural) .dicdd by their -npectIve nune  of hoepitn1 hede
-fII      GM? pee o-pit. estiates  t .torret    kht prtcns,                           nvalahle to poblic and pricace gennea1 utd   eiledheta   n
at   by em   envrst-  "tied as  -Ird Seek doles (1919-8I hosts);                           reheitiatiur cetr . oupitals are estebItbhnte  pemc- tly staffed
1960. 1970. end 1981 date.                                                                        hytIeastoephyilota.  tabliho..rce prcotdiog principally octodiu1
onc  ac o   iclded R...orI hospiti,,hecr  nld  healt  and
4r               ENER~laGY toLteSrTioR Pf0 CAPITA - Anosi apparen.t coesaption of cnerical                             cIcs   ere        t o  pvomnotly stffed byupyiiu(bun by a medioul
pelmry nergy7 1...  an  ltntc          rolc    natural gas ned bydr-, nocc-                       atttn,or             idrife, oto.) chith offer to-pontct  oor-dation and
nod  eothormal. ecteittty) to kilogram  of cot_ qlvlotper capita;                                  pr-ode a litattd range of scd icct futilities.  For nttiatloal pnvponc
1960, 1970. sd 1i90 data.                                                                         ochon hoepitiul  inclode WltOs printipnl/geerxl hoaplnnla. xod meatl
hoepit ina,localior mnI h.epitotle and sedical od maternity te. nirra
POPUILATION MID VITAL STATISTICS                                                                     ip.cta.I hed op tula ate inoloded only oed-r total.
Totl pgnletiej-9I1t-!s-rth-tmxda) -  a uf Joly 1; 196t. 1970, end 1901                           Adinson  pe   opiu'       e  - 'tona  noahe  of  dmicsiono tc or disoh.oges
dIs.                                      t.f   b.t   ..1p..i.                                   tra  bhaptla. diviMded By the cob-r of bdn.
differec  dstoite -of-oho  aea  may  -tet  up-billiy of data                                  oiu
amon  enuteis; 160,1970. aed 1901 data.                                                    crGe 01c  ofgl  16.uhod (pars... per tounbldl) - tntial urho,endI enrolI
Poeslotine Pr.Jettln                                                                               -     one d onost  cf ur group of iodvt-_l  An chor  liig   urtr
Peeltn   o  er30   Crecot popoltino projettione are hea.d on 1980                               ned thnrmi  cl.Abadc   rlde   a   rmy no  he inloded in
inI.l peeoI.eb   geadse n  their anotalty and fertility                                       the h.uebldfo  nitlticlpras
rates.  Pruetion prmters tn-  mootality rte.tccompriseo  be                                   rrg   u of    of p-soe pe rom -total  uhn. und  -nto   -rcegenoahe
leeds tacmig  Of   -pcanya  bieththhloeal cr   -taary'e Per                                   of pernoax pe  roI  all oter, an  cral co_opLed oa-re,ioal
-pit.x Inat  leveI, cod fcma)e lite enpetec-y abialicieg at 77.5                              dwellings, to-peci-vly.  Irollinga toclde no-pornooct stroctort  and
yeses   The paramters f_f ferility ecte also hove three lcvels                                _nccupied psttn.
uns=ing detlie  in f-etiltty a...rding to intome leve  aud Post faily                       hcArt n_    ciiti   rtetofdnion -IOctatl. orbu.anrul-
plannng pefoemre.   ach  ountry Is the. assigned nI  of nhte  ns                      Convetional1 dne1ig    i    lcriiyi  iig  qoorlesa   aret
oobo .ix  of scriolty andfetility treeds fot peojttine pupssf toto1, uthan, and rural d-ecliogero-paci-ly.
Staiiua pronplotilxn- T.n ttainnao   popuixino. there is an gruth
stat  thetbrirt  Iseqa  to the death rate, aod nlc  the  g                               EDUOlIlN
einnueeee   contant   Ibis is sohicd uIpl a.fter fertility rates                      djtdfroieoation
detlien noth   relc            -1i ee  of noit nat rnptndot    re rae,  h.e.                  Frimary achool - toalml and femile -ir... tmini, nar anod fenale
cobgeertla  tf snrpla..e itself e-cly.  The cistionary                                        enoleto   l    e   t the prfsnoy l-o  us percntges of rexp-cti-
poPoLatlocolc  anetisatd ye the heal  of nhe paj.eoted oherster-                                prinory nohool-ago popotaticon; normaly ino.lodeo ohildtoo aged 6-11
mute_ of the pouato  in the year 2000, sod the rate of denies  f                                yearn hut adjtd for diffterenc Lengths of primary ed taion; foe
fertility rate to replacena  lev..1.toutries aith o-i-er1ed nd tciin  .novrlen  an   y encd 100 poeneci
Tsa aistioeay pee.lanio  in reachbd - Tie year nf.e  ettner:nne noe pupils  r xv, Onionr abco tho officia  nohol ag..
popelanian sins iOu  ho reached.                                       tecandar~Z.y achol - total. aae and fnnalr - Copotedanahbv-;o.....dary
P. er pu I.,theIe leosiy                                                                             edrtorqiea   xe   oryaso   pprnved prisaty isrcio
-MItd-yaxe population pot sqre kilneet-r (100 hctures) of                            prvdngYrt   oainl   ctrher trann    ntotcn
Picaarc   1960, 1970. end 1980 data.                                                            popin voal  n '12 to 17 years ot oge;corceuyovde-entcar
Pee -o  he1atiilurl ad   C-CoPuted an ahoy  for-            rcocrl.lad                             generally' anl.ded
only; 1960.  91a 1    190dt.tctin...l enrollent (p-r.eci of neoundocy) - Vocatinto  loetiloti.ov
Poenlati-AC.x     t' toe  e 9ior   (eten Ch-ibldren (0-14 years). vorkieg-age (1)-                 itelde neoboica, IuitL' or ocher progr-o  oblch oporat  ind.epan-
64 years)  and reire  (?65 yvaea xnd over) u                  oecnau   f mid-yea                ently or un deporoseo t'ntoof notdxry i-iacito n..
ppltn;16,1970, and 1981 data.                                                        Popil-tia..ihrrnti--rioy . xd neccdacy - Intel etudente enrolled in
Popeatio  ireib  ats(peroet) - total - A.nnl grnih rates of total mid-                      peiaaey and....od-ry lovls dIvIded   youbhrc of te...htra In the  on
peer puesletio  fun 1950-60, 1960-70, and 1970-831.                                             roxpording lvel..
fponlafloo teneb Meta (ecran) - arhan -Aonua groan  -rat   of orhon                              Adult ltercy rate (percent  - Mr.Otrai  adocn (able  c road and e1rgo) 
ppelalitoen for 1900-60, 19064-70, and  970-01.                                                 u preniag  of tota  ndolt pcpnltict aged 15 yearn and c.rtr
Cred  Birc  gat  (pe  tho-od) - A-cna  lIve births par thousand nf mid-
ynrppinu;1960, 1970, and 1901 data..COOooftPrIIn
Crue= SnnhTIIono._ (ee  th`ooecdl 9-IAeol deetba poe thouaaod of mid-yea-as o  Core (por tho.....d p.polotion) - yoet-g- crs comprise ent-
popoL.istn; 1960, 1971, and 193 data,                                                           cuts nctlog lee,liar~ qigho peranun; encIudee naboluoc, honrannou.d
Gross. I... dnotto  Be to-Avrge  -b-he  of danghters a            Willo hear in                   ailinory ohcIc
h.r __Ime  reprodutive purled if nhe,neine  pocont. ug-.P.if it                               Radio Otcren(prthuad Rpolati-ne)- All typen of.rocinar  for radio
fertility raes  uual  f i-y-a  avrges ending in 1960 '1070, and                                 brcdcnsintngenerul pbli   e  th ad of popo1Latlc;e=oodesno
1981.                                                                                           license.d re-ivere Le  oiuteles sad In yeari. h.Aev  regisrotio   of radio
Pamily Placing - Aetnette..   tona  (,thousands) -  euA-1 on-h- of  ctreptore                      sets nac in efecrt; deta fo     .r cooo  yearn fy no  he coparable nioe est
of'. hit-taroi dai _sadrupree of nationaI family pIlauig                                        cocaroeebo1oehed   onig
prageam.                                                                                      If  ctL-ere(perith-sud population) -TI  rxroivert fnr btcadcst in
Pamily Plauinao  - Onee (eroe  o f married wee   -ifPhe-ro       ge of ..r-ied                     geeo  pbi  per thvvnard popoluto;;           nloe   .nolioecsed .TVf. iovere
ems  f oild-esrog  ge (5-4  Ocrsl nbc one birfbcotrnl dovioce oc                      -ccotrien  ood ivyna   ohrc roico  o   fItof               a   i efet.
al -arid ease  Or eae  age grcap.                                                           iooppo  CrcOoic(t rth...c  porolatin) - tho-  tin octr.ge
FOOl 601 fAlluITlun                                                     circolot Icc ct ~~"daily ger-n    ntoen~t c_-eoryt", definod a   periodical
lo.den. of Food Prodnion. pe  CopIt, (1696-71-Ill) - Indon of Par capitobi.te  dorotod prlc...ily tc  -rocding goern,l -..n.  In iacc..aldered
.-0If   PctWh            Ll food t_suItles,  preocntionoclode. need aId                           to ho "doily0  if 10 oppears at least foot timste
feed en- se   nadrperhss    xmdta  en-`,                   peiarygnnds (e.g.                  Ciem           _tnal .oedatce per Contre rer Yer-   esd c  thnbhr it
sugoeoec instead nf sogsel elo  ar  edible andnoaioties (e.g.                                    ticets nn1d during Ithe your, inclodlog  di.heIesi        to driv-in cicemm  and
coffan andte 1ae  nodd).  ftgregate ptndunttns of each cnoutry is                               mobIle units.
hosedn              --mel  veag  prdoce  price uIghts; 1961-65, 1970, nod 1981
Bee uncit aeelyofturs (prgnt af teoiomea  -Compotd from                                         Total lao   nc   thousands) - Erousically artben Pereen.. Inoldig armed
esBy sqaivalen  a t        fudsplcael             i onutty Per caPita per                     focs  n=vplnyed hoc.. encldig honasivee,  todeun, etc., cveing
day     .4. balal  sappilse camprt   d- eacu  Predneetto, imparts Ieen                          poruIlatOo  of all ages.  lefiotlan.  in varica  -noctric am  nor
anpen, end  bang  In stock,  Met sapp1iu  cenlude anmx  feed, cods,                           ospoenhi; 1960, 1970 and 1901 doto..
qeotitia used Is fend pranes.iag. and lose.  J. d1ribteihata.                                   !jAn!0n1,t):- Pamel  lao  forc  as percentgef total Iebo  forc.
msqsirsmnet retmae  by FPOb.hosd us physinisgiol ends f- or-ara                       ~       ~       rJ        tntl - blhr-ocei  arng,forestry, bunting and
_activty end helh toesidarig enviro tneo  ssmpe-rnr, body eights. *                                 aiog as. .perceetag  of total labor fnrro;16,1970 and 1901 date
age aed sa  dianribuios of popelatia, nd allowing 10 Feeas ...           cafe.t                  Inutry_(perrn  - lahe  f rr  In mining, ronusirtiun, manifocttiag
at heenbeid lave; 1961-65, 1q70 and 1980 data,                                                     an  ostricity, eat.et nd gas us pervetage of nttl labor foote; 1961,
Per acit. seplh of protein(are  s   dy) -  rucein content of per capitx                              1970 ocdL1901 data.
cceapl  ofY fun  pe   a.        t soppy of food Le dafined es above.Paticirto                                  fae(pren)-totl. ale, und fesalt - Partioipotiona
t                   Be~~~Rqair ten  8cr all ernotrien emblished by OUSDA provide for minimo                          at.tliyateaatooeputed ax total I u    adfeels labor force a
ailsmnc  of 60ge    of total prtoein pot day sod 10 gas-  of animal and                         percentages of itol., saean           l   popultion cf all  gs r-ep-tnively;
palm  penao, of  hbib 10 goas  sh-Id he  ttimaI protein.  Thes                                  1960, 1970, and 19131 data.  Th.ese are hted on ILO's participation este
stndro  e  lowe  then tho   of 75 gtes nf it-l pro-en and .  g,m                           reflerting oge-_e  ar:totuv  of th  population, and long time trend.  A
of "aima  Protsin en a. s aergro  the  arld  proposed by PAP In the                             fee estimates ae from rational no-.
Third World Pond genvy;  196-65f 1970 ed198  data                          .2Cnuei Bepend.n.y nun - Beth  of poplatio nuder 15 and 65 sod ove  co
Pr uneito rninsri  from animal and  ola-  Protein supply of food                                the total labor forc.
dole   rmaimalsn  pulse  In gram  par day; 1961-65, 1q70 and 1977
Child  eee 161 onth ga elen thousad.) - Annua dseobs pee thousan  in                     PeocsofriaeIncm  (boil In cost nod bin) - Rt..oired by riohoet 5
age gnep 16 ye rsisobiles         M. i  ag  grop; for most de epiapret4roet2  percent, poorest 20 porcoot, and poorest 40 portet of
teatries data dapiad ire  life tables; 1960, 1970 sod 1981I date.                               Onuanh.1da.
OfAlli                                                                  f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OVERTY TARGET iGROUPS
"UR feeonstv  n Birh (mal -kearae n.nberof yera of Lifereang -iSOllOiiflet                                     re very appronimat menr of poverty levels, and
atbirt;161  913ad1L              ae                                                             sh:e.        IIoldb he  ntspte td  Lth con-idarble  . oan.
Infest Ilernite mte (cr thuos-Md    A-kel deaths ofi inat  under onun                           feioe    bsu1     PovertylbIn   lan   (1011 Per caitlb .-ora  and18   r-exl -
yrofaepethouneed lien birthe; 1960, 1970an  1901 dt.Absolict povertinoelvlsthtncm   lne  bolo  eih al mIsimll
AetsafSafe Wtier (peroest ofIeelto)-itl   no,adrtl-                                               nutritioIly adequate diot plus ce ca   o-fond vqieaosin  at
mhar of paepin (total. arbax0 and runel) ~~~~ttb tescl  aces  to saf                afodoble.
wiespply (i_tlode  tentod eufteeers or antreutod hot                                       fatimtd BeaitPvrtyIcoeLee. IS$ per cpt)-raidma
oentamiend etac each as thet from poctetd borpholes, aprings, and                                 oalratv poeIy ncm   lee  is one-thirdcfaegeproia
sanitnry well) us porteotag   of their respative pop.ulaton.  CoIn .Poeroo  incLme of the  .-tyce.  Irhn 1-v1 is dottoed frun the e-1
ares ar  a psAllo fontin or stndpont lo.ttd no  mer  then 200 setor                               oil nith nd3u-  _at for higher coat of living in orhun  ec
f-n  a horn my ho oasodsed at heing within r-aeable noes  of thot                             EstimatedPoluin0mAbltsovryn atnl(pre)-oba
heoae,  Ia voca  ere   ecannbis et-n  -nd imply thet the h0-1srfe or                            sod roraL - Porceot ofpopiotn(chn  n   url  t    re"bsl
sember  of the hsanbeld do -t hove no spnd a diproportioute  part of                            po"
the day to feteblug the family's set-erecds.
rur.1 - gamber  fpol   os,nbe  and raral) uevee  bys-orta
di.posal as p-rtetgs  ut thele r-epottiv   poputl-te   f-reta disposalI
may isolad  the coileciot end diapena1, with or aitunt treatment  of                                                                 Oro.'l  an d Sooio1 lAt  Sivi.
home  erat  end  -at-et-r by cone-horse eytm  or the na  of pit                                                                 iconoml     1yilysi  and Projact In   Beprtneet
privies and  .ieLar totllta.cy 1903



- 24 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
Population: 1,008 million (mid-1982)
GNP per capita:  US$300 (1982)
CHINA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Annual Growth (Z) at Constant Prices
1957-70   1970-77   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982
Production
Gross Output
Agriculture                      2.2       3.4       9.0    8.6    3.9    6.6   11.0
Light industry                   8.3       1.8      10.8    9.6   18.4   14.1    5.7
Heavy industry                  11.6       9.3      15.6    7.7    1.4   -4.7    9.9
Net Material Product (NMP)         5.2       4.8      12.4    7.0    6.1    4.8    7.4
1957    1970    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981   1982
Prices
Retail price index (1970-100)  92.2   100.0   102.7   103.3    105.4   111.7   114.4  116.6
NMP deflator        (1970-100)  90.7   100.0    99.1   100.5    104.5   108.4   110.5  110.9
Exchange rate       (Y/US$)       2.46    2.46    1.86    1.68        1.55    1.50    1.71   1.89
Amount                                                      Average Annual Growth
1982                  Shares of GDP (Z)                    (Z) at Constant Prices
National Accounts           -(S billion)   1957    1979    1982    1985    1990  1957-70  1970-79  1979-82  1982-90
/a       /a
GDP                           260.4       100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0    5.8          5.8      6.0       6.5
Agriculture                  96.1          ..    32.5    36.9    32.4    27.9    1.6         3.2       5.8       3.2
Industry                    105.4          ..    43.5    40.5    44.4    48.1   12.1         8.9       7.4       8.2
Other                        58.9          ..    24.0    22.6    23.2    24.0    3.5         4.3       1.2       7.1
Consumption                   181.6        76.4    68.4    69.7    73.8    76.7    2.7          5.4      5.7       7.4
Investment                     73.2        23.2    32.5    28.1    27.5    25.0    9.8         6.8       2.3       4.8
Exports GNFS                   24.9         3.7/b   6.0      9.6      8.7     8.1    1.6/b    8.0/b   14.1         3.2
Imports GNFS                   20.0         3.5/b   6.8      7.7    10.0      9.8    2.37i    9.475    2.7         7.9
National savings               78.9        23.6/c  31.9    30.3    26.4    23.0        .
As I of GDP
Public Finance                                  1957          1979          1981
Current revenues (excluding foreign           28.7          27.4          22.6
borrowing)
Current expenditures                          16.1          17.7          14.6
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                   +12.6          +9.7          +8.0
Capital expenditures                          11.9          15.1           8.8
Foreign borrowing /d                           0.7           0.9           1.6
Other Indicators                              1957-79   1979-82   1982-85   1985-90
/a
GDP growth rate (2)                           5.4        6.0       5.7        7.0
GDP per capita growth rate (%)                3.5        4.6        4.4       5.8
Energy consumption growth rate (%)            8.3         ..
LCOR                                          5.4         ..        ..        3.8
Marginal savings rate                         0.42        ..         ..       0.16
Import elasticity                             0.95      0.45        1.9       1.3
/a  NMP basis.
T7  Goods only.
/c  GUS.
/d  Gross.



-25 -                                             ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
Population: 1,008 million (mid-1982)
GNP per capita:  US$300 (1982)
CHINA - EXTERNAL TRADE
Amount                               Annual Growth Rates (Z)
(million US$ at                           (at constant 1980 2rices)
Indicator                     current prices)                    Actual                           Prolected
1982                   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986
External Trade
Merchandise exports              22,476                  25.5   16.8   15.9    6.2    2.6    2.0    1.0    4.0
Energy                          5,353                    ..
Other primary                   5,110                    ..      ..     ..      ..      .
Manufactures                   11,356                    ..      ..     ..      ..     ..
Other                             657                    ..      ..     ..      ..     ..
Merchandise imports              17,830                  21.7   16.7   -8,6    3.0    7.6   15.0   10.0    9.0
Food                            4,003                    ..      ..     ..      ..     ..
Petroleum                           0                    ..      ..     ..            0       0      0       0
Machinery and equipment         3,405                    ..      ..     ..      ..     ..
Other                          10,422                    ..      ..     ..      ..     ..
Prices
Export price index (1978.100)        ..                 100.0  115.9  119.1  114.4  109.8  113.0  117.5  124.2
Import price index (1978-100)        ..                 100.0  116.6  121.9  103.9  103.0  107.5  112.4  118.6
Terms of trade index (1978-100)       ..                100.0   99.4   97.7  110.1  106.6  105.1  104.5  104.7
Composition of Merchandise Trade (I)                  Average Annual Increase (x)
(at current prices)                             (at constant prices)
1979   1980   1981   1982   1985   1990   1957-70  1970-79  1979-82  1982-85  1985-90
Exports                      100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0        1.6       8.0      14.8       1.9      4.0
Energy                      19.5   25.1   22.9   23.8   10.9    0           ..        ..
Other primary               34.1   28.4   24.1   22.8   24.2   23.8         ..        ..
Manufactures                46.4   46.5   47.8   50.5   59.5   70.9         ..        ..
Other                        0      0       5.2    2.9    5.4    5.3        ..        ..
Imports                      100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0        2.3       9.4       3.2     10.8      10.0
Food                          ..     ..   19.6   22.5   20.0   16.8         ..        ..
Energy                       0      0       0      0       0      8.2       ..       00                 0
Machinery and               25.2   27.5   24.2   19.1   26.7   25.1         ..        ..        ..        ..
equipment                                                                           ..       ..        ..
Other                         ..     ..   56.2   58.5   53.3   49.9
Share of Trade With
Share of Trade With          Share of Trade With             Countries with Centrally
Industrial Countries (x)   Developing Countries (M)            Planned Economies (x) /a
Direction of Trade            1978            1981         1978            1981               1978            1981
Exports                     37.3            45.9         51.6            50.2              11.1              3.9
Imports                     73.3            76.8         17.5            18.7               9.2              4.5
/a Includes the Soviet Union, Eastern Europe, Cuba, North Korea and Mongolia.



-26 -                            ANNEX I
Pagc~ 6 cf 6
Population:  1,008 million (aid-1982)
GNP per capita:  US$300 (1982)
CHINA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(millions US$ at current prices)
Actual                                Projected
Indicator                              1979    1980    1981       1982    1983    1985    1990
estimate
Balance of Payments
Exports of goods and services            15,351  20,901  25,157   25,989  26,300  29,350  48,020
of which: Merchandise f.o.b.           13,658  18,492  22,027   22,476  22,150  24,420  39,330
Imports of goods and services            18,204  24,752  24,380   20,793  22,100  30,040  5X,470
of which: Merchandise f.o.b.           16,212  22,049  21,047   17,830  19,010  26,230  52,760
Net transfers                               596      500     680       412     420      500      800
Current account balance                  -2,257  -3,351   1,457    5,608   4,620    -190 -10,650
Private direct investment                     -       57     265       359     400      500   1,500
MLT loans (net)                             800   1,130      416       426      400     800   6,000
Official                                  350     446      479       557     600
Private                                   450     684      -63      -131    -200
Other capital                             2,054   2,555      365      -102    -400    -600   1,000
Change in net reserves ("-" -
increase)                               -597    -391  -2,503   -6,291   -5,020   -510   2,150
International reserves                    7,274   7,665  10,168   16,459   21,479
of which:  gold                        5,120   5,120   5,120    5,120    5,120
Reserves as months imports                  4.8     3.7      5.0       9.4      11.6
External Capital and Debt
Gross disbursements                          ..
Concessional loans                         ..       ..
DAC                                      ..
OPEC                                     ..
IDA
Other                                    ..
Nonconcessional loans                      ..
Official export credits                  ..
IBRD                                      .
Other multilateral                       ..
Private                                  ..
External debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed             ..   5,433   5,785    6,058
Official                                 ..
Private                                  ..      ..
Undisbursed debt                           ..       ..
Debt service
Total service payments            ..       ..       ..
Interest                        ..       ..      ..       ..        ..
Payments as X exports GNFS        ..       ..     5.0      7.8/a   10.0/a
Average interest rate on new
loans (X)
Average maturity of new loans
(years)
/a Including some early repayment of principal.



ANNEX II
- 27 -
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of September 30, 1983)
Loan or
Credit                                                 ------- $ million ------
Number  Year      Borrower           Purpose           Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
2021    1981   People's Republic   University
1167              of China             Development      100.0  100.0       155.9
1261    1982   People's Republic   N. China Plain
of China             Agriculture           -   60.0       55.6
2207    1982   People's Republic   Ports                 124.0      -      124.0
of China
1297    1982   People's Republic   Ag. Ed. and
of China             Research             -   75.4        74.0
2226    1982   People's Republic   Industrial
1313              of China             Credit            40.6   30.0        70.6
2231    1983   People's Republic   Daqing
of China             Petroleum        162.4       -     162.4
2252    1983   People's Republic   Zhongyuan
of China             Petroleum        100.8       -      100.8
2261    1983   People's Republic   Heilongjiang Land
1347              of China             Reclamation       35.3   45.0        80.3
1411    1983/a People's Republic   Polytechnic/TV
of China             University           -   85.0        85.0
1412    1983/b People's Republic   Technical
of China             Cooperation          -   10.0        10.0
1417    1984/c People's Republic   Rubber Development           100.0      100.0
of China
1984/d People's Republic   Lubuge Hydro-
of China             electric         145.4       _     145.4
Total                                    708.5  505.4   1,164.0
Total now held by Bank and IDA           708.5  505.4
Total undisbursed                       708.5  455.5
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of September 30, 1983)
None
/a  Credit signed on October 17, 1983, and became effective on January 30,
1984.
/b  Credit signed on October 17, 1983, and became effective on
December 21, 1983
/c  Signed on January 5, 1984, but not yet effective.
/d  Loan approved on February 21, 1984.
Note: The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a
separate report on all Bank/IDA financial projects in execution,
which is updated twice yearly and circulated to the Executive
Directors on April 30 and October 31.



- 28 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
CHINA
FIRST RAILWAY PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project: 18 months
(b)  The project was prepared by:                             The Government and
Bank staff
(c)  First presentation to IBRD:                              July 1982
(d)  First mission to consider project:                       July 1982
(e)  Departure of appraisal mission:                          March 1983
(f)  Completion of negotiations:                              February 1984
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:                           June 1984
Section II: Special Bank Implementation-Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
Effectiveness
The Loan Agreement shall have been approved by the Borrower's State
Council and the Revolving Fund shall have been established (para. 75).
Other
(a) Preparation by MR of a comprehensive railway traffic costing study
(para. 58);
(b) Consultations with the Bank on project expenditures and railway
finances, financial performance and financial procedures (para. 62);
(c) Submission of annual audit reports covering (i) MR sub-administration
and administrations; (ii) the Zhuzhou locomotive factory; and
(iii) project expenditures (para. 64).



IBRD 17096
1100                                                                                                                                                    1200 \   ,~d  Tn.O,nhnAPRIL 1983
CHINAH.10
ZhaQqIok-U
FIRST  RAILWAY  PROJECT                                            Toao,                                                                                                         <AK 
PROJECT COMPONENTS
4'RAILWAYS                                                                                                                                                                              ---.4Q0
EXISTING  CONSTRUCTION BANK PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                     -9,hond..
____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ DOUBLE  LINE
- _ -_  ----  SINGLE  LINE                                                                                                                                          --
. . . . . .       . . . . ELECTRIFICATION
...... UPGRADING                                       S...
RIVERS
PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                    .-,~             .i
0       SD      lLW        180     200
KILOMETERSI                                                                                                                                                       hu        1
MILES 1             5              d             5                                                       hjS-
--I-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S-                                                       ,
H.bi,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T
Ji-h.,g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D<~jSo
35~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                               ji-..                                                                                                                        a                          35P-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
h      L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ioogn
1.   ~~~~~~~~~~U  . .R
xi,- ~ ~~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5                                                                                              0<       't
9                                                                              MONGOLIA~~~~~~~~~~'-3/
GOD fSd IA Ra,, pepare RE he BNd Bnks saB aOA,eEeR'Ide Pe cooanPoa 0
Re reade,nand  ecoGeoeR 10,06 lISfOBI ua OIlS. 9006 Bank e,d 670 k,InOkOOOI                                                                       BSgZh  CkIN
-n M. Xe/ Cl 17/ ftnd Ban an IRe k/.nt,na F-ac CnrIrfo.W an                                                                                                                                          G-wm  dy.oi\K>
Mn.B leGal v."1 t60 any 16001y a n edrmnt SCOtP-tan  0-51C Rddndne                                                                                                                                                        BURMA       TN
1100                                                                                                      1ODRa.610a,       ____________________________________~~~-r



