Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.  4597
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
PANAMA SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
(Loan 1398-PAN)
June 30, 1983
Operations Evaluation D)epartment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Name of Currency (Abbreviation)      -     Balboa (B/.)
Exchange Rate:
Official Rate             US$1.00 = B/. 1.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
1 short ton = 0.91 metric ton
ABBREVIATIONS
APN     -     National Port Authority
BDA     -     Agricultural Development Bank
BNP     -     National Bank of Panama
DMR     -     Directorate of Marine Resources
ha      -     hectare
hp      -     horsepower
IDB     -     Inter-American Development Bank
m       -     meter
MIDA    -     Ministry of Agricultural Development
NDA     -     National Directorate of Aquaculture
OED     -     Operations Evaluation Department
PCR     -     Project Completion Report
PPAM    -     Project Performance Audit Memorandum
PPAR    -     Project Performance Audit Report
SAR     -     Staff Appraisal Report
USAID   -     United States Agency for International
Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY
seiner  -     a fishing boat using a net which hangs
vertically in the water and is drawn together
trawler -     a fishing boat which uses long lines with
baited hooks
pelagic -     living in the open sea
demersal -    living at the bottom of the sea



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
PANAMA SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
(LOAN 1398-PAN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface      ............................................................       i
Basic Data Sheet          ..................................................   ii
Highlights         .........................................................   iv
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT MEMORANDUM
I.   SUMMARY ...     .1..............................................     I
II.   MAIN ISSUES ..............................................           6
A.  Statistical Basis for Management Decisions ....       .......    6
B.  Project Concept and Contribution to the
Overfishing of Shrimp ..............................           7
C.  Ownership of Fishing Vessels .........................           9
D.  Ex-Vessel Fish Price .................................          10
E.  Development of Freshwater and Marine Fish Farming       ....    11
F.  Bank Response to Non-Compliance with Loan
Covenants ..........................................          12
G.  Economic Rate of Return ..............................          12
III.   BANK INVOLVEMENT' IN FISHING SECTOR .......................          14
A.  In Panama irI Particular ..............................         14
B.  In the Worlc in General ..............................          18
Appendix   Comments of Banco Nacional de Panama .....................          21
Tables
1.   Inshore Shrimp-Trawling, Fleet Size Data .......    ..   .......    23
2.   Inshore Shrimp-Trawling, Catch and Effort Data, 1960-1982           24
3.   Inshore Shrimp-Trawling, Average Project Vessel's
Income Statement, 1980-1982 .....       ......................    25
4.   Purse-Seiner Fishery, Annual Production and
Catch Utilization       ................... ..................    26
5.   Purse-Seiner Fishery, Catch, Effort and Average
Earnings      ........................  ......................    27
6.   Purse-Seiner Fishery, Average Project Vessel's Income
Statement, 1980-1982 ..................................           28
7.   Disbursement by Category ...............    ..    ...............   29
8.   ROR Cost/Benefit Streams - Purse Seiner'Operations ......           30
9.   Key Data Fisheries Projects Audited by OED to Date        ......    31
10.   Key Data Fishing Port Projects Audited by'OED to Date      ...      33
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (cont.)
Page No.
Annexes
1.   Operating Procedures at Appraisal ........................           35
2.   First Fishing Project (Loan 784-PAN), Implementation
Summary ................................................          45
3.   Fishing Port Project (Loan 1114-PAN), Implementation
Summary ................................................          49
4.   Notes on Lending for Fishery Development in Panama
by other Agencies ......................................          53
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I.   Background ...............................................           59
II.   Description of the Project ...............................           60
III.    Project Implementation ...................................          61
IV.    Organization and Management ..............................          66
V.   Financial and Economic Returns ...........................           67
VI.    Performance of the Borrower and the Bank ....         .............  69
VII.    Special Issues and Lessons Learned .......................           71
Tables
1.   Project Cost and Financing ...............................           73
2.   Key Indicators ...........................................           74
3.   Allocation of Loan Proceeds ..............................           75
4.   Owners of Project-Financed Purse Seiners ....          .............  76
5.   Average Number of Shrimp Trawlers, National Catch and
Average Catch per Trawler ..............................           77
6.   Average Vessel's Income Statement ........................           78
7.   Average Vessel's Cash Flow Projection ....................           79
8.    Average Vessel's Cash Flow with Financing ....        ............  80
9.    Fishmeal and Industrial Fish Statistics ....         ..............  81
10.   Prices of Major Project Products and Inputs ....         ..........  82
11.   Earnings and Costs of a Rehabilitated 230 hp
Shrimp Trawler .........................................          83
12.   Calculation of Incremental Net Benefits of Rehabilitated
230 hp Shrimp Vessel Operation .........................          84
13.   Calculation of Project Economic Rate of Return ....        .......   85
14.   National Bank of Panama Condensed Financial Statements       ...     86
15.   National Bank of Panama Delinquent Subloan Analaysis .87
Map:       IBRD 12456 Second Fisheries Project



PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
PANAMA SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
(LOAN 1398-PAN)
PREFACE
This is a performance audit of the Second Fisheries Project in
Panama, for which Loan 1398-PAN in the amount of US$7.5 million was approved
on April 5, 1977.   In March 1980, it was'agreed to cancel US$2,420,000.   The
loan account was closed on schedule in January 1982, with an additional
US$208,000 being cancelled at that time.
The audit report consists of an audit memorandum prepared by the
Operations Evaluation Department (OED) and a Project Completion Report (PCR)
dated December 22, 1982.   The PCR was prepared by Agricultural Division 2 of
the Latin America and the Caribbean Projects Department following a mission to
Panama in'October 1982 1:o collect final project data and review project
achievements in the field.     The audit report is based on a review of the
Appraisal Report (1838-PAN) dated March 23, 1977, the President's Report
(P-1985-PAN) dated March 23, 1977, the Loan and 'Guarantee Agreements dated
April 28, 1977 and the PCR.     Correspondence with the Borrower and internal
Bank memoranda on project issues as contained in relevant Bank files have also
been consulted, and Bank staff associated with the project have been inter-
viewed.   The PPAR on the first project (OED Report No. 2578 dated June 29,
1979) was also consulted.
An OED mission visited Panama in February 1983.     Discussions were
held with officials of the executing agency, 'Government officials and with
project beneficiaries. The information obtained and observations made during
the mission were used to evaluate the conclusions of the PCR and are also
reflected in the audit memorandum.
The audit finds the PCR comprehensive in its analysis of the proj-
ect's implementation. The audit memorandum further elaborates on some of the
PCR conclusions and has selected other points, including an overview of Bank
involvement in fisheries in Panama and in the world in general, for discussion
because of their importance for this and other Bank-supported fisheries
projects.
A copy of the draft report was sent to the Borrower on April 15,
1983 for comments.   Comments received from the National Bank of Panama have
been attached to the audit memorandum as as appendix.
The valuable assistance provided during the preparation of this
report by officials of the 'Government of Panama, the executing agency and
project beneficiaries is gratefully acknowledged.






- ii -
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
PANM     SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
(LOAN 1398-PAN)
BASIC DATA SHEET
KEY PROJECT DATA
Appraisal              Actual or               Actual as X of
Item                                        Estimate           Current Estimate          Appraisal Estimate
Total Project Costs (USS million)                       12.56                   8.34                        66
Loan Amount (USS million)                               7.50                     4.87                       65
Date Physical Components Completed                     06/30)81                06/30)81
Proportion then completed (S)                          100                     10!                         -
Economic Rate of Return (S)                              15                      9gb                        80
Financial Rate of Return (S)                              -               Marginal a) bet/c                  -
Institutional Performance                               Good                    Good/d
Agronomic Performance
Number of Direct Beneficiaries                       1,300 (1981)             5,200 (19811/e
PROJECT DATES
Original
Plan            Revisions          Actual
First Mention in Project File-/f                                                         10/31/7 4
Negotiations                                         04/05/77                           02/2}325/77
Board Approval Date                                                                      04/05/77
Signing Date                                                                             04/28/77
Effectiveness Date                                  07/29/77      10/31/77;12/15/77      11/14/77
Closing Date                                        12/31/81              -              12/31818l 
CUMULATIVE DISBURSEMENTS
FY77      FY78      FY79      FY8 0     FY8 1     FY 2
Appraisal estimate (US$ million)                                         0.1       3.8       7.3       7.5       7.5
Actual (US$ million)                                                    -         0.4       1.3       4.9       4.9
Actual as Z of estimate                                        -         -          11        18        65        65
Loan Terms                        US$7.50 million, 15 years, 4 years grace, 8.5S interest
Final Disburaement                01/26)8 2
Cancelled                         US$2.63 million (03)80:  US$2.42 million and 01/82:  US$0.21 million)
Principal Repaid                  U3$0.94 million )
Principal Outstandin4             US$3.93 million )as of 03/31/83.
Borrowera ObligatioqLI            US$3.49 million )
Sold to Third Party/i             US$0.30 milliona3
MISSION DATA
Date        No. of     Mandays     Specializat)ons    Performance              Types of
Misaion               (mo./yr.)     Peraonn    in Field    RepreaentedLk        Rat n   1   Trendm     Problems-n
Identification               05/75          1          10            a,b
Preparation               12/75,01/76
04/76,05/16       7          67           e,b,c
Appraisal                    07/76          5         100          a,b,c,d
Subtotal                                              m
Supervision 1                07/77          1           5             b                  1          2          H
Supervision 2                02/78          2           5             b                  1          1          M
Supervision 3                C9/78          2          10            a,c                 1          2          M
Supervision 4                02/79          1           3             e                  1          2
Supervision 5                05/79          2          10            a,c                 1          2           M
Supervision 6                12/79          2          10            a,c                 1          2          M
Superviaion 7                05)80          1           3             c                  I          I          -
Supervision 8                10)80          1           3             e                  1          1          -
Supervision 9                02)81          2          15            a,c                 I          1          -
Supervision 10               07)81          2          10            a.c                 1          1          -
Superviaion 11               02/82          2          10            a,c                 1          1
Subtotal                                               aT
Total                                                 261
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Borrower                                    Banco Nacional de Panama
Executing Agency                            Banco Nacional de Panama
Guarantor                                   Government of Panama
Preceding Project:/°
Name                                     Fisheries Project
Loan Number                              784-PAN
Loan Amount (US$ million)                3.4
Date Board Approval                      C8/02/71
Follow-on Project:                          None
Footnotes next page.



- iii -
/a   However, project scope substantially curtailed:   10 rather than 15 vessels constructed; 3 rather
than 10 vessels rehabilitated.
/b Audit estimate; PCR estimate was 12%. (For further details, see PPAM, paras. 39-42).
71   For further details, see PPAM, paras. 7, 32-34, Table 6 and PCR, paras. 5.01 - 5.06.
7T   See PPAM paras. 16-18.
7T   Increased number of beneficiaries due to freshwater fish ponds being operated as community projects
rather than individually owned ponds.
/f   BTO Reconnaissance Mission, Second Fisheries Project.
Tg   By telex dated 03/22/82 the Bank informed the Borrower that all disbursements had been completed; the undisbursed
balance of US$208,363.96 was cancelled effective January 27, 1982 and the loan account closed.
/h   Includes exchange rate adjustment as per Statement of Loans dated November 30, 1982.
7T   Deutsche Genossenschaftsbank, Frankfurt, Germany agreed to participate for a total of DM 700,000 (approx.
US$300,000 equivalent) in the first maturity of the loan falling due on May 1, 1981.
/ And repaid to third party.
/k   a - fisheries specialist; b - economist; c - financial analyst; d    food quality control
expert; e - agriculturist.
/l   1 - problem-free or minor problems; 2 - moderate problems; and 3 - major problems.
7T   1 - improving; 2 - stationary; and 3 - deteriorating.
7T   F - financial; M - managerial; T - technical; P - political; and 0 - other.
7T   PPAR, Panama - Fisheries Project (Loan 784-PAN), OED Report No. 2578 dated June 29, 1979.



- iv -
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
PANAMA SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
(LOAN 1398-PAN)
HIGHLIGHTS
In contrast to the First Fisheries Project (limited to improving
shrimp trawling fleet efficiency), the Second Fisheries Project was to address
the wider range of needs affecting both marine and freshwater fish production
and onshore shrimp processing operations.       The project provided technical
assistance, administrative services and financing for:     (a) the construction
of ten purse-seiner vessels for the fishmeal industry; (b) the construction of
five new shrimp vessels and the rehabilitation of ten old wooden vessels; (c)
the relocation of six shrimp processing plants from the metropolitan area of
Panama City to the new V'acamonte fishing port; and (d) the introduction of
freshwater fish culture and oyster farming. Artisanal coastal fishing was not
included as this was being financed by the Inter-American Development Bank
(IDB) through the Agricultural Development Bank (BDA) under an existing
project.
Two events made it necessary to cancel a total of US$2.6 million
from the original loan amount of US$7.5 million: (a) instead of the projected
US$0.4 million per vessel, the ten project purse-seiner vessels were purchased
for less than US$0.3 million each, and (b) new shrimp vessels to be purchased
under the project proved unnecessary as the retirement of vessels from the
fleet did not occur as expected, and any new construction would have only
added to the existing overcapacity.    The reconstruction of old wooden shrimp
vessels was also curtailed to only three vessels instead of the ten originally
planned because of existing shrimp fishing capacity. In the end, ten vessels
were constructed and three rehabilitated (compared to the appraisal estimate
of 15 and five, respectively); albeit with some delay, the six shrimp plants
were successfully transferred to Vacamonte and shrimp processing has sub-
stantially improved as a result.
Financially, the project has been a mixed success. On the one hand,
the relocated shrimp processing plants are prospering at the new port area,
which provides better facilities and opportunities for integrated operations,
such as sharing of facilities.    On the other hand, although the ten project
purse-seiners have performed well on a technical and operational basis, the
average income per vessel has been insufficient to fully cover operating costs
and debt servicing.
Under the freshwater fish culture component, the hatchery was fully
established; technical assistance, pond construction and fingerlings were
provided to mainly low-income, indigenous groups located in the mountainous
regions to supplement their protein deficient diets.      At completion, actual
average pond size and yields were less than appraisal estimates, reducing the
overall expected benefit.    However, the program has, in the meantime, con-
tinued to expand and improve on fish pond investments.      Shrimp farming, not



envisaged at appraisal, was also included: technical assistance was provided
and an experimental station and hatchery, in support of commercially- and
IDB-funded developments in the area, was established as a result. Evaluation
of the oyster farming component, after two years of experimentation, showed it
to be uneconomical, largely because of the unsatisfactory growth rates for the
species tested and projected marketing problems.   However, technical experi-
ence gained from such experimentation is utilized in other programs.
The economic rate of return for the project as a whole is estimated
by the audit (in contrast to the PCR-s 12%) at 9% rather than the 15% esti-
mated at appraisal. The purse-seiner operation provides the majority of the
benefits and is very sensitive to changes in catch levels and ex-vessel
prices.
Major lessons learned and other points of interest arising from this
project experience are:
-    small components, such as the freshwater fish culture components
included under this project, can yield substantial benefits at
a very small cost (PPAM, paras. 35-36);
-    the project triggered, and the Bank accepted, changes of vessel
ownership to skippers rather than companies, and this had a bene-
ficial effect on the fishing industry (PPAM, paras. 30-31);
-    insufficient analysis and representations by the Bank in relation to
Government-controlled fishmeal prices seriously affected financial
results of fishing operations (PPAM, paras. 32-34);
-    overfishing, at present of an economic nature but in future possibly
also of a biological nature, was a serious issue under both the
first and second projects.     Insufficient attention was given to
finding effective solutions to this problem (PPAM, paras. 24-29);
-    the Bank was lenient in not pursuing the preparation of a plan for
regulating the fishing industry, which was both a covenant in the
'Guarantee Agreement and essential for the long-term viability
of the industry (PPAM, paras. 20, 37-38);
-    guidelines should be issued to operational staff requiring that
(i) sensitivity/risk analysis be undertaken on reestimated rates
of return at completion and (ii) assumptions and other relevant
material on reestimated rate of return calculations be detailed
in an annex to the PCR (PPAM, paras. 39-42);
-    the Bank's strategy for fishing sector development should not be
limited to "agricultural" fisheries projects but should also include
the "transport" fisheries projects (PPAM, paras. 55-57).



PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT MEMORANDUM
PANAMA SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
(LOAN 1398-PAN)
I. SUMMARY
1.        The Second Fisheries Project was appraised in July 1976 at a time
when the First Fisheries Project had been in operation for over four years,
and only 14 months before it was closed.    The Second Fisheries Project was
therefore admirably timed to take maximum advantage of experience gained
during the earlier project.    In contrast with the First Fisheries Project,
which was directed mainly at improving the efficiency of the shrimp trawling
fleet and correcting an Lmbalance which had developed between the amount of
fishing effort and the size of the shrimp resource, the Second Fisheries
Project addressed a wider range of needs affecting both marine and freshwater
fish production and onshore shrimp processing operations. Both projects were
executed by the National Bank of Panama (BNP) in conjunction with other
Government Ministries and Departments.
2.        Identification of the Second Fisheries Project was carried out by
the Ministry of Planning in consultation with the Directorate of Marine
Resources (DMR) of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, and the project was
subsequently prepared by a series of Bank missions between December 1975 and
May 1976. The original a:ims of the project provided for:
(a) the construction of ten 260 hp purse-seiners for the catcher fleet
serving the local fishmeal industry;
(b) the construction of five 220 hp shrimp trawlers to replace an
equivalent number of obsolete wooden vessels;
(c) the rehabilitation of ten wooden shrimp trawlers;
(d) the relocation of six shrimp processing operations from Panama City
to the new fishLng port at Vacamonte;
(e) the establishment of freshwater fish hatcheries, demonstration
ponds and technical assistance for an aquaculture development
program in rural areas;
(f) the establishment of facilities for an oyster culture research
and development program in the Boca del Toro area;
(g)  strengthening the BNP fisheries unit set up under Fisheries I
and the recruitment of six short-term consultancies in naval
architecture, fisheries training, aquaculture, fish processing,
quality control and for oyster farming.



- 2 -
3.        The only major change in project aims concerned the provision for
shrimp trawlers. During the course of project appraisal and subsequent
negotiations, based on experience gained during Fisheries I regarding the very
slow rate of attrition of even the oldest components of the shrimp fleet,
agreement was reached to defer the proposed new shrimp trawler construction
and rehabilitation of older vessels under the project until 1980. The Govern-
ment also agreed to prohibit the operation of any new shrimp vessels until
January 1, 1980, and thereafter to limit annual construction and rehabili-
tation of such vessels until 1985, in the expectation that the combined effect
of these measures would be the elimination by natural attrition of at least 15
of the oldest vessels by 1980.
4.        The Loan Agreement was signed on April 28, 1977 but the loan did not
become effective until November 14, 1977.     This initial delay was caused by
the time needed to prepare new legislation in fulfillment of the conditions of
effectiveness and to process it through Congress.     The legislation concerned
limits to the size and number of purse-seiners and exemptions for vessels and
other goods acquired under the project from existing import regulations. Very
few delays were experienced thereafter during project implementation and the
loan account was closed on schedule in January 1982..
5.        The construction of ten purse-seiners for the Panamanian fishmeal
industry, which was the principal component of Fisheries II, was accomplished
not only within the scheduled time but at substantially lower cost than
originally estimated.    An unusually favorable combination of circumstances
enabled a shipyard in Peru to supply the vessels, complete with fishing gear
and fuel, etc. ready to fish, for approximately US$300,000 each, which was
only 75% of the appraisal unit cost estimate.
6.        Prior to the start of Fisheries II, over 90% of the 35 mostly rather
elderly vessels comprising the purse-seiner fleet were owned by the fishmeal
processing companies, and in view of the high cost of the new vessels as
estimated at appraisal, it was envisaged that most of them would be sold to
these factories.   In the event, the much lower cost per vessel created both
the opportunity and demand for the project vessels to be sold to experienced
purse-seiner skippers who had previously been company employees.       The Bank
responded favorably to BNP's proposals to make this change and also approved
amendments to the Loan Agreement which reduced the prospective owner's equity
from 15% (US$45,000) to 5% (US$15,000) in order to ease difficulties which the
skipper concerned might otherwise have experienced in providing his cash
contribution. Thus, by early 1980, when the purse-seiner fleet had grown from
35 to 45 vessels, the company owned portion had diminished from over 90% to
about 70%, and it diminished even further over the next two years as companies
took advantage of the arrival of the new vessels to scrap, or otherwise to
dispose of a number of their oldest and least efficient vessels. By 1982, the
number of operational vessels was once again down to 35, but it was of course
a newer and more efficient fleet than the one which existed in 1976.
7.        The first full year of operation for the new purse-seiners was 1980.
It produced the second highest recorded industrial fish catch and all the
vessels turned in a modest profit despite the low ex-vessel price of US$30 per



short ton.    Notwithstanding Bank supervision warnings, the price remained
unchanged during the 1981 and 1982 seasons when the fleet experienced lower
catch rates.    Especially 1982, an unusually short fishing season caused by
adverse weather conditions which delayed the migration of fish stocks into the
Gulf of Panama, produced quite serious losses for all vessel owners, and only
prompt action by BNP in providing the necessary short-term finance prevented
many of the sub-loans from falling into arrears. The audit mission was
pleased to learn of an agreement to increase the 1983 ex-vessel price to US$35
per short ton and it is hoped that this measure, together with more favorable
weather conditions leading to better catch rates, will enable the fleet to
recoup some of their recent: losses.
8.        The excessive size of the shrimp trawling fleet in relation to
sustainable yields from the shrimp resource has been one of the main issues
throughout both fisheries projects, and both had, as a common aim, an overall
reduction in numbers of vessels whilst, at the same time, replacing some of
the oldest trawlers with more efficient new craft.      In the economic circum-
stances which prevailed following the 1973-74 fuel oil crisis the expected
reduction in vessel numbers did not materialize and the operational fleet
grew, according to data shown in the Fisheries I PCR, from 222 vessels in 1971
to 262 in 1976.
9.        Based on this experience it was agreed (PPAM, para. 3) to defer the
construction of five additional new trawlers and the rehabilitation of ten
older ones from the start of Fisheries II until early 1980 in the hope that a
sufficient number of obsolete vessels would have been scrapped by then to
allow the building of new vessels to proceed without jeopardizing the aims of
an overall fleet size reduction.     Unfortunately, the 1971-76 experience was
repeated. In 1976, there were 280 licensed shrimp trawlers of which 262 were
operational, and by late 1.979 there were still 280 licensed vessels of which
261 were operational. By the end of 1982, according to information supplied
to the audit mission, the number of licensed vessels had increased to 307.1/
In these circumstances there was clearly no justification for any new con-
struction;2/ rehabilitation of older vessels was limited by BNP to only
three of the ten envisaged at appraisal and this part of the loan was there-
fore cancelled.
10.       Although there was about a six-month delay in starting the reloca-
tion of shrimp processing operations from Panama City to the new fishing port
of Vacamonte, all six plants had transferred and resumed operations at the new
1/   It must be added that there is some confusion about the accuracy of these
fleet statistics.     Conflicting figures appear in various reports,
although all cite the Directorate of Marine Resources (DMR) as the source
of the data. See also PPAM, paras. 21-23 and Table 1.
2/   Construction of five shrimp trawlers was envisaged at appraisal.



- 4 -
site before loan closure.!/    Five of the companies concerned took sub-loans
under the project to finance their moves, totalling US$2.5 million.       Plant
owners consider the move to have been generally beneficial because of the
consolidation of fuel, repair and other facilities at one location and
because of the ability to unload fishing vessels at any state of tide.      The
hygienic and other conditions of shrimp processing have greatly improved as a
result of the move.2/    Product quality standards were such that there were
no instances of US market rejection since the move, whereas products from the
old Panama City-based plants were occasionally rejected as substandard or
because of contamination.
11.       To a large extent this satisfactory outcome is due to the 16 manr-
months of consultancy provided under the project to the Ministry of Health to
train two seafood inspectors at Vacamonte, to establish a quality testing
laboratory at the port and to conduct classes for shrimp boat captains,
processing plant staff and others in the handling of shrimp and other fishery
products. More than 800 people attended these classes.
12.       By project closure the Divisa hatchery was fully established
with office,2 laboratory and workshop facilities, over 5        earth ponds of
400 - 1,000 m  each and 40 concrete holding tanks of 6 - 25 m  each.
Hatchery staff are well advanced on an ambitious program of experimental fish
culture using a range of introduced species of Tilapias, carps and perches for
different applications.    The rural program resulted in the completion by
December 1981 of 118 ponds, mostly communally owned and smaller than origi-
nally envisaged, compared with the appraisal target of 150 ponds totalling 55
ha.   However, the audit mission was informed that the total now exceeds 300
ponds and that many of the earlier ponds are in the process of being improved
and enlarged to reduce the villagers dependence on the Divisa hatchery for
annual restocking.
13.       Although shrimp farming was not part of the project as envisaged at
appraisal, the Bank subsequently agreed to finance 16 man-months of fish
farming consultancy on a feasibility study of salt water shrimp farming. As a
result of this work the National Directorate of Aquaculture (NDA) established
an experimental station and hatchery at Aquadulce, in support of commercially-
and IDB-funded developments in the area which already extend over about 2,500
ha with potential for expansion to as much as 12,500 ha.
1/   Two additional processing plants were also established at the new
port.
2/   A special Bank environmental mission visited the project in November
1981. ...This is one rare instance in Bank-financed industrial projects
where the results are better than the commitments made by the sponsors.
Pollution from the shrimp processing plants is negligible and easily
taken care of by the ocean regenerative capacity.     This is a very nice
operation. Inside and outside the plants, the area is very clean and the
plant owners which four years ago were dead-set against the move from
Panama are now very happy about it." (BTO dated November 23, 1981).



- 5 -
14.       A modest   research and development program into mangrove oyster
cultivation was initiated in 1977 by the Directorate of Marine Resources (DMR)
with financial assistance and two years of consultancy aid provided under
the project. The site chosen for the work was at Bocas del Toro on the
Atlantic shore of northwestern Panama and was inaccessible from the rest of
the country except by air, or by sea from Colon.     Results were disappointing
in that growth rates were smaller than expected, leading to problems of
market acceptance, and the local residents of Bocas del Toro showed little
interest in taking up oyster farming.      DMR therefore closed the laboratory
in 1981 and reassigned the staff and moveable assets to other activities
elsewhere.
15.       Although this part of the Second Fisheries Project did not attain
the perhaps overly optimistic appraisal expectations, it was far from a dead
loss.   Two local biologists have gained considerable experience in oyster
cultivation which they are utilizing elsewhere on other species of molluscs,
and DMR is optimistic that commercial interests may be ready to take up and
develop this activity when the Bocas del Toro area is opened up by a new
access road now under construction.
16.       BNP performance during Fisheries II can fairly be described as
excellent, and although there were a total of four project directors between
1977 and 1981, caused by promotions within BNP, this did not have any adverse
affect because of the high priority and support always accorded to the project
by BNP's top management.   Reimbursement requests were processed rather slowly
at first, due, so it was said, to project unit staff's unfamiliarity with Bank
procedures but this improved as the project progressed.
17.       The establishment of a BNP branch at Vacamonte Port, staffed largely
by fisheries project personnel, is thoroughly commended not only because it
put BNP into direct and day-by-day contact on their own home ground with the
majority of fishermen and fish processors who were sub-borrowers, but also
because it enabled BNP management to be more reliably and regularly informed
about changes and problems affecting the fishing industry as they arose.
Thus BNP was able to react promptly and appropriately when the combination of
poor fishing and low ex-vessel prices caused genuine cash flow problems to the
purse-seiner fleet during 1981 and 1982 (PPAM, para. 7).      As an incremental
benefit, BNP's presence at Vacamonte has resulted in the transfer from other
banks of a number of important non-project-related accounts and the branch
therefore has a regular commercial banking function in support of the fishing
and related industries at. the port, as well as the responsibility for super-
vision of project sub-loans.
18.       BNP and the Government complied with most of the Loan Agreement
and Guarantee Agreement conditions or in two cases of nonr-compliance in the
strict sense, dealt with the matters concerned in other ways that were accept-
able to the Bank.     Only one covenant to the Guarantee Agreement remained
outstanding to the end and this was an undertaking by Government to produce a
plan for regulating the i-ishing industry.   In spite of repeated reminders no
progress was ever made on such a plan, notwithstanding its crucial importance
to the future success of the shrimp trawling sub-sector in particular.



- 6 -
19.       The revised economic rate of return for the project at completion
has been estimated in the PCR at 12% compared with an appraisal estimate of
15% (PCR, para. 5.07 and Table 13).    The audit mission considers that the PCR
revised estimate is incorrect in the light of 1981 and 1982 purse-seiner
results. Given that 1980 was clearly a good year for the industrial fishery
and that the limited data (see Table 4) available suggests that there could be
one good year and one bad year in each four-year cycle, it may be dangerous to
assume that the 1980 catch per vessel year can be treated as the mean level
of catch over an extended period.      Furthermore as actual catch levels are
available for 1981 and 1982 these must be used rather than a mean.          This
issue is expanded upon further in this audit memorandum (PPAM, paras. 39-42).
The audit has reestimated the economic rate of return at 9%.
20.       Supervision of the Second Fisheries Project by Bank staff was quite
adequate in terms of numbers and frequency of visits.      A total of 11 super-
vision missions visited Panama at roughly six-month intervals between July
1977 and February 1982 and a fisheries technologist participated in six
of the missions.   The project was accorded a problem free performance rating
by all the missions and there was thus no occasion for believing that there
was any need to strengthen supervisory input.      In retrospect, this may have
been an over-optimistic assessment because a more critical review, admittedly
with the benefit of hindsight, can detect some weaknesses both in project
concept and in Bank response to events such as Government's failure to produce
a plan for regulating the fishing industry (PPANs, paras. 37-38) and Govern-
ment's action in imposing unrealistic price controls on the fishmeal industry
(PPAM, paras. 32-34). These are among the matters discussed in more detail in
the audit memorandum.
II. MAIN ISSUES
A.   Statistical Basis for Management Decisions
21.       Throughout  both  fisheries  projects   the most commonly used sta-
tistical parameter for judging changes in the level of shrimp fishing effort
has been the number of operational trawlers, taken as the average number of
vessels known to have operated monthly during the ten-month fishing season.
The Directorate of Marine Resources (DMR) has been the sole source of this
information.    Unfortunately, as shown in Table 1, there is doubt as to
the reliability of the data.    Not only do different Bank reports quote dif-
ferent numbers for the same year but there is also some discrepancy even
between the figures quoted by DMR in their own publications.       In addition,
being averages, the actual number of vessels fishing during some months can be
substantially higher than the annual figures used as the basis for management
decisions. The number of licensed vessels is quoted only occasionally and is,
of course, larger than the average operational numbers.
22.       Data on catch quantities and composition, for all sub-sections of
the fishing industry are elaborated in considerable detail in the DMR statis-
tical bulletins and as far as can be judged, appear to be consistent and
probably reasonably accurate.      The corresponding data on fishing effort,



however, as shown above is much less satisfactory, casting doubt also on
extrapolated parameters such as catch per vessel, which is the essential value
figure for judging not only the extent to which overfishing may have deteri-
orated or improved, but also average vessel earnings and productivity.
23.       There is no indication in documents or records related to the Second
Fisheries Project from the time of preparation and appraisal through super-
vision to PCR, that any consideration was given to the danger of erroneous
decisions resulting from inaccurate information.   Given the experience gained
during the First Fisheries Project, and in particular when the PPAR on that
projectl/ revealed the evidence of conflicting data,2/ it is considered
that some thought should have been given to the question of fisheries sta-
tistics and their reliability. Appropriate IBRD/FAO/CP expertise could have
been included in a supervision team to check DhR's system for data collection
and analysis. Identification of any areas of weakness leading to their
rectification would have benefited both the project and the longer-term
interests of effective fisheries management in Panama, although in the par-
ticular instance of the shrimp fisheries would not have changed the decision
to cancel the provision for new vessel construction.    On the other hand, if
this action had been taken earlier it might have influenced the inclusion of
such provision and enabled the funds concerned to be used more gainfully in
some other way.   A more critical examination of statistical evidence during
the planning process for any new projects may be a wise general rule for
future application.
B.   Project Concept and Contribution to the Overfishing of Shrimp
24.       The audit of the First Fisheries Project challenged the project's
basic concept that the replacement of a number of old and inefficient vessels
by an equivalent number of new trawlers would not contribute to the expansion
of an already excessive load of fishing effort directed at the inshore shrimp
stocks.   It is clear from the outcome that fishing capacity and effort did
increase by an amount even greater than the direct contribution of the project
itself, from 238 licensed trawlers at the start to 280 trawlers by 1976. The
total annual catch of inshore shrimp declined only slightly but there was a
marked reduction in the average catch per boat during the project period.
25.       For similar reasons the audit of the First Fisheries Project also
criticized the appraisal of the Second Fisheries Project for planning the
construction of even more new shrimp trawlers and for the rehabilitation of
others. In reply, and again in the Fisheries II PCR, the Region has stressed
the Bank's prudence in deferring decisions on such expenditure and persuading
Government to prohibit any new construction or the issue of any additional
1/   Project Performance Audit Report, Panama - (First) Fisheries Project
(Loan 784-PAN), OED Report No. 2578 dated June 29, 1979.
2/   See, for example, PPAR, op. cit. para 13.



licenses until 1980.   In the event, construction had to be cancelled when it
became clear that fishing effort had not declined.        The question remains,
however, whether construction should have been included in the first place,
given the aim which was made quite explicit in the legal agreement,-/ that a
reduction in fleet size and effort was needed.
26.       Faced with a fleet that by 1976 already exceeded the optimum size of
180-200 vessels, as indicated by Boerema in 1965,2/ by at least 40%, it
hardly seems logical to provide for the building or renewal of yet more unless
the project also included provision for the positive encouragement of fleet
reduction, such as an outright scrapping subsidy for license holders willing
to give up altogether.    The sub-loan component might also have been on re-
stricted offer at favorable rates, for owners willing to scrap two or more old
boats in return for authorization to build one new trawler.       Reliance upon
voluntary attrition did not work during Fisheries I, and there was really no
valid. reason to suppose it would be any more effective during Fisheries II,
especially given the conclusion from Fisheries I that the transferability of
the shrimp trawling license imparted a market value to it greater than the
residual value of many of the older vessels.     Since the end of Fisheries II
and despite a small reduction in operational numbers, the overall number of
licensed vessels has continued to increase and currently stands at 307. The
problem is, therefore, as acute as ever.
27.       Although there must come a point when continued growth in actual
fishing effort will result in biological overfishing and a collapse of the
shrimp stocks, the evidence suggests that this has not yet occurred.         The
total annual catch of inshore shrimp since 1960 has fluctuated between 4,200
and 7,000 metric tons, with a mean of about 5,500 metric tons per annum and
catches during 1981 and 1982 were above the average.      Thus, the overfishing
referred to in these reports is of an economic rather than a biological nature
and relates to the higher level and cost of effort deployed to achieve this
catch now compared with past years.      Some years ago, the Government began
imposing annually a two-month closed season on shrimp, as a conservation
measure and is currently considering a measure to reduce effort by allowing
each vessel to fish for only half of the ten-month season, and only half of
the fleet to be allowed on the grounds at any one time.       An alternative to
this measure would be to allocate a catch quota to each trawler, which would
require the vessel to stop fishing once the quota was filled.
1/   Guarantee Agreement,   Section 4.03;   also covered in Appraisal Report,
para. 4.06.   Furthermore in para. 2.06, the Appraisal Report notes "the
shrimp fleet is presently operating beyond the level of maxiumum sus-
tainable yield" and that measures to control the size of the shrimp
fleet have not been sufficiently effective.
2/   In a report written for UNDP/FAO:    The Panamanian Shrimp Resources, EPTA
(Expanded Program for Technical Assistance) Report 1423, dated 1961.     A
graph taken from this report was included in the PPAR of the first
project as Annex 4.



- 9 -
28.       The difficulty with both of these measures is that they are palli-
atives rather than solutions to the problem of economic overfishing.         At
current ex-vessel shrimp prices each vessel requires a minimum quantity of
catch each year to cover costs and the newer more expensive vessels obviously
need a larger catch for this purpose than the older trawlers which have long
since paid for themselves.   Compulsory reductions in annual catch per vessel
may therefore simply condemn all concerned to sub-economic situations, with
the newest and potentially most productive trawlers being the hardest hit.
29.       The only solution is fleet reduction and elimination of the oldest
and least efficient units.   In addition, the Government should be encouraged
to make all shrimp trawling licenses non-transferable in future, removing
this incentive for retain:lng obsolete vessels in service.      In the audit's
view, throughout both projects neither the Government, BNP, nor the Bank has
addressed sufficiently th:is basic problem confronting the shrimp trawling
industry. 1/ 2/
C.   Ownership of Fishing Vessels
30.       As noted in the PCR (paras. 3.02 and 7.02), the Bank agreed to
post-Loan Agreement proposals by BNP which allowed all the new purse-seiners
built under the project to be purchased by small corporations led by experi-
enced purse-seiner skippers who had previously been employed on fishmeal
company-owned vessels.   As originally envisaged most of the boats would have
been purchased by the fishmeal companies and might well have been forced into
idleness by the subsequent bankruptcy of two of the companies concerned.     As
things stand, the project vessels which constitute nearly 30% of the opera-
tional purse-seiner fleet are all able to continue fishing despite the
temporary financial difficulties (detailed in Table 6) that have resulted from
low ex-vessel catch prices.   Bank agreement to BNP's proposals for change of
ownership was therefore a courageous but eminently correct decision.
31.       The project appears to have triggered a more general movement
towards the transfer of vessel ownership from companies to individual skip-
pers, such that during the year since the close of Fisheries II, most of the
1/   It should be remembered that an objective of the project was to "assist
Government in adopting and implementing measures to maintain a reasonable
balance between fleet: capacity and fish resources" (Appraisal Report,
para. 4.01).
2/   OPS points to "the fundamentally political and financial nature of the
risks surrounding any solution to the controlling of exploitation
which is common to aLl fisheries projects", and suggests this issue be
addressed more comprehensively in a separate exercise.          The audit
supports this excellent suggestion to cover this issue more in depth in a
special study.



- 10 -
remaining purse-seiner fleet and many of the formerly company-owned shrimp
trawlers have become the subject of voluntary agreements providing for the
progressive acquisition of equity in the vessels by the skippers concerned. A
beneficial effect of this change in the pattern of ownership is that skippers
are becoming much more aware of the economic situation confronting the fishing
industry in general and the skipper/owners in particular are assuming a more
influential role as a group within the fishery association ANDELAIPP.1/
D.   Ex-Vessel Fish Prices
32.       When the majority of purse-seiners were company-owned in an inte-
grated industrial fishing/fishmeal processing operation, the relationship
between catching costs and ex-vessel prices was not an issue.     The change in
pattern of ownership referred to above has altered this and during 1981 and
1982 especially, a combination of poor catches and low ex-vessel prices caused
severe financial problems for the owners of project vessels and resulted in
BNP having to provide additional short-term financing (PPAM, para. 7 and PCR,
paras. 3.02 and 5.03).
33.       The problem arose from Government action in support of local poultry
and egg producers.    The domestic price of fishmeal was controlled at levels
well below international prices and the export of fishmeal was also prohibited
until domestic demand was satisfied.    'Government did not offer to make good
the shortfall to the fishmeal companies, nor was there any'Government control
on ex-vessel prices.    It was left to the companies concerned to determine
these prices, and not surprisingly, they did not err on the side of gener-
osity. The July 1981 supervision mission analyzed meal processing costs in
relation to the controlled ex-factory price and appeared to conclude that
the companies could not pay more than the price of US$30 per short ton
then current. No reference was made, however, to the value of fish oil
sales, which were not subject to price control and represented a substantial
additional source of income to the meal companies. It is, therefore, unclear
if the ex-vessel price was a fair reflection of the'Government controlled meal
price.
34.       The response of Bank supervision to this situation, in the audit's
view, has been weak. Although there is a record of the question being raised
and discussed with DMR officials and factory owners, there is no reference to
any attempt having been made to meet officials of the Price Control Direc-
torate.   Furthermore, in the audit's view, supervision follow-up could have
/   The change of ownership pattern is also regarded by BNP (see Appendix
1) as a very beneficial effect of the project.



- 11 -
included Bank representat:Lons at a higher level to Government on the grounds
that the action was in breach of the spirit of the Guarantee Agreement even
if not the letter.l/
E.   Development of Freshwater and Marine Fish Farming
35.       The freshwater component of this project became operational at a
particularly fortunate time, when an extremely well qualified and energetic
official was attempting to revive this activity after a long period of
stagnation.   Although the audit could undertake only a cursory study, the
results of NDA's work and subsequent developments seem to be an excellent
illustration of the adage about large oak trees developing from small acorns
and reflect considerable credit to all concerned.    The results also relate to
an issue which is that minimum cost guidelines for Bank lending should not be
allowed to distract attention from the merits of small projects such as this,
which can yield substantial economic benefits for a very small outlay, and
which can readily be incorporated into a larger project package.      The nature
of small-scale fisheries is such that future Bank lending, especially for the
artisanal sector may have to resort more frequently to this approach in the
future.
36.       The oyster culture component was less successful but it must have
been recognized from the outset that the lack of prior experimental data
imposed a high degree of risk.     A research and development exercise by its
very nature carries no assurance of ultimate commercial viability, but can
still be a worthwhile adjtnct to other activities within the overall package.
As noted in the relevant section of the project summary (PPAh, paras. 14 and
15), despite the failure, for the time being there have been significant
benefits.   One is however tempted to wonder whether more favorable results
would have emerged had this component, like the freshwater work, been allo-
cated for execution to the National Directorate of Aquaculture rather than the
Directorate of Marine Resources.
1/   The Region adds the following background information.    "Two of the three
existing fishmeal factories experienced bankruptcy and the third was sold
to new owners at a loss as a result of the extraordinary low fish catches
during the 1981-82 seasons.   The supervision missions during this period
were well aware of the financial problems of both the fishmeal factories
and the purse seiner owners.     Both groups suffered from the low fish
catch volumes with two of the factories being forced into bankruptcy.
The boat owners were perhaps the more fortunate as they were able to
receive additional short-term financing from BNP to cover their cash
losses. Extracting a. price increase from the fishmeal factories at that
time as suggested by the audit report was clearly not warranted."       The
audit was not able to determine all the reasons and causes which-led
entrepreneurs to sell or have their fishmeal factories go into bank-
ruptcy. However, the audit point does not relate simply to extracting a
higher price from factories, it relates to the overall price policy
and control measures relating to fishmeal production.



- 12 -
F.   Bank Response to Non-Compliance with Loan Covenants
37.       Paragraphs 6.01 and 6.02 of the attached Project Completion Report
list the various conditions and covenants to the Loan and Guarantee Agreements
with which BNP as Borrower and the Government as Guarantor had to comply.
Non-compliance involved three covenants, two of which were, however, dealt
with in other ways that were acceptable to the Bank. The outstanding covenant
to the Guarantee Agreement called for the Government to furnish the Bank with
a plan for regulating the fishing industry, but in spite of repeated reminders
both verbally by supervision missions at meetings with BNP and DMR officials
and in writing, no progress was ever made on the plan.
38.       The need for such a plan was clearly and rightly seen as a substan-
tial issue from the outset, bearing as it does on the long-term stability of
the industry as a whole and on the future viability of the shrimp trawlers
and purse-seiners provided under the two projects.     Despite the efforts that
were made by successive supervision missions, it is considered that the Bank
could and should have made even stronger representations at much higher level,
and as with the issue over fishmeal price control, it is considered that Bank
response was weak.
G.   Economic Rate of Return
39.       The PCR has reestimated the project's rate of return at 12% (PCR,
para.  5.07 and Table 13).     As is often the case, only limited background
information is available in the PCR on exactly how the economic rate of return
was reestimated.    As recommended earlier,l/ it is extremely important that
all underlying assumptions be clearly spelled out in an annex to the PCR.2/
Furthermore, PCRs should also include sensitivity and/or risk analysis. After
all, even at project completion a substantial part of the benefit stream is
still an estimate of what is expected to happen in the future. As such, it is
only logical that such reestimates be tested against possible fluctuations.
The audit, therefore, recommends that guidelines be issued to operational
staff requiring that (i) sensitivity/risk analysis be undertaken on reesti-
mated rates of return at completion, and (ii) assumptions and other relevant
material on reestimated rate of return calculations be detailed in an annex to
the PCR.
40.       As to the specifics of the reestimated rate of return, the audit has
some reservations about how this was done in this case. First, using the same
figures as presented in PCR Table 13, the audit recalculated3/ the rate of
return at 10% only.    The difference between the 10% audit recalculation and
1/   Project Performance Audit Report,     Ethiopia Coffee Processing Project
(Credit 290-ET), OED Report No. 3976 dated July 20, 1982, para. 39.
2/   This is even more important as the number of Borrower-prepared PCRs
increases; review of economic and financial impact will not be possible
without knowing the detailed assumptions.
3/   Using the Bank-s CBPACK program.



- 13 -
the 12% PCR calculation iJ due - as explained later by regional staff - to
the PCR having included (but not specifiedl/) vessel salvage values at the
end of the project life period.!/       Secondly, the PCR uses estimates where
actuals are available:     "Production levels for the economic rate of return
were based on 1980 fish catch statistics of approximately 6,300 short tones
per purse seiner per year' (PCR, para. 5.07).       In fact, catches per vessel
were much lower (5,000 tois) in 1981 (PCR, para. 3.06) and similar for 1982
(PCR, para. 3.07). Using actual catch levels of 5 000 tons for 1981 and 1982
rather than the estimated average of 6,300 tons,32 the project-s reestimated
rate of return drops to 6.75%; including the vessel salvage values as noted
above, would raise this by 2% points to about 9%.        In fact, as can be seen
below (para. 41), the project is quite sensitive to changes in catch levels.
Thirdly, the PCR reestimat:es the rate of return of the project as a whole
only.   In fact, the project consists of distinct components and a rate of
return should have been reestimated for each component.         Again, using the
figures in PCR Table 13, and without any attempt to distribute the admini-
strative and technical services over the various components, the audit finds
the following results:
RatEs of Return by Component/a
Costs 100%      Costs 110%
Base Case          Benefits 90%    Benefits 90%
- Purse seiner
operations/b /c       19.65                 9.95            0.35
- Shrimp vessel
rehabilitatiorQ/b     24.75                21.05           17.85
- Fresh water fish
and oyster
culture/b            -18.55                  /d              /d
- Total project/c /e      10.05                 2.45           -5.25
/a   As no details are given in PCR Table 13 on vessel salvage values, these
have not been included here.
/b   Administrative and technical services not included.
/c   Does not take into account that 1981 and 1982 actual catch levels were
much below the average used.
/d   No further sensitivity testing done.
/e   Administrative and technical services included.
1/   This, of course, reinforces the recommendations made in para. 39.
2/   As a consequence, the economic calculations in the sections below do not
include such salvage values; this does not change the nature of the
argument although it affects some values upwards (by a maximum of 2%
points).
3/   But still assuming that estimated level for years 1983 onwards.



- 14 -
41.       As the project is apparently rather sensitive to changes in the cost
and benefit streams, the audit undertook further sensitivity analysis on catch
levels and prices for the purse seiner component (details in Table 8 attached
to the audit memorandum). The results are as follows:
Purse Seiner Operations/ROR Variations/a
Case               Catches                 Price            ROR
PCR base case               6,300                   37             19.65
PPAM base case           6,300/5,000/b              37             14.45
Reduced catch               5,00n/c                 37              0.25
Reduced price            6,300/5,000Lb              30            -3.75
Reduced catch and price     5,000/c                 30              /d
/a   Administrative and technical services and vessel salvage values not
included.
/b   Actual levels for 1980-82; 6,300 tons thereafter.
/c   Actual levels for 1980-82; 5,000 tons thereafter.
/d   No rate of return found.
42.       In summary, therefore, the overall economic impact of the project
(at approximately 9%) can only be regarded as marginal; furthermore, results
will quickly turn negative if catch levels do not reach the 1980 level
again soon.
III. BANK INVOLVEMENT IN THE FISHING SECTOR
A.   In Panama in Particular
43.       Fish production in Panama is largely concentrated in the Pacific
Ocean and has expanded greatly during the last decade.         The increase has
mainly been due to larger landings of small pelagic varieties used for indus-
trial production of fish meal and fish oil. Artisanal fishing is mostly aimed
at direct human consumption. Shrimp production varied between 7,000 and 5,000
tons per year.   Shrimp processing plants are now located in Puerto Vacamonte
and this port also serves the Panamanian shrimp fleet.     The fish meal indus-
tries and the base for the anchovy trawler fleet are basically still at
the island of Taboge, off the coast at Panama City.
44.       Including the present project, the World Bank has made three loans
for fishing development in Panama:



- 15 -
- Fisheries Project (Loan 784-PAN)!/
- Fishing Port Project (Loan 1114-PAN)2/
-  Second Fisheries Project (Loan 1398)3/
45.       First Fisheries Project.4/    The first project provided funds for
building 40 vessels (shrimp trawlers) to replace obsolete crafts, for captain
training and for preparing a feasibility study for a new port.         Following
approval on July 7, 1971, the loan was signed on August 2, 1971 and became
effective on December 12, 1.971.   The loan was closed after a one-year delay,
on October 31,   1977.   For a project implementation summary, see Annex 2.
46.       Due to the complex technical specifications and the limited number
of shipbuilders with experience in shrimp trawler construction, there was a
two-year delay in the signing of the first construction contract. Because of
this delay and inflation, only 26 vessels could be constructed, at a unit cost
double that anticipated.     As a consequence of high costs and low shrimp
prices, the anticipated replacement of old boats did not take place.         The
Government decided to add the project vessels to the existing fleet.        This
implied a substantial change in project concept, but without project re-
appraisal.   After some delays, captain training was successfully carried out.
The feasibility study was completed on time and permitted the Bank to finance
a port loan.5/
47.       The audit±/ found that the first project had contributed to re-
distributing the substantial benefits of the shrimp sector among a larger
number of individuals and had succeeded in checking the trend towards concen-
tration of shrimp trawling in the hands of large companies and processors (see
also PPAM, paras. 30-31).    As a result of inadequate appraisal analysis, the
project vessels had not increased total shrimp catches but had contributed
to a decrease in the average catch per vessel (see also PPAM, paras. 24-29).
The audit reestimated the project's rate of return at zero.
1/   Loan of US$3.4 million of July 27, 1971.
2/   Loan of US$24 million of April 22, 1975.
3/   Loan of US$4.8 million net (US$7.5 million of April 5, 1977 less US$2.6
million cancelled).
4/   Adapted from the High:Lights; Project Performance Audit Report, Panama
(First) Fisheries Project (Loan 784-PAN), OED Report No. 2578 dated
June 29, 1979.
5/   Loan 1114-PAN, for US$24 million, dated May 27, 1975 (see also paras.
7 and 8 below).
6/   An indepth audit was undertaken in December 1978.



- 16 -
48.       In addition to analyzing inadequate appraisal analysis, change in
project design, procurement problems, project justification, and income
distribution, the audit also raised the following points:
-  inadequate Bank supervision of tendering procedures and of
vessel allocation to nonrshipowners;
-  factors to be considered when analyzing boat replacement and
effects of fisheries projects on income distribution; and
-  questions of profitability for investors in a case when the
fleet has already exceeded its optimum size.
49.       Fishing Port Project.l/    The project proposed removal of shrimp
landing and associated processing facilities from the central area of Panama
City to a new location about 30 km away.    The feasibility study for the new
port had been financed under the First Fisheries Project.     The project also
intended to provide other fisheries-related installations including berthing
and storage facilities for tuna vessels; berthing, storage and marketing
facilities for artisanal and larger scale fisheries to supply the local
market; and ship servicing facilities for all these vessels and for seiners
which supply several Panamanian fish meal plants.
50.       The project was built quite expeditiously and       ncluded all the
planned facilities.    However, it was somewhat redesigned2     and there were
significant cost overruns.    While the Panamanian shrimp fleet is using the
harbor and associated facilities as anticipated, other uses have not developed
in accordance with projections. Most importantly, use by tuna vessels is very
low and the fishery for the local market has not developed.      However, some
international trawlers (notably from Cuba and East European countries) are
calling at Vacamonte, a use that was not foreseen at appraisal.        The net
effect of these developments is a substantial reduction in benefits and a
reduction of the ERR to about 7% and poor financial performance. The economic
and financial performance of the project will continue to be poor unless the
international trawler fleet increases its use of Vacamonte to replace the
major shortfalls in use by the international tuna fleet and by domestic
fishermen (other than shrimpers).
1/   Adapted from Conclusions; Project Performance Audit Report, Panama
Fishing Port Project (Loan 1114-PAN), OED Report under preparation (see
also Annex 3).
2/   Attempts were made to find economies.       Among the economies selected
was a shortening of the breakwater by 150 meters.



- 1 7 -
51.       Overview.   To date, the Bank!/  has financed three fishing develop-
ment projects in Panama with loans totaling almost US$35 million.!!          The
overall economic impact of these projects has been marginal at best.       Usage
of the port is much below appraisal expectations resulting in substantial
reduction in economic benefits and poor financial performance.        The First
Fisheries Project's economic impact was nil as the new boats did not replace
older ones and obsolete boats remained in operation.3!/      The second project
yields a positive yet marginal economic rate of return but, as shown above
(PPAM, paras. 39-42), this calculation is highly sensitive to changes in catch
levels and/or price.4/   However, while shrimp fishing was still estimated to
be financially viable at completion of the first project, this is no longer
the case and most shrimp vessels operate at a loss (PCR, para. 5.05).5/
52.       The fact that these two projects either contributed to overfishing
of shrimps or addressed themselves insufficiently to resolving this basic
problem has been the subject of regular debate (see also PCR, para. 7.01).
This issue was covered by the audit of the first project and again in this
audit report (PPAM, paras. 24-29).
53.       Undoubtedly  there are environmental benefits     in the transfer of
fishing activities and shrimp processing plants from Panama City to Vacamonte,
and the move of the shrimp processing plants has been regarded as generally
beneficial (see PPAM, paras. 10 and 11, and also PCR, para. 3.09).       Studies
and technical assistance components have generally been well executed and the
National Directorate for Aquaculture was substantially expanded (see PPAM,
paras. 11-15).
54.       Impact of the Bank on sector policy development has been limited
(PPAM, paras. 20, 37-38).    There was a substantial fish meal pricing issue
during project implementation:    domestic fish meal prices were substantially
below international prices and the Government was in fact subsidizing fish
1/   In addition, the Inter-American Development Bank has financed two proj-
ects and USAID has provided technical assistance (for details, see Annex
4).
2/   Of which US$2.66 million was cancelled and US$6.63 million in principal
repaid (Statement of Loans dated November 30, 1982).
3/   The purse seiners financed under the second project did replace retired
vessels.
4/   The PCR itself also remarks that "the economies of shrimping operations
continue to be marginal or unsatisfactory" (PCR, para. 7.01).
5/   This analysis was based on 1980 data; the average situation might since
have improved somewhat. See data in Table 3.



- 18 -
meal users at the expense of purse seiner operators (PPAM, paras. 32-34, and
PCR, para. 5.03)../ 2/urthermore, no progress was made on a plan to regulate
the fishing industry..  (PCR, para. 6.02).   While the PCR recommendation that
"the Bank should maintain a dialogue with 'Government" (PCR, para. 6.05) is
well taken, it is not certain what can be done given past performance and
without any Bank supported follow-up activities in the fishery sector;
furthermore,  there are no apparent opportunities for such projects in the
immediate to medium future.
B.   In the World In General
55.       Between FY64 and FY81,    the Bank provided US$259 million foF 27
fisheries projects with a total project cost of nearly US$470 million.3 'Of
those, and including this project, 12.d have been audited (see Tables 9
and 10)5/    The first Bank-assisted projects were oriented toward building
industrial fisheries and were not directly concerned with the productivity of
small-scale fishermen. In more recent years, however, emphasis has shifted to
financing inshore coastal fisheries, with the aim of increasing the flow of
benefits to the rural population and raising the standard of living of the
fishermen's families.   As of May 1982, 20 fisheries projects, with an esti-
mated total Bank involvement of approximately US$540 million, were included in
the FY82-86 lending program.
56.       The Bank-financed fisheries related projects fall into two broad
categories of aquaculture:    one in which fish or shellfish are raised and
harvested in proprietary enclosed ponds, and another, offshore fishing, in
which fish or shellfish are captured in their natural habitat in the sea or in
lakes or rivers.    As far as offshore fisheries projects are concerned, Bank
Group assistance came in any of three ways:
(a) financing of investment by Government or parastatal entities
in vessels, shore facilities, training, and technical assistance;
(b) financing of private investment in vessels through onlending by
credit/banking institutions; and
1/   The recent post-project decision to increase the 1983 ex-vessel price to
US$35 (PPAM, paras. 7) will hopefully go a long way to solve this
issue.
2/   Section 4.03(b) of the-Guarantee Agreement.
3/   For details, see Fishery Development Sector Policy Paper, Report No.
3915, dated May 1982, Table 5-1, which listed all fisheries projects
handled by agricultural units in the Bank.
4/   This includes the Iceland Fishing Harbors Rehabilitation Project (Loan
941-IC), PPAR, OED Report No. 1960 dated March 10, 1978.
5/   In addition audits are underway on two fishing ports projects:       Panama
Fishing Port Project (Loan 1114-PAN) and Mauritania Nouadhibou Port
Project (Credit 588-MAU). See Table 10.



- 19 -
(c) financing construction of fishing ports.
Thus far, projects under (a) have been handled by agricultural units in the
Bank'Group, projects under (b) have been mostly handled by agricultural units,
but were sometimes part of IDF operations, and projects under (c) have been
handled by transportation units.    In fact, this has resulted in an isolated
approach towards fisheries development with a tendency to concentrate on those
issues which correspond most closely to the major skills of the unit handling
the projects.   Evidence from audits done to date suggest insufficient atten-
tion to engineering and infrastructure aspects in fisheries projects handled
by agricultural units and insufficient attention to policy and sector strate-
gies in fisheries (ports) projects handled by the transport units. In almost
all cases, insufficient attention was paid to the international dimensions of
the fisheries projects and strategies.
57.       On the basis of audits to date, OED will shortly undertake an
overview of issues arising out of and lessons learned from fisheries projects
(see Tables 9 - fisheries projects - and 10 - fishing port projects).






- 21 -                     APPENDIX
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
?2ACZN AL         PANAMA SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
L  I'FA  1 tlA             (LOAN 1398-PAN)
COMMENTS OF BANCO NACIONAL DE PANAMA
83(103-01)13
6 de junio de 1983
Mr. Shiv S. Kapur
Acting Director General
Operations Braluation
THE WORLD BANK
1818 H. Street, N.W.
U.S.A.
Dear Mr. Kapur:
Acknowledge received of your first draft for the Project Performance
Audit Report, for the Second Fisheries Project (Loan 1398-PAN).
This draft is a truly summary which includes the activities that have
been developed during the performance of the Project, it successes and
failures, as well as the problems that had to be solved such as a low
international market prices, poor fishing seasons, increase in operational
cost, etc.
Even though all inconveniences there is a positive balance for the
fishing activities in Panama. Among others, today we may count with an
efficient pourse seiners fleet in the hands of men long entiled to this
business, who through this program got the opportunity to increase their
incomes and way of living. [PPAM, paras. 30-31]
For our Bank, this has been an interesting experience. We have had the
time for trainning good technicians in fishing matters, and honored to
be baching a growing industry wich represents a very good shave of the
volume of total exportation of the country.
rely,
GI   RTO PEREZ
Deputy General Manager
RGP: EM/mdv






- 23 -                                 TABLE 1
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
PANAMA SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
(LOAN 1398-PAN)
PANAMANIAN INSHORE SHRIMP-TRAWLING FISHERY
FLEET SIZE DATA; 1970-1982
Operational Boats
Licensed
Fisheries I    Fisheries I     DMR-1978     DMR-1981      Fisheries II   Boats
PCR            PPAM            Statistics   Statistics    PCR            PCR texts
fear    Table 1         Annex 1        Bulletin      Bulletin     Table 5       Fish. 1 & 2
1970       237              237            -           -               237           238
1971       222              222            -           222             222
1972       218              218            -           218             218
1973       239              239            -           237             239
1974       242              240            -           235             242
1975       254              232            -           212             254           272
1976       262              240           219          222             262            280
1977                        256           255          254             256
1978                                      262          262             264
1979                                                   259             261            280
198 0                                                  252             254
198 1                                                  247             249
198 2                                                  247                            307
tes:
(1) All documents concerned cite the Directorate of Marine Resources as the information
source.
(2) 1982 figures obtained verbally from DMR unpublished data.



PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
PANAMA SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
(LOAN 1398-PAN)
PANAMANIAN INSHORE SHRIMP-TRAWLING FISHERY
CATCH AND EFFORT DATA, 1960-1982
Year      Licensed     Operational    Fishing Effort      Inshore      Deepwater     Total     Ave. Fishing      Ave. Daily     Ave. Annual
Vessels         Vessels      (Days at Sea)       Shrimp       Shrimp        Catch     Days/Boat(kg)    Catch/Boat      Catch/Boat
(a)       (tonnes)        (4r3)        (5t4)(kg)       (5t3)(m.t.)
(1)        (2)             (3)              (4)             (5)          (6)          (7)                           (b)             (b)
1960                       162            26,500           4,809          -          4,809          164             181.5           29.7
61                       161           26,700            5,496          -          5,496          166             205.8           34.1
62                       158           30,300            6,025          -          6,025          192             198.8           38.1
63                       153           31,000            5,584          -          5,584          203             180.1           36.5
64                       181           40,400            7,056          -          7,056          223             174.6           39.0
65                       194           41,700            5,851          -          5,851          215             140.3           30.2
66                       199           45,000            5,623          -          5,623          226             124.9           28.3
67                       218           44,300            6,442          -          6,442          203             145.4           29.5
68       238             233           42,900            6,001          -          6,001          184             139.9           25.7
69                       233           40,200            5,653          -          5,653          172             140.6           24.3
1970                       237           38,100            6,895          -          6,895          161             181.0           29.1
71                       222           33,500            6,347          -          6,347          151             189.5           28.6
72                       218           37,500            5,281          -          5,281          172             140.8           24.2
73                     237/239         40,400            5,202          362        5,564        169/170           128.8         21.8-21.9
74                     235/242         40,100            4,988          297        5,285        166/171           124.4         20.6-21.2
75       272           212/254         46,030            4,337          611        4,948        181/217            94.2         17.1-20.4
76       280           219/262         49,861            5,024          288        5,312        190/228           100.8         19.2-22.9
77                     254/256          50,765           4,964          271        5,235        198/200            97.8         19.4-19.5
78                     262/264         49,496            4,796          298        5,094        187/189            96.9         18.2-18.3
79       280           259/261          n.a.             4,596          394        4,990           ?                ?           17.6-17.7
1980                     252/254          n.a.             5,179           380       5,559           ?                ?           20.4-20.5
81                     247/249          n.a.             6,052         1,000       7,052           ?                ?           24.3-24.5
82       307             247            n.a.             5,798         1,134       6,932           ?                ?             23.5
Notes:      (a)  No deep water fishing before 1973.
(b) Inshore shrimp only.



- 25 -                              TABLE 3
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
PANAMA SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
(LOAN 1398-PAN)
PANAMANIAN INSHORE SHRIMP- TRAWLING FISHERY
AVERAGE PROJECT VESSEL'S INCOME STATEMENT, 1980-1982
198 0                1981               1982
1.   Statistics
Fishing days                    207                  221                210
Catch per Fishing day (lb.)     203                  243                238
Total Catch                  41,938               53,782             50,072
Ex-Vessel price per lb.           2.76                 2.79                3.02
 - - -  - - -  -   - us --  - - - -  - --US$-
2.   Revenues
Shrimp Sales                115,749             150,042             151,219
3.   Operating Expenses
Crew & Maintenance           20,070               27,992             29,334
Fuel & Lubricants            42,637               60, 55B            51,242
Repair & Maintenance         17,406               26,972             31,185
Admin., Taxes, Insurance     22,962               20,382             21,837
119 ,062             135,904            133,598
4.   Net Income before
depreciation and
Income Tax                 (3,323)             14,148              17,621
5.   Depreciation                  5,938               8,250               8,250
6.   Income Taxes
7.   Net Profit/(Loss)            (9,261)               5,898              9,371
Source:  BNP Fisheries UnLt, Vacamonte Port



PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
PANAMA SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
(LOAN 1398-PAN)
PANAMANIAN PURSE-SEINER FISHERY FOR SMALL PELAGIC SPECIES
ANNUAL PRODUCTION AND CATCH UTILIZATION
Annual Catch (M. tons)           Fish Meal (M. tons)      Fish Oil (M. tons)
Year   Anchovetta Herring Other Sps. Total     Production Exported      Production  Exported
1972     34,499    14,314    1,473    50,286      9,063     7,314          2,641      1,882
1973     56,668    20,514      372    77,554     14,010     7,778          4,744      4,939
1974     14,800    36,662    2,648    54,110     10,364     3,929          3,923      3,331            aC
1975     43,609    20,068    3,352    67,029     12,481     7,043          5.037      4,272
1976    118,573    16,632    2,36B   137,573     23,142    15,449         13,639     11,121
1977    165,181    23,374    4,772   193,327     32,169    30,340         13,285     12,365
1978     74,576    20,254    3,674    98,504     18,018    10,416          5,000      4,174
1979    116,389    15,695      398   132,482     26,046    22,575          4,780      3,626
1980    156,811    23,333    1,550   181,694     35,179    28,125         17,403     13,101
1981     77,046    24,547    3,252   104,845     22,076    11,733          6,073      3,372
1982     57,446    19,011    1,115    77,572     15,882      n.a.          2,070       n.a.             M
Source: Directorate of Marine Resources, Ministry of Commerce & Industry; 1981 Statistical Bulletin.



PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
PANAMA SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
(LOAN 1398-PAN)
PANAMANIAN PURSE-SEINER FISHERY FOR SMALL PELAGIC SPECIES
CATCH, EFFORT AND AVERAGE EARNINGS
Fishing    Total   Fishing    Average   Ex-Vessel
Effort    Annual   Days       Catch     Price/       Ave. Annual
Operational   (Days at   Catch    per       per        Ton          Earnings/Boat
Year         Vessels        Sea)      M.ton   Boat/Yr.   Boat/Yr.  (US$)        (US$)
1975            27           n.a.     67, 029   n.a.      2,482      n.a.
1976             35          n.a.    137, 573   n.a.      3,931      n.a.
1977            38           n.a.    193,327    n.a.      5,CB7      n.a.
1978            37           n.a.     98, 504   n.a.      2,662       29           8 5, 072
1979             45          n.a.    132,482    n.a.      2,944      29            94,C84
1980            39          7,640    181,694    196       4,659       30          154,026
1981             40         8,640    104,845    216       2,621       30           86,650
1982             35         6,510     77,572    186       2,216       30           73,261
Source: Directorate of Marine Resources, Ministry of Commerce & Industry.                                0



- 28 -
TABLE 6
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
PANAMA SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
(LOAN 1398-PAN)
PANAMANIAN PURSE-SEINER FISHERY FOR SMALL PELAGIC SPECIES
AVERAGE PROJECT VESSEL'S INCOME STATEMENT, 1980-1982
198 0               1981               1982
1.   Statistics
Annual catch per vessel,
short tons                 6,287               4,970             3,622
Fishing Days                   196                 216               186
Ex- vessel fish price
(US$/s.ton)                   30                  30                30
-------              US$-------     ------
2.   Revenues
Fish Sales                 189,332             149 ,013          1CB ,633
3.   Operating Expenses
Crew & Maintenance          60,824              36,382             28,416
Fuel & Lubricants           34, 668             40,661              39,144
Repairs & Maintenance       25,894              33,412              53,287
Admin., taxes, insurance    40,999             83,742              92,243
Totals           162,385             194,197            213,C0
4.   Net Income before
Depreciation &
Income Tax                26,947             (45,184)          (104,457)
5.   Depreciation                14,000             27,930              27,930
6.   Income Taxes
7.   Net Profit/(Loss)           12,947             (73,114)          (132,387)
Source: BNP Fisheries Unit, Vacamonte Port.



- 29 -                               TABLE 7
PROJEC,T PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
PANAMA SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
(LOAN 1398-PAN)
Disbursements by Category
Category               Disbursement          Disbursements
No.          Description          Percentage     Loan Agreement      Actual/a
1A.    Sub-loans for con-           76% of         3,554,000       2,386.856.69
struction and rehabili-      amounts
tation of equipment for     disbursed
fishing vessels.
1B.    Sub-loans for                76% of         1,626,000       1,886,381.56
relocation of processing     amounts
plants.                     disbursed
2.     Fresh Water Fish and           39%            137,000         149,080.30
oyster farming programs.
3.     Technical Assistance         100% of          376,000         449,317.49
foreign
expenditures
4.     Unallocated                                 1,807,000              -
TOTAL                                  7,500,000      4,871,636.04
Cancelled (03/,30)                                    2,420,000.00
Cancelled (01/27/82)                                    208,363.96
7,500,000.00
/a   As per memo of Loan Administration Department, dated April 21, 1982.



PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
PANAMA SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
(LOAN 1398-PAN)
ROR Cost/Benefit Streams - Purse Seiner Operations/a
(US$ 000)
Benefits
Benefit,/b      Benefit./C          Benefits/d              Benefits/e            (reduced price and
Costs           (PCR)            (PPAR)          (reduced catch)         (reduced price)                catch)
1. 2,940               -               -                   -                       _                          _
2.  1,88 0          2,326           2,326                2,326                   1,88 6                     1,88 6
3. 1,610            2,331            1,850               1,85p/c                 1,50Qc                     1,500
4.  1,600           2,331           1,8 50               1,8 5/C                 1, 500c                    1,500
51
5. 1,600            2,331           2,331                1,850                   1,890                      1,500
6. 1,590            2,331           2,331                1,850                   1,890                      1,500
7.  1,590           2,331           2,331                1,850                   1,890                      1,500
8.  1,590           2,331            2,331               1,850                    1,890                     1,500
9.  1,590           2,294            2,294               1,850                    1,890                     1,500
10.  1,600           2,294           2,294                1,850                   1,890                      1,500
11.  1,600           2,294           2,294                1,850                   1,890                      1,500
12.  1,600           2,294           2,294                1,8 50                  1,89 0                     1,500
/a   From data in PCR Table 13. No attempt was made to attribute Administrative and Technical Services to the various
components. Neither was an attempt made to include vessel salvage values as they were not specificed in the PCR.   nX
/b   Assumes industrial catches at average level of 63,000 tons each year (PCR, para. 5.07).
7c   Actuals (estimated at 50,000 tons) for 1981 and 1982 rather than 1980 based estimates (PCR paras. 5.07, 3.04-3.07). fb
/d   Rather than assuming 1980 catch levels, catches assumed to continue at reduced levels from 1982 onwards.           x
7e   Rather than at a US$37 border price, assumes the actual received rate of US$30.



- 31 -                                                                         TAbLL 9
PROJECT PERPORNANCE AUDIT REPORT
PANAMA SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
( LOAN 1398- PAN)
Kay Dati Fisheries Project Audited by O£D to Date
Loan/Credit
OED Report           AMount                     Project Costs          ROR
Number          Estimated         Kay/a         Estimated         Estimated
Name                Date             Actual        Dates            Actual            Actual                  Description/Outcome/°
1.  Panama - First           2578              3.4      A - 07/27/71          5.35              15-22     The project provided for the building of 40 vessels
Fisheries Project      06/29/79            3.1      S - 06/02/71          5.42                0       (shrimp trawlers) to replace oboolete crafts, for
(Loan 784-PAN)                                      E - 12/01/71                                      captain training and for preparing a feasibility study
C - 08/30/76                                      for a new fishing port.  Comples technical specifi-
CL- 1D/31/77Lb                                   cations and the limited number of experienced shil,
builders resulted in an initial two-year delay, delays
coupled with inflation permitted construction of 26
vesaels only at double unit costs. The anticipated
replacement of old boats did not take place., ano the
vessels were added to the existin6 fleet contrary to
project concept and this resulted in a rate of return
re-eatimated at nero.   After some delays captainl
training was successful, the feasibility study was
completed on time and resulted in a Bank-financed
fisheries port project (Loan 1114-PAN, U1/75).
2.  Ghaa - Fisheries         2794              1.3       A - 09/23/69         2.3                 50      The project provided for building, 4U fishing vesselo
Project                12/28/79            1.3       s - 09/25/69         1.8/d               10      (to be sold on credit), procuring spare parts, tech-
(Credit 163-IG)                                      i - 01/21/70                                     nicai assistance and port atudies.   Project design was
C - 12/31/72                                     substantially changed during iEpiementacton and ooay
L'- 08/25/78/c                                   10 boats were built (inflation and design changee).
The vessels engines proved underpowered, but their
re-engining was financed by the owners themselves,
rather than under the project.   Following disaree .eot
between the Borrower and the Bank, the second phase of
the porte study was not financed under the project.
The remaining credit proceeds were, after protracted
discuseions, used for spare parts. The nine
vessels (one sank) only provide limited landings,
but the benefits from the spare part program are sub-
stantial. Increseed fish prices mere than offset in-
cr ased coats r eulting in high financial rates of
return.
3.  Indonesia - First        2806              3.5      A - 07/07/70          4.3                 26      The project coneisted of construction of shore facili-
Fisheries Project      01/09/80            3.5      E - 07/13/70          8.3             negative    ties (ice plant, cold storage, wharf, slipay, work-
(Credit 211-IND)                                    E - 01/15/71                                      shops, etc.) and 3u skipjack pol-and-line fishin6 ve-
C- 06/30/76                                      eels of 30 gross tons each.   At coupletion, all vessels
CL- 06/3u/78                                     provided under the project had not been delivered, snd
those that were, were ineffective and substandard
(design flaws, poor construction, inadequate main-
tenance) and as a result tuna catches were far below
targets. The shore facilities were also of improper
design and poorly constructed, The long series of
delaye and implementation problems have made it e-
sentially impossIble for this project to becme viable.
4.  Iran Fisheries           3145             12.5      A - 09/19/74         18.0                 35      The project was to improve organimational structure,
Project                C9/30/80            0.6      S - 10/14/74          n.a./f            n.a../f   operational policies, nmareting activities and rego-
(Loan 1047-IRN)                                     E * 04/30/75                                      latory functions of the Southern Fisheries Company,
C - 12/31/78                                     training traditional fishermen, and credit to tradi-
CL- 06/20/79/e                                   tional and commercial fishermen for boats and equip-
ment. The project suffered from poor orga-isationel
dasigo, lack of comiat.ent and internal conflicts
between,executing agencies, little control exercised
by the Borrower and rather passive early supervision.
Except for a consultants study on managemernt improve-
ment, the project was essentially not Implemented and
its main objective therefore not achieved.
5.  Ecuador - Fisheries      3731              5.3      A - 09/03/68          6.6                 21      The project was expected to help finance the design,
Project                12/23/81            3.8      S - 09/05/68          6.7/h           negative    construction and equipping of 12 tuna puree   einers,
(Loan 555-EC)                                       E - 09/04/69                                      a study of harbor facilities was also inolud.c.
C - 10/31/74                                     Only 4 purse seiners were built at unit costs double
Cl- 10/31/8Qg                                     original estimates.  The scope of the training was
changed frum a small crew training program to con-
struction of am on-shore fishing school. The project
took 12 yeas to implement due to delays in effective-
mess, lack of interest by possible beneficiaries,
r vision and delay in completing the training component
and most importantly atretching out the completion of
the harbor study. Only 3 vessels were operational at
completion, all noe owned by tultinational companies.
Catches are much lower than expected and the r-
estimated rate of return is negative.
6.  Tunisia - First          3753              2.0      A    0 9/14/71        3.1                 36      The project was to provide credit to fishermen for
Fisheries Project      12/31/81            2.0      S . 09/24/71          2,9/i              43       replacement of obsolete inshore craft by 335 fully
(Credit 270-TUN)                                    E * 05/24/72                                      equipped motorized boats, institution building and
C   12/31/76                                     overseas training were also included.   Unit costs
CL- 12/31/79                                     turned out to be such higher due to lark of detailed
design, delays and inflation. Project scope was rt-
duced to 190 boats, to cut coost improved design
features were eliminated. Frequent engine breakdowns
with excessive repair times resulted in resiatance among
fishermen to buy boats, At completion, 151 boats were
fully operational, 12 had sunk and 24 were isoubiliced
or abandoned. Prices rose substantially offsetting
lower catches and higher conts and the reestimated
economic return is much higher than at appraisal.
Nevertheles., loan recovery is poor.



- 32 -                                                                         TABLS 9
Page 2
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
PANAMA SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
(LOAN 1398-PANI)
Key Data Fisheries Projects Audited by OED to Date
Loan/Credit
OED Report          Amount                      Project Costa          ROR
Nmber           Etimted           EeyLS         Eatimated         Eatimated
Name               Date              Actual        Dates            Actual            Actual                  De.criptionh/ut-cnee/n
7.  People's                 3755              3.5      A - 04/10/73          4.1./k              30      The project intended to develop traditional fishing
Democratic Republic    12/31/81           5s.iI     S - 04/12/73          6.17               13       in one governate by construction of shore facilities
of Yemen - Pirat                                    E - 02/12/74                                      (800 ton cold storage and related facilities, fishing
Fisheries Project                                   C - 12/31/78                                     vessels, 95 improved traditinual motorised sambuks)
(Credit 370-YDR)                                    CL- 09/30/81                                     and management support end atudies.   Although the proj-
act succeeded in building an institutional capability
for the administration of fisheries development projects
and in providing fishing vessels whose productivity
turned out to be higher than expected, the results fell
seriounly ahort of eapectations. The main problems re-
flected deficiencies is preparation and design based on
limited knowledge of the sector. Utilization of shore
facilities remains low. Fish pricing policy and sub-
loan recoveries have also been seriously deficient.
6.  Republic of the          4222             11.6      A - 05/15/73         18.5               22-43     The project aimed at developin6 inland and marine
Philippine's  -        12/31/82           11.6      5 - 05/21/73         18.5              20-43      fisheries tnrough credit for OI fishing vessels, 10
First Fisheries                                     E - 12/05/73                                      second-hand fish carriers, and improvement of Ill ob-
Project                                             C - 06/30/79                                      solete vessels, three ice plants and two slipways,
(Loan 891-PH)                                       CL- 08/23/79                                     rehabilitation of typhoon damaged brackish water fish-
ponds (4,50C ha) and fishpond improvement and develop-
ment (7,500 ha).  Technical Assistance and studies
were also included. Cost increases sharply affected
the project. As a result only half the nunber of
vessels was constructed, no second-hand carriers were
soquiced snd only one ice plant and 1lipway were
financed and no loan appliostion. for ves... ooderni-
cation were approved. Total fishpond hectarage
developed was in line with appraisal estinate.. On
the basis of limited data only, the project econ.mic
returns at completion were estinated to be satisfactory.
The non-quantifiable benefits of the project have bhen
significant including institution building, increased
employnent opportunities, enpanded knowledge of new
technologies and improved disnemination through enlarged
e-tension organizatin.
9.  Republic of the          4222             12.0       A - 05/26/76        23.5               20-43     This project was a continuation of the first project
Fhilippine a -         12/31/82           12.0      S - 07/02/76         26.0              20-93      and provided for the construction and/or rehabilitation
Second Fisheries                                    b - 11/12/76                                      of an additional 9,OOU ha of fishponds, construction of
Project                                             C - 06/30/81                                      17 vessels, modification of 4 vessels into carriers and
(Loan 1270-PH)                                      CL- 06/30/81                                     construction of 3 ice plants and one slipusy. The trend
towards smaller and less costly vessels continued and as
a result 47 different types of bosts were constructed.
A substantial number of smaller average size fish ponds
were constructed with total hectarage larger than esti-
mated at appraisal (+502). Three iceplants were coo-
structed but no slipusys. High past dues and low loan
collections have resulted in a negative financial impact
on the onlending agency. Larger trawlers are not finan-
cially attr-ctivs; financial retueno on sow fishponds
investments are no longer satisfactory, but contione at
a e.tisfactory level for rehabilitated ponds.
10.  Indonesia - Fisheries        L1            6.5      A - 06/04/74         12.9                  34     The project had three subcomponents:   (i) skipjack
Credit Project                             6.5      S - 06/14/74         18.5                 29      tuna development complen in A=bon involving 20 pole
(Credit 480-1h'D)                                   E - 01/08/75                                     and line fishing boats, 2 carrier vessels and onshore
C - 06/30/79                                     supporting facilities; (ii) 15,000 ha milkfisch and
CL- 12/31/81                                     shrimp pond improvenents in Java and South Sulawesi,
and (iii) acquisition of 25 trawlers for cooperatives.
Technical assistance was also provided. The project's
objectivea were achieved escept for the poor financial
control on operations and the limited number of fish
farmers, albeit with larger ponds, assisted (3,0U0
rather than 9,(JO). Actual catches, although below
appraisal estimates, are satisfactory and rapidly
increasinb. Higher prices have offset production
shortfalls and the re-estiatmd economic return is mare
than satisfactory.
/a   A - Approval; S - Signed; E - Effective; C - Original Closing Date, CL - Actual Closing Date.
7i Rasic Data Sheet, but Statement of Loans 06/30/77.
7T Basic Data Sheet, but Statement of Credits 06/30/78.
71 Reduction in scope (10 rather than 40 vessels) but substantial increases in unit costs.
7T Resic Data Sheet (date Iran asked Bank to confirm closing of loan account); Statement of Loans 06/30/79.
7? The project was not Implemented and its main objective was not achieved.
7Bi Rasic Data Sheet, but Statement of Loans 03/31/80.
Substantial cost overruns are not visible because of (i) effects of devaluation and (ii) elimination of 8 of the
12 purse selnera and the training vessel.
/i   8ut project was scaled down from 335 boats to 190 boats because of cost overruns of 572 per boat financed.
P    Includes supplementary credit of US51.6 million.
Revised estimate made in late 1974 for supplementary credit amount to US$6.21 million.
/1   Pass-through PCB.
7T   Prom Highlights sections of the relevant audit reports.



- 33 -                                                                         IABLL Il
PROJECT PERFORMNCE AUDIT REPORT
PANAMA SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
(LOAN 1398-PA?)
Key Data Fishing Port Projects Audited by OLD to Date
Loan/Credit
OED Report          Amount                      Project Costs          ROR
Number          Estimated         Key/L         Eatinated         Estimated
Name               Date              Actual     _  Dates            Actual            Actual                  Description/Outcome!
Iceland - Fishing        1960              7.0      A - 10/16/73         11.24               26       Under this project, the Bank helped to finance loprove-
Harbors Rehabili-      03/10/78            7.0/c    S - 10/26/73         13.59/d             20       mnts to three fishing ports on the sain island of
tation Project                                      E   12/20/73                                      Iceland.  The project was Mounted as an emsrgeocy
(Loan 941-IC)                                       C - 03/31/77                                      operation after a fishing port on a nearby small inland
CL- 03/31/77                                     had to be evacuatea due to a volcanic eruption, sod
facilities of the nearest ports were insufficient for
harboring the additional boats. The emergency was
shorter than espected and only some work done is..edi-
ately by force account benefitted the refugee fisher-
ren.  The main works done under regular international
competitive bidding procedures had not yet started whcn
the emergency was over. uowever, it wan decided to
carry out the project all the sane, since the improve-
ments would be valuable to the fishink, boats normally
using those harbors, and it woold also nervn as a-,
insurance in case of new eruptions. Ihe project W-s
satisfactorily completed, but, du- tO inflatLin there
was a cost overrun of 21%, while at the snse tLi. the
scope of the project was reduced.
Panama - Fishing         /e               24.00     A   04/22/75         34.L                15       The project assioted in the removal of shrimne landing
Port Project                              24.00     S   05/27/75         47.1                 7/f    and associated lacilities Iron the central area of
(Loan 1114-PAN)                                     E   (9/25/75                                      Panama City to a new location (.acaamonte) about 3c
C - 12/31/8C                                     kc away, where it also providea other fisheries related
CL- 01/30/80                                     installations such as berthing, storage and
marketing facilities and ship aereicing facilitles.
The project wan implenented expeditiously although with
sig,nificant cost overruns and somewhat redneigned.
however, uses have not developed as espected ana as a
consequence there is a substantial redartion in
benefits resulting In a low rate of return and poor
financial performance.
Mauritania -             /e                8.00     A - 11/28/75         27.55              30/18     The project proposed an expanded fishing port with
Nouadhibou Port                            7.95     S - 11/31/75         26.36             0/13/6    ancillary facilities desigeed to secure sub-
Project                                             E   06/02/76                                      stantially increased fish landings.   After som.e
(Credit 588-MAU)                                    C * 03/31/79                                     difficulties and with considerable cost overrun,
CL- 12/31/80                                     an expanded port has been built.   Iowever, utilization
of the port in presently greatly below expectations
and as a consequence economic and financial performance
are substantially below projections. lnitially
developoent of port activities was seriously hindered by
the Polisario war and the associated economic, political
and coramerical dislocations. The present continued low
volume of fish landings is due primarily to a major
change in fisheries policy (1979):   all fishing rikhts
were cancelled and Government has atteapted to ne,.Eti-
ate new agreem.ents based on joint fisheries and shore-
based processing.
A - Approval; S - Signed, E - Effective, C - Original Closing Oate, CL - Actual Closing Date.
Froa Highlights sectiona of the relevant audit reports.
Of rhich'repaid US$2.53 million (Statement of Loans dated November 30, 1982).
hit;scope:of project was also reduced.
frdject Performance Audit Reports under preparation.
As recalculated by the audit; the PCR rate of return is 91.
Rate, Af Return Fishing berths 30 (estimated, 0 (reestimated), Coinercial cargo berths and
approach way 18 (estimated), 13 (PCR reestitated).






- 35 -                      ANNEX 1
Page 1
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
PANAMA SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
(LOAN 1398-PAN)
SCHEDULE 5 OF LOAN AGREEMENT
Operating Policies and Procedures
I.   Sub-loans
A.   Purpose
The Borrower shall make sub-loans to eligible applicants for
the exclusive purpose of assisting in financing the construction
of steel shrimp trawlers, steel purse seiners, the rehabilitation
of obsolete wooden shrimp trawlers and the relocation of shrimp
processing plants.
B.   Eligibility
(1) To qualify for a sub-loan an applicant must deliver
to the Project Unit: (i) in the case of a sub-loan
for new shrimp trawlers or for the rehabilitation of
wooden shrimp trawlers, past financial and operational
data on his shrimp fishing activities; and (ii) in
the case of a sub-loan for relocation of plants, a
plan for the relocation of plants, a plan for the
construction of detailed internal plant features,
including cost estimates, equipment lists, costs of
replacing equipment that cannot be moved, itemized
cost estimates of installation of utilities and
support equipment and estimates of direct moving
costs of equipment.



- 36 -                    ANNEX 1
Page 2
(2) (a) The Project Unit shall have a technical department
which shall be responsible for carrying out activi-
ties relating to the maintenance and operation of
trawlers included in the Project, operational
and maintenance training of skippers of fishing
vessels, credit analyses of sub-loans and collec-
tion and dissemination of price and market infor-
mation for Project related commodities.
(b) Two qualified credit analysts shall be assigned
to the department on a part-time basis to carry
out technical and financial analyses of sub-loan
applications and also the naval architect and
training officer mentioned in Section 3.02 of
this Agreement.
(c) The naval architect shall assist the Project Unit
in the formulation of safety and operational
standards for fishing vessels, prequalification
of shipyards, determination of detailed specifica-
tions and vessel designs, preparation of tender
documents for international competitive bidding,
evaluation of bids and supervision of construction
and rehabilitation of vessels under the Project.
(d) The training officer shall assist in the training
of all operating fishing vessel skippers in theore-
tical and practical aspects of operating fishing
vessels, safety measures, modern navigational
equipment and vessel maintenance.



- 37 -                           ANNEX 1
Page 3
(3) In the case of shrimp trawlers priority shall be given
in selecting sub-borrowers to applicants who are small
independent boat operators.
C.   Terms and Conditions
(a) The repayment period for: (i) new shrimp trawlers
and purse seiners shall be 10 years including
one year of grace; and (ii) rehabilitation of
trawlers and for shrimp plant relocation shall be
8 years including one year of grace.
(b) Each sub-borrower shall pay interest at the
rate of eleven and one-half per cent (11-1/2%)
per annum and a technical service fee of one half
per cent (1/2%) on the principal amount of the
sub-Loan outstanding from time to time.
(c) Each sub-loan for a fishing vessel shall be secured
by a mortgage on the new or rehabilitated fishing
vessel and gear and for shrimp plant relocation
by adequate security.
(d) Each sub-loan shall provide for the repayment
by the sub-borrower to the Borrower of the cost
of the respective all-risk insurance referred
to in Section 3.03 (f) of this Agreement.



- 38 -                            ANNEX 1
(e) Each sub-borrower shall be required to contribute
not less than: (i) five per cent (5%) of the
estimated cost of vessel construction or rehabili-
tation in the case of shrimp trawlers; (ii) fifteen
per cent (15%) of the estimated cost of purse
seiners; and (iii) twenty per cent (20%) of the
estimated cost of relocating the shrimp processing
plants.
D.   Sundry
(1) All sub-loan analyses shall be forwarded by the Borrower
to the Bank for review, and any comments, objections
or reservations arising from such review shall be taken
into account before making any decisions.
(2) The terms and conditions of all sub-loans shall be
subject to the approval of the Bank.
II. Project Unit
(1) The Project Unit shall be located in the Borrower's
Development Department under the authority of the
Project Director referred to in Section 3.04 of this
Agreement. The Project Director shall be responsible for
programming and day to day activities of the Project
Unit. He will co-ordinate vessel procurement, hiring of
consultants and experts, participation of agencies of
the Guarantor in the Project and supervision of all
sub-lending operations.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
(2) The criteria for the selection of sub-borrowers shall
include:
(a) New Shrimp Trawlers and Rehabilitation of Old
Wooden Trawlers
(i) proven competence and experience in shrimp
fishing;
(ii) possession of a valid fishing license;
(iii) age mid characteristics of vessels to be
replaAeed or rehabilitated;
(iv) reasonable assurance of lack of alternative
sources of credit on reasonable terms; and
(v) references of creditworthiness.
(b) Purse Seiners
(i) ownership structure of the business;
(ii) possession of a valid fishing license;
(iii) age and characteristics of vessels to be
replaced;



- 40 -                           ANNEX 1
Page 6
(iv) reasonable assurance of lack of alternative
sources of credit on reasonable terms;
(v) current financial position evaluated on the
basis of the financial statements on previous
three years of operation;
(vi)  in the case of a company or association, proof
of formation of such company or association;
and
(vii) references of creditworthiness.
(c) Plant Relocation
(i) ownership structure of business;
(ii)  reasonable assurance of lack of alternative
sources of credit on reasonable terms;
(iii) current financial position evaluated on the
basis of the financial statements on previous
three years' operation;
(iv)  sub-borrower's capacity to repay and the
soundness of his financial plans and projections;
and
(v) references of creditworthiness.



- 41 -                            ANNEX 1
Page 7
III. Fresh Water Fish Farming and Oyster Programs
(1) (a) The Direcci6n Nacional de Acuacultura of the
Guarantor's Ministry of Agriculture shall have
direct responsibility for the fresh water fish
farmling program included in the Project.
(b) Six assistant biologists shall be employed to pro-
vide support for the program.
(c) The Project Unit shall employ a fresh water fish
farnming specialist for at least 18 months to work
directly with Direcci6n Nacional de Acuacultura
in the training of technical staff and to provide
assistance on aspects of the fish farming program.
(2)  (a)  The Directorate of Marine Resources shall be respon-
sible for the oyster farming program included in
the Project. The Directorate shall employ one
biologist and one assistant biologist at the
research center at Bocas de Toro for the said
program.
(b) The Project Unit shall employ an oyster farming
specialist for a period of at least one year to
assist the said Directorate on technical aspects
relating to the development of commercial oyster
farming.



- 42-                             ANNEX 1
Page 8
(3)  The Project Unit shall also have an administrative
department which shall be responsible for administrative
matters and for the maintenance of accounts of indepen-
dent boat owners under the Project.
(4) The operational agreements referred to in Section 3.08 of
this Agreement shall inter alia provide that:
(a)  the participating agencies shall furnish the
Project Unit with their investment plans and
work programs (including staffing arrangements)
for their respective parts of the Project for the
Project Unit's comment and review;
(b) each participating agency shall designate a
liaison officer for the purposes of the Project;
(c) the participating agencies shall promptly provide
the Project Unit with such information relating
to the Project as the Project Unit shall reasonably
request; and
(d) the Project Unit shall satisfy itself that
expenditures of a participating agency under
the Loan conform to investment plans previously
agreed with the Project Unit.
(5) For the purposes of (4) above the term "participating
agencies" shall mean the Guarantor's agencies specified
in Section 3.08 of this Agreement.



-43-                                   ANNEX 1
Page 9
IV. Relocation of Processing Plants
(1)  (a)  The National Port Authority acting together with
the shrimp processors shall determine space alloca-
tion requirements and rental rate for each plant
and shall co-ordinate the construction of the shell
building to meet the requirements for each processor's
plant plans.
(b) Each processor shall develop detailed individual
plant plans for the construction of interior plant
features in the shell structure, the specifications
for which should meet at least minimum standards
to permit sound manufacturing practices for process-
ing of shrimp products. The plants should make
satisfactory provision for treatment of waste
products in order to prevent pollution of the
environment.
(c) The Project Unit shall employ a food processing
engineer for at least 18 months to work jointly
with the National Port Authority in assisting
processors in carrying out the details connected
with the relocation of plants. The food processing
engineer shall also assist the Project Unit
in the preparation of tender documents and bid
evaluation for new equipment.



- 44 -                      ANNEX I
Page 10
V.   Quality Standards
The Project Unit shall employ a quality control expert to
assist the Guarantor's Ministry of Health in the development of
quality standards and improvement of manufacturing and handling
practices and training of its personnel; the training of plant
management personnel in developing techniques and interpreting all
regulatory standards; and in the training of shrimp vessel skippers
and crew in methods of good handling practices on vessels. The
Ministry of Health shall employ two food inspectors to assist it
in establishing quality control standards under the Project.



- 45 -                              ANNEX 2
Page 1
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
PANAMA SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
(LOAN 1398-PAN)
FIRST FISHING PROJECT (LOAN 98 7-P4N)
PROJECI' IMPLEMENTATION SUMMARY1'
1.        The possibility   of promoting a fisheries project in Panama was
suggested by a FAO/IBRD/CP reconnaissance mission in November 1968.    In July
1969 the project was identified, and the final version of the preparation
report was completed in July 1970.     The project was appraised in February
1971 and approved in July of the same year.     The Loan Agreement was signed
in August and became effect:lve in December 1971.
2.        The project was designed to assist the Panamanian shrimp fishing
industry by preventing a decline in the catch through the replacement of 40
obsolete vessels.   Captains to operate project vessels were to be trained in
basic navigation and the u3e of modern fishing gear.     The project also pro-
vided funds for a consulting firm to study the feasibility of a new fishing
port outside Panama City.
3.        In March 1974, 27 months after the loan became effective, a contract
for the building of ten vessels was signed. In 1975 ten additional units were
built, and in 1976 the last six were completed, for a total of 26.
4.        Delays in procurement resulted in fishing vessels being construc-
ted during a period of exceptional international inflation. Unit costs
of the project vessels averaged US$165,000 instead of US$81,000 estimated at
appraisal, so that only 26 boats could be constructed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, instead of the 41) units initially planned.   All vessels were built
by Construcciones Navales de Panama (CONAPAN), a local shipyard.
5.        The oil crisis which caused inflationary increases in both construc-
tion and operating costs, also resulted in a world-wide economic recession
that caused international demand for shrimp to drop and prices to fall in
1974.   It became preferable for boat owners to continue operating old boats
which were still marginally profitable, or, for those small owners who had
financial resources, to rehabilitate them, rather than to invest in new
expensive boat which at that time would have been unable to finance the debt
service out of its operations. In order to prevent further concentration of
fleet ownership in the hands of processors and large companies, project
management suggested reserving 26 boats for captains who had never owned a
boat, but who were willing to take this opportunity to become self employed.
1/   Adapted from the Project Summary of the audit memorandum; Project
Performance Audit Report, Panama (First) Fisheries Project (Loan 784-
PAN), OED Report No. 2'578 dated July 29, 1979.



- 46 -                              ANNEX 2
Page 2
The total number of shrimp fishing licenses has been limited to 238 since
1968, in order to avoid fleet overcapacity, but the Government issued another
decree creating the additional 26 licenses under a special regime set up to
enable individual captains to benefit from the project.
6.         Prices of shrimps increased again in 1975, when most project boats
started operating.    The project boats have therefore been in operation for
only about three years but so far appear to meet appraisal expectations both
technically and financially.    On the basis of actual initial results and of
projections of future returns, their financial rate of return would be around
15%, within the range of initial estimates (14% to 20w).
7.          After some delay, training in boat operations was provided to the
project captains by an FAO shipmaster and was completed satisfactorily on
September 30, 1976.
8.          The feasibility study for a new fishing port was started in June
1971 by a consulting firm from the UK, and completed in March 1974.      On the
basis of its findings, a fishing port project was appraised by the Bank and a
port loan (Loan 1114-PAN) of US$24 million was approved by the Bank in April
1975.
9.        Technically and financially, Banco Nacional de Panama (National Bank
of Panama, BNP) has managed the project well and provided sub-borrowers with
adequate support services. The Bank helped BNP to set up a routine preventive
maintenance program for the project boats by financing an initial stock of
spare parts out of the loan proceeds.    None of the subloans is in arrears and
BNP is keeping sub-borrowers under close financial supervision.
10.         The economic impact of the project on the shrimp fishing industry
is, at this stage, difficult to assess because of uncertainties about future
changes in shrimp prices, in the total catch and in the size of the national
fleet.  Moreover, all project boats have been operating for too short a time
for accurate estimates to be made of their operating efficiency. However, the
economic rate of return is likely to be quite substantially lower than the 15%
to 22% range expected at appraisal.      This is because the obsolete vessels
which the project boats were supposed to replace remained in operation.
Therefore, so far, averted losses may not be counted as a benefit. At
appraisal, the total catch capacity of the fleet was assumed to be around the
maximum yield of the traditional shrimp grounds, so that the project boats
were not expected to raise the national catch; and no overfishing would occur.
In 1976, the construction of new trawlers was prohibited until 1980, when it
was expected that natural retirement of old boats will have brought the shrimp
fleet capacity back to the estimated maximum catch.      Only then, by averting
losses to the sector, would the project boats start yielding substantial
economic benefits.     On the basis of past trends and of the information
available so far, the economic rate of return has been recalculated to be
zero.



- 47 -                              ANNEX 2
Page 3
11.         The follow-on Loan (Loan 1398-PAN, Second Fisheries Project) was
signed in April 1977 and became effective in November 1977.      It includes a
line of credit for the replacement of five old shrimp trawlers by five new
vessels and the rehabilitation of 10 old wooden trawlers.       Issuing of the
above-mentioned 1976 decree freezing the construction of new trawlers until
1980 was a condition of negotiations and assurances were obtained that, from
1980 to 1985, construction or rehabilitation of shrimp trawlers would be
limited to a maximum of 3,260 effective horsepower annually and according to
regulations that would have to be acceptable to the Bank.
12.        To summarize, t.his project has certainly checked the trend of
concentration of the shrimp trawler fleet in the hands of large companies and
processors and has contributed to redistributing the currently substantial
benefits of the shrimp sector among a larger number of individuals.      It has
also successfully contributed to building up project management capabilities
within BNP and training ship captains.






ANNEX 3
Page 1
- 49 -
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
PANAMA SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
(LOAN 1398-PAN)
FISHING PORT PROJECT (LOAN 1114-PAN)
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SUMMARY1'
Identification/Preparation
1.        The Panama Second Fisheries Project (Loan 1114-PAN) was originally
identified and prepared by an FAO/IBRD/CP mission which visited the country in
July and August of 1969.  At that time the mission proposed construction of a
new port with three broad objectives:    (a) the regrouping at a new location
away from central Panama City of the then existing fisheries activities in the
interests of economy and efficiency; (b) the further development of Panamanian
fisheries activities (beyond the then existing shrimp fishery which was
already being exploited at or in excess of maximum sustainable yield); and (c)
the servicing of foreign f]eets, and its diversion from existing transfer and
servicing operations from an anchorage near Taboga Island.
2.        In  pursuit of   these  objectives,  the  identification/preparation
report envisaged a port that would provide shelter and service facilities for
240 shrimp trawlers, 25 large purse-seiners, 10 small seiners, and 60 inshore
boats all based in Panama and for a number of international tuna vessels
operating in Eastern Pacific tropical water.     The facilities would include
unloading and service berths, freezing and cold storage plants, and a ship-
yard.
3.        Consequently, it was recommended that high priority be given to
the construction of a fishing port and US$400,000 was included under Loan
784-PAN to finance a feasibility study of a new fishing port.
4.        The feasibility study was carried out by a consortium of Panamanian
and British consultants; the consultants' draft report was issued in February
1974.   This was discussed during a Bank pre-appraisal mission; a revised
report was issued in July 1974, which indicated substantially higher returns
than initially calculated.  A second pre-appraisal mission visited Panama in
August 1974; this mission reviewed the consultant's report, making suggestions
for further modifications, and gathered materials for the staff appraisal
report.   As a result of the above changes, the relative importance of tuna-
related benefits to the viability of the project was considerably enhanced. A
visit was made by a Bank official to San Diego, California, where discussions
were held with representatives of the tuna fishing industry.
1/   Adapted from audit memorandum; Project Performance Audit Report, Panama
Fishing Port Project (Loan 1114-PAN), OED Report under preparation.



- 50 -                           ANNEX 3
Page 2
Appraisal
5.        The appraisal report was prepared in March 1975 without a further
formal appraisal mission, as sufficient information had been gathered during
two pre-appraisal missions, in addition to the details included in the
feasibility study.
6.        The project as appraised had the following objectives:
(a) to promote the efficient operation and growth of the shrimp industry
in Panama by providing adequate port facilities;
(b) to provide improved transshipment and other services to the national
and international tuna fleets by installing a cold storage plant on
the mainland;
(c) to provide better facilities for inshore fishermen operating
in Panama Bay;
(d) to facilitate the improvement of the Maranon section of Panama
City by the removal of the fisheries industry from the city; and
(e) to assist in developing the management capability of APN through
technical assistance and staff training programs.
7.        In order to meet these objectives the principal components of the
project were:
(a) construction, at Punta Vacamonte, of a fishing port with a protec-
tive breakwater, a dredged access channel, ten berths for shrimp
trawlers, four berths for tuna clippers, adequate quays for berthing
inshore fishing vessels and for servicing trawlers, a ship repair
berth and yard, buildings for shrimp processing and tuna cold
storage plants, a fish market, administrative and other offices,
storage areas, roads and utility services within the port area;
(b) provision of consultant services for design and supervision of
construction; preparation of administrative and operational pro-
cedures and cost accounting and budget control systems required by
APN and each of its ports; and
(c) a program for training the Port Authority's staff (to be financed
by UNDP).
Implementation
8.         The project was approved by the Board on April 22, 1975.     The Loan
Agreement was signed on May 27 and became effective on September 25, 1975.
The contract for detailed engineering was awarded to a consortium of two



- 51 -                       ANNEX 3
Page 3
foreign and one Panamanian firms in June 1975.       The same consortium later
(November 1976) was awarded the contract for supervision. Early in the
project cycle, the detailed design indicated that the actual costs of the
port would substantially exceed appraisal estimates and attempts were made
to find economies.    Among the economies selected was a shortening of the
breakwater by 150 meters.     In retrospect, this has proven to be a costly
decision in that it has left: the tuna berths exposed to swell and wave action.
9.        The lateness of the original bid documents and the need to rebid
resulted in a delay of about eight months in contract award for marine and
harbor works compared with t:he original schedule. Thereafter, the project was
built quite expeditiously and problems encountered during construction were
quickly solved.
10.       Actual costs, at US$47 million, were much higher than the costs
estimated at appraisal. ThLs is due to higher costs for buildings and equip-
ment, but also substantially higher costs for consultant services.         Most
important also was the exchange rate adjustment arising from the weakening
of the dollar against the Japanese Yen, which amounted to US$4 million in
current terms.    Finally, some items, such as costs of land purchase and
capitalized administrative and supervision costs of APN, had not been included
at appraisal.
11.       The economic rate of return was reestimated by the audit at seven
percent compared to fifteen percent at appraisal.
Outcome
12.       While the Panamanian shrimp fleet is using the harbor and associated
facilities as anticipated, other uses have not developed in accordance with
projections. Most importantly, use by tuna vessels is very low and the
fishery for the local market has not developed.    However, some international
trawlers (notably from Cu'ba and East European countries) are calling at
Vacamonte, a use that was not foreseen at appraisal.    The net effect of these
developments is a substantial reduction in benefits and a reduction of the ERR
to about 7% and poor financial performance. The economic and financial
performance of the project will continue to be poor unless the international
trawler fleet increases its use of Vacamonte to replace the major shortfalls
in use by the international tuna fleet and by domestic fishermen (other than
shrimpers).
13.       The overestimate in potential use of the harbor resulted from
weaknesses in the economic analysis of the identification report which were
carried over into the appraisal.       The analysis overestimated potential
fisheries resources and gave inadequate appreciation to the factors influ-
encing the choice of fishing harbors by fisheries operators.         Particular
failings included:
(a) Shortening the breakwater as a cost saving design change; this
compromised the fundamental suitability of the port for a major
user group - the tuna boats.



- 52 -                           ANNEX 3
Page 4
(b)  The depth and dimensions of both the access channel and the turning
basin; as built, they are marginal for the tuna fleet but ample for
the shrimp fleet. Overall, the port design is inappropriate for all
the intended uses.
(c) Overly acceptance by the Bank and APN of informal verbal assurances
of the tuna industry concerning the need for Vacamonte, its probable
utilization and the problems of using Taboga; the project design and
projection of benefits depended heavily on verbal reports that
should have been more carefully scrutinized and supported by docu-
mentary action.
(d) Faulty analysis of the economic incentive for users of Taboga
to switch to Vacamonte, including the omission of a sensitivity
analysis of the most important variables; such a sensitivity
analysis would have cast severe doubt on the economic viability
of the entire project and, at the least, would have significantly
altered the design.
(e) Failure to make use of available information at the time of apprais-
al regarding the coastal fishery; these benefits were a major part
of total projected benefits and were based on anticipating funda-
mental changes in Panamanian domestic fish consumption patterns but
in the absence of data to indicate that such changes would occur.
(f) Incorrect calculations of the economic incentive for tuna boats to
use Vacamonte; tuna vessel calls therefore are substantially below
appraisal estimates, as vessels continue to use the Taboga anchorage
in preference to Vacamonte.     Overall tuna activity in Panama is
following projections, but shifts in the international market and
fishing patterns suggest that this pattern may not continue.
(g) Failure to consider traffic from the international trawler fleet;
this traffic has been a major and growing factor in port operations.
It has not served to adequately replace the tuna fleet as yet, but
indications are that traffic in this sector will increase.
14.         An important factor in the insufficiency of analysis at appraisal
and in inadequacies in supervision was the limited experience with fisheries
matters at the Bank unit handling the project.



- 53 -                           ANNEX 4
Page 1
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
PANAMA SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
(LOAN 1398-PAN)
NOTES ON LENDING FOR FISHERY DEVELOPiENT
IN PANAMA BY OTHER AGENCIES
Inter-American Development Bank
1.        The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) has been involved in two
fish development projects, one for artisanal fishing and the other to promote
inland shrimp development.
2.        On May 2, 1974, the IDB Board approved a US$3.5 million loan to
finance a cooperative Fishing Project (Loan 396/SF-PN).       This program con-
sisted of the following components (at an estimated total cost of US$4.89
million):
(a) granting of credits to nine fisherman cooperatives located in
strategic areas of both coasts; credit to be used for:
- procurement of fishing vessels, navigation and fishing equipment,
refrigeration machinery and equipment, and vehicles;
- construction of minor port works;
(b) payment of overhead costs including engineering, administration and
land;
(c) providing technical assistance to the Agricultural Development Bank
(BDA) and the cooperatives.
3.        This project has, faced serious implementation problems, delays and
cost overruns.   Of 86 vesr,els planned, only the 44 coastal vessels have been
delivered, and due to serious problems, the engines of these vessels had to
be replaced. Procurement of the other vessels (mainly deep-sea fishing
vessels) has been plagued with problems including bankruptcy of the original
contractor.   The lack of these vessels seriously affected the attainment of
the production objectives of the project (the missing vessels were estimated
to catch around 75 percent of projected production) and also resulted in
underutilization of the infrastructure and installations provided under the
project.
4.        In 1982, an aquaculture program was approved.    The basic objectives
of that program were to :lncrease shrimp production capacity and exports by
financing start-up of production of 1,500 ha of salt marshes and installation
of the necessary infrastructure to reach scheduled production goals (see also



- 54 -                           ANNEX 4
Page 2
PPAM, para. 13).    The program is also aimed to help develop the necessary
support infrastructure to expand fish culture projects and increase the supply
of protein from animal resources in order to improve the diet of Panama-s
population.I/   The program is composed of two subprograms:       one to foster
the production of shrimp and another to finance the improvement of the
support infrastructure for the development of fish aquaculture.       The total
costs of the program are estimated at US$20 million, for which an IDB loan of
US$13.2 million has been provided.
5.        In more detail, this project has the following components.
Subprogram A consists of four basic activities.
(i) line of credit to be used to extend subloans to finance medium-
scale shrimp farms of an area between 20 ha and 100 ha;
(ii)  construction of a postlarvae substation which will produce
the necessary seed to meet the demand of the shrimp farms;
(iii) expansion and equipping of a shrimp culture research station,
to be utilized as a training and demonstration area for the
personnel that will operate the farms; and
(iv)  technical cooperation through the hiring of specialized consul-
tants to provide advisory services to the BNP and to prosepctive
beneficiaries and through institutional and technical support to
the National Directorate of Aquaculture (NDA).       In addition,
training courses will be conducted for 20 high school graduates
in aquaculture and two fellowships will be granted to biologists
that will be hired for the Agua Dulce experimental station.
Subprogram B is to strengthen the support infrastructure for fish culture
through execution of the following activities:
(i) construction and operation of an alevin production station at
Gualaca (Chiriqui Province);
(ii)  construction of an alevin production and research station at the
edge of Lake Gatun (Cuipo Province) with a view to restocking of
lakes;
(iii) the necessary equipment to speed up the restocking of Lake Gatun
so as to increase the fishing effort over the tucunare species;
and
(iv)  technical cooperation through the hiring of a specialized
consultant, the conduct of training programs, and the awarding
of fellowships.
1/   For details, see the following IDB documents:       Project Report, Panama
Aquaculture Program (PN-0059), Report PR-1187-A, dated April 27, 1982,
and loan proposal No. PR -1187, dated April 27, 1982.



- 55-                              ANNEX 4
Page 3
United States Agency for International Development
6.        The US Agency for International Development (USAID) has also pro-
vided support.    At present, this includes a technical assistance agreement
covering the following:    (i) consultant services to set up model fish ponds,
supervise the organization of NDA, transfer technology and provide training;
(ii) construction of four additional ha of ponds for integrated production of
fish, vegetable and poultry and small livestock; (iii) a study of the impact
of fish culture on fish consumption in rural communities; (iv) an analysis of
the economic and financial feasibility of setting up ponds for fish culture;
and (v) a study of the acceptability of the program to rural communities.






- 57 -
PANAMA
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
LOAN 1398-PAN
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
December 22, 1982
Latin America and the Caribbean
Regional Office
Agriculture 2 Projects Department






- 59 -
I. BACKGROUND
1.01      This is the second fisheries project financed by the Bank in
Panama. The first, Loan 734-PAN for US$3.5 million was approved in July 1971
and closed in October 1977. A project Completion Report (PCR) dated February
14, 1978 and a Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) dated June 29, 1979
were compiled for the firsi: fisheries project. The components of the first
project were oriented toward addressing the needs of the shrimp industry and
included:
(a) the construction of shrimp vessels: at appraisal, 40 vessels were
planned, but the actual unit cost on bids received resulted in only
funds available for 26 vessels;
(b) a study for a new fishing port; and
(c) the training of sihrimp vessel captains.
1.02      In the PPAR report on the first project questions were raised on:
(a) the project's probable contribution to overcapacity and the
overfishing of limited shrimp resources; and
(b) procurement procedures which resulted in delays and unforeseen
price increases.
1.03      The second project was identified by the Ministry of Planning with
assistance from the Marine Resources Department of the Ministry of Industry
and Commerce. Bank missions prepared the project and Bank appraisal was
conducted during July 1976. The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) was produced on
March 23, 1977. During the identification, preparation and appraisal, the
project's concept remained to offer financing, technical assistance and
administrative services for fishing activities in Panama to include:
commercial shrimp fishing End processing, industrial fishing for sardine type
species, freshwater fish culture and shellfish culture. Activities for
coastal artisanal fishing were excluded as this was being covered by a
concurrent program financed by the Interamerican Development Bank (IDB) and
channelled through BDA.
1.04      The main issue considered during appraisal was that in its
financing of the construction of additional shrimp vessels and the
reconstruction of old vessels, the project might contribute to the existing
excess fishing capacity. On the other hand, it was argued in the SAR (early
1977) that under the Bank loan no new shrimp vessels would be built (to be
prohibited by law) until 1980 and in the intervening three years, natural
attrition would have eliminated the equivalent of 15 shrimp vessels (3,260
effective horsepower). A covenant was included in the Guarantee Agreement
whereby the Government agreed to prohibit the operation of new shrimp vessels
until January 1, 1980 and to limit the annual construction and rehabilitation
of such vessels until 1985 to a maximum of 3,260 effective horsepower.



- 60 -
II. DESCRIPTION OF THE PROJECT
2.01      The project was to be carried out over a four-year period to
provide:
(a)  The construction of ten 100 m ton capacity steel purse seiners
powered by 260 hp engines; as a condition of effectiveness, the
Government enacted legislation to limit the number of purse seiners
for each of the three factories to 15 vessels during project
implementation;
(b)  the construction of five 50-foot steel, 220-hp shrimp trawlers
which would replace an equivalent number of obsolete wooden
vessels;
(c)  the rehabilitation of 10 wooden shrimp trawlers to improve their
seaworthiness and operational efficiency;
(d)  financing for the relocation of six shrimp processing plants into a
new structure located at the Vacamonte fishing port constructed
under Loan 1114-PAN; the plants had previously been located in the
metropolitan Panama City area and constituted an environmental
problem because of the discharge of their wastes into nearby
waters;
(e)  fish hatcheries and technical assistance oriented to subsistence
farmers to enable them to initiate fresh water fish farming;
farmers would operate individually or in groups to develop small
ponds to be stocked with fingerlings of tilapia, carp and other
species supplied from the project hatcheries; demonstration ponds
would also be established. Emphasis in this component was to be in
the mountainous area where the fish production was to supplement
the protein-poor diets of local residents;
(f)  research facilities, a technical extension facility and a
demonstration area for encouraging the culture of oyster for
residents of the Bocas del Toro area; it was envisaged that at full
development 200 families would be engaged in the cultivation of the
native mangrove oyster which would be sold to wholesalers in the
Panama City area; and
(g)  strengthening the unit which was set up under the First Fisheries
Project (Loan 784-PAN) and engaging six short-term consultants.
Consulting services totalling 111 man-months were to be provided:a
naval architect, a fishing training officer, a fresh water fish
expert, a food processing engineer, a quality control expert and an
oyster farming expert.
Project Benefits
2.02      The overall economic rate of return of the project was estimated at
15%, excluding the processing plant relocation, which was justified in the
fishing Port Project (Loan 1114-PAN). At full development, the fresh water
fish and oyster farming would involve about 1,200 families, who would
improve their cash incomes and diets.



- 61 -
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Loan Effectiveness
3.01      The loan was signed on April 28, 1977, but did not become
effective until November 14, 1977 after a lapse of more than six months due
to delays by congress in passage of laws to:
(a) to regulate the size and number of purse seiners; and
(b) to exempt all goods acquired under the project from any regulations
prohibiting their importation.
Purse Seiners
3.02      The major component of the project, the building of ten, 100 ton
capacity purse seiners, was accomplished within the appraisal schedule and
for less than originally forecast. Specifications for the purse seiners were
drawn up by a contracted naval architect and provided to five pre-qualified
shipyards under Bank-ICB procedures. The contract was awarded to PICSA of
Peru. Supervision of the construction was provided by a Peruvian consulting
naval architect augmented by the BNP contracted naval architect who visited
the shipyard approximately every six weeks during construction. Including
nets, initial supplies of fuel and other gear, the vessels were delivered,
ready to fish, for approximately US$300,000 each, which is to be compared
with the US$400,000 each estimated at appraisal. At appraisal it had been
envisaged that the 10 purse seiners would be sold directly to the three fish-
meal factories which, in turn, would man them with their own employees.
However, BNP requested that the Bank allow them to be sold directly to
experienced captains. This change in ownership required that the Loan
Agreement be amended to reduce the owner's equity from 15% to 5%, as the new
intended owners would have difficulty in obtaining US$45,000 as a cash
contribution. Delivery began in June 1979 and approximately one month prior
to the launching of each vessel, the captain and engineer of each vessel were
sent to the PICSA shipyard for intensive training on the vessel-s maintenance
and operational procedures.
3.03      Eight purse seiners were delivered in 1979 underwent sea trials,
and began fishing, accounting that year for a total catch of 6,188 ton of
fish. Pending registration and subloan approval, the boats remained under
BNP ownership until March 1.980, with the subloan applicants as operators.
The applicant in each case was a corporation, having as its head and
principal stockholder, the boat captain.
3.04      During 1980, the ten vessels financed by the project operated very
satisfactorily, landing a t:otal of 61,000 tons of fish which was
approximately one-third of the total catch in Panama by a total of 45
operating purse seiners.



- 62 -
3.05      The July 1981 a Bank supervision mission reviewed tha individual
subloan accounts and found them all current with no arrears as of year end
1980, but cautioned that the proposed 1981 price of US$30 per shorl: ton might
not be sufficient to cover projected costs and debt servicing. It was also
noted that the fish meal factories were obliged by law to satisfy first the
local market at a controlled price of US$280/s ton before exports could be
made at the then current world market price of US$460/s ton.
3.06      In 1981, problems were experienced in two areas, which reduced the
average vessel's catch to less than 5,000 s ton:
(a) marine conditions influencing the migration of sardine and thread
herring into Panama Bay were not favorable, resulting in
less-than-average year for fish populations being available to the
purse seiners; and
(b) the three processing plants which received the fish catches
experienced a series of operating difficulties so that fish could
be discharged only after long delays.
3.07       Conditions during 1982 indicate that this year-s results will be
similar to those in 1981. A projection of the purse seiners cash flow based
on a normal year (1980) showed that there must be a substantial rise in the
price paid for the fish catch, if the subloans are to be repaid. This is
discussed in detail under financial returns (para 5.03). Details on actual
costs vs appraisal estimates, project key indicators, allocation of loan
proceeds and owners of the 10 project purse seiners are provided in Tables 1
to 4.
Construction and Rehabilitation of Shrimp Vessels
3.08      In 1976, at the time of the appraisal of the Second Fisheries
Project, there were approximately 280 licensed shrimp vessels (262 operating
vessels) in Panama which produced an average catch of 44,500 pound per
operating vessel (see Table 5). By late 1979 there were still 280 licensed
vessels (261 operating vessels) producing an average annual catch of only
42,000 pounds per operating vessel.    According to the Loan Agreement, the
construction of five new shrimp trawlers would be made operational after
January 1, 1980 and would be subject to the availability of shrimp
resources. Obviously with no appreciable reduction in the shrimp fleet by
natural attrition together with a declining average catch per vessel, there
was no reason to consider any new construction. Furthermore, the
reconstruction of old shrimp vessels was limited by BNP to only three vessels
instead of the 10 envisaged at appraisal.
Processing Plants
3.09       At loan closing, eight shrimp processing plants, including all of
the six previously located in Panama City (para 2.01(d)), were located at
Vacamonte. Five of these plants, which account for more than 90% of the
Panama's shrimp production received a total of US$2.5 million in financing,



- 63 -
exceeding the US$2.1 million estimated at appraisal. According to owners of
the processing plants the move has been generally beneficial. Most
frequently cited advantages include:
(a) the consolidation of services such as fuel and repair facilities in
one location; and
(b) the ability to discharge shrimp cargo at any time, rather than to
be dependent on high tides.
There is no doubt about the environmental improvement brought about by the
move (para 2.01). Waste iS now collected in containers and transported by
truck to a land fill.
Fresh Water Fish and Oyster Farming Component
3.10      Fish Culture.   At appraisal, the component was envisaged as a
program to establish a fresh water fish hatchery at Divisa and to offer
technical assistance to small holders in developing fish ponds for local
consumption. The freshwater aspects evolved with distinct differences
between appraisal estimates and actuals at project completion (December 1981)
as compared below:
At Project
Appraisal            Completion
Estimate               Actual
Number of ponds                             150                  118
Total water area                             55.0 ha              11.8 ha
Total annual fish yield: kg             110,000                5,900
Annual yield: kg/ha                       2,000                  500
3.11      The major variances are in the average size of the pond (0.4 ha
appraisal vs. 0.1 ha actual) and the annual yield which resulted in less than
a tenth of the projected production. It was assumed at appraisal that the
ponds would be owned by individual farmers or small groups, but as it turned
out, many of the ponds became community projects and were implemented on a
less intensive basis than planned. The yields forecast at appraisal could
only be achieved under optimal, intensive conditions. The fresh water
program is still being implemented by the National Directorate of Aquaculture
(NDA) and the original goal of 500 ponds can be reached in a few years.
Yields can be improved by integrating the ponds with the effluent from pork
and poultry production facilities.
3.12      At appraisal, NDA the implementing agency, under the Ministry of
Agricultural Development (MIDA) consisted of two persons with no facilities.
At project completion in December 1981, NDA's staff numbered 38 persons,
including 18 professionals. It operated a fresh water fish hatchery at
Divisa and a salt water shrimp experimental station and hatchery at
Aquadulce. Bank funds were used to finance 16 man-months of a fish farming
consultancy, a feasibility study of salt water shrimp farming and the



- 64 -
contruction of the two facilities. Although not envisaged at appraisal, in
1979 the NDA branched out into salt water shrimp farming and has had
exceptional success. There are now more than 1,000 ha of ponds in commercial
shrimp farming in Panama which have benefitted from NDA technical assistance.
3.13      Oyster Farming.  During 1977, a small laboratory was established at
Bocas del Toro and two biologists from the Department of Marine Resources
were atationed there to carry out initial investigations for possible oyster
bed locations. A specialist in the type of oyster (mangrove oyster) to be
grown in the area was contracted by late 1978 to lend on-site technical
assistance.
3.14      During 1979 and 1980, the consultant, the two local biologists and
five laborers carried out experiments to determine the growth rates and
farming methods for the mangrove oyster. The appraisal report forecast that
50 families would start oyster production during the investment period but
efforts were unsuccessful to get the local population interested.
3.15      In July 1981, a Bank supervision mission that visited the Bocas del
Toro sites and reviewed experimental data came to the following conclusions:
(a) the growth rate of the mangrove oyster at the Bocas del Toro
location is less than in Cuba and Venezuela, where they are
presently commercially grown;
(b) the mangrove oyster is much smaller than the Pacific oyster, a
species found in the wild on the Pacific side of Panama and
currently being commercially exploited. The mangrove oyster would
therefore experience formidable competition in marketing, except
possibly as an exotic curiosity;
(c) there was little interest on the part of the local Bocas del Toro
residents to engage in oyster farming; and
(d) transportation to the most likely market, Panama City would be very
costly as the only existing means available is by aircraft.
3.16      In spite of the negative conclusions reached at that point, the
supervision mission recommended that an (organized) marketing study be
conducted to produce final conclusions as to the future of the component.
Accordingly, small samples of the oysters were distributed to individuals and
to restaurants. It was found that this small oyster would indeed be
difficult to market in order to compete successfully with the larger Pacific
oyster and a small local clam. Therefore, the Department of Marine Resources
closed the laboratory in Bocas del Toro, transferred the moveable assets such
as boats and lab equipment to other projects and reassigned the two
biologists to activities elsewhere.
3.17      Over the period 1978 to 1981, the oyster component cost a total of
approximately US$450,000 including technical assistance. Bank financing
accounted for approximately US$140,000 in equipment and approximately



- 65 -
US$90,000 in payment for consulting services of the oyster expert. Benefits
from this experimental project would include:
(a) the training of t:wo biologists; and
(b) documentation on growth rates, farming techniques and marketing
data on the mangrove oyster. Now that a road is scheduled to be
built into the Bocas del Toro region, commercial fishermen have
expressed an inte3rest in this activity and the results of the pilot
project could be utilized.
Consulting Services for Seafood Quality
3.18      Approximately 16 man-months of consulting services were provided by
the project to the Ministry of Health to:
a.   train two food inspectors who served as a nucleus for a seafood
inspection service at the Vacamonte fishing port;
b.   conduct classes to instruct shrimp boat captains, processing plant
managers and staf'f on the handling of shrimp and fishery products.
More than 800 persons attended these classes;
c.   develop a manual for seafood quality standards and good handling
practices; and
d.   establish a seafood quality testing laboratory at Vacamonte.
3.19      The work on seafood quality control was timed to coincide with the
start-up of the new port facilities, and the insistence on high standards
with periodic inspections resulted in the processing plants incorporating
features, such as complete screening of packing areas, which might not have
been considered. Since the processing plants have been relocated to
Vacamonte, not one shrimp shipment from Panama has been rejected by the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration inspectors. In the past, rejections were very
costly for the industry: in 1975, for example, about US$350,000, or 2% of
Panama's shrimp exports, were rejected.



- 66 -
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Project Unit
4.01      During the period 1977 to 1981, from loan effectiveness until loan
closing, there were a total of four project directors. In each case, the
former project director assumed a higher position within BNP. The project
was always a high priority project for BNP and problems such as lack of
counterpart funds, budget restrictions, and lack of facilities were never
experienced. Initially the processing of reimbursement requests by project
unit staff took longer than necessary because of their unfamiliarity with
Bank procedures, but this in time was cleared up. The project unit now
staffs the BNP branch established at the Vacamonte fishing port and has
routine banking responsibilities.
Auditing
4.02      Project accounts were audited on a routine basis by the Controller
General. In all project years (1977-1981), the auditors gave unqualified
opinions. The auditor's reports were generally received one to two months
later than the April 30th date specified in the Loan Agreement.



- 67 -
V. FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC RETURNS
Financial Returns
5.01      Financially, the project has been disappointing because the unit
prices paid for the main project output (industrial fish) has been less than
projected. The following paragraphs discuss the project's income generating
components with respect to financial returns.
5.02      Purse Seiner Operations.   At appraisal it was estimated that the
average performance of the 10 purse seiners would result in an annual catch
of 6,600 s ton of fish per vessel, which would be sold for an average price
of US$33 per s ton, in nominal terms of 1977 (Table 6). In 1980, which is
considered a normal year, the average catch was very close to the targeted
tonnage (6,600 s ton appraisal vs. 6,287 s ton actual) but the unit price was
only US$30/s ton. The appraisal unit price of US$33/s ton adjusted to 1980
prices would be US$48/s tonl or 60% above the actual level paid. A comparison
of actual vs appraisal estLmates of operating costs per vessel shows a closer
correlation with only a US.$8,000 or 5% difference.
5.03      Projecting the expected catch of 6,300 s ton and the present price
level of US$30/s ton over a 11-year period, as seen in Table 7, on a 100%
equity basis (no financing costs) results in a 10% rate of return. However,
using the same assumptions with financing added, as shown in Table 8, the
average purse seiner's gros;s revenues of US$189,000 per year, in 1980 values,
is not sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt servicing. BNP has
had to provide short-term financing and if US$30/s ton unit prices continue,
it will mean that the purse seiner owners will go deeper in debt. This
unsatisfactory situation of low unit prices is largely the result of the
Government's policy of maintaining controlled low prices on domestically
marketed fishmeal. As seen in Table 9, the domestic fishmeal price for 1980
was US$300/m ton while the international price was US$506/m ton.    Fishmeal
producers are obliged to satisfy the domestic demand before export sales are
permitted. As also seen in Table 9, domestic consumption of fishmeal in 10
years has increased more than six times in response to the subsidized
fishmeal. What is really happening is that the government is subsidizing the
users of fishmeal (mostly chicken and egg producers) at the expense of the
purse seiner operations.
5.04      At the start of the project in 1978, Panama had three fishmeal
factories. In mid-1982, Panama had only one operating factory. Problems of
poor fish catches in 1981 and controlled low prices have resulted in
unsatisfactory financial returns for the fishmeal factories. The low
internal price received by the fishmeal factories was a point of discussion
by Bank supervision missions during 1981 and 1982 with Marine Resource
officials and fishmeal factory owners. Efforts are now in progress to
abolish the fishmeal price differential and to rehabilitate one of the two
idle factories.
5.05      Shrimp Vessel Rehabilitation.   Unit prices received for shrimp
generally exceeded appraisal estimates by 5% to 10% as seen in Table 10.



- 68 -
However fuel prices, the largest component of operating expenses, were double
those of appraisal estimates. The disproportionate increase in fuel prices
compared with shrimp prices caused most shrimp vessels to operate
unprofitably, using 1980 actual data (Table 11) from the 26 vessels financed
under the first project. An average vessel in good condition had an average
cash loss of US$3,300 in 1980. A vessel older than 16 years old experienced
an operating cash loss of US$14,000. In spite of the generally uneconomic
cost-price relationship during 1977 to 1981, the number of operating shrimp
vessels declined by only 7 vessels and the number of issued shrimp licenses
remained at approximately 280. Project financing totalling US$75,000 was
utilized for three shrimp vessels, each in excess of 16 years old. As seen
in Table 12, the rehabilitation allowed the owners of the vessels to reduce
their operating costs by an average of US$11,000 per year.
5.06      Relocation of Shrimp Processing Plants.   Relocation of the shrimp
processing plants was justified on environmental grounds and no benefits,
financial or economic, have been claimed in the appraisal report or this
report for the component. Benefits accruing from the relocation are
discussed in the appraisal and completion reports of Loan 1114-PAN, which
financed the construction of the Vacamonte port facility.
Economic Returns
5.07      The economic rate of return for the project has been estimated at
12% as seen in Table 13. In the calculation, all project investment costs
except those pertaining to the relocation of the shrimp processing plants,
were included. A border price of US$37/s ton (instead of the US$30/s ton
actually received) was used for the price of industrial fish. This is based
on the ex-vessel price paid for industrial fish in Peru, the world's
principal exporter of fishmeal produced from sardine and anchovy-type
species. All other costs and benefits have been included at financial
prices. Production levels for the economic rate of return were based on 1980
fish catch statistics of approximately 6,300 s ton per purse seiner per
year. Production level variances on the other components (shrimp vessels and
fresh water fish culture do not alter the economic rate of return).
Incremental Production
5.08      In 1977, before the project was initiated, there were 35 purse
seiner vessels in operation in Panama. At the end of 1981 there were 37
operating purse seiners, with several vessel retirements planned for 1982.
In the interim, many of the obsolete converted shrimp vessels were phased out
and the 10 purse seiners financed by the project replaced these retired
vessels. The project purse seiners production could not be considered to
have expanded the fleet as they have replaced obsolete vessels.



- 69 -
VI. PERFORMANCE OF THE BORROWER AND THE BANK
Compliance with Loan Cond:Ltions
6.01      BNP and the Government complied with most of the Loan Agreement and
Guarantee Agreement condit:ions. A summary of the covenants met which dealt
directly with the project follows:
(a) required Legislation relating to purse seiner and shrimp licenses
has been enacted;
(b) required counterpart fund were provided;
(c)  project director was appointed;
(d)  operational agreements with participating agencies were signed;
(e) a suitable project monitoring and evaluating system were
established;
(f)  audited statements with unqualified opinions were received for all
project years; and
(g) ten purse seiners and five shrimp processing plants were financed;
6.02      Covenants with which BNP as the Borrower and the Government as
Guarantor did not comply were:
(a)  Establishment of a Fisheries Project Committee
Section 3.06 of the Loan Agreement required BNP to continue the
operation of a Fisheries Project Committee set up under the First
Fisheries Project. Instead of reactivating this committee, the
Project Director worked with interested parties on an informal
basis to achieve the same intended objectives of a committee.
(b) Retention of a 1'raining Officer to Instruct New Purse Seiner Owners
Section 3.02 of the Loan Agreement called for retention of a
Training Officer for the new purse seiner owners. However, the new
owners had many years of experience and had already possessed the
required skills for the safe and efficient operation of their
vessels. No training officer was thus required.
(c) Completion of a Plan to Regulate the Fishing Industry
Section 4.03(b) of the Guarantee Agreement called for the
Government to furnish the Bank a plan for regulating the fishing
industry by Decetmber 31, 1980. In spite of repeated reminders,
however, no progress was ever made on such a plan.



- 70 -
National Bank of Panama (BNP) Performance
6.03      Operations of BNP grew and improved during the project
implementation. Assets were increased from US$400 million in 1976 to over
US$1,000 million by 1981. Also strengthened were (see Tables 14 and 15):
(a)  debt to equity ratio:   21 to 1 in 1976 improved to 18 to 1 in
1981;
(b)  net income:  from US$1.0 million in 1976 increased to
US$7.0 million in 1981; and
(c)  reduction in delinquent loans:   from 8.3% in 1976 to 4.6% in
1981.
Bank Performance
6.04      During the four and one-half year disbursement period of the
project, a total of 11 supervision missions were sent to Panama, generally on
a six-month interval between missions. The Bank's insistance on legislation
to prohibit the building of new shrimp vessels until 1980 and the placing of
limits on purse seiner vessel licenses brought about a consciousness on the
part of the Government on fishing capacity. When building five new shrimp
vessels, as envisaged in the project, clearly was not warranted, a total of
US$2.42 million was cancelled. Accordingly, the Loan Agreement was amended
to delete all requirements for the construction of new shrimp vessels. In
addition, the decision was made that no further shrimp vessel rehabilitation
would be financed under the Loan.
Follow-on Project
6.05      For the next few years, there will be no foreseen demand for the
construction of new fishing vessels in Panama. The one potential opportunity
for a fisheries project in the form of pond culture of shrimp has been taken
up by IDB. The Bank should maintain a dialogue with Government and at some
time in the future, when new vessels or additional shrimp ponds are
warranted, be prepared to offer assistance.



- 71 -
VII. SPECIAL ISSUES AND LESSONS LEARNED
Special Issues
7.01      Projects Contribution to the Overfishing of Shrimp.    The danger of
overfishing or reducing the average catch per shrimp vessel has been
mentioned in the SAR for t:he project, at the Board meeting when the loan was
approved and by the PCR of the First Fisheries Project (Loan 784-PAN).
Conditions of the loan ca:Lled for a review of shrimping operations in Panama
prior to the decision to build five additional shrimp vessels as provided
under the project. BNP management correctly determined by 1979 that the
shrimp fleet had not been reduced sufficiently by natural attrition to
warrant new construction. The number of operating shrimp vessels over 20
tons gross by 1979 was 26]. vessels as compared to 262 vessels in 1976
(Table 5) and the average catch per vessel had declined. At the end of 1981,
the number of operating vessels had been reduced by 12 to 249 and the average
catch per vessel had improved. However, the economics of shrimping
operations continue to be marginal or unsatisfactory due to high fuel costs.
Shrimp vessel rehabilitations financed by the project were restricted to only
three vessels instead of the 10 envisaged at appraisal.
7.02      Ownership of Fishing Vessels.   Restrictions on the ownership of the
10 purse seiner vessels constructed and financed under the project was not
specified in the Loan documents. Questions were raised at Board presentation
on the appropriateness of an option whereby the vessels could be purchased by
the large fishmeal companies as part of their integrated operation. At the
time of selection of owners for the purse seiners, BNP requested that the
Bank consider lowering the equity contribution requirement from 15% to 5%
thereby allowing small corporations with limited resources led by experienced
captains to purchase the vessels. The Bank agreed and all 10 vessels were
purchased in this manner. As all 10 boats then became independent of the
fishmeal factories, the price paid for the industrial fish became extremely
important. The factories, however, paid a price which did not permit
adequate returns, especially debt servicing. With a combination of poor
catches and government restriction on local sales during 1981 and 1982, two
of the three fishmeal factories ceased operations. Had the 10 vessels been
purchased by the fishmeal factories, at least two-thirds of them would now be
idle as part of the assets of the two bankrupted factories. As it now
stands, the surviving fishmeal factory is being expanded and one of the two
bankrupt factories may reopen with new owners. In any event the 10 purse
seiners will be able to continue operations under the present small
corporation ownership. What will be needed is a lifting of the present
restriction on export fishmeal sales and the insistance on a fair price to be
paid for industrial fish.



- 72 -
Lessons Learned
7.03      Dangers in Predicting Reductions of Fishing Capacity due to the
Increasing Age of the Fishing Fleet. Actual shrimp vessel retirements during
1977-1979 proved to be much less than appraisal estimates. At the the time
of appraisal, late in 1976, there were 262 operating shrimp vessels over 20
gross tons (Table 5); at the end of 1979, there were still 261 operating
vessels in spite of a ban on new construction. The appraisal report
estimated that 15 vessels would be retired during the same period but, in
fact only one retired. However, shrimp prices in 1979 had reached a record
high of US$3.22/lb against the US$2.46 assumed for the same year in the SAR.
The average catch per boat had declined by 6% in 1979 as compared to 1977.
Shrimp prices in 1980 and 1981 declined, with prices averaging US$2.78/lb,
but the catch per vessel had increased substantially because of better
shrimp-breeding conditions. However, statistics for the period 1980/81
suggest that the combination of age (21% of the fleet was over 20 years old)
and the cost-price squeeze of lowering shrimp prices and high fuel costs was
finally being felt. During the two year period between the end of 1979 and
the end of 1981, the number of operating shrimp vessels was reduced by 12
boats, even though two new shrimp vessels were added to the fleet in 1980. A
shrimp vessel in Panama has no use other than shrimping and fishermen have
few alternatives other than to be fishermen. Faced with marginal returns and
financial difficulties, an owner will sell his boat at a low price to another
fisherman who will continue the shrimping activity until either the vessel
cannot be made seaworthy or is re-sold again at a yet lower price to another
fisherman.
7.04      Product Analysis.  The oyster component at Bocas del Toro had a
serious shortcoming in that it depended for success completely on one
species, the untested mangrove oyster. As it turned out its growth rate was
unsatisfactory and it had marketability problems because of its small size.
In retrospect this component should have experimented with alternative
species which could be grown in the same area. More thorough advance
marketing analysis could have also indicated that marketing would also be a
severe problem.



PANAMA
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT (LOAN 1398-PAN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Project Cost and Financing
(US$ million)
Actual Total
Appraisal Estimates         Actual           as x of Appraisal
Components                           Local  Foreign Total   Local Foreign Total          Total
Fishing vessels                      1.83     3.55    5.38   0.03   3.28   3.31           62 1/
Processing plants relocation         1.03      1.63   2,66   1.21   1.88   3.09          ;;6
Fresh water fish & oyster farming    0.21     0.14    0.35   0.55   0.35   0.90          257
Adm. and technical services          0.79     0.37    1.16   0.79   0.25    1.04          90
Contingencies                        1.20     1.81    3.01    -      -      -
Total                           5.06     7.50   12.56   2.58   5.76   8.34           66
Financing
Bank                                  -       7.50    7.50          4.87   4.87           65
BNP                                  2.74       -     2.74   1.24   0.89   2.13           78
Government                           0.69       -     0.69   0.55     -    0.55           80
Beneficiaries                        1.63       -     1.63   0.79     -    0.79           48 2/
1/  Purse seiner vessels purchased for US$294,000 each instead of US$400,000 estimated at
appraisal (US$1.06 million less than appraisal). Also, only three shrimp vessels were
rehabilitated at US$104,000 in total and no new shrimp vessels were constructed
(US$1.01 million less than appraisal).
2/  Beneficiary contribution for purse seiner vessels reduced from 15% as specified in appraisal                 H
to 5% due to vessels being purchased by small enterprises led by boat captains instead of by                 a
fish meal factories as originally envisaged.                                                                 m
November 15, 1982



- 74 -                        Table 2
PANAMA
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT (LOAN 1398-PAN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Key Indicators
Achievement        Objective
At Project
Completion         Target
(12/31/81)        (6/30/81)
Shrimp Trawlers - New
Number of boats                                        -                5 1/
Cost per boat (US$)                                    -          100,000
Shrimp Trawlers - Rehabilitated
Number of boats                                        3               10
Cost per boat (US$)                               35,000          50,000
Purse Seiners Constructed
Number of boats                                       10               10
Cost per boat (US$)                              294,000         400,000
Processing Plants Relocated & Financed
Number of plants                                       5                6
Average financing per plant (US$)                496,400          356,500
Fresh Water Fish Farming
Number of families involved                        2,080              300 2/
Number of ponds                                      118              150
Average cash cost per pond (US$)                   N/A                138
Average size of ponds (ha)                             0.10             0.40
Oyster Farming
Number of families involved                            -               50
N/A = Not available.
1/ No new construction because the existing fishing capacity was still more than
adequate.
2/ Program emphasis changed from individual ownership envisaged in appraisal
report to community sponsored projects.
November 15, 1982



t'ANAMA
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT (LOAN 1398-PAN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Allocation of Loan Proceeds
(US$'000)
Revised 1/
Z            Loan         Loan
Category                     Financed      Agreement      Agreement      Disbursed
(1)  (a)  Subloans for constructon a&nd        16% of
rehabilitation of fishing            amount
vessels                              disbursed       3,554          2,180           2,387
(b)  Subloans for relocation of           76% of
processing plants                    amount
disbursed       1,626          2,137           1,886
(2)       Fresh water fish and oyster
farming programs                        39Z            137            137            349 2/                n
(3)       Technical assistance                 100% of
foreign
expenditure       376            376             250 2/
(4)       Unallocated                              -           1,807            250            -
Total                                              7,500          5,080           4,872
Undisbursed and cancelled                                                           208 3/
1/ Loan Agreement revised, US$2.42 million cancelled on March 10, 1980.
2/ Status of funds report of January 31, 1982 lists US$149,080 for Category 2 and US$449,317 for                    0
Category 3, apparently in error as review of disbursements show balances as shown above.                         X
3/ Undisbursed balance cancelled on January 27, 1982.
November 15, 1982



- 76 -                         Table 4
PANAMA
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT (LOAN 1398-PAN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Owners of Project-Financed Purse Seiners
Owner                             Vessel Name           Date of Commissioning
Victor Bravo y Everardo Lopez                  Cubaya                     03/24/80
Pesquera Chocolido S.A.                        Bea                        03/24/80
Pesca y Navegacion del Litoral, S.A.           Chiapes                    03/24/80
Faustino Moreno                                Eclava                     03/24/80
Pesquera Santa Clara, S.A.                    Musa                        03/14/80
Pesquera Otoque, S.A.                          Ponto                      03/20/80
Pesquera Boliche, S.A.                         Tabor                      03/05/80
Pesquera Sardimar, S.A.                        Sate                       03/05/80
Pesca y Navegacion del Sur, S.A.               Terbis                     03/02/80
Pesquera Flamenco, S.A.                        Viceitas                   03/23/80
November 15, 1982



rAIUArIM
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT (LOAN 1398-PAN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Average Number of Shrimp Trawlers, National Catch and Average Catch per Trawler, 1961-81
Average No.        National Catch (m tons)      Average Catch per Boat (Pounds)
Year            of Boats                All Species              All Species    White Shrimp
(over 20 tons gross)
1961              161                      5,496                   75,255          28,726
1962              158                      6.025                   84,076          28,847
1963              153                      5,584                   80,455          22,632
1964              181                      7,056                   85,937          27,826
1965              194                      5,852                   66,512          25,725
1966              199                      5,643                   62,531          26,325
1967             218                       6,442                   65,168          24,989
1968              233                      6,001                   56,799          18,653
1969             233                       5,653                   53,501          18,232
1970             237                       6,895                   64,138          18,393
1971              222                      6,342                   63,029          19,101               1
1972             218                       5,281                   53,400          23,400             -_
1973             239                       5,564                   51,322          21,521
1974             242                       5,285                   48,146          15,871
1975             254                       4,952                   42,981          14,647
1976             262                       5,312                   44,698          17,632
1977             256                       5,235                   44,990          15,941
1978             264                       5,094                   42,438          14,800
1979             261                       4,990                   42,064          13,225
1980             254 1/                    5,559                   48,224          12,334
1981             249                       7,052                   61,666          21,275
1/ Two new shrimp vessels added to fleet in 1980.                                                       |
Source:  Directorate of Marine Resources, Ministry of Commerce and Industry.                         |
UNl
November 15, 1982



SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT (LOAN 1398-PAN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Project Purse Seiner Operations
Average Vessel's 1980 Income Statement
Income Statement
(1977 Data)        Inflated to 1980 Values     Actual
Appraisal             Appraisal Data 1/        1980
Statistics
Short tons of industrial fish                6,600                   6,600               6,287
Fishing days                                   180                     180                 196
Ex-vessel fish price ($/s ton)              US$33                    US$48               US$30
Revenues                                            -------------        US$-----
Fish sales                                 216,000                 317,988             189,332
Operating Expenses
Crew and subsistence                        37,950                    -                 60,824              c
Fuel and lubricants                         23,650                                      34,668
Taxes, licences and fees                       371                    -                    _
Subtotal                                 61,971                   90.478              95,492
Repairs and maintenance                     28,000                    -                 25,894
Administrative, taxes, insurance            26,749                  _                   40,999
Subtotal                                 54,749                   79,933              66,893
Total Operatlng and Adm. Expenses            116,720                  170,411            162,385
Net Income Before Depreciation and
Income Tax                                 101,080                 147,577              26,947
Depreciation                                  24,000                   24,000             14,000
Income Taxes                                   4,000                   6,178                 -
Net Income                                    73,080                  117,399             12,947
a,
1/ Wholesale index rise from 1977 to 1980:    46%
November 15, 1982



PANAMA
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT (LOAN 1398-PAN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Project Purse Seiner Operations
Average Vessel's Cash Flow Projection
100X Equity Basis
US$'000
1980
(Actual)
Item
Statistics                                1         2        3         4        5        6         7        8         9       10        11
Short tons of industrial fish                   6,287     6,300     6,300    6,300    6,300     6,300    6,300     6.200   6i;7(1    6,200     6,200
Fishing days                                 196       193       190      187      184       180      178       175      175      175       175
Tons per fishing day                          32.1      32.6      33.2     33.7     34.2      35.0     35.4      35.4     35.4     35.4      35.4
Income and Expense Statement
Revenues
Fish sales ex.vessel at $30/ton            189       189      189       189      189       189      189      186       186      186       186
Expenses
Trip expenses at $480/day                    95        93       91        90       88        86       85       84        84       84        84
Repairs and maintenance (3% incr./yr)        26        27        28       29       30        31       32        33       34       35        35
Administrative, taxes and insurance          41        41       41        41       41        41       41       41        41       41        41
Sub-total Direct Costs                      162       161      160       160      159       158      158      159       160      160
Net Income Before Depreciation & Taxes       27        28       29        29       30        31       31       28        27       26        26
Depreciation                                 14        14        14       14       14        14       14        14       14       14        14
Income taxes                                 -          1        1         1        1         1        1         1        1        1         1
Net income                                   13        13        14       14       15        16       16        13       12       11        11
Cash Flow
Original investment                         (294)
Initial spares and supplies                  26
Net income                                   13        13        14       14       15        16       16        13       12       11        11
Depreciation                                 14        14       14        14       14        14       14        14       14       14        14
Cash value of vessel                                                                                                                       225
Net Cash Flow                               (293)      27        28       28       29        30       30        27       26       25       250
Financial Rate of Return: 9.81
November 15, 1982



Table 8
PANAKA
SECOND PISHIEIES PROJECT (LOAN 1398-PAN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Project Purse Seiner Operations
Average Vessel's Cash Flow with Financing
US$ '000
1980
(Actual)
Statistics                                 1        2        3         4        5         6        7        8         9       10         11
Short tons of industrial fish                   6,287     6,300     6,300    6,300    6,300     6,300    6,300     6,200    6,200    6,200     6,200
Fishing days                                 196       193      190       187      184       180      178       175      175      175       175
Tons per fishing day                          32        32.6     33.2      33.7     34.2      35.0     35.4     35.4      35.4     35.4      35*4
Income and Expense Statement
Revenues
Fish sales ex.vessel at $30/ton            189       189      189       189      189       189      189      186       186      18f      186
Expenses
Trip expenses at $480/day                    95        93       91        90       88        86       85       84        84       841      84
Repairs and maintenance (32 incr./yr)        26        27       28        29       30        31       32       33        34       3'i      35
Administrative, taxes and insurance          41        41       41        41       41       41        41       41        41       41.      41
Sub-total Direct Costs                      162       161      160       160      159       158      158      159       160      161)     160
Net Income Refore Depreciation & Taxes       27        28       29        29       30        31       31       28        27       2i4      26
Depreciation                                 14        14       14        14       14        14       14       14        14       14        14
Interest- BNP-IBRD loan                     16         32       32        29       25        22       18       14        11        7         4
Interest- short-term BNP advance            -           3        3         7       11        16       20       24        29       34        40
Income tax                                              -        -         -        -         -
Sub-total                                    30        47       46        46       46        47       47       47        48       49        50
Net Income                                  (3)       (21)      (20)     (21)     (20)      (21)     (21)      (24)     (27)     (29)      (32)
Cash Flov
Inflov
BNP-IBLRD loan                               279             -         -         -        -             -         -        -        -         -
BNP-short-term advances                       25        -         32       37       36        37       37       40        42       i 5       40
Net incoae (loss)                             (3)     (21)       (20)     (21)     (20)      (21)     (21)      (24)     (27)     ('9)      (32)
Depreciation                                  14       14         14       14       14        14       14        14       14       14        14
Owners equity                                 16        -         -        -        -         -        -         -        -         -        -
Sale of vessel to breakeven                                                                                                                 388
Total Inflow                                 331       (7)        26       30       30        30       30        30       30       lo       410
Outflow
Purchase of initial spares and supplies       26
Purchase of vesseX                           294
Repayment of BiP-IBRD loan                    -         -         30       30       30        30       30       30        30       )0        39
Repayment of BNP advance                                                                                                                    371
Cash                                          11       (7)       (4)       _                           -          - 
Total Outflow                                331       (7)      26         30       30        30       30       30        30       30      410
Memo
Cash Balance                                  12        5        -          -        -         -        -        -         -        -         -
BNE Advance Balance                           25       25       57         94      130       167      204      244       286      331      371
November 15, 1982



PANAMA
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT (LOAN 1398-PAN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Fish Meal and Industrial Fish Statistics
1972      1973      1974       1975      1976      1977      1978       1979      1980      1981
Fish Meal Exports and Local Consumption (m ton)
Panama Fishmeal - Exported                    7,314     7,778     3,929      7,043    15,449    30,340    10,416    22,573     29,374    11,861
Panama Fishmeal - Local Consumption           1,749     6,232     6,435     5,438      7,693     6,304     7,602     7,938      5,805    11,529
Total                                       9,063    14,010    10,364    12,481     23,142    36,644    18,018    30,511     35,179    23,390
Industrial Fish Catch (m ton)                     48,813    77,182    51,462     63,678   135,205   188,555    94,830   132,085    180,144   101,590 1/
Fish Meal Prices (US$/m ton)
Export Price (CIF)                              247       571       507        300       327       390       360       391        506       477
Local price                                     150       150       190        190       190       190       190       240        300       300
1/   Fish catch of 10 project vessels:   1980:  55,212 m ton, 1981:  45,180 m ton
Source: Directorate of Marine Resources,
Ministry of Commerce and Industry.
November 15, 1982
'0



SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT (LOAN 1398-PAN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Prices of Major Project Products and Inputs
(US$)
---------------Products--------------                  Inputs
Fishmeal   ($/m ton)  ($/s ton)
($/lb) 1/       Local     Int'l.  Industrial         (S/US gal)
Shrimp          Price     Price       Fish           Diesel Fuel
Financial Prices
Appraisal Estimates 2/
Year 1     1978            2.27 3/        n.a.      n.a.       36.50 4/             .55
Year 2     1979            2.46                                39.63                .60
Year 3     1980            2.65                                42.64                .65
Year 4     1981            2.66                                42.93                .65
Actual       Year 1    1978             2.41        190.00     360.00      29.00                 .50               1
Year 2     1979            3.22         240.00    391.00       29.00                .75
Year 3     1980            2.76         300.00    506.00       30.00               1.18
Year 4     1981            2.79         300.00    477.00       30.00               1.30
Economic Prices
Appraisal Estimates
Year 1     1978            2.27           n.a.      n.a.       36.50                .55
Year 2     1979            2.46           -         -          39.63                .60
Year 3     1980            2.65           -         -          42.64                .65
Year 4     1981            2.66           -         -          42.93                .65
Actual       Year 1    1978             2.41        360.00     360.00 5/   35.00 6/              .50
Year 2     1979            3.22         391.00    391.00       36.00                .75
Year 3     1980            2.76         506.00    506.00       37.00               1.18
Year 4     1981            2.79         477.00    477.00       38.00               1.30
1/  Ex-vessel price, weighted average of all species and sizes.
/   Compounded price contingency factors used in SAR:     Year 1 (1978): 110.6, Year 2 (1979): 120.1,                      m
Year 3 (1980): 129.2, Year 4 (1981): 130.1.                                                                            o
3/  Constant price of US$2.05/lb assumed in SAR.
4/ Constant price of US$33 per short ton assumed.
!   Fi oh m     o brder price fixed at International Price.
6/  Border price of industrial fish calculated from ex-vessel price in Peru.
November 15, 1982



PANAMA
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT (LOAN 1398-PAN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Earnings and Costs of a Rehabilitated 230 hp Shrimp Trawler
(1977 Data)    Inflated to 1980         Actual 2/
Appraisal     Appraisal Data 1/         1980
Statistics
Fishing days                              216                216                207
Catch per fishing day (lb)                213                213                203
Total catch                            46,000             46,000             41,938
Ex-vessel price per lb                      2.05               2.99               2.76
Revenues                                             US$
Shrimp sales                           94,300            137,540            115,749
Operating Expenses
Salaries and subsistence               19,161             27,975             20,070
Fuel and lubricants                    18,321             26,749             42,637
Other
Repair and maintenance                 13,500             19,710             17,406
Other costs                             7,300             10,658             22,962
Total Operating Expenses               58,282             85,092            119,072
Net Income Before Depreciation
and Taxes                          36,018             52,448             (3,323)
Depreciation                            5,938              5,938              5,938
Income tax                              1,500              2,325                  -
Net Income (Loss)                      28,580             44,185             (9,261)
Breakeven Price at Observed Catch               $1.40/lb           $1.98/lb           $2.98/lb
Breakeven catch at Observed Prices      31,327 lbs         30,445 lbs             45,293 lbs
1/  Wholesale price index rise from 1977 to 1980: 46%
2/ 1980 actuals based on actual performance of 26 shrimp vessels financed under First Fisheries
project.
November 15, 1982



PANAMA
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT (LOAN 1398-PAN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Calculation of Incremental Net Benefits
Rehabilitated 230-hp Shrimp Vessel Operation
Without
Rehabilitation
Statistics                                               1         2        3         4        5        6          7         8          9        10          11
Fishing days                             166       207        207      207      203        203      199        199       195       195        191         191
Catch per day (lb)                       203       203        203      203      203        203      203       203        203       203        203        203
Total catch (lb)                      33,698    42,021    42,021    42,021   41,209     41,209   40,397    40,397     39,585    39,585     38,773     38,773
Ex-vessel price/lb                         2.76      2.76       2.76     2.76      2.76      2.76     2.76       2.76      2.76       2.76      2.76       2.76
Revenues                                                                                      US$
Shrimp sales                           93,006    115,978    115,978  115,978  113,737    113,737  111,496    111,496   109,255   109,255    107,013    107,013
Expenses                                                                                                                                                                         c
Salaries and subsistance 1/               16,102     20,070     20,070   20,070    19,691    19,691   19,303     19,303    18,915     18,915    18,527      18,527
Fuel and lubricants 2/                    34,196     42,642     42,642   42,642   41,818     41,818   40,994     40,994    40,170     40,170    39,346      39,346
Other trip costs 3/                       12,782     15,939     15,939   15,939    15,631    15,631   15,323     15,323    15,015     15,015    14,707      14,707
Repair and maintenance 4/                 20,887     17,406     17,406   17,406    18,500    18,500    19,000    19,000    19,500     19,500    20,000      20,887
Other Costs                               22,962     22,962     22,962   22,962    22,962    22,962   22,962     22,962    22,962     22,962    22,962      22,962
Total Operating Expenses                 106,929    119,019    119,019  119,019   118,602   118,602  117,582    117,582   116,562    116,562   115,542     116.428
Net Income (Loss) Before
Depreciation and Taxes                 (13,923)   (3,041)    (3,041)  (3,041)  (4,865)    (4,865)  (6,086)     (6,086)  (7,307)   (7,307)    (8,529)      (9,416)
Incremental Benefit                          -      10,882     10,882   10,882     9,058     9,058    7,837       7,837    6,616     6,616      5,394        4,507
J US$97/fishing day.
t/ US$206/ fishing day.
F/ US$77/fishing day.
Non-rehab. vessel 202 higher initially.
lovember 15, 1982



SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT (LOAN 1398-PAN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Calculation of Project Economic Rate of Return
1          2            3         4         5       6       7        8         9       10       11        12        13
Statistics
Industrial fish catch (short tons)                                62,870     63,000   63,000   63,000  63,000  63,000    63,000   62,00    62,000    62,000   62,000
Unit price per short ton ($/s ton)                                     37        37        37      37      37       37       37       37        37        37        37
Purse Seiner Operations                                                                 (US$'000)
Benefits                                                            2,326     2,331     2,331   2,331   2,331    2,331    2,331    2,294     2,294     2,294     2,294
Operating costs                                                     1,620     1,610     1,600   1,600   1,590    1,590    1,590     1,590    1,600     1,600      1,600
Investment costs                                       2,940          260      _         -        -       -       -         -        -         -         -          -
Net Benefit (Cost)                               -    (2,940)         446       721       731     731     741      741      741      704       704       704       704
Shrimp Vessel Rehabilitation
Net incr. benefit (3 vessels)                                          33        33        33      33      24       21       21        19       19        14        14
Investment costs                                         100            6         -        -        -       -        -        -        -         -         -         -
Net benefit (Cost)                                      (100)         (27)       33        33      33      24       21       21        19       19        14        14
Fresh Water Fish and Oyster Culture
Net incremental benefit                                                6         9         9       9       9        9        9         9        9          9
Investment cost                              80         100          200         9        -        -       -        -        -        -         -         -         -
Net benefit (cost)                          (80)       (100)        (194)        9         9       9       9        9        9         9        9          9        9
Administrstive and Technical Services
Investment cost                             400         500          340                                                                                          -
Net benefit (cost)                         (400)       (500)        (340)                 _
Total Net Benefit (Cost)                         (480)      (3,640)        (61)      763       773     773      774     771      771       732      732        727      727
Economic Rate of Return:                       12Z
November 15, 1982



- 86 -                                           Table 14
PANAMA
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT (LOAN 1398-PAN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
National Bank of Panama
Condensed Financial Statements 1978 - 1981
(US$ millions)
1978       1979        1980       1981
BALANCE SHEET
Current Assets
Cash                                                     47          90         64         80
Other deposits                                          152          68        137        172
Subtotal Current Assets                               199         158        201        252
Loan Portfolio and Investments
Loan portfolio                                          295         380        408        649
Investments                                              42         41          62         58
Subtotal Portfolio and Investments                    337        421         470        707
Fixed Assets (Net)                                         15          14         17         22
Contingent Assets                                          16          19         23         13
Other Assets                                                5          12         31         37
Total Assets                                          572         624        742      1,031
Current Liabilities                                       400         432        537        703
Other Liabilities                                         142         154        161        276
Total Liabilities                                     542         586        698        979
Capital and Reserves
Capital                                                  25          28         34         40
Reserves                                                  5          10         10         12
Total Capital and Reserves                             30          38         44         52
Total Liabilities, Capital and Reserves               572         624        742      1,031
INCOME STATEMENT
Revenues
Interest income                                          33          42         50         70
Other income                                              5           8          8          6
Subtotal Income                                        38         50          58         76
Expenses
Personnel                                                 8           9         11         13
Office and administrative                                 3           5          5          8
Financial costs                                          16          19         31         43
Other costs                                               4           9          5          5
Subtotal Expenses                                       31         42          52         69
Net Income                                                  7           8          6          7
Source: Annual Audited Statements
November 15, 1982



PANAMA
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT (LOAN 1398-PAN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
National Bank of Panama
Delinquent Subloan Analysis 1977-1981
(US$ '000)
Loan Portfolio                Loan Portfolio in Arrears                    X of Arrears
1977   1978   1979    1980   1981    1977    1978   1979    1980   1981      1977    1978     1979    1980  1981
Loan Portfolio by Banking Activity
Loan Portfolio by Banking Activity
Commercial                               40     49     49      50      57       4      5      8        9     13      10.3     10.3   15.5   17.8    22.9
Agricultural                             30     33     41      57      68       4      6       5       8      8      12.1     18.1   14.4   12.8    11.1
Mortgage                                 24     21     37      40      48       3      4       5       4      5      13.4     18.0   10.4   10.6    10.5
Industrial                               16     24     29      40     44        1      2      2        2      1       7.1     70.0    7.1    5.1     2.9
Personnel                                10     14     23      27     37        2      2      2        2      3      17.2     12.5    7.7    8.8     8.3
Sub-total Private Sector          120     136    179     214    254       14     19     22       25     30      11.4     13.0   11.9   11.6   11.8
Public Sector                           164    159    201     194    392        2      -       -       -      -       1.3      -      -      -       -
Foreign Loans                             5      -     _        -       3       -      -         -       -       -            -      -       -      -
Total                             289     295    380     408    649       16     19     22       25     30       5.5      6.0    5.6    6.1     4.6
Source:  Annual Audited Statements
November 15, 1982






I BR -12 456
Os.                                                                                                      OCTOBER 1976~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CTBR17
0  ,..-  tcerrO Punta ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ I   N0OUE,NERMEI-HOH.
Eurml P 4nog INEEI                    u.   P1
A.-   t                        IN0~~1N.IIIoBe HBndIES                  FI HNaR    U  D
INTER.ATIONILBOUBMOSTATIN             ONS 
PACIFIC  OCEAN  Conol                                                 B   20   SB  00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CLO   CPi  , B
?BflB  COLOBISIA  P  A  C  /  F  /  C  06  F  A  N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PNAA 
*C.". P.M. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BLUTES p~T



