Report No. 1383-PAN
Appraisal of
Second Fisheries Project Panama
March 23, 1977
Projects Department
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00 = Balboa (B) 1.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 foot (ft)              =  0.3048 meter (m)
1 fathom                 =  1.8288 meters (m)
1 -quare meter (m2)      =  10.7639 square feet (ft2)
, pound (lb)             =  0.4536 kilogram (kg)
1 short ton (sh ton or
2,000 lbs)           =  0.9072 metric ton (m ton)
1 long ton (lg ton
20 cwts = 2,240 lbs)=  1.0161 metric tons (m ton)
1 gross ton              =  1.0161 metric tons (m ton)
1 kilogram (kg)          =  2.2046 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (m ton      =  2,204.6 pounds (lb)
or 1,000 kg)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ADB            -  Agricultural Development Bank
APN            -  National Port Authority
BNP           -  Banco Nacional de Panama
DMR           -  Directorate of Marine Resources
FAO           -  United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization
IDB           -  Inter-American Development Bank
MH             -  Ministry of Health
MIDA           -  Ministry of Agricultural Development
NBC           -  National Banking Commission
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PANAMA
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pagte No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ...... ............ .. ... .... ....   i - ii
I.   INTRODUCTION .............................                 1 ...... 1
II.   BACKGROUND ....***e*******e..*****...............          1
A.   General              ......................           1
B.   Fisheries Industry .... ..     .......... o........   2
C.   Government Strategy .. . *..0 ...0....... .....*.     9
III.   PERFORMANCE UNDER FIRST FISHERIES PROJECT ........    10
IV.   THE PROJECT ..*.............    12
Ao   Brief Description ...o........... o.........         12
B.   Detailed Features   . oo ........   ......... .    12
Co   Cost Estimates .. ................ . .a  a..*****    15
D.   Financing .ooo ........ ........ ...a    ..... . ..    16
E.   Procurement ...o ..............    17
F.   Disbursement ...... *  ... ......... ....... ...     17
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ...................    ...    18
VI.   PRODUCTION, MARKETS, PRICES, AND OPERATOR BENEFITS    23
VII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ..o .....o    ............    25
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ......  ......    27
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal team which visited Panama
in July and August 1976. Members of the team were Messrs. N.P. Sharma and
F. Kada (Bank) and M. Perkins, N. Webb, and T. Yamamoto (Consultants).
This docunnnt ho a rtrkted diFlbton and Ry be wedW bymipienls only in the peftrAn
of their officil duties Its contents my ot othewis be disclosed without World Bank authorulilon.
This~~ ~~~ dLuethsarsrce  itiue  n  oyb  sdb eI~n  nyi h  eouac



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
ANNEXES
1.   Fishing Vessels
A.   Shrimp Vessels
B.   Purse Seiners
Table 1 -  Estimated Costs of 50-ft Steel Shrimp Trawler
Table 2  -  Estimated Costs of Rehabilitated Shrimp Trawler
Table 3  -  Assumptions for Statement of Earnings and Costs
of a 50-ft Shrimp Trawler
Table 4  -  Statement of Estimated Earnings and Costs of 50-ft
Shrimp Trawler
Table 5  -  Cash Flow Projections - New 50-ft Shrimp Trawler
Table 6  - Assumptions for Statement of Earnings and Costs of a
Rehabilitated Wooden Shrimp Trawler
Table 7  -  Statement of Estimated Earnings and Costs of a
Rehabilitated Wooden Shrimp Trawler
Table 8  -  Cash Flow Projections - Rehabilitation of Wooden Shrimp
Trawler
Table 9  -  Estimated Costs of 100-ton Steel Purse Seiner
Table 10 -  Assumptions for Earnings and Costs Statement of a
New Industrial Fish Purse Seiner
Table 11 -  Statement of Estimated Earnings and Costs of a New
Industrial Fish Purse Seiner
Table 12 - Cash Flow Projections - Industrial Fish Purse Seiners -
100 tons
Chart I - No. 16451 - Example of Acceptable Profile for 50-ft
Steel Shrimp Double Rigger Trawl Fishing Vessel
Chart 2  -  No. 16450 - Example of Acceptable Profile for 100-ton
Steel Anchovy Purse Seiner Fishing Vessel
2.   Processing Plants Relocation
Table 1 - Investment Costs
3.   Banco Nacional de Panama (BNP)
Table 1 - Sources and Application of Funds
Table 2 - Banco Nacional de Panama - Comparative Balance Sheets
Fiscal Years 1971 through 1976
Table 3 - Banco Nacional de Panama - Analysis of Profit and
Loss Accounts 1972 through 1976
Table 4 - Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss Projections



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
ANNEXES
4.   Fresh Water Fish and Oyster Farming
A.   Fresh Water Fish Farming
B.   Oyster Farming
Table 1 -  Fresh Water Fish Farming - Investments and
Current Costs
Table 2 -  Oyster Farming - Investments and Current Costs
Chart 1 -  No. 16443 - Fresh Water Fish Pond
Chart 2 -  No. 16444 - Oyster Farming
5.   Administrative and Technical Services
Table 1 - Administrative and Technical Services -
Investment Costs
Chart 1 - No. 16571 - Project Unit Organization
6.   Table 1 -  Project Costs
Table 2 - Project Costs - Contingencies
7.   Chart No. 16522 - Implementation Schedule
8.   Table - Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
9.   Economic Analysis
Table I - Economic Results of Project
10.  Table    -  Estimated Project Cash Flow
MAP
No. 12456






PANAMA
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a fisheries project for which a Bank loan
of US$7.5 million equivalent is proposed to finance continued development
of Panama's fisheries industry begun under the First Project (Loan 784-PAN of
1971). While Loan 784-PAN aims only at assisting the shrimp industry, the
proposed second project would provide critically needed assistance along a
broader front, in line with the Government's strategy of developing all
aspects of the fisheries industry and providing support to small independent
boat operators and small fishing enterprises. The objectives would be to
modernize the Panamanian fishing fleet; develop inland fisheries; ensure
greater utilization of the new fishing port at Punta Vacamonte through re-
location of processing plants; relieve serious pollution problems in the
Maranon area of Panama City where some of the processing plants are presently
located; and assist Government in adopting and implementing measures to
maintain a reasonable balance between fleet capacity and fish resources. The
proposed loan would be the sixth Bank loan to support agricultural development
in Panama.
ii.       The First Fisheries Project, which includes construction of shrimp
trawlers, a training program for captains, and preparation of a fishing port
feasibility study, is almost completed, and, as of December 31, 1976, Bank
disbursement was US$3.3 million (97% of loan), with full disbursement expected
by May 1977. While the ongoing project has generated benefits to relatively
poor but enterprising captains, the problems of shrimp fleet overcapacity,
overexploitation of resources, and lack of credit for small independent boat
operators remain acute. The Government is concerned with these problems and
also with the increasing concentration of the shrimp industry in the hands of
processors and large companies. Consequently, there is a new determination
to encourage protection of the resources and to regulate the growth of the
industry. The project would help to ensure that measures to regulate the
growth of the shrimp industry are implemented and that sufficient credits are
made available to small independent shrimp boat operators.
iii.      The proposed project would be carried out over a four-year period
and involves construction of 15 modern fishing vessels (shrimp trawlers and
purse seiners); rehabilitation of 10 old wooden shrimp trawlers; relocation
of six shrimp processing plants to the new fishing port at Punta Vacamonte;
development of fresh water fish and oyster farming; and provision of technical
assistance for operational training of skippers, naval architectural services
and establishment of quality control standards for the seafood processing
industry. Total project costs are estimated at US$12.6 million, of which
US$7.5 million, or 60%, represents the foreign exchange costs to be financed
by the proposed Bank loan. Sub-borrowers would contribute US$1.6 million, or
13%, towards project costs, the Banco Nacional de Panama (BNP), US$2.7 million,
or 22%, and the Government, through a grant, US$0.7 million, or 5%.



- ii -
iv.       Tne project would be administered by BNP, which would be the lending
channel, and the Project Unit set up under Loan 784-PAN in BNP would conti-
nt,e ro be responsible for project implementation. The Ministry of Agricultural
Development would implement the fresh water fish program; the Directorate of
Marine Resources of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry the oyster farming
program; and the Ministry of Health, the quality control program, all working
under agreements with the Project Unit.
V.        Sub-loan terms would range from eight to 10 years, including a
one-year grace period, at an interest rate of 11.5% and a technical service
fee of 0.5% on outstanding sub-loan balances. Currently, legislation pro-
hibits the import of fishing vessels to Panama, but new boats financed under
,-ne project would be exempt from the decree. Contracts for construction of
new fishing vessels and for new equipment for the processing plants would be
awarded after international competitive bidding. Local bidders for vessel
construction contracts would be allowed a preference margin of 15% or the
applicable customs duty, whichever is lower. Equipment and materials for
improvement and rehabilitation of wooden shrimp boats and for the fresh water
fish and oyster development would be purchased through local competitive
bidding acceptable to the Bank. Likewise, plant construction would be carried
out through local competitive bidding acceptable to the Bank.
Vio        Financial rates of return have been estimated to range from 22%
to 40%. The overall economic rate of return for the project is 15%, excluding
the processing plant relocation, which is justified in the Fishing Port Project
(Loan 1114-PAN of 1975). The economic rate of return for the new shrimp
trawlers component is 30.8%, the cost of which is US$0.8 million; 20.6% for
the rehabilitated shrimp trawlers component, the cost of which is US$0.7
million; 19% for the purse seiners component, the cost of which is US$5.4
million; 12.9% for the fresh water fish farming component, the cost of which
is US$0.3 million; and 17.6% for the oyster farming component, the cost of
which is US$0.1 million.
vii.      The fishing industry as a whole would benefit from the project
through increased efficiency of the fishing fleet and the processing plants.
The projected incremental net export earnings would amount to an annual total
of about US$2.1 million, with an average of at least US$0.8 million from
shrimp and US$1.3 million from fishmeal. Average annual incremental pro-
duction generated by the project would be about 134 metric tons of shrimp,
57,000 metric tons of industrial fish, 28 metric tons of oysters, and 243
metric tons of fresh water fish. The project would be directly responsible
for the employment of about 200 persons. Other benefits would include
improved environmental conditions in Panama City, and the involvement of 1,200
low-income farmers in commercial fish farming which would improve their cash
income as well as their diets. Farmers raising fish would be in a position to
earn additional cash income of US$180 to US$240 per annum. Likewise, oyster
farmers would be earning additional cash incomes of about US$250 per year.
viii.     During negotiations appropriate assurances were obtained that provide
a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$7.5 million, with a term of 15 years,
incLuding three and half years grace.  The Republic of Panama would guarantee
the loan and BNP would be the borrower. The Government would bear the exchange
risk involved.



PANAMA
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Panama has requested a Bank loan of US$7.5 million
to finance continued development of its fisheries industry begun under the
First Fisheries Project (Loan 784-PAN of 1971), expected to be fully dis-
bursed by May 1977. While Loan 784-PAN aims at assisting only the shrimp
industry, the proposed Second Project would provide critically needed assist-
ance along a broader front, in line with the Government's strategy of devel-
oping all aspects of the fisheries industry and providing support to small
independent boat operators and small fishing enterprises.
1.02      The Bank has made 12 loans to Panama for a total of US$154 million.
The largest portion of the financing, 49%, has been for power, with 37% for
transportation, 8% for water supplies, and 6% for agriculture, including
fisheries. Presently, two agricultural loans are being disbursed: US$3.4
million for the fisheries project (Chapter III) and US$4.7 million for a
livestock project (Loan 901-PAN).
1.03      The proposed project was prepared by the Government in May 1976.
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission, consisting
of Messrs. Sharma and Kada (Bank), and Perkins, Webb and Yamamoto (Consult-
ants) that visited Panama in July and August 1976.
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Panama, crossroads of the Atlantic and Pacific oceans and of the
North and South American continents, has provided an open economic regime,
which has led to the development of a sophisticated community in terms of
communications, banking and business. With a population of about 1.7 mil-
lion, growing at a current rate of 3.1% per annum, Panama had a per capita
GNP of about US$1,063 in 1975. In the 1960s, the Panamanian economy expanded
rapidly on the basis of active private sector participation and efficient
use of investment, but over the last four years, the country's economic
and financial posture has declined somewhat. The rate of GDP growth, which
averaged 8% in 1959-71, fell to 6.4% in 1972/73, to 3.5% in 1974, and to
less than 2% in 1975. While inflation has been moderate, the unemployment
rate is estimated to have risen from 7.5% of the labor force in 1972 to 12.9%
in mid-1976. Absolute rural unemployment at just over 1% is very low, but
due to the seasonal nature of some products, notably sugar, there is consider-
able intermittent underemployment during the year. Such underemployment has



-2-
been estimated to be equivalent to an unemployment rate of 37% of the labor
force. On the other hand, at peak periods there is a temporary shortage of
labor. Despite a rising level of public fixed investment, total investment
fluctuated around 28% of GDP in 1971-76, reflecting a decline in private
investment.
2.02      The Government has placed a high priority on the redistribution
of income in favor of the rural and urban poor and has responded to the
slackening of economic growth by increasing the already high level of public
investment, which reached 16.9% of GDP in 1976, and by formulating a short-
term program and development strategy (Draft National Development Plan, 1976-
80) to reactivate the economy and provide new investment opportunities.
2.03      Agriculture, including fishing and forestry, accounts for about 16%
of GDP and one-third of the labor force. Excluding revenue from sales of
goods and services to the Canal Zone, which is the single largest source of
foreign exchange earnings, agriculture in 1974 provided about 50% of the total
merchandise exports, with fisheries products accounting for 9% of total
exports. The rate of growth in agriculture, which averaged 5.3% for
the 1960-70 period, declined to about 1.5% in the 1972-76 period. Since
poverty affects over 40% of the rural population and the sector has the
.potential to make a greater contribution to output, balance of payments and
employment, the Government is focusing its efforts on accelerating growth and
development in agriculture through increased programs. Development of the
fisheries sub-sector is one of the Government's priority goals.
B. Fisheries Industry
2.04      Panama, lying between the Caribbean and the Pacific, has access to
extensive marine resources (Map IBRD 12456). The primary focus of the country's
fisheries industry is on shrimp trawling and processing, fish reduction (fish-
meal), coastal fishing for the domestic fresh market, and servicing the inter-
national tuna fleet.
2.05      The fisheries industry accounts for about 4% of GDP; employs about
4,600 people, or about 1% of the economically active population; and is an
important source of foreign exchange since a high percentage of the total
catch is processed and exported, bringing in about US$21 million annually
during 1973-75. Fisheries products accounted for about 15% of total agricul-
tural exports in 1975. The shrimp industry alone employs over 1,200 people
and accounts for over 80% of total fisheries exports. The remaining 20% of
exports is primarily fishmeal and fish oil. Since 1964, shrimp exports have
gone exclusively to the US, which presently imports about 50% of its total
domestic requirements. Fisheries products imports, mainly salted cod,
canned sardines, and tuna, are also substantial and amounted to US$3 million
in 1975, averaging about US$1.7 million over the 1971-74 period.



-3-
2.06      Although the fishing industry has grown vigorously over the last
two decades, it is still far from having realized its potential, either
as an earner of foreign exchange or as a source of food for domestic consump-
tion. The main obstacles to further development are: (a) lack of adequate
port facilities; (b) overexploitation of shrimp resources; (c) obsolescence
of the local fishing fleet; (d) lack of a complete inventory of fish re-
sources; and (e) inadequate local distribution and marketing facilities, which
contributes to a relatively low per capita consumption of fish (para 2.33).
Fisheries Resources
2.07      Shrimp.  The Gulf of Panama and the Gulf of Chiriqui off the Pacific
coast of Panama are the two major shrimp fishing grounds. The annual produc-
tion of the traditional species (white, pink, and titi) is estimated to be
about 12 million lb. Other shrimp species (1.7 million lb), such as Cabezon
and Fidel, are exploited in deeper waters than the traditional types.
2.08      In 1965, a six-year UNDP/FAO project was begun in Panamanian and
Central American waters, one aspect of the study being to investigate the
potential for expansion in the catch of shrimp in Panamanian waters. New
grounds were located in Pacific waters of medium depth (to 250 fathoms) and
in deep water, and test runs showed that the resources available were consider-
able. Follow-up investigations on a commercial basis, however, proved
disappointing since shrimp at medium depths are small and command a relatively
low price and cost more to catch. The deep water shrimp were larger but even
more costly to catch, requiring large trawls and powerful engines, which,
under present conditions, are not financially viable. Also, shrimp was found
offshore in Caribbean waters at depths up to 50 fathoms; however, only 15%
of the shelf area can be trawled because of widespread occurrence of coral.
Hence, until real prices of deeper water shrimp rise, operations will be
confined to shallow water, with relatively small catches coming from medium
depths. On this basis, the effective resource on a sustainable basis is
estimated at 13 million pounds, or 5,897 metric tons.
2.09      Pelagic Species.  Several pelagic species such as anchovy, thread
herring, tuna and shark are found along the Pacific coast of Panama, but the
volume of industrial fish (anchovy and thread herring) fluctuates widely on
an annual basis due to changing ecological conditions. The minimum recorded
catch of industrial fish in recent years was 21,000 metric tons in 1969 while
the maximum landing was 70,000 metric tons in 1973. It is estimated, however,
that resources will, in the long run, sustain an annual catch up to about
300,000 metric tons. A catch of 100,000 metric tons is feasible within the
next several years, given a larger and more efficient fleet of purse seiners.
2.10      Total landings of tuna (yellowfin and skipjack) average about 6,000
to 10,000 metric tons annually, harvested by the international tuna fleet
between January and March. Exploitation, however, has reached the level of
maximum sustainable yield in Panamanian waters. Data on shark availability is
incomplete but the UNDP/FAO study indicates that there is an abundant supply
in coastal waters. An Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) fisheries project



-4-
(para 2.33), which is presently being implemented, includes shark meat pro-
cessing.
2.11      Demersal Species.  Food fish, or demersal species (snapper, croaker,
grouper and sole), are exploited by artisanal fishermen. Annual production
is now about 3,000 metric tons, but this figure will probably double by 1980.
The results of the UNDP/FAO study (para 2.08) indicate that a substantially
larger catch is possible if improvements are made in fishing, handling and
distribution methods.
2.12      Other Fisheries.  Panama has a potential for sizeable inland
fisheries resources. The Government is therefore promoting development
of fish culture as a means of increasing the participation of the rural
sector in commercial fish farming and of providing a source of protein to
the rural population (para 2.33). To realize this potential, an economically
viable aquaculture system for selected species is needed and farmers require
training in simple fish farming systems. Mangrove oyster farming could also
be carried out on a commercial basis by small farmers.
2.13      The Government has already initiated a fresh water fish farming
project to carry out research and experimentation in the selection of
suitable species and methods of pond culture for selected species and three
local experts have been trained in this field. Likewise, in 1975, the
Government, jointly with FAO, identified major areas exhibiting favorable
environmental conditions for oyster cultivation and suitable oyster species.
However, technical assistance is needed for further research, experimenta-
tion and development of fresh water fish and oyster farming.
Shrimp Fleet
2.14      The Panamanian shrimp fleet has been growing rapidly.  There are
presently 280 shrimp vessels in operation, including 30 smaller than 20 gross
tons, with a total catching capacity in excess of available shrimp resources
(13 million lb). About 45% of the shrimp fleet is over 10 years old. The
length of trawlers varies between 35 and 85 feet, with engines ranging from 75
hp to 500 hp, but, given the increasing costs of boat operation and the high
initial investment, many independent operators now tend to prefer smaller
vessels. The shrimp fleet is presently operating beyond the level of maximum
sustainable yield, thus generating adverse effects that are reflected in the
fact that the average annual catch per vessel dropped from 64,138 lb in 1970
to 42,951 lb in 1975, going down by an average 7.6% a year. The Government
enacted legislation in 1968 to limit the number of licensed shrimp boats to
238 and the engine horsepower to 260 in an effort to maintain a balance among
available resources, fleet size, and processing capacity but it has not been
sufficiently effective in controlling the size of the shrimp fleet (Annex 1).
Currently, there are 272 licenses for shrimp vessels. Since 1968, 34 special
fishing permits have been issued and 70 new vessels constructed.



-5-
2.15      In spite of current high shrimp prices, most shrimp vessel opera-
tions in Panama are unprofitable or only narrowly profitable because of low
catches and high production costs, especially wages (highest in Central
America) and diesel fuel. It is generally recognized that operation will
become satisfactorily profitable again as soon as the necessary measures are
introduced to reduce the size of the shrimp fleet. Based on available
resources, it is estimated that an optimum level could be maintained with
about 50,000 total fleet effective horsepower (EHP). At present the EHP
is estimated at about 60,000. Given the rate of annual natural obsolescence
(2,060 EHP); given the time when older vessels are not operating due to
frequent annual repair and maintenance (1,200 EHP); and given an enforced
moratorium on the construction of boats during the next three years, it is
estimated that by early 1980, Panama would maintain a reasonable balance
between fleet capacity and resources. By 1980, with a zero growth rate, i.e.,
replacing obsolete vessels with new boats having equivalent horsepower (3,260
EHP annually), Panama would maintain the shrimp catch at the maximum sustain-
able yield.  Wooden vessels between 15 and 16 years old could be rehabilitated
and obsolete vessels could be replaced with new vessels since about 15% of
the shrimp fleet would then be over 20 years old and operating with very
high costs and marginal profits (Annex 1).
2.16      The Government is willing to take firm measures to correct the
disequilibrium which clouds the shrimp industry and recognizes that strict
controls must be maintained in order to protect resources. It has now enacted
new comprehensive legislation (Law No. 58 of November 23, 1976) governing
licenses for ownership of shrimp vessels, and it is also planning to set up
standards for shrimp trawlers aimed at improving seaworthiness and operating
safety and efficiency of trawlers (Annex 1).
2.17      About 49% of the shrimp trawler fleet is owned by independent boat
operators, 36% by processing plants, and the remaining 15%, jointly by pro-
cessors and individual captains. Only 18%, or eight of the vessels constructed
since 1971, excluding the 26 boats financed under Loan 784-PAN, went to indi-
vidual boat operators. As many of the independent boat operators find it
difficult to replace their old vessels, ownership of the shrimp fleet would
fall more and more into the hands of the large companies. Present credit
arrangements for shrimp trawlers have been limited and carry stringent terms
(three years' repayment period with no grace). The Government is concerned
with the growing concentration of the industry in the hands of the processors
and has therefore placed high priority on assisting individual boat operators.
Providing replacement shrimp trawlers and rehabilitated trawlers to small
independent boat operators under the proposed project would enable the Govern-
ment to advance towards the achievement of this goal.



- 6-
Industrial Fish Purse Seiner Fleet
2.18      There are 31 industrial fish purse seiners now operating and four
under construction in Panama. About 17, or 55% of the total fleet, are old
vessels acquired in Peru and 14 (45%) are converted second-hand wooden shrimp
trawlers. Over 25% of the industrial fish fleet is obsolete and should be
replaced. Based on available resources (para 2.09), fleet size could poten-
tially increase over an extended period of time to 45 purse seiners with a
maximum holding capacity of less than 6,750 metric tons.
2.19      There are two fish plants now in operation and a third plant is
expected to open shortly. Their combined capacity would allow conversion of
about 130 tons of raw material per hour if they could get the supply of fish
needed. It is therefore necessary to intensify fishing efforts to increase
the anchovy and thread herring catch (para 2.09).
2.20      Over 90% of the purse seiners are owned by processors and the
remainder by independent fishermen. Moreover, most of the new purse seiners
are likely to be purchased by processors as only a few independent fishermen
can afford the high cost of the boats (US$400,000 per vessel), considering
the inherently fluctuating nature of the industry. The Government is aware
that there is need for regulation to avoid excess capacity and overexploita-
tion of resources and has indicated that it plans to restrict the maximum
holding capacity of purse seiners to less than 150 short tons. It also
intends to reduce the number of vessels each processor can operate from
20 to 15.
Fishing Port Facilities
2.21      Because existing facilities (seven wharves) for landing shrimp,
anchovy and thread herring are inadequate for expansion of the fisheries
industry, the Government is now constructing a new fishing port at Punta
Vacamonte, which is partially financed under Loan 1114-PAN. The new port
is expected to be in operation in early 1979. It will provide piers for
the discharge of shrimp, artisanal fish and tuna and a building in which
space is provided for shrimp processors, refrigeration for 3,000 tons of
tuna and a wholesale fish market, plus other facilities such as tuna pro-
cessing operations. The repair, maintenance and service equipment that will
also be located in the area should permit savings in boat servicing, and
the port, in general, will reduce the time tuna boats spend in port, thus
increasing their efficiency.
2.22      The Government has enacted legislation requiring relocation of
seven shrimp processing plants from Panama City to the centralized facilities
at Punta Vacamonte to ensure greater utilization of the fishing port project
and to facilitate Government's urbanization program for the Maranon area of
Panama City, where three processing plants are presently located, contributing
heavily to serious pollution problems. Six shrimp processing plants have
agreed to move, while the seventh has decided to terminate business.



2.23      Relocation would entail some operating cost savings and would
generate additional benefits (Annex 2), but some small processors would not
be able to borrow funds for large capital outlays from commercial banks under
conventional lending terms (10 to 11% interest and three-year repayment
periods), due to the relatively long gestation period and low returns on the
initial capital investment for relocation. There is therefore a critical need
for funds to cover costs of relocating the six shrimp processors under lending
terms and conditions that are more favorable than commercial banking sources
and on terms compatible with the processors' ability to sustain and repay
such investments.
Vessel Construction and Repair Facilities
2.24      The construction of fishing vessels in Panama was stimulated by
the growth of the shrimp industry and Government regulations prohibiting
the import of fishing vessels. There are two shipyards in Panama which now
construct modern shrimp trawlers and anchovy purse seiners. The two have
a combined slipway capacity to build about 30 vessels annually, with a con-
struction period of about six months per vessel. The 26 shrimp trawlers
financed under-Loan 784-PAN were constructed locally after international
competitive bidding. Most of the repair and maintenance work on fishing
vessels is carried out by a number of small workshops. It is expected that
most of these workshops will move their operations to the new port facility
(para 2.22).
Fisheries Development Credit
2.25      Panama's favorable banking and monetary policies have led to the
establishment of many domestic and foreign financial institutions and, until
1974, the private banks had liberal credit policies and were mostly active in
short-term lending to all sectors of commerce and industry. In the fisheries
sector, commercial banks have made funds available mainly to larger borrowers
for vessel construction and repair and for processing installations and equip-
ment. In 1975, however, private banks began to demonstrate greater caution in
their lending; thus, in the first nine months of 1975, there was a decline in
funds channeled into the private sector from commercial banks. This restraint
in the private banks' lending posture has been even more pronounced with
respect to the fisheries industry. Loans outstanding to the sector amounted
to only US$7 million in 1975 and the leading commercial banks that had made
funds available to the fisheries industry indicate a further slowdown in
future lending to it.
2.26      Under present conditions, small independent boat operators encounter
serious difficulty in acquiring funds from private banks as they are generally
considered to be a credit risk. Commercial bank credit arrangements carry
stringent terms (three years and no grace period) which can be afforded only by
large companies and a small number of independent boat operators. Frequently,
independent boat operators acquire credit from processing plants for their
working capital and to finance maintenance costs, but such arrangements result



-8-
in trade agreements whereby the borrower is required to sell his catch to the
processing plants, usually at lower prices than he could get otherwise. In
view of the risk and uncertainty and sharp fluctuations characteristic of the
fisheries industry, it is unlikely that sufficient funds will evolve from the
private banking system for the fisheries sector to meet its needs. For the
next few years, therefore, extensive credit will be required by that sector
from other sources.
2.27      Of the Panamanian financial institutions providing credit to
individual fishermen, the state-owned Banco Nacional de Panama (BNP) is the
most active. BNP carries out commercial, mortgage and development banking
functions and acts as executing agency for some international development
loans (Annex 3). In recent years, the Government has encouraged BNP to become
an active development finance institution in order to assist those sectors
that have limited access to credit.
2.28      Since 1970, serious consideration has been given by BNP's manage-
ment to its organizational structure in order to align it to the various types
of banking functions it performs. In 1971, a consulting firm (Peat Marwick
Mitchell and Co.) was contracted to study and recommend strengthening pro-
cedures and appropriate manning of the Industrial Credit Department. Their
recommendation; were accepted and implemented successfully, including the
adoption of manuals on procedures and control of credit operations. In 1974,
another consulting firm (Arthur D. Little and Co.) was contracted to advise
on top management modifications and procedures. Subsequently, BNP was re-
organized and strengthened and more qualified personnel were recruited from
the commercial sector in order to improve operating efficiency and staff
performance. BNP has also improved its capacity and capabilities for
appraising development projects. BNP's financial situation is discussed
in Chapter V and in Annex 3.
2.29       While BNP assets have grown at a rate of about 11% a year from
1971 to 1976, its paid-up capital and reserves have advanced only modestly,
from about US$14 million to about US$18 million, for the same period (about
3% per annum). Net annual profit, which in 1971 was about US$950,000 on all
operations, had fallen to about US$590,000 in 1976, with substantial variations
in between. BNP has taken steps to increase income and reduce its operating
costs. The BNP debt/equity ratio increased from 3.93:1 in 1971 to 11.59:1 in
1975, primarily because of public sector financing; however, at the end of 1976,
this ratio had been reduced to about 10.4:1. BNP's financial situation is dis-
cussed in Annex 3.
2.30       According to additional advice and data received from BNP since
appraisal, the following is a summary of the major past and proposed actions:
(a) to reduce, the debt/equity ratio to 8:1 by the
end of 1978 and to 6:1 by 1980 by limiting
borrowing from commercial banks, and by increasing
capital and reserves;



-9-
(b) to identify and age arrears through computerization,
and speed up of the process of recoveries by tightening
loan collection and reorganizing and expanding a unit
specialized in debt recovery;
(c) to reduce operating costs through a process of
austerity and improved cost control;
(d) to adjust the portfolio to concentrate on the most
profitable banking activities; and
(e) to limit development banking activities to those
partially financed by international organizations.
The positive effects of the actions already taken during 1976 are shown in
Annex 3, the most significant of which is that total arrears had been reduced
to 8.3% of the total portfolio at the end of 1976 as compared with 11.6% at
the end of 1975 and 1974. Anomalies in the handling of pension funds have
been resolved in legislation retroactive to April 1975.
Government Agencies
2.31      A number of Government agencies are involved in the fishing industry,
but the Directorate of Marine Resources (DMR) of the Ministry of Commerce and
Industry is the most important. This agency is responsible for the administ-
ration and development of the fisheries industry and advises the Ministry on
economic, social and administrative aspects of development and control; admin-
isters the fishing laws; issues fishing licenses; and collects, interprets,
and publishes fisheries statistics. It is also responsible for the conserva-
tion of marine resources. The Ministry of Agricultural Development (MIDA),
however, is responsible for inland fisheries and their development and, with
the DMR, for fish marketing for domestic consumption and fisheries coopera-
tives. The Agricultural Development Bank (ADB) is concerned in this area as
a financial and administrative agency of MIDA whereas the official financial
agency for shrimp and industrial fishing is BNP. A new National Port Authority
under the Ministry of Commerce and Industry is responsible for the planning,
construction and operation of the ports and the provision of navigational
aids.
2.32      Other official agencies concerned with the fishing industry include
the Treasury, which registers ships; issues sailing permits; inspects boats,
captains, and mechanics; and is responsible for external trade; the Ministry
of Health, which supervises health and sanitary conditions; and the Ministry
of Labor and Social Security, which overseas labor legislation.
C. Government Strategy
2.33      The Ministry of Planning has outlined a development program for the
fisheries sub-sector which is aimed at increasing foreign exchange earnings



- 10 -
and improving consumer diets as well as improving the level of employment in
the industry. The Government's target is to increase the value of fisheries
exports by 20% by 1978 through increased production and more efficient use of
marine resources. Also, through increased promotion of domestic consumption
of fresh fish and improved marketing systems, the Government intends to
increase per capita fish intake above the present 3.2 kg per annum (1 to 2 kg
in rural areas). In recent years, with the assistance of external agencies,
the Government has taken several positive steps toward improving the fisheries
industry. Within a UNDP/FAO regional project for Central America, Panama
has received assistance in carrying out resource surveys through exploratory
fishing and in improving the domestic marketing system. The new fishing
port at Punta Vacamonte is under construction (para 2.21). IDB made a loan
in 1974 for a fisheries project (US$3.5 million) which emphasizes the develop-
ment of artisanal fishing and marketing, shark meat processing, and fishing
cooperatives. This project is expected to be completed in April 1979.
The First Fisheries Project partially financed by the Bank is discussed in
Chapter III.
2.34      The Government is now planning a fisheries development program in
collaboration with UNDP/FAO, involving a total expenditure of US$974,100,
of which UNDP would contribute US$473,000. The program, which will be imple-
mented in early 1978, is designed as an applied research operation to provide
information on the potential of fisheries resources as a complement to public
investment and to promote private investment. It will include: investiga-
tion of fishing areas for artisanal fishing, research into the possibilities
of lobster cultivation, advice on processing and marketing, and the intro-
duction of improved fishing techniques.
2.35      The problems of shrimp fleet overcapacity, overexploitation of
resources, and the need for credits by small independent boat operators
remain acute. The Government has therefore placed priority on assisting
these small operators to remain in business and to avoid concentration of the
industry in the hands of processors and large companies. The Government
is also concerned that the shrimp resources can be depleted, and, consequently,
there is a new determination to encourage protection of the resources and to
regulate the growth of the industry (para 2.16). The Bank's continued parti-
cipation in the shrimp industry through the proposed project is critical in
order to ensure that measures (para 4.06) to regulate the growth of the
industry are implemented and that sufficient credits are made available to
small independent boat operators.
111. PERFORMANCE UNDER FIRST FISHERIES PROJECT
3.01      The Loan Agreement for the ongoing First Fisheries Project (Loan
784-PAN, US$3.4 million) was signed on August 2, 1971 and became effective
December 1, 1971. On December 31, 1976, US$3.3 million (97%) of the loan
had been disbursed. The remaining funds are expected to be fully disbursed
by May 1977.



- LI -
3.02      The project aimed at providing assistance to the shrimp industry
by preventing a decline in the catch of the existing fleet and enabling the
modernization of the industry. It included construction of 40 modern shrimp
trawlers, a training program for project captains, and preparation of a
fishing port feasibility study. Due to a sharp increase in the cost of
vessels, however, only 26 shrimp trawlers were actually constructed under
the project. Construction costs increased significantly for the first 10
vessels, from US$81,000 per vessel (appraisal estimate) to US$146,000, and,
subsequently, there was an additional cost increase to US$175,000 per vessel
for 10 additional boats and to US$180,000 per vessel for the remaining six
boats. The rapid upsurge in construction costs may be attributed largely to
labor costs and to sharp increases in the cost of imported steel as well as to
the two-year delay in awarding of contracts for the first 10 boats because of
the time-consuming prequalification procedures and the necessity to redraft
specifications after failure of the first bidding.
3.03      In the initial project period, there was demand for shrimp trawlers
from both independent boat owners and processing plants, but in the following
two years, the demand pattern changed due to the sharp escalation in construc-
tion costs. Also, operating costs, particularly fuel and labor, had increased
considerably due to the energy crisis and the impact of subsequent high infla-
tion rates. At the same time, the recession in the US in 1974 caused a sub-
stantial decline in shrimp prices due to shrinking demand. This caused a
further drain on the already low profits of independent owners operating
old wooden vessels. Hence, independent boat owners maintained a cautious
attitude towards further investments and to some extent were not too eager
to borrow under the project. Consequently, the first 16 boats were awarded
to poor but enterprising captains and the remaining 10 to nine companies made
up of independent captains and a cooperative. These captains previously
operated boats they did not own, and consequently, were awarded special
fishing permits under a special disposition promulgated for that purpose,
to encourage individual boat ownership.
3.04      Financial results of the project vessels are satisfactory.  Based
on 1976 data, when most of the project boats were in operation for at least
12 months, the 26 vessels (10% of the total number of shrimp trawlers in
operation) accounted for about 14% of the national shrimp catch. Further,
the average net earnings (about US$27,000) per project vessel is about 35%
higher than the appraisal figure.
3.05      Under the project, training has been provided to project benefi-
ciaries in the use of modern navigational equipment, operational safety at
sea, coastal navigation and preventive maintenance of vessels. The training
program has improved project captains' ability and efficiency to operate
vessels in traditional fishing grounds; however, the program has been limited
inasmuch as the need for training captains extends throughout the shrimp
industry. There is also a need to establish operational standards for shrimp
trawlers in order to improve vessel seaworthiness and operational efficiency.



- 12 -
3.06      The first fisheries project also financed a fishing port feasibility
study which served as a basis for a fishing port loan (1114-PAN) of US$24 mil-
lion, approved by the Bank on April 22, 1975. Port construction has been
initiated and it is expected to be completed in early 1979.
3.07      With regard to the 1975 auditing of Loans 784-PAN and 901-PAN,
although the Comptroller General has commented satisfactorily on the financial
information provided, his report contained recommendations for improving inter-
nal accounting controls. Evidence has been received that all of these recom-
mendations have been incorporated in the 1976 accounting year.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Brief Description
4.01      The project would be carried out over a four-year period and would:
promote, improve and modernize the fisheries industry; develop and modernize
the Panamanian fishing fleet; exploit inland fisheries resources; ensure
greater utilization of the new fishing port at Punta Vacamonte through reloca-
tion of shrimp processing plants; facilitate Government's urbanization program
for the Maranon area of Panama City where most of the processing plants are
presently located and where they contribute heavily to serious pollution
problems; and assist Government in adopting and implementing measures to
maintain a reasonable balance between fleet capacity and fish resources.
4.02      The project would provide credit to construct modern steel fishing
vessels equipped with modern fishing gear, improve and rehabilitate old
wooden trawlers, and relocate shrimp processing plants to the new fishing
port. It would also provide technical assistance services for development
of fresh water fish and oyster farming, operational training of skippers,
naval architectural services and establishment of quality control stand-
ards for the seafood processing industry.
4.03      The project would be administered by BNP, and the Project Unit
set up under Loan 784-PAN would continue to be responsible for project
implementation. Participating institutions would be the Ministry of Agri-
cultural Development (MIDA) for the fresh water fish program, the Directorate
of Marine Resources of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry for the develop-
ment of oyster farming, and the Ministry of Health for the quality control
program.
B. Detailed Features
Fishing Vessels
4.04      Shrimp Trawlers.  The proposed project would provide for the replace-
ment of five obsolete wooden shrimp trawlers with five modern steel trawlers,



- 13 -
having an overall length of about 50 feet and powered by 220-hp diesel engines
(Annex 1). The new vessels would be equipped with stainless steel brine freez-
ing tanks and compressors and have the capacity to freeze and store the shrimp
catch during a two-week trip. In addition to a magnetic compass and radio
telephone, the vessels would be equipped with echo sounders to indicate the
depth of water, as different shrimp species are caught at various depths.
4.05      The proposed project would rehabilitate 10 obsolete wooden shrimp
trawlers to improve their seaworthiness and operational efficiency for an
additional working life of about eight years. Each vessel would have its
engine, the deteriorated parts of hull planks, and deck house replaced, and
winch, tanks, and mast and rigging would be rehabilitated. Painting and other
minor rehabilitation works would also be carried out.
4.06      During negotiations assurances were obtained that the Government
would (a) prohibit the operation of new shrimp fishing vessels until January 1,
1980; and (b) restrict maximum construction of new vessels and rehabilitation
of old wooden boats to a total of 3,260 EHP annually over the period of 1980-
85 and that it would present to the Bank by the end of 1980, a program out-
lining how this restriction would be enforced and regulation of the industry
thereby accomplished.
4.07      Purse Seiners.  The proposed project would also provide 10 new
steel seiners, equipped with a fish-hold capacity of 100 short tons and
powered by 260-HP diesel engines (Annex 1). These vessels would mainly
replace obsolete wooden industrial fish purse seiners, which are mostly
converted second-hand wooden shrimp trawlers. Each vessel would have a
magnetic compass, radio telephone, echo sounder, and a sonar for detecting
schools of thread herring in deeper water. An outline drawing and specif-
ications for the seiner are shown in Annex 1. It would be a condition of
effectiveness that the Government had enacted legislation, acceptable to
the Bank, regulating the maximum size of vessels and limiting the number
of fishing licenses that could be issued to one plant to 15. Given current
fleet size of processors, such allocation would not require forced retire-
ment of any vessels.
Processing Plant Relocation
4.08      The proposed project would provide credit to six processors to
move their operati ns to the new fishing port (para 2.21) where a shell
structure (5,360 m ), large enough to accommodate all shrimp processing
plants, each in a separate bay, is being constructed under Loan 1114-PAN.
Sub-loans would cover construction of new plant facilities; installation
of utilities and support equipment; purchase and installation of new
equipment to replace equipment which cannot be moved; and direct moving
costs of existing equipment. The project would also make provision for the
establishment of quality standards and control for the seafood processing
industry (Annex 2).



- 14 -
Fresh Water Fish and Oyster Farming
4.09      Fresh Water Fish Farming.  The project would establish hatcheries
and a technical assistance program to enable subsistence farmers in several
rural areas to initiate fresh water fish farming. Within the investment
period alone, over 300 farm families are expected to begin fish production;
at full development, it is expected that up to 1,000 families would parti-
cipate in the development program. Under the project, farmers would be intro-
duced to simple fish farming systems in natural or constructed pools or in
small tributaries. Farmers could operate individually or work with several
other families in a group effort. Fish ponds would range in size from 0.2 to
1.0 ha, depending upon the number of families involved in the enterprise.
Fingerlings of suitable fish species (tilapia, common carp, tropical cyprinids
and domestic fish) would be cultivated in Government hatcheries and provided
for sale to farmers. To facilitate establishment of ponds, hatcheries would
provide technical advice, building materials and the initial stock of finger-
lings without charge to the farmers. In turn, farmers would contribute their
labor during construction. Demonstration ponds would be established for
training purposes, and extension services and training would be provided to
improve fish pond management practices among participating farmers (Annex 4).
4.10      Oyster Farming.  The project would establish research facilities
and a technical extension program to develop commercial oyster farming among
small farmers in the Bocas de Toro region of Panama. Within the investment
period alone, about 50 farm families are expected to begin oyster production;
at full development, it is expected that about 200 farm families would partici-
pate in the development program. No investment would be required by the
participant except for family labor input since the farmer would be able to
make his own gear from materials readily found in the jungle. Five experi-
mental oyster farms would be set up in several suitable areas in the first
year of the project. These experimental farms would make comparisons of
growth, mortality and yield rates and other conditions to determine suit-
able species and favorable growing areas. The spat (young oyster) collection
equipment would be installed after investigation had indicated the best sites.
A Government laboratory would also be established in Bocas de Toro (Annex
4, para 19) to analyze sea conditions and to develop techniques suitable
for use in the selected areas and by the farmers. All techniques developed
would be simple and easy to adopt. Technical assistance and training in
construction of oyster beds, in their care, and in harvesting would be pro-
vided to the farmers at the laboratory and at the experimental oyster farms.
Administration and Technical Services
4.11      The project would strengthen the Project Unit as set up under the
First Fisheries Project (Loan 784-PAN) so that it would be able to handle the
expanded activities of the proposed Second Fisheries Project (Annex 5). Six
consultants (111 man-months) would therefore be contracted by the Project
Unit for specific activities: a naval architect, a fishing operations train-
ing officer, a fresh water fish farming expert, a food processing engineer,



- 15 -
a quality control expert and an oyster farming expert. Administration costs
would include salaries of Project Unit staff, overhead costs of the Project
Unit and incremental administration costs of other agencies.
C. Cost Estimates
4.12      The total cost of the project is estimated at about US$12.6 million
(excluding identifiable taxes), of which US$7.5 million, or 60%, represents
the foreign exchange component (Annex 6). The project costs include provision
for 111 man-months of consultant services at an estimated cost of US$444,000.
Project cost estimates and foreign exchange requirements are summarized
below:
--- US$'000 or B'000 ----       Base      Foreign
Item                       Local    Foreign    Total        Cost     Exchange
Fishing Vessels
5 Shrimp Trawlers - New         181        349       530         6          66
10 Shrimp Trawlers
Rehabilitated                175       325        500         5          65
10 Purse Seiners               1,470     2,880      4,350        46          66
Sub-total             1,826      3,554      5,380        56         66
Processing Plant
Relocation                       1,035      1,626      2,661       23          61
Fresh Water Fish and
Oyster Farming
Fresh Water Fish Farms          177        115       292         3          39
Oyster Farms                     35         22        57         1          39
Sub-total               212        137        349         4          39
Administration and Technical
Services                           786        376      1,162       12          32
Sub-total             3,859      5,693      9,552       100         60
Contingency
Physical                        386        569       955                    60
Price                           814      1,238     2,052                    60
Sub-total             1,200      1,807      3,007                    60
Total Project Costs           52059      7,500    12,559                    60



- 16 -
The physical contingency has been calculated at 10% of base cost on all items.
Price contingency has been calculated at varying rates between 1977 and 1981,
reflecting price increases for both local and foreign exchange costs, and
amount to about 21% of base cost (Annex 6, Table 2).
D. Financing
4.13      The Bank loan for the project would cover the estimated foreign
exchange costs of US$7.5 million, about 60% of the total project costs, with
the remainder of funds (US$5.1 million) to be provided by Government, BNP,
and the project beneficiaries. The proposed financing plan is as follows:
Project Financing (US$'000)
Beneficiaries        BNP        Government        Bank
Component            Amount       %   Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount   %    Total
Fishing Vessels         705      13    1,121  21         -    -      3,554  66    5,380
Processing Plants
Relocation            532      20      503  19         -    -      1,626  61    2,661
Fresh Water Fish
and Oyster
Farming                 -       -        -   -       212   61        137  39       349
Administration and
Technical
Services                -       -      458  40       328   28        376  32    1,162
Contingencies           390      13      661  22       149    5      1,807  60    3,007
Total            1,627      13    2,743  22       689    5      7,500  60   12,559
4.14      The Bank loan of US$7.5 million would be made to BNP for 15 years,
with three and a half years of grace, at the standard Bank interest rate.  BNP
would onlend about US$6.8 million of the Bank loan in addition to its own
contribution (US$2.1 million) to fishermen and processors at an interest rate
of 11.5% and a technical service fee of 0.5% on outstanding sub-loan balances.
About US$0.2 million of the Bank loan would be used by BNP for the fresh water
fish and oyster farming programs and US$0.4 million for administration and
technical services. Government counterpart funds (US$0.7 million) would be
channeled into the Project Account as a grant and would be administered by the
Project Unit. BNP would contribute about US$0.6 million for administration
and technical services. Sub-borrowers would contribute about US$1.6 million



- 17 -
towards the purchase price of fishing vessels and the costs of relocating
shrimp processing plants. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
the Government and BNP would provide the necessary counterpart funds.
E. Procurement
4.15      Contracts for construction of new fishing vessels (five shrimp
trawlers and 10 anchovy purse seiners at a total cost of US$4.9 million,
excluding contingency) would be awarded through international competitive
bidding according to Bank procedures. Local bidders would be allowed a pre-
ference margin of 15% or applicable customs duty, whichever is lower. Pre-
qualification of shipyards would include evaluation of each shipyard's con-
struction and technical capacity and its financial and managerial position.
Prequalification of shipyards, bid documents and contract awards would be
subject to Bank approval. Each vessel, complete with main engine, equipment
and fishing gear, would be tendered as one unit and bid as such. Shrimp
vessels would be procured in a single lot and purse seiners would be procured
in two lots of five each, with a construction period of six months (Annex 7).
Participating shipyards and suppliers would provide a one-year warranty on
hulls and engines, and potential engine and major equipment suppliers would
have to assure adequate spare parts inventories and service facilities in
Panama. Also, new equipment (US$1.1 million, excluding contingency) for the
processing plants would be procured through international competitive bidding.
Local suppliers sell equipment and materials that would be required by local
shipyards for rehabilitating old wooden vessels. Equipment and materials for
improvement and rehabilitation of boats in lots of less than US$100,000
(amounting to US$0.4 million, excluding contingency) would be procured through
local competitive bidding according to local procedures, acceptable to the
Bank. Equipment and materials (US$0.3 million, excluding contingency) for
fresh water fish and oyster development would be purchased through local
competitive bidding, acceptab' to the Bank. Likewise, plant construction
(US$1.2 million, excluding contingency) would be carried out through local
competitive bidding, acceptable to the Bank. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations on the above.
4.16      Currently, there is legislation prohibiting the import of fishing
vessels to Panama and requiring the retirement of foreign built purse seiners
(Annex 1). It would, therefore, be a condition of loan effectiveness that the
existing legislation had been amended to permit international competitive
bidding under the proposed project and to grant fishing rights to any vessels
that may be imported under the project.
F. Disbursement
4.17      The Bank would disburse over a period of four years against 76% of
amounts of sub-loans for the construction and rehabilitation of the fishing
vessels, including gear, and processing plant relocation costs, including cost
of new equipment; 39% of expenditures for development of the fresh water fish



- 18 -
and oyster farming program; and 100% of foreign exchange expenditures for
consultant services. Disbursement of funds for fishing vessels, including
gear, processing plant relocation, and consultant services would be made
against normal documentation. Disbursements for fresh water fish and oyster
farming would be made against certificates of expenditure, the
documentation for which is not submitted for review, but is retained by the
borrower and available for inspection by the Bank during the course of
project supervision. A schedule of estimated disbursements is given in
Annex 8.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Administration
5.01      Banco Nacional de Panama (BNP).  BNP would be the borrower and would
continue to be responsible for project administration and management. BNP
policies and procedures are adequate; however, its financial position reveals
certain weaknesses, especially its arrears.  However, as a result of a study _-
of its 1975 operations, measures have already been taken and more are Dlanned
to improve BNP's situation.  The Bank is satisfied that all reasonable remedies
have been, or are being, applied by BNP to improve its situation (para 2.30).
5.02      Project Unit.  The Project Unit set up in BNP under the First
Fisheries Project (Loan 784-PAN) would be responsible for project implemen-
tation (Annex 7). It would, however, be strengthened and structured to assume
the expanded responsibilities for project coordination, execution, and evalu-
ation envisaged by the Second Fisheries Project. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that BNP would continue to maintain, operate and adequately
strengthen the Project Unit. The Project Unit would be located within BNP's
newly created Development Department and would be headed by a Project Director
who would be responsible for programming and day-to-day activities. He would
coordinate vessel procurement, hiring of consultants, the participation of
government agencies (para 4.03) and supervision of all sub-lending operations.
The present Project Director is a competent and diligent individual, but
because of his involvement in other BNP activities, he has been serving on a
part-time basis. Since the proposed project vould require the services of a
full-time director, assurances were obtained during negotiations that BNP
would continue to employ a Project Director with qualifications and experi-
ences acceptable to the Bank and that the Project Director will be employed on
a full-time basis. Such appointment would be a condition of loan effective-
ness.
5.03      The Project Unit would have two line functions (administrative and
technical departments). The Technical Department would be responsible for
carrying out activities relating to maintenance and operation of the trawler
fleet, operational and maintenance training for captains, credit analysis
of sub-loans, and collecting and disseminating price and market information
for project-related commodities. Two qualified credit analysts would be



- 19 -
assigned to the Department on a part-time basis from within BNP to carry
out technical and financial analysis of sub-loan applications and a naval
architect and a training officer would be contracted by the Project Unit
for its Technical Department. The architect would be contracted for 27 months
to assist the Project Unit in the formulation of safety and operational
standards for fishing vessels, prequalification of shipyards, determination of
detailed specifications and vessel design, preparation of tender documents for
ICB, evaluation of bids, and supervision of project vessel construction and
rehabilitation. The training officer would be contracted for 18 months to
assist in training all fishing vessel captains in theoretical and practical
aspects of operating fishing vessels, safety measures, modern navigational
equipment, and vessel maintenance. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that the architect would be hired by November 1, 1977 and the training officer
would be employed by August 1, 1978 under terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank. In addition, a Fisheries Project Committee, composed of representa-
tives of BNP, the Directorate of Marine Resources, the Fishermen's Association
and independent fishermen, would function at the advisory level on matters
relating to boat specifications and evaluation of bids for construction or
rehabilitation of vessels. An assurance was obtained on this point.
5.04      The Administrative Department would be responsible for administra-
tive matters and would maintain accounts of sub-borrowers under Loan 784-PAN
and of independent boat owners under the proposed project. The Project Unit
would be supported in legal matters by the legal staff of BNP.
5.05      Participating Institutions.  The Project Unit would enter into
operational agreements with MIDA for the fresh water fish farming program, DMR
of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry for the development of oyster farming,
and the Ministry of Health for the quality control program for the processing
plant relocation component (4.08). The signing of an operational agreement
satisfactory to the Bank would be a condition of disbursement for each res-
pective component.  The Direccion Nacional de Acuacultura, which is to be
established within MIDA to handle all matters related to fish culture, would
be directly responsible for tbe: program. Two assistant biologists for
hatcheries and four assistant biologists for demonstration ponds would be
employed to provide support to the program. A fresh water fish farming
specialist would be contracted by the Project Unit for 18 months to work
directly with the Direccion Nacional de Acuacultura in training technical
staff and providing assistance on all aspects relating to the component. The
Directorate of Marine Resources, which would be responsible for the oyster
program, would employ one biologist and one assistant biologist at the re-
search center at Bocas de Toro for the project. The Project Unit would
contract an oyster farming specialist for a period of 18 months to assist the
Directorate of Marine Resources in technical aspects relating to the develop-
ment of commercial oyster farming. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that these biologists would be hired. An assurance was also obtained that the
fresh water fish farming specialist and the oyster farming specialist would be
employed by February 1, 1978 on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank.



- 20 -
5.06      The Port Authority in conjunction with the shrimp processors
would determine space allocation requirements and rental rate for each
plant and would coordinate the construction of the shell building to meet
the requirements for each processor's plant plans. Each processor would
develop detailed individual plant plans for the construction of interior
plant features in the shell structure, the specifications for which would
meet at least minimum standards to permit sound manufacturing practices for
processing of shrimp products. Such plants would make satisfactory provi-
sion for treatment of waste products in order to prevent pollution of the
environment. Assurances were obtained on the above points. Implementation
would be carried out over two years, including preparation of detailed plant
plans, and the processing plants would be moved in phased sequence extended
over a 12-month period in order to avert production losses.
5.07      The Project Unit would also contract a food processing engineer
for 18 months to work jointly with APN to provide assistance to processors
in carrying out the details connected with relocating and would assist the
Project Unit in preparation of tender documents and bid evaluation for new
equipment. Also, an expert would be contracted by the Project Unit for one
year to assist the Ministry of Health in developing quality standards and
improving manufacturing and handling practices and training its personnel;
training plant management personnel in developing techniques and interpreting
all regulatory standards; and training shrimp vessel captains and crew in
methods of good handling practices on vessels. The Ministry of Health would
employ two food inspectors for the quality control program. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the food processing engineer would be hired by
February 1, 1978 and the quality control expert would be employed by August 1,
1978. Assurances were also obtained that the two food inspectors for the
quality control program would be employed by January 1, 1979.
5.08      Project Evaluation and Monitoring Section.  A Project Evaluation
and Monitoring Section would be set up within the Project Unit to conduct a
continuous study of project activities and to evaluate project performance.
It would monitor sub-loans made to fishermen and processors and would evaluate
periodically the economic impact of the credit program. It would also examine
the training program extended to captains. The Project Evaluation and Moni-
toring Section would collect and study results and trends of each project
component, fishing fleet capacity and resources, and the fisheries industries.
The Project Unit would send to the Bank quarterly reports, highlighting
the progress and operating results of the project. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that the Project Evaluation and Monitoring Section would be
established by November 1, 1977 and that quarterly reports would be sent to
the Bank within two months of the end of each quarter.
Lending Policies and Procedures
5.09      Priority would be given to small independent boat operators in
lending for new shrimp trawlers and rehabilitated wooden trawlers. In addi-
tion, six shrimp processors would receive credit to cover plant relocation



- 21 -
costs (para 4.08). Credits would be issued through the Project Unit according
to ongoing procedures, which have proven satisfactory. The Project Unit's
credit analysts would carry out technical and financial analysis of sub-loan
applications. The Directorate of Marine Resources would assist in the tech-
nical aspects of subloan analysis. The credit committee, consisting of the
Project Director and BNP staff, would examine loan applications and make
recommendations.
5.10      Applicants for sub-loans for new shrimp trawlers and rehabilita-
tion of old wooden shrimp vessels would submit to the Project Unit past
financial and operational data on their shrimp fishing activities and
evidence that they hold valid fishing licenses. In the case of plant
relocation, each of the six processors would submit to the Project Unit
a plan for the construction of detailed internal plant features, including
cost estimates, equipment lists, costs of replacing equipment that cannot
be moved, itemized cost estimates of installation of utilities and support
equipment, and estimate of direct moving costs of equipment.
5.11      The following criteria would be applied in selecting sub-borrowers:
(a) New Shrimp Trawlers and Rehabilitation of Old Wooden Trawlers
(i)  proven competence and experience in shrimp fishing;
(ii)  possession of a valid fishing license;
(iii) age and characteristics of vessels to be replaced
or rehabilitated;
(iv)  reasonable assurance of lack of alternative sources of
credit on reasonable terms; and
(v)  personal references of creditworthiness.
(b) Purse Seiners
(i)  ownership structure of the business;
(ii)  possession of a valid fishing license;
(iii) age and characteristics of vessels to be replaced;
(iv)  reasonable assurance of lack of alternative sources of
credit on reasonable terms;
(v)  current financial position evaluated on the basis of
the financial statements on previous three years of
operation;



- 22 -
(vi) in case of a company or association, proof of formation,
including copy of legal deed of constitution of such
company or association; and
(vii) reference of creditworthiness.
(c) Plant Relocation
(i) ownership structure of business;
(ii) reasonable assurance of lack of alternative sources of credit
on reasonable terms;
(iii) current financial position evaluated on basis of the
financial statements on previous three years' operation;
(iv) the borrower's capacity to pay, and the soundness of his
financial plans and projections; and
(v) references of creditworthiness.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the above criteria would be
applied in selecting sub-borrowers and that all sub-loans analyses would be
forwarded to the Bank for review before final approval. Assurances were also
obtained during negotiations that approved sub-loan applicants would be
required to deposit with BNP at the time the sub-loan is signed 5% of the
estimated cost of vessel construction or rehabilitation in the case of shrimp
trawlers, 15% of estimated cost of purse seiners, and 20% of estimated relo-
cation costs, respectively, amounts equivalent to the sub-borrower's contri-
bution.
5.12      For new shrimp trawlers and purse seiners, sub-loans would be made
for 10 years, including a one-year grace period, allowing six months for
construction and six months for initial operation. Sub-loans for rehabilita-
tion of trawlers would be made for eight years, with a one-year grace period.
For shrimp plant relocation, sub-loans would be made for eight years, includ-
ing a one-year grace period. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
on these repayment periods. Sub-loans to project beneficiaries would carry
an interest rate of 11.5% and a technical service fee of 0.5% on the outstand-
ing sub-loan balances. The interest rate is comparable to rates charged by
commercial banks and would give BNP a sufficient gross margin to cover
general and technical overhead, as well as lending risk. Sub-loans would
be backed by mortgages on the new or rehabilitated fishing vessels and gear,
which would provide sufficient collateral. For sub-loans to processors for
plant relocation, BNP would require adequate security to back the loans. All
new shrimp trawlers, purse seiners, and rehabilitated shrimp trawlers would
carry "all risk" marine insurance, with BNP named as the first beneficiary.
BNP would negotiate with the insurance companies established in Panama to
obtain an advantageous policy for vessel owners.



- 23 -
Accounts and Auditing
5.13      BNP would maintain a separate project account, with sub-accounts
for each project component. Detailed accounting procedures would be estab-
lished for recording all transactions relating to the project. Similarly,
participating agencies responsible for implementing a project component would
maintain separate accounts to record project transactions. Assurances were
obtained that BNP would have its accounts and financial statements, including
the project accounts, audited by independent auditors, satisfactory to the
Bank, according to procedures acceptable to the Bank, and that the audited
financial statements and the auditor's report would be forwarded to the Bank
within four months of the close of BNP's fiscal year.
VI.   PRODUCTION, MARKETS, PRICES, AND OPERATOR BENEFITS
Production
6.01      Average annual incremental production generated by the project
would be about 134 metric tons of shrimp, 57,000 metric tons of industrial
fish, 28 metric tons of oysters, and 243 metric tons of fresh water fish.
The projected incremental net export earnings would amount to an annual
average of at least US$0.8 million for shrimp and US$1.3 million for fish-
meal.
Markets
6.02      All of the shrimp Panama exports go to the United States, which
is the largest consumer of shrimp in the world and imports over 50% of its
domestic needs. Since 1970, Panama accounted for about 5% of US imports.
Japan is the second largest consumer, and, like the United States, relies
increasingly on imports to meet local demand. Rising per capita incomes,
which have already created a large market for high-value seafoods in
developed countries, will continue to strengthen this demand for shrimp, and
an increasing share will have to be met through imports from developing
countries.
6.03      Export and domestic market prospects for fishmeal are also good.
Currently, about 50% of the total fishmeal production is absorbed within the
domestic market. Although fishmeal competes with other high-protein meals
and feed-grains in the manufacture of animal feeds, its market prospects are
bright, considering the steadily rising demand for livestock products, both
in developed and developing countries.
6.04      Shrimp vessels would market their catch to processing plants and
local fresh fish markets. The shrimp market for exports is organized
around the processing plants, which control the market channels. Domestic
shrimp supplies are handled mainly through the municipal markets and are



- 24 -
subject to price controls at the wholesale and retail levels by the Oficina
de Regulacion de Precios. Processors' shrimp prices are dictated by the
world market and are thus competitive.
6.05      Marketing arrangements for fishmeal and fish oil center around the
processing plants, which own over 90% of the purse seiners in operation.
Independent captains owning purse seiners would market their catch to pro-
cessing plants under contractual arrangements as is the current practice.
The Oficina de Regulacion de Precios formulates domestic sales prices and
regulates export of fishmeal to ensure adequate domestic supplies of fish-
meal for the feed industry. Fresh fish would be marketed in local areas
where demand exists, and oysters would be marketed in Panama City through
the already established lobster marketing channel. The main market for
oysters would be the restaurant industry, which serves the local population
of 0.6 million as well as some 0.5 million tourists annually.
Prices
6.06      Shrimp prices in real terms have been increasing steadily since
1969, at an average annual rate of 3.3%. The Chicago wholesale price
climbed from US$1.27 per lb in 1970 to US$2.97 in 1976, increasing at an
average annual rate of about 15%. Given the continuing strong demand
and somewhat fixed supply of shrimp resources, real prices of shrimp are
projected to increase at an average annual rate of 3.3% between 1976 and
1985. Fishmeal price, which averaged US$245 per metric ton in 1975, is
expected to increase by 6.7% per annum in real terms over the 1976-85
period. Fish oil price, which averaged US$344 per metric ton in 1975
is projected to decline at an average annual rate of 0.25% in real terms
from 1976 to 1985. However, since about 18% of the weight of the industrial
fresh fish may be designated as the weight of the fishmeal produced and 2%
fish oil, the projected decline of fish oil price by 0.25% over the 1976-85
period would not seriously affect profits of processors.
6.07      Ex-vessel prices, which are directly tied to the world market
for the project financial analyses, are assumed to be US$2.05 per lb for
shrimp and US$33 per short ton for industrial fish, providing sufficient
incentives to independent boat operators and processing plants to make the
proposed investments.
Operator Benefits
6.08      The financial rates of return of the fishing vessels have been
estimated to range from 22% to 40%. The net earnings per annum of the
fishing vessels have been estimated at US$33,368 for a new shrimp trawler,
US$26,698 for a rehabilitated shrimp trawler, and US$73,080 for an indus-
trial fish purse seiner. The net cash flows for new shrimp trawlers and
industrial purse seiners indicate that a sub-borrower's cash flow would
allow him to repay US$100,700 in the case of a new shrimp trawler, and
US$369,750 for a purse seiner in a period of 10 years, with one year of



- 25 -
grace during the construction and inital six months of operation. Like-
wise, the net cash flow of a rehabilitated wooden shrimp trawler demonstrates
that a sub-borrower could sustain an investment of US$50,000 in a period of
eight years, including one year of grace (Annex 1). Farmers raising fresh
water fish would be in a position to earn additional cash income of US$180 to
US$240 per annum. In addition, oyster farmers would be earning additional
cash income of about US$250 per year.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The fishing industry as a whole would benefit from the project
through the increased efficiency of the fishing fleet and processing plants
and better utilization and preservation of the fisheries resources. The
projected incremental net export earnings would amount to an annual average
of at least US$0.8 million for shrimp and US$1.3 million for fishmeal (para
6.01). The project would be directly responsible for the full-time employment
of about 200 persons.
7.02      By providing for the construction of modern fishing vessels
equipped with modern fishing gear, and improvement and rehabilitation of
old wooden shrimp trawlers, the project would allow the fishing fleet to
exploit more fully the potential fisheries resources and to operate at
maximum sustainable level. By making credit available to small but enter-
prising boat operators, the project would allow the Government to realize
its objective of assisting small independent operators to remain in business '
and preventing concentration of the industry in the hands of processors and
large companies. The project, by assisting the Government in adopting and
implementing measures for regulating growth of the fishing industry, would
correct the disequilibrium which clouds the industry by maintaining a reason-
able balance between fleet capacity and fish resources.
7.03      At full development, fresh water fish and oyster farming would involve
about 1,200 low-income farmers in commercial fish farming, which would improve
their cash incomes and their diets. Farmers raising fish would be in a posi-
tion to earn additional cash income of US$180 to US$240 per annum. Likewise,
oyster farmers would be earning additional cash incomes of about US$250 per year.
Although few new jobs would be created directly, the opportunity to partici-
pate in commercial fishing would reduce the considerable disguised unemploy-
ment among this group. Through technical assistance, Panama would develop
a reservoir of trained manpower and technological packages suitable to local
conditions, allowing further exploitation of inland fisheries resources.
7.04      Investments relating to the transfer of shrimp processing plants
would increase the efficiency and standards of the processing industry and
ensure greater utilization of the new fishing port (para 2.21). Relocation
would generate about US$90,000 per annum in benefits to shrimp processors in
terms of operating cost savings and increased efficiency. The relocation
would permit a better quality product and thus provide for added revenue to



- 26 -
the industry of US$200,000 per annum. The move, by providing improved facili-
ties, would also offer opportunities for the development of new shrimp products
which would generate benefits amounting to an additional US$1 million by 1989.
The quality control program would enable Panama to maintain its competitive-
ness in the US market and minimize the level of rejection in the US market
(about US$350,000, or 2% of shrimp exports in 1975).
7.05      The project would improve environmental conditions in Panama City.
Relocation of shrimp processing plants would substantially reduce the serious
odor and the pollution problems now generated by these plants. Also, because
of the relocation, valuable land within Panama City would be released for
improvement and development of the Maranon section.
7.06      The training program, which would assist all operating fishing
vessel captains in theoretical and practical aspects of operation, would
improve captains' ability and efficiency in vessel operation. Also, if fish-
ing vessels are constructed in Panama, then the naval architectural services
would augment the capability and production quality of the local shipyards.
7.07      The overall economic rate of return for the project is 15%, excluding
the processing plant relocation which is justified in the Fishing Port Project
(Loan 1114-PAN). The economic rate of return for the new shrimp trawlers com-
ponent is 30.8%, the cost of which is US$0.8 million; 20.6% for the rehabili-
tated shrimp trawlers component, the cost of which is US$0.7 million; 19% for
the purse seiners component, the cost of which is US$5.4 million; 12.9% for
the fresh water fish farming component, the cost of which is US$0.3 million;
and 17.6% for the oyster farming component, the cost of which is US$0.1 million
(Annex 9).
Project Risk
7.08      Over the life of the project, the events considered most likely
to affect project results would be the fluctuations in the industrial fish
catch and increases in capital and operating costs of production. The project
economic rate of return was found to be sensitive to changes in (a) a 10%
decrease in the catch of industrial fish; (b) a 10% increase in operating
costs; and (c) a 10% increase in capital costs. In no case would the economic
rate of return be lower than 10% (Annex 9).
Ecological Impact
7.09      The proposed project is expected to have a positive environmental
impact. The relocation of shrimp processing plants will improve the ecology
of the Maranon section of Panama City (para 7.05), and the processing plants
at the new fishing port will make provision for treatment of waste products in
order to prevent pollution of the environment there. The berths at the new
fishing port will all have sufficient depth of water to prevent odors arising
from decomposing fish. The scale of development of fresh water fish and oyster
farms would not alter the water regime so as to have any impact on the environ-
ment or adverse effects on the rural population. Finally, obtaining a balance
between fleet size and fisheries resources would serve to protect the self-
renewing nature of the resources.



- 27 -
Fiscal Impact
7.10      The primary fiscal impact would come from port handling charges
(unloading tax) which are presently US$1.00 per short ton.  Given an average
incremental output (para 6.01) of 134 metric tons of shrimp and 57,000 metric
tons of industrial fish, average port income derived from the project would be
about US$57,000 per annum.
7.11      A secondary area of impact would be net earnings from income taxes
from boat owners. While their magnitude is indeterminate but likely to be
small, such taxes would be offset in part or whole by tax credits available
under Law 108 of 1974.  Under this law, exports of specified products, includ-
ing fish, may claim tax payment certificates (CAT's) equivalent to 20% of the
national value added in their operations.  These CAT's are non-transferable
but can be submitted in payment of taxes after a 12-month waiting period.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
and BNP that:
(a) maximum construction of new shrimp vessels and rehabilitation
of old wooden boats would be restricted to a total of 3,260
effective horsepower annually over the period 1980-85 and that a
program outlining how this restriction would be enforced and the
industry regulated would be sent to the Bank by end of 1980 (para
4.06);
(b) the Government and BNP would provide the counterpart funds as
outlined in paragraph 4.14;
(c) procurement procedures would be followed as outlined in
paragraph 4.15;
(d) the present Project Director would be employed on a full-
time basis (para 5.02);
(e) BNP would, continue to maintain, operate and adequately
strengthen the Project Unit which it had set up under Loan
784-PAN (para 5.02);
(f) BNP would establish a Fisheries Project Committee, composed
of representatives of BNP, DMR, the Fishermen's Association
and independent fishermen that would function at the advisory
level on matters relating to boat specifications and evalua-
tion of bids for construction or rehabilitation of vessels
(para 5.03);



- 28 -
(g) the six consultants to be contracted by the Project Unit
would be employed under terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank, in the time frame specified in paragraphs 5.03,
5,05, and 5.07;
(h) the Government would employ six assistant biologists to provide
support to the fresh water fish farming program and one biologist
and one assistant biologist for the oyster farming program
(para 5.05);
(i) the Government would employ two food inspectors for the quality
control program in the time frame specified (para 5.07);
(j) each processor would develop detailed plant plans for construc-
tion of interior plant features, the specifications for which
would meet at least minimum standards to permit sound manu-
facturing practices for processing shrimp products; and that
satisfactory provision would be made for treatment of waste
products (para 5.06);
(k) the Project Evaluation and Monitoring Section would be estab-
lished by November 1, 1977 and quarterly progress reports
would be sent to the Bank within two months of the end of
each quarter (para 5.08);
(1) the criteria given in paragraph 5.11 would be applied in
selecting sub-borrowers and that all sub-loan analyses would
be forwarded to the Bank for review before final approval;
(m)  approved sub-loan applicants would be required to deposit
with BNP at the time of signing 5% of the estimated cost of
vessel construction or rehabilitation in the case of shrimp
trawlers, 15% of estimated cost of purse seiners, and 20% of
estimated relocation costs (para 5.11);
(n) sub-loans for construction of shrimp trawlers and purse
seiners would be made for 10 years, with one year of grace;
for rehabilitation of trawlers, eight years, with one year
of grace; and for relocation of shrimp plants, eight
years, including one year of grace (para 5.12); and
(o) BNP would have its accounts and financial statements,
including the project accounts, audited by independent
auditors, satisfactory to the Bank, according to procedures
acceptable to the Bank, and that audited financial statements
and the    auditor's report would be forwarded to the Bank
within four months of the close of BNP's fiscal year
(para 5.13);



- 29 -
8.02      It would be conditions of effectiveness that (a) the Government had
enacted legislation, acceptable to the Bank, regulating the maximum size of
purse seiners and limiting the number of licenses that could be issued to one
plant to 15 (para 4.07); (b) a full-time Project Director had been appointed
(para 5.02); and (c) the existing legislation had been amended to permit the
import of new fishing vessels financed under the project and granting such
vessels the right to fish in Panamanian waters (para 4.16).
8.03      A condition of disbursement under the fresh water fish and oyster
farming and the processing plant relocation components would be that opera-
tional agreements, satisfactory to the Bank, had been signed by the Project
Unit and the participating agency responsible for handling all matters related
to these components (para 5.05).
8.04      With the above assurances and conditions, the proposed project is
suitable for a Bank loan of US$7.5 million, for a period of 15 years, including
three and half years grace. The Republic of Panama would guarantee the loan
and BNP would be the borrower. The Government would bear the exchange risk
involved.
March 11, 1977






ANNEX 1
Page 1
PANAMA
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
Fishing Vessels
A.   Shrimp Vessels
Background
1.        Commercial shrimp fishing began in Panama in the early 1950s, and
until 1955 the shrimp fleet consisted of second-hand trawlers imported from
the US. At that time, however, several Panamanian shipyards began building
wooden boats and the fleet began to grow until it was limited by Government
in 1968 to 238 licensed trawlers. Currently there are 280 shrimp vessels,
including 30 smaller than 20 gross tons, in operation. About 45% of the shrimp
fleet is over 10 years old. Length of trawlers varies between 35 to 85 feet,
with engines ranging from 75 hp to 500 hp.
2.        About 61% of the present shrimp fleet are wooden trawlers, 36% are
steel vessels, and the remaining 3% are vessels made of fibre-glass. About 49%
of the shrimp trawler fleet is owned by independent boat operators, 36% by
processing plants, and the remaining 15%, jointly by processors and individual
captains. Most of the trawlers that have been replaced recently are owned by
the larger companies, who often purchase the licenses of individual owners who
cannot afford to replace their old vessels. Only 18% or eight of the vessels
constructed since 1971 excluding the 26 boats financed under Loan 784-PAN, went
to individual boat operators since individual entrepreneurs have insufficient
funds to purchase new vessels. As many of the marginal independent boat
operators find it difficult to replace their old vessels, ownership of the
shrimp fleet would fall more and more into the hands of the large companies.
Present credit arrangements for shrimp trawlers are limited and carry stringent
terms (three years repayment period with no grace). The Government is con-
cerned with the growing concentration of industry into the hands of the
processors and has therefore placed high priority for assisting individual boat
operators.
3.        The total catching capacity of the operating shrimp fleet (about
60,000 effective horsepower 1/) is in excess of available shrimp resources.
The shrimp fleet is now operating beyond the level of maximum sustainable
yield, thus generating adverse effects on shrimp resources. Catch per vessel
had declined from 64,138 lb in 1970 to 42,951 lb in 1975, dropping at an
average annual rate of 7.6% during the period 1970-75. The Government enacted
1/   Actual total horsepower in operation (70,000), adjusted to an effective
horsepower representing a full 216 days of fishing a year.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
legislation in 1968 to limit the number of licensed shrimp boats to 238 and
the engine horsepower to 260 to maintain a balance between available resources
and shrimp fleet size, but it has been inadequate in terms of meeting the
needs of the shrimp industry. Currently, there are 272 licenses for owning
shrimp vessels. Since 1968, 34 special fishing permits were issued and 70 new
vessels were constructed. In spite of current high prices, however, most
shrimp operations are marginally profitable or unprofitable in Panama, as
catches are low, while costs, especially for wages and diesel fuel, have
risen. It is generally recognized that the resumption of profitable operations
will require a reduction in the number of boats operating. Based on potential
shrimp resources (about 13 million lb), it is estimated that an optimum level
of fleet operation would be maintained with about 50,000 effective horsepower
(EHP). Given the rate of annual natural obsolescence (2,060 EHP) and account-
ing for the higher level of annual repair and maintenance necessary for older
vessels (1,200 EHP), and providing that no boats are constructed during the
next three years, it is estimated that by early 1980, obsolete vessels (equi-
valent to 3,260 EHP) could be replaced with new ones. By 1980, about 15% of
the shrimp fleet would be over 20 years old, operating only with very high
costs and marginal profits. With a zero growth rate, i.e., replacing obsolete
vessel with new boats with equivalent horsepower, Panama would maintain a
reasonable balance between fleet capacity and resources. Providing replace-
ment shrimp trawlers in 1980 under the proposed project would maintain shrimp
catch at maximum sustainable yield. Maximum construction of new vessels and
rehabilitation over the period 1980-85 would be about 3,260 EHP annually.
4.        The Government is willing to take firm measures to correct the dis-
equilibrium which characterizes the shrimp industry and it recognizes that
strict controls must be maintained in order to avert overexploitation of
resources. It is therefore planning to set up standards for shrimp trawlers
aimed at improving seaworthiness and operating efficiency. In addition, the
Government has now enacted new legislation governing licenses for owning shrimp
vessels, thus regulating the growth and development of the shrimp industry.
The new legislation, which supersedes the 1966 legislation, is comprehensive
and focuses on the critical needs of the shrimp industry. It applies to all
vessels engaged in shrimp fishing, including vessels under 20 gross tons, and
under its provisions a shrimp fishing license is non-transferable and linked
to the operations of a particular boat. The Directorate of Marine Resources
(DMR) is responsible for regulating the issuance of fishing licenses. Also,
periodic surveys and studies of shrimp resources are to be undertaken by DMR
to ascertain the need to regulate the size of the shrimp fleet and to imple-
ment appropriate measures.
The Project
5.        The proposed project would provide credit for the construction
of five modern steel shrimp trawlers equipped with modern fishing gear and
improvement and rehabilitation of 10 old wooden shrimp trawlers to be in
operation in 1980. The project would be aimed at assisting small indepen-
dent boat operators who do not have access to credit for replacing and
rehabilitating their vessels.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
6.        Shrimp Trawlers - New.  Given the increasing costs of boat opera-
tion and the high initial investment, many small independent boat operators
prefer smaller vessels. Unlike Loan 784-PAN, which financed larger vessels
(67 feet powered by 240-hp diesel engines), the proposed project would fi-
nance 50-foot boats with 220-hp (Chart 1). The new vessels would be equipped
with stainless steel brine freezing tanks and compressors and have the capa-
bility to freeze and store the shrimp catch during a two-week trip. The
trawl winch would be capable of handling double rigging so that two bottom
trawl nets could be towed simultaneously. In addition, the winch would ope-
rate a "try net," which would be hauled from the water at 15-minute intervals
to determine availability of shrimp on the ground being fished. In addition
to a magnetic compass and radio telephone, the vessels would also carry echo
sounders to indicate the depth of water, since different shrimp species are
caught at various depths. The trawler hull would be made of 1/4-inch welded
steel plate and protected with marine paint. The upper deck, wheel house,
and sleeping quarters would be constructed of wood.
7.        Shrimp Trawlers - Rehabilitated.  Wooden shrimp trawlers about 15 to
20 years old could be economically rehabilitated to improve their seaworthiness
and operational efficiency for an additional working life of about eight years.
Each trawler would have its engine, deteriorated parts of hull planks, and
deck house replaced, and winch, tanks mast and rigging would be rehabilitated.
Painting and other minor renovation works would also be carried out.
Cost Estimates and Operating Results
8.        The total estimated costs of a 50-ft steel shrimp trawler including
fishing gear would be US$106,000. A cost breakdown is shown in Table 1. The
total investment costs of rehabilitation of old shrimp trawlers would be
US$50,000 of which US$25,000, or 50%, would be for the engine alone. A cost
breakdown of a rehabilitated shrimp trawler is detailed in Table 2.
9.        Earnings and cost estimates of a new 50-ft shrimp trawler appear in
Tables 3 and 4, and cash flow projection for the sub-borrower purchasing a
new 50-ft shrimp trawler are shown in Table 5. The net cash flow indicates
that a sub-borrower's cash flow would allow him to repay US$100,700 in a
period of 10 years, with one year of grace, during the construction and ini-
tial six months of operation. Likewise, earnings and cost estimates of a
rehabilitated shrimp trawler are shown in Tables 6 and 7, and cash flow
projections in Table 8. The net cash flow illustrates that a sub-borrower
could sustain an investment of US$50,000 in a period of eight years, in-
cluding one year of grace.
B.   Purse Seiners
10.       The purse seiners fleet has been growing moderately, increasing
from 20 vessels in 1971 to 31 vessels in 1976, and four under construction
in Panama. About 17 vessels, or 55% of the total fleet are old purse seiners
acquired in Peru, and 14 (45%) are converted from second-hand wooden shrimp



ANNEX 1
Page 4
trawlers. Most of the converted shrimp trawlers operate inefficiently due
to inadequate vessel storage and the high level of repair and maintenance.
About 25% of the purse seiner fleet is obsolete and needs replacement.
11.       There are two fish plants now in operation and a third plant is
expected to be in operation shortly. The three plants would have a capacity
to convert about 130 tons of raw material per hour. Under the present level
of raw material production, the three plants wold operate below capacity.
There is a critical need to intensify fishing efforts to increase anchovy and
thread herring catch. Within the next several years, a catch of 100,000
metric tons is feasible, given a larger and more efficient fleet of purse
seiners. It is estimated, however, that in the long run the resource would
sustain a catch up to 300,000 metric tons with experienced captains using
sophisticated fishing detection devices and gear.
12.       Over 90% of the purse seiners are owned by processors and the remain-
ing by independent boat owners. The demand for new anchovy purse seiners is
largely from the processors, who are vertically integrated in their overall
operations. There is very little demand now for purse seiners by independent
fishermen because of the inherent fluctuating nature of the industry and be-
cause of the costs of acquiring purse seiners (US$400,000/vessel).
13.       Presently, there is need for regulation to avoid excess capacity and
overexploitation of resources. The Government is aware of the problem and has
indicated that it plans to restrict the maximum holding capacity of purse
seiners to less than 150 short tons and to reduce the number of vessels allowed
to be operated by each processor from 20 to 15. Given current fleet size of
processors, such allocation would not require forced retirement of any vessels.
The Project
14.       The proposed project would provide credit for construction of 10 new
steel purse seiners, mostly for the replacement of obsolete wooden converted
shrimp trawlers. In addition to processors, the project could include parti-
cipation of groups of captains if there is a demand for vessels by them.
15.       The new vessels would be equipped with a fish-hold capacity of 100
short tons and be powered by 260-hp diesel engines. The seiner hull would
be built with 1/4-inch welded steel plate and coated with marine paint. The
new seiners would be equipped with a hydraulic power block, seiner winch and
fish pump to haul a 300-fathom-long purse seiner net. Each vessel would carry
a magnetic compass, radio telephone, echo sounder, and a sonar for detecting
schools of thread herring in deeper water (Chart 2).
Cost Estimates and Operating Results
16.       The total construction costs of a 100-ton steel purse seiner would
be about US$400,000. A cost breakdown is shown in Table 9. Earnings and
cost estimates appear in Table 10 and 11, and cash flow projections are
shown in Table 12.
January 12, 1977



ANNEX 1
Table 1
PANAMA
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
Estimated Costs of 50-ft Steel Shrimp Trawler
(US$)
Item
Engine                                          25,000
Steel                                           14,000
Wood                                              2,000
Tail Shaft, Propeller, Governor System           4,000
Auxiliaries                                      6,000
Electronics Equipment                            2,000
Refrigeration                                    5,000
Painting                                         3,000
Labor                                           18,000
General Expenses                                 8,000
Overhead and Profit                             13,000
Total                  100,000
October 26, 1976



ANNEX 1
Table 2
PANAMA
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
Estimated Costs of Rehabilitated Shrimp Trawler
(US$)
Item
Replacement
Engine                                      25,000
Hull (plank)                                  4,000
Deck House                                    2,000
Rehabilitation
Winch, Tanks, Mast and
Rigging                                    6,000
Miscellaneous
Propeller and Painting                       4,000
Labor                                        5,000
Overhead and Profit                          4,000
Total                  50,000
October 26, 1976



ANNEX 1
Table 3
PANAMA
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
Assumptions for Statement of Earnings and Costs of a 50-ft Shrimn Trawler
Characteristics:                         Length:   50 ft
Engine:   220 hp
Cost of vessel: US$100,000
Operations:                              216 fishing days per annum, the intensity
declining by four fishing days per year.
Working hours are estimated at 14 per day,
resulting in 3,024 hours in the first year.
Catch:                                   Catch is calculated at 50,600 lb in the first
year (230 lb per effective horsepower),
declining with fishing intensity in subsequent
years. Ex-vessel price = US$2.05/lb.
Crew's Share:                            18% of catch value.
Fuel:                                    Approximately 11 gal/per hour.  Fishing day
of 14 hours at US$0.50 per gal (11 gal x 14
x 216 x US$0.50 = US$16,632 in the first year),
declining with fishing intensity.
Lubricants :                             Lube oil is estimated at 1% of diesel fuel
consumption (1% of 33,264 gal) or 333 gal.
At US$16.50 per gal - US$5,495 in first year,
declining with fishing intensity.
Subsistence:                             US$3.00 per year/fishing days, x four crew x
216 fishing days =   US$2,600, declining with
fishing intensity.
Insurance:                               All risks insurance for total loss is based
on the special reduced rate of 4.75% per
unit = US$4,750 p.a.
Taxes, Licenses and Fees:                Fixed items:  Annual sailing permit, inspection
fee, boat tax, fishing license,
radio license = US$826 p.a.
Variable items: Lighterage, trip sailing
permit, unloading tax, buoy
tax = US$915 p.a.
Miscellaneous Costs:                     Sundry estimated costs based on similar existing
vessels = US$2,500 p.a. From year 5 onwards
increased by US$250 p.a.
Repairs and Maintenance:                 Increased by 3% p.a. from the first year cost
of US$10,000. This expense includes cost of
replacement nets.
Depreciation:                            Residual value of vessel after 15 yearss 10%
of US$100,000 = US$10,000. To depreciate
US$90,000 in 15 years = US$6,000 p.a.
October 15, 1976



ANNEX 1
Table 4
PANAMA
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
Statement of Estimated Earnings and Costs of 50-ft Shrimp Trawler
(2z0 u H- S9teel)I
(Construction Cost: US$100,000)
Value
Annual Earnings and Costs                                    (US$)          Percentage
1.  Gross Earnings                                            103,730          100
2. Operating Costs
(a) Trip Expenses:
Crew                            18,671
Subsistence                      2,600
Fuel and Lubricants             22,100
Taxes, Licenses and Fees           915           44,286            43
(b) Ship Expenses:
Maintenance and Repairs         10,000
Insurance                        4,750
Taxes, Licenses and Fees           826
Miscellaneous Costs              2,500           18,076            17
(c) Total Operating Costs                               62,362           60
3.  Net Earnings, before Depreciation                          41,368           40
4.  Depreciation                                                6,000            6
5. Net Earnings, after Depreciation
before Income Tax                                          35,368           34
6.  Income Tax (Estimated)                                      2,000            2
7. Net Earnings, after Depreciation
and Income Tax                                             33,368           32
October 14, 1976



PANAMA
S10O8D FISHERIES PROJECT
Cash Flo w F jectionsi
Ne 50-ft Shrimp Trawler 1/
(US$)
---   - - - -  - - - -  - - -- -  - - - -  - - - -  - - --  - - -ear--         - - --  - -Y a s-  -  - - - -  - -- -  - - - -  - - -  - - -  -- - - -  - - -  - - - -  - -- -  - - -  - - - -  - - -  -
Project Year              1              2             3            4             5            6             7            8             9             10            11           12            13            14           15
Cash Inflow
Gross Earnings 2/ 3/                   62,238        101.760       99,892        97,920        96,055       94,083        92.215       90,245        88,378       86,408        84,540        82,570        80,702       78,730        77,279
Project Loan 957%                     100,700           -             -            -             -            -             -            -             -             -             -            -             -             -             -
Owners Equity 5%                        5,300           -                          -----------
Working Capital Loan ik/                6.750           -                                                        
Total Inflow                        174.988        101.760       99.892        97.920       96 055        94.083       92.215        90.245        88.378       86.408        84,540        8250          8.0           810          77.279
TI. Cash- Outflow
Invastlownt cost 4/                   112,70            -             -            -             -            -             -            -             -             -             -            -             -             -         (16.7503  5/
Operating Costs: 2/ 
Crew Renumesratiu                   11,203         18,317       17,980        17,626       17,290        16,935       16,599        16,244        15,908       15,553        15,217        14,863        14,526       14,171        13,910
Subsistence                          1,560          2,564        2,527         2,491        2,454         2,421        2,384         2,348         2,311        2,275         2,239         2,202         2,166        2,129         2,096
Fuel and Lubricants                 13,260         21,791       21,481        21,172       20,862        20,575       20,266        19,956        19,647       19,338        19,028        18,719        18,409       18,100        17,813
Repairs and Maintenance              6,000         10,300       10,609        10,927       11,255        11,593       11,951        12,299        12,668       13,048        13,439        13,867        14,257       14,693        15,134
Taxes, Licenses and Fees             1,045          1,728        1,715         1,703        1,690         1,678        1,665         1,652         1,639         1,627        1,614         1,601         1,588        1,575         1,563
Miscellaneous, including
Insurance                         4,350          7.250         7.250        7.250         7,250         7.500        7.500         7.500        7.500         7.50    7500         7.        7500             7.500               7~~.,500
Total operating Costs
(excluding depreciation)         3741           6195         6156          61169         6080         60.702        60.365       59.999        59.673        59.341        59.035       58.732'       58.446        58.168       58.016
Debt Service:
Amortization of Project Loan          -            11,200       11,200        11,200       11,200        11,200       11,200        11,200        11,200        11,100          -            -             -              
Repayment, Working Capital
Loan                             6,750          -             -            -             -             -            -             -             -            ----                                                                 -
Interests 6/                         6,5           12.08        10,740         9.396        8J.052        6.708        5.364         4.020         2.676         1.332         -             -             -             -             -
Total Debt Service              13,602         23.284        21 940       20.586        19.252        17.908       1656          15,220       13.87         1243
*  Total Outflw                   163,70          85,234        83 502       81.755        80.053       78.,610       76.929        7521         7354          71.773        59.035        58.732       58.446        58.168        41.266
Net Cash Flow                    11.218        16526         1639         16.165        16002i       15.473        15.286        15.026       14i629        14.635        25.505        23.8On       22.256        2056          36.013
III, Financial Benefit/Cost
Financial Benefit                      62,238        101,760       99,892        97,920        96,055       94,083        92,215       90,245        88,378        86,408        84,540       82,570        80.702        78,730        77,279
FInancial Costs                       250,168         61,950        61.562       62,169        60,801       60,702        60,365       59,999        59,673        59,341        59,035       58,732        58,446        58,168        41,266
Net Financial Benefit                 (87,930)        39,810        38,330       36,751        35,254       33,381        31,850       30,246        28,705        27,067        25,505       23,838        22.256        20,561        36,013
IV_   Debt Service Cov-rage                                       1.70         1.75          1.78          1.83         1.86          1.92         1.99          2.07          2.18
Financial Rate of Return                  407.
I/ Shrimp trawler technical specification and drawing are given in Annex 1, Chart 1.
2' Assumptions regarding Earnings and Operational Costs are given at Annex  1, Table 3.  During project year 1 Earnings and
Operational  Costs are pro-rated to allow for the expected construction period.
3/ For gross earnings, the ex-vessel price for shrimp was estimated at US$2.05 lb at constant prices.
4/investment costs of  US$112,7,50 represent:  acquisition of vessel, US$100,000; initial acquisition of trawl nets, US96,000;
advance for first all-risks insurance premium, US$4,750 per annum end initial operating working capital US$2,000.
5/ Trhe residual value of  US$16,750 included in year 15 represents:  lOT. of acquisition costs of US$100,000, i.e., US$10,000; initial                                                                                                      J
working capital, LIS$2,000; all-risks insurance premium, US$4,750 p.a.
6/ interest on the boat loan is 11.57. per annum to whi,h is added 0.57  technical service charge.  The loan period is of 10 year
duration including one year's grace period.  SBiP will hold a ship mortgage on the boat as collateral.  The i,,itsin  working
capital loan is a comxercial accommodation to the owner by BNiP or by any other comserc al bank with interest talc.-tacd
at 127. p.s.
October 16, 1976



ANNEX 1
PANAMA                                  Table 6
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
Assumptions for Statement of Earnings and Costs of a Rehabilitated Wooden Shrimp Trawler
(200 hp - more than 16 years old)
Characteristics:                          Hull: of wood, more than 16 years old, with
the vessel in a poor state of repair
Engine:                    200 hp
Cost of Rehabilitation:   US$50,000
Operations:                               216 fishing days per annum with intensity
declining by four fishing days per year
with an estimated 18 trips p.a. Working
hours estimated at 14 per day, resulting
in 3,024 hours in the first year.
Catch:                                    Estimated at 46,000 lbs per annum at 230
lbs per rated horsepower and adjusted
for fishing intensity with ex-vessel
price of US$2.05 per lb.
Grew's Share:                             18% of catch value.
Fuel:                                     Approximately 10 gal US/per hour x 3,024
hours x US$0.50 cents per gal US = US$15,120
Fuel consumption = 30,240 gal US per annum.
Lubricants:                               Lube oil is estimated at 1% of diesel fuel
consumption; 1% x 30,240 x US$16.50 per gal
US - US$4,990.
Subsistence:                              US$3.00 per man/fishing day x 4 crew x 216
fishing days - US$2,600, declining with
fishing intensity.
Insurance:                                The premium on an all risks marine insurance
policy against total loss is estimated at
US$3,300.
Taxes, Licenses and Fees:                 Fixed:  Annual sailing permit, inspection
fee, fishing license, radio
license = US$614 estimated.
Variable: Lighterage, trip sailing permits,
unloading taxes, boat tax, buoy
tax = US$915 per annum estimated.
Miscellaneous Costs:                      Sundry miscellaneous expenses based on
similar existing vessels = US$2,500 per annum.
Repairs and Maintenance:                  Increased by 3% p.a. on US$13,500 from the first
vear in the case of a rehabilitated vessel.
Depreciation:                             Residual value of rehabilitated vessel after 8 years,
5% of US$50,000 = US$2,500. To depreciate
October 8, 1976                          US$47,500 in 8 years = US$5,938 per annum.



ANNEX 1
Table 7
PANAMA
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
Statement of Estimated Earnings and Costs of a Rehabilitation Wooden Shrimp Trawler
(200 hp - more than 16 years old)
Rehabilitation Cost - US$50,000
With                         Without
Rehabilitation                 Rehabilitation
Value    %                     Value    Z
Annual Earnings and Costs
1.  Gross Earnings                                       92,508   100                   74,686   100
2.  Operating Costs
(a) Trip Expenses:
Crew                            16,561                         13,443
Subsistence                      2,600                          1,584
Fuel and Lubricants             18,321    37,572    41         15,998    31,025    42
(b)  Ship Expenses:
Repairs and Maintenance         13,500                         16,047
Insurance                        3,300                          3,300
Taxes, License and Fees
(fixed and variable)            1,500                          1,300
Miscellaneous Costs              2,500    20,800    22          2,500    23,147    31
Total Operating Costs                        58,372    63                   54,172    73
3.  Net Earnings, before Depreciation                    34,136    37                   20,514    27
4.  Depreciation                                          5,938     7                    -1/      -
5. Net Earnings, after Depreciation
before Income Tax                                  28,198    30                   20,514    27
6.  Income Tax (Estimated)                                1,500     2                    1,000     1
7. Net Earnings, after Depreciation
and Income Tax                                     26,698    29                   19,514    26
1/ Vessel assumed to be fully depreciated.
February 2L, 1977



PANAMA
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
Cash Flow Projections
Rehabilitation of Wooden Shrimp Trawler
(200 hp - more than 16 years old)
(US$)
--------------------------- -  ------------------------Years------------------------------
Project Year                       1           2           3          4           5           6           7          8
I.     Cash Inflow
Incremental Benefit 1/ 2/             17,822      17,446     16,974      16,597      16,125     15,748      15,277      14,900
Project Loan 95%                      47,500        -          -           -           -           -          -           _
Owners Equity 5%                       2,500        -          -           -           -           -          _
Total Inflow                     67,822                 16,974      16597      16,125      15,748      15,277      14,900
II.    Cash Outflow
Investment Costs 3/                   50,000        -          -           -           -           -          -         (2,500) 4/
Incremental Operating Costs 1/         4.200      3 967       3,693       3,455       3,177      2,938       2.652       2.406
Total Costs                     54,200       3,967       3,693       3,455      3.177       2,938       2.652         (94)
Debt Service
Amortization of Principal            -         6,786       6,786       6,786       6,786      6,786       6,786       6,784
Interests 5/                        2,850      5,700       4.886       4,071      3,257       2.443       1,629         814
Total Debt Service               2,850     12,486      11,672        10,857   10,043       9,229       8.415       7,598
Total Outflow                   57,050     16,453      15.365      14,312     13,220      12.167      11,067       7,504
Net Cash Flow                   10,772        993       1,609       2,28       2,905       3,581       4,210       7,396
III.   Financial Benefit/Cost
Incremental Benefit                  17,822     17,446      16,974      16,597      16,125      15,748     15,277      14,900
Incremental Cost                     54,200      3,967       3,693       3.455       3.177       2,938      2,652         (94)
Net Incremental Benefit        (36,378)    13,479      13,281      13,142     12,948      12.810      12,625      14,994
IV.    Debt Service Coverage                                 1.07        1.14        1.21       1.29        1.39        1.50        1.97
V.     Financial Rate of Return   =  23%
1/ Assumptions regarding earnings and operational costs are given in Annex 1, Table 6.
2/ For gross earnings,the ex-vessel price for shrimp was estimated at US$2.05 lb at constant prices.
3/  Investment costs represent total renovation cost of  US$50,000.
4/  The residual value of  US$2,500 included in year 8 represents 5% of the rehabilitation cost of USS50,000,                       " &
i.e.,  US$2,500.
5/  Interest on the rehabilitation loan is 11.5% per annum, to which is added 0.5% technical services
charge.  The loan period is of 8 years duration, including one year's grace period.
October 8, 1976



ANNEX 1
Table 9
PANAMA
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
Estimated Costs of 100-ton Steel Purse Seiner
(US$)
Item
Hull, Steel and Wood                                 51,000
Tail Shaft, Gear Box, Propeller and Engine           53,000
Piping System                                         4,000
Electric System                                       7,000
Electronics Equipment                                11,000
Navigation Equipment                                  2,000
Safety Equipment                                      2,000
Bilge System                                         11,000
Control and Governor System                           2,000
Painting and Zinc                                     7,000
Other Equipment and Material                         36,000
Hydraulic Fishing Equipment                          35,000
Skiff                                                10,000
Labor                                                71,000
General Expenses                                     38,000
Overhead and Profit                                  60,000
Total                          400,000
October 26, 1976



ANNEX 1
Table 10
PANAMA
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
Assumptions for Earnings and Costs Statement of a New Industrial
Fish Purse Seiner
(100 ton  - 260 hp)
Characteristics:                          Length:    69 ft
Engine:    260 hp
Cost of Vessel: US$400,000
Operations                                 180 fishing days per annum, declining
annually by three fishing days per annum.
Catch:                                    6,600 short ton in the first year, declining
with fishing intensity at US$33 per short
ton ex-vessel.
Crew's Share:                             Estimated at US$4.75 x 6,600  short tons =
US$31,350.
Fuel and Lubricants:                      Consumption for the annual catch of 6,600
short ton estimated at US$23,650.
Subsistence:                              Estimated at US$100 x 6,600 short ton =
US$6,600 declining with fishing intensity.
Insurance:                                All risks marine insurance for total loss
at special rates = US$19,000 p.a.
Taxes, Licenses and Fees:                 Fixed items:  Annual sailing permit; inspection
fee; boat tax; fishing license;
radio license = US$2,249 p.a.
Variable items: Lighterage; trip sailing
permits; unloading tax, buoy
tax = US$371 in the first
year declining by 1.6% per year.
Miscellaneous Costs:                      Wharfage = US$3,000; sundry miscellaneous
costs based on similar existing vessels
US$2,500.
Repairs and Maintenance:                  Estimated at US$28,000 in the first year
increasing by 3% per annum. This cost
include provision for replacement of net.
Depreciation:                             Residual value of vessel after 15 years, 10%
of US$400,000 = US$40,000; to depreciate
US$360,000 in 15 years = US$24,000 per annum.
October 16, 1976



ANNEX 1
Table 11
PANAMA
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
Statement of Estimated Earnings and Costs of a New Industrial Fish Purse Seiner
(100 ton - 260 hp)
(Construction Cost = US$435,000)11
Annual Earnings and Costs                                   Value        Percentage
1. Gross Earnings                                          217,800          100
2. Operating Costs:
(a) Trip Expenses:
Crew, including Subsistence    37,950
Fuel and Lubricants              23,650
Taxes, Licenses and Fees            371        61,971           28
(b) Ship Expenses:
Maintenance and Repairs          28,000
Insurance                        19,000
Wharfage                          3,000
Taxes, Licenses and Fees          2,249
Miscellaneous Costs               2,500        54,749           25
Total Operating Costs                            116,720           53
3. Net Earnings, Before Depreciation                      101,080            46
4. Depreciation                                            24,000            11
5. Net Earnings, After Depreciation
Before Income Tax                                        77,080           35
6. Income Tax (Estimated)                                   4,000            2
7. Net Earnings, After Depreciation
and Income Tax
73,080          33
1/ Including US$35,000 Fishing Gear.
October 16, 1976



PANAM~A
SECOND FISHgEU2S PR9JECT
Cash Flw Protections
Industrial Fish Puree Seinets - tO0 tons I
------------__----__----------------------------------------------------------------- Yez------- yas -----------------------^-------------------^------------- -  -------------------
Projeci  /                 1Y             2.          3            4            5           6           17                        9            10         19             12          13         13             15
I   Grshoss Earnings 2f 3f              108,900       214,204     211,695      208,659      205,590     202,785      199,716      196,&40     I93,611      190 57S      187,539      184,470     181,434      178.365      IJS,56
Project Loan s5%                   369,750          -            -           -            -            -           -            -           -            -            -            -            -           -            -
Owners Equity 15%                   65.250          -            -           -            -                  -        -                                                                            _
Tocal Inflow                    543900        214.764      211.695     208,659      205.590     202,785      199.716      1%.680      193.611      190,575      147.539           70                  178 375.560
II.   Cash Outflow
Investment Costs 4/                435,000          -            -           -                                                  -                  -                               -            -           -         (40,00   V
Operating Costes
Crew temuneretion and Su.bhtance 18,975        37,419       36,8s7      36,356       35,825       35,331      34,800       34,269      33,738       33,206       32,675       32,144       31,612      31,061       30,56
Fuel and L.bric.nts              11,925        23,319       22,988      22,657       22,325       22,019      21,687       21,356       21,024      20,694       20,363       20,031       19,701      19,369       19,062
Maintenance and Repairs          14,000        28,600       29,218      29,854       30,510       31,185      31,881       32,597       33,335      34,095       34,878       35,685       36,515      37,370       38,252
Taxes, Licenses and fees          1,310        2Z615         2,610       2,604        2,599        2,594       2,589        2,584        2,579       2,574        2,568        2,563        2,558       2,553        2,s5
Insurance                         9,500        19,000       19,000      19,000       19,000       19,000      19,000       19,000      19,000       19,000       19,000       19,000       19,000      19.000       19,0O0
Migeellaneous                     2,750         5.500        5,500      5s500         5.500        5s500       5.500        5.500        5.500       5500         5.500        5s500        5.500       5.0          5.3o
Total Operating Coste
(excluding deprecistion)       58,360       116.453     116,203      115.971      115.759     115.629      115.457     115.306      115.176      115.069      114.984      114.923         ,86      114873       lU.5s.o
Debt Service:
Amorttzaiion of Principal          -           41,083       41,063      41,0a4       41,083       41,083      41,084       41,083      41,083       41,084          -                                                 -
Interests 6/                     22,185        44.370       39.440      34.510       29.580       24,650      19.720       14.790        9.860       4.930                      -           -                         -
Total Debt Service            22,185        s5.453       80,523      75,594       70,663      65,733       60,804       55,873      50,943       46,014
Total Outflow                515,545       201,906      196,726     191.565      186,422     181.362      176.261      171.179     166.119      161.093      114.984      114.923      114.886     114A.73       74.5"0
Net Cash Flow                 28,355        12.859       14.969      17,094       19.168      21,423       23.455       25.501      27.492       29.492       72.555       69.547       66.548      63.4S2      W0g610
11I. Financial Benefit/Cost
Financial Benefit                  108,900       214,764      211,695     20,659       205,590      202,785     199,716      196,680      193,611     190,575      187,539      184,470      181,434      178,365     175,560
0'tnancial Costs                   493,360       116,453      116,203     115,971      115,759      115,629     115,457      115,306      115,176      115,069      114,984     114,923      114.S86      114,873       74,950
Net Financial Benefit             (384,460)      108,311       95,492      92,688       89,931       87,156      84,259       81,374       78,435       75,506       72,555      69,547       66,544       63,492     100,610
:V.  Debt Service coveraxe                                   1.27         1.19        1.23         1.27         1.33        1.39         1.46         1.54         1.64
FinanciAl RaSte of Return              227.
Purse seiner technical specifications and drawing are given in Annex 1, Chart 2.
Assum,ptions regarding Earnings and Operstional Costs are given at Annex I , Table 10 . These Barninge and Operational Costs are pro-rated during project
v.ear 1 to allow for the expected construction period.
I:or gross eamtnngs the ex-vessel price was estimated at uS$33 per short ton.
Investment costs are represented by  US$400,000 for acquisition of one vessel plus Us$35,000 for equipment.
The residual value of uS$40,000 represents 10% of the acquisition cost of a purse aelner.
Interest on the boat loan is 11.5% per annum to which is added 0.5% technical service charge.  Interest charges totalling 12%. p.m. are ahoen using the
declining balance method. The loan period is of 10 years' duration including one year's grace period
ber 16, 1976



PANAMA
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
Example of Acceptable Profile for 50-Foot
Steel Shrimp Double Rigger Trawl Fishing Vessel
\~ =  _ ~T ~0                                                                                                          STORr 
\   FUEL   |                     t  HOLD             . |             ENGINE ROOM
--<   - j       Z  - t --                      '  ^   -                              !               a           7~~~~~~~~~- 
-4- F0   =    t   =     =                                 -           I FRESH WATEF I
PRINCIPAL PARTICULARS
LENGTH /OVERALL)             50 FT.
BREADTH                      17 FT.
DEPTH                         a FT.
MAIN ENGINE                 220 HP.
SPEED                    8.5 KNOTS
FISH HOLD                8,000 LBS.
FUEL TANK             5,000 US GAL.
LUB.TANK                 50 US GAL.
WATER TANK              300 US GAL.
COMPLEMENT               4 PEFkSO14S  I                                              World Bank-16451



PANAMA
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
Example of Acceptable Profile for 100-Ton
Steel Anchovy Purse Seiner Fishing Vessel
PFRINCIPAL PARTICUL AFS
LENGTH (OVERALL)             69FT
BREADTH                       22 FT.
\\\ i //,,    '    A            'RN'S^1MrTs    9 F_I
FISH HOLD           100 sHORT TONS
FUEL TANK              1,500 US GAL.
WYATER TANK              300 US GAL.
COMPLEMENT                7 PERSONS
TANCHO
CHAIN                      n -1
_ = I | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WATER/
l |   >   TANK !       OD         IHOLO                               ENGINE ROOM        |TN                                      l
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ol                                                       Bank -   t16 5



ANNEX 2
Page 1
PANAMA
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
Processing Plants Relocation
Background
1.        There are presently seven shrimp processing plants, operating under
concessions granted by the Government, all located in Panama City. These
plants generate serious pollution problems and are a deterrent to Panama's
urban development program. The Government has therefore enacted legislation
requiring these plants to relocate at Punta Vacamonte where a new fishing
port is being constructed under Loan 1114-PAN. Under that project, the en-
tire plant structure would be allocated to the shrimp processors. The shell
structure would be large enough to accommodate all the processing plants,
each in a separate bay. Under the proposed project, the interiors of these
bays would be completed to meet the needs and specifications of the individual
plants to be located there. Six plants have agreed to move, while the seventh
has decided to terminate business.
2.        Relocation would yield certain benefits to the shrimp processors
in terms of operating cost savings and increased efficiency since some plants
are antiquated and operate at relatively low levels of production efficiency
(about US$90,000 per annum). The relocation would permit a better quality
product and thus provide for added revenue to the industry of US$200,000 per
annum. The move would also offer opportunities for the development of new
shrimp products by providing improved facilities which would substantially
increase the quality of the products. The introduction of new lines of
product would generate net benefits amounting to US$1 million by 1989.
The Project
3.        The proposed project would provide credit to processors to cover:
(a) construction of new plant facilities;
(b) installation of utilities and support equipment;
(c) purchase and installation of new equipment to replace equipment
which cannot be moved; and
(d) direct moving costs of existing equipment.
4.        The equipment and facilities of the six processing plants differ
greatly in their condition, state of repair, and type of construction.
Consequently, individual plant plans and equipment requirements at the new



ANNEX 2
Page 2
port would vary. Space allocation at the new fishing port facility would
also differ according to need. The entire shell structure at the new port
would have eight bays with a total area of about 5,360 m2. About 960 m2
of the total would be designated for offices, storage areas, conference
rooms, rest rooms and employee facilities. The Port Authority in conjunction
with the shrimp processors would determine space allocation requirements and
rental rate for each plant. Also, the Port Authority would coordinate the
construction of the shell building to meet the requirements for each pro-
cessor's plant plans. Each processor would develop individual plant plans
for the construction of detailed interior plant features in the shell struc-
ture. Each plant plan would include minimum building specifications to per-
mit sound manufacturing practices for processing of shrimp products and also
to make provision for facilities for treatment of waste products in order to
prevent pollution of the environment.
5.        It is expected that the entire shell building structure for the
plants at the new fishing port would be completed by mid-1978. Implementation
would be carried out over two years, including preparation of detailed plant
plans. Individual plant construction would begin in the later part of 1978
and the six plants would be moved during 1979. The processing plants would
be moved in overlapping sequence extended over a 12-month period in order to
avert production losses. Maximum advantage would be taken during the February/
March closed shrimp fishing season by moving the more complicated processing
plants at that time. Processing plants would process shrimp on a co-packing
basis for each other during the moving period.
6.        Provision would be made for consultant services (a food processing
engineer and a quality control expert) to assist the Port Authority and indi-
vidual processors in carrying out the details of meeting the requirements for
relocation (planning of plant design, co-packing arrangements, time schedule
for moving, and moving arrangements). The food processing engineer and the
quality control specialist would also work jointly during the moving operations
to maintain quality standards for processed shrimp.
Quality Control
7.        All of Panamanian processed shrimp is exported to the US market.
The US Food and Drug Administration conducts inspections for quality upon
arrival at US ports, and some lots of Panamanian shrimp are rejected (about
US$350,000 in 1975). When this occurs, it reflects on all exportations
from Panama, and the US Food and Drug Administration tightens its frequency
of inspection. This places undue pressure upon those plants which may be
placing greater emphasis upon quality control.
8.        In Panama there are no documented standards or methods of quality
control for the shrimp processing industry. The only quality control pro-
cedures applied in the plants are checking for grade (size), container
weight, and aroma and appearance of shrimp. Standards for controlling quality
on vessels are left to the experience and initiative of the individual boat
captains.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
9.        In order to maintain its competitiveness in the US market, it is
crucial that Panama establish quality standards and controls for the sea-
food processing industry. The project would make provision for a quality
control expert to assist the Ministry of Health in the following:
(a) develop quality standards and controls, good manufacturing
practices for plants, and good handling practices for
shrimp vessels;
(b) train local inspectors;
(c) train plant management personnel, develop techniques and
interpret regulatory standards on all matters pertaining
to the control of quality and the establishment of good
manufacturing practices for shrimp processing; and
(d) train shrimp vessel captains and crew in methods of good
handling practices on vessels.
Cost
10.       The total investment cost of the processing plant relocation compo-
nent would be US$2.9 million: US$1.3 million for plant construction, US$0.2
million for utility installation, US$1.2 million for new equipment and instal-
lation, and US$0.2 million for moving of existing equipment. Investment costs
are detailed in Table 1.
Implementation
11.       Funds to the processors would be channeled through Banco Nacional de
Panama. The National Port Authority (APN) would determine space allocation
requirements, assist processors to develop specific floor plans, and prepare
a time schedule for construction and moving of the processing plants. The
Project Unit would contract a food processing engineer for 18 months to work
jointly with APN to provide assistance to processors in carrying out the
details of meeting the requirements for relocation. Also, a quality control
specialist would be recruited by the Project Unit to assist the Ministry of
Health to carry out the quality control program. The Ministry of Health will
employ two food inspectors to provide support to the quality control program.
January 12, 1977



ANNEX 2
Table 1
PANAMA
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
Investment Costs
(US$'000)
 --------------Year-------
1        2           3         4       Total
Plant Construction                      -        934         262        -       1,196
Utility Installation
Materials                            -        102          28       -          130
Service                              -         42          12       -           54
Sub-total                       -       144          40        -
New Equipment
Purchase and Delivery                -        648         402       -        1,050
Installation                         -         41          26       -           67
Sub-total                       -       689         428        -
Moving of Existing Equipment            -        128          36        -         164
Sub-total                       -     1,895         766        -        2,661
Pysical Contingency (10%)               -        189          77       -          266
Total                           -     2 084         843        -       22927
October 1, 1976



ANNEX 3
Page 1
PANAMA
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
Banco Nacional de Panama (BNP)
Introduction
1.        Banco Nacional de Panama (BNP), the official state bank, carries out
commercial, mortgage and development banking business. It was established in
1904 as a mortgage bank but assumed its present name and scope of operations
in an early reorganization in 1911. It was further reorganized in 1956 under
Law No. 11 and more recently under Law No. 20 of April 22, 1975 when it became
an autonomous state entity, with its own legal personality and independence
regarding the management of its internal affairs.
2.        BNP is the official financial organ of the Government, and, apart
from the objectives assigned to it by law, it is charged within the public
sector with obtaining the financial resources necessary for the economic
development of the country. The State is responsible for all the obligations
of the Bank. Panama does not have a separate independent central bank, but
BNP is the official depository and trustee for Government and Government-owned
institutions, acts as the banks' clearing house, and performs functions for the
National Treasury. BNP is headquartered in Panama City, and it has a network
of branches and offices throughout the country. The Panamanian banking system
is overseen by the National Banking Commission (NBC) and is administratively
under the Ministry of Planning and Economic Policy.
Board of Directors and Management
3.        BNP's Board of Directors consists of five members, all of whom are
appointed by the Government from the private sector. The most recent law
reorganizing BNP requires that this Board, which must meet at least once a
month, be responsible for directing all internal policy matters in line with
the Government's plans and priorities for development of the productive
sectors of the economy.
4.        BNP's General Manager, who is its legal representative, is respon-
sible for the day-to-day management of the bank. According to BNP's Act, the
General Manager, who is appointed by the President of the Republic, should have
an academic background in economics and finance and have been associated in
an executive position in commerce or industry for a period of at least five
of the preceding 10 years. The present incumbent meets these requirements.
He is assisted by a deputy general manager and an Executive Committee com-
posed of the managers of the bank's seven divisions (para 5) and the heads
of advisory units.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
Organization and Staff
5.        BNP has seven divisions with responsibilities as follows:
(a) General Banking: private sector operations involving indus-
trial, commercial, housing and construction, agricultural,
personnel, as well as international and interbank loans
and credits.
(b) Government Loans and Finance: credits to the national and
municipal government and Government-owned enterprises.
(c) Development Loans and Finance: working capital and invest-
ment loan to industry, livestock, agriculture and fishing,
including those funded through international finance from
bilateral sources (IDB and USAID) and the special IBRD-
financed projects.
(d) Comptroller General: preparation of budgets and budgetary
control, organization and methods, and national collections
as fiscal agent for the Government.
(e) General Banking Services: accounting, clearing house
operations for the banking system and banking operations
for and on behalf of the National Treasury.
(f) Administrative Services: general services, publicity and
public relations.
(g) Personnel Services: administrations, training, and fringe
benefits services for bank staff.
BNP's professional staff consists of 10 qualified accountants, 19 economists,
six agronomists, four veterinarians, seven livestock technicians, 21 lawyers,
41 internal auditors, and one industrial engineer. Its internal staff train-
ing programs are planned on a yearly basis for which there are five instruc-
tors. There was a total of 1,418 employees on September 1, 1976.
6.        BNP's countrywide network of branches and/or offices is supervised
by three regional managers. In line with BNP's shift in emphasis to increased
lending in the areas of agriculture, livestock, fishing, and small and medium
industry sectors, the number of branch offices in the country's principal
cities had almost doubled by 1975 to reach 62, compared to 34 in 1973. Out-
side of Panama City, where 25 offices are located, most of its expansion into
additional channels for lending has been in the five provinces -- Chiriqui,
Veraguas, Herrera. Los Santos and Cocle -- in which most farm ranch invest-
ment was planned under the First Livestock Development Project. BNP contem-
plates opening additional offices to serve its expanding clientele as and
when necessary.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
Investment Funds
7.        BNP's investment funds were generated from the following sources
(net year end balances in US$ millions from published accounts):
1973            1974           1975
Paid-in capital               14.0            14.0           14.0
Net profits                    2.4              0.4            0.4
Deposits (sight)             115.6           107.8           90.9
Deposits (terms,
including
foreign deposits)          43.3             90.4          130.9
Overseas banks and
international
organizations               14.8            13.0           16.9
IMF contingency               14.9            35.1           47.7
8.        The cost of funds are presently:  (a) demand deposits - none;
(b) savings deposits - 4.5% per annum; (c) deposits (foreign) - international
interbank offering rates for the term involved which can range from 5-9/16
p.a. for overnight use to 7.75% for 12 months; and (d) foreign borrowings -
at negotiated rates.
9.        It would appear that BNP may tend to lean more on foreign sources
to sustain its fundings. While "foreign borrowings" (mainly from inter-
national finance organizations) are predictable, since they have definite
contract loan terms, too great a reliance on foreign deposits from overseas
banks could turn out to be illusory since their withdrawal could be for
reasons beyond BNP's control, despite the fact that, constitutionally, all
BNP obligations are guaranteed by the State.
Sources and Application of Funds
10.       BNP's condensed statement of source and application of funds for
fiscal year 1975, which is given in Table 1, discloses and emphasizes the
more important financial events of the year 1975.
Lending and Investment Policies and Procedures
11.       Policies.  Except for those set for agriculture and industry 1/ by
the National Banking Commission and for projects financed by AID, IDB, and
1/   This refers to the special subsidy to these sectors of loans at 8% p.a.
and 9% p.a. made effective in November 1974.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
IBRD, interest rates are set by the Board of Directors. They are reportedly
1% to 2% lower than those charged by smaller Panamanian commercial banks.
Current rates (1976) are generally 12% p.a. for commercial loans and 11% for
agricultural loans plus a technical supervision fee of 0.5% for loan
balances to US$150,000 and 0.25% for loan balances above this figure. Indus-
trial loans are at 11% p.a. with no technical supervision fee. Likewise,
loans to Government pay 1% to 1.5% above the interbank offering rate at the
time of the transaction. Preferential interest rates in force during 1975
were as follows: 1/
Quarters (%)
1         2         3         4
Agriculture and livestock                  10.4        8.0       7.0       7.0
Industry                                    9.4        7.0       6.0      8.0
Maturity terms takes into account transaction and production cycles in the
case of working capital and marketing loans, and cash flow projections are
basic requirements in the case of development.
12.       Collateral may consist of movable or immovable property, or, in
some cases, personal guarantees. The latter, however, are limited to terms
of not more than 18 months. Some examples of maximum loan values of colla-
terals are as follows:
Loan = % of
Collateral                           Market Value
Real estate                                    90
New machinery and equipment                    60
Used machinery and equipment                   50
Fattening cattle                              100
Breeding animals                               70
New project shrimp trawlers
(for independent operators)                    95
Other project shrimp trawlers
(limited liability companies, etc.)            90
1/   An interest rate of 9-1/2% is in force for loans for the acquisition of
shrimp trawlers under Loan 784-PAN. Trawler owners pay 12% interest
on working capital loans.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
13.       Other regulations specify that no less than 50% of total savings
deposits must be for investment in housing mortgage loans in Panama, with
maturities of not less than 10 years. Also, except for loans to Government
and other specified transactions, no loan totalling more than 5% of BNP's
deposits and capital and surplus reserves can be used for equity investment
in other types of business enterprise.
14.       Procedures.  Loan applications may be filed and processed in any
one of BNP's 62 offices. Consultant services were engaged to recommend and
implement the current credit policy and approval procedures which are now in
manual form and currently in use. The authorities and limits are as follows:
Approval Authority                Maximum Loan
(US$)
Branch Credit Committee                 5,000
Regional Credit Committee              50,000
General Manager                       250,000
National Credit Committee             500,000
Board of Directors                    500,001 +
Development loan applications generally are evaluated and appraised satisfac-
torily, while those for working capital involved considerable paper work,
which could be streamlined. Installments of development loans are disbursed
only after an examination by the responsible officer of the justification
for such disbursements. Generally, they are made directly to suppliers and
charged to the borrower's current account with BNP. This type of technical
supervision, in the case of the Fisheries Project (Loan 784-PAN) disburse-
ments, is carried out by its national project director, assisted by a small
staff located in the BNP Development Division. In relation to the imple-
mentation of the fisheries project, the lending policies and procedures
followed were considered satisfactory and the form of control exercised
acceptable.
Lending and Investment Operations
15.       BNP's general pattern of lending for the period 1973-75, expressed
as a percentage of loans approved, is summarized as follows:



ANNEX 3
Page 6
1973           1974           1975
No.  Value    No.  Value    No.  Value
Agriculture, livestock
and fishing                        13     16      10      13     13       9
Commerce, industry
consumers, and others             86      73      84     72      83      69
Housing and other
construction                       5      11       6      15      4      20
Regional foreign loans               -      -       -       -      -        2
100    100    100    100    100        100
16.       Included in this general lending pattern for 1973-75 were BNP's
lending activities in fishing sector. Its major effort was directed towards
assisting the sub-borrowers of Loan 784-PAN in financing the acquisition of
26 new shrimp trawlers, of which the total cost to them was US$4,920,000.
This took the form of long-term loans for 95% of this sum in addition to the
supply of short-term credits for initial working capital needs, which
totalled US$243,302. Other lending activities in this sector in the period
were comparatively insignificant, consisting mainly of medium-term loans of
small accounts totalling US$549,000.
17.       Agricultural loans increased from a total of US$3.75 million in
1973 to US$5.69 million in 1975, due mainly to the impact of the interest
subsidy policy which began in November 1974 (and which was expected to end
in late 1976). Loans averaged about US$5,000 in 1973, US$7,700 in 1974,
and US$7,000 in 1975. Consequently, BNP serviced more borrowers in 1975
in this sector than in earlier of the two previous years.
18.       Loans to the livestock sub-sector remained at around US$17.3 mil-
lion during 1974 and 1975, lower than in 1973 when they totalled US$19 mil-
lion. During this period these loans increased from an average of US$6,000
in 1973, to US$7,300 in 1974, and to US$8,200 in 1975, probably as a result
of inflation.
19.       Given the not very satisfactory situation regarding the state of
past due accounts, BNP instituted an intensive campaign to improve collec-
tions, redocument interests and debts, and draw up new payment plans for
borrowers who were delinquent in payments.
20.       In general, the lending pattern of BNP is basically that of a
commercial bank, and it is in the commercial area that it does approximately
50% of its total banking business. Moreover, it is beyond question that



ANNEX 3
Page 7
BNP's development finance activities will always be overshadowed by its
commercial banking activities, despite the growing importance of development
banking. For this reason, the role and organization of various Project
Units within BNP should be strengthened so that they will be able to deal
more effectively with the increasing number of planned development projects.
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
21.       BNP has five main segments of banking activity but the results of
all operations are published only in consolidated form. Net annual profit,
which in 1971 was about US$950,000 on all operations, had fallen to about
US$590,000 for the year ending 1976, with substantial variations in between.
Loan operating income thus continues to be offset by high administrative costs.
This situation is acknowledged by BNP and it has introduced a program of aus-
terity and improved cost control in order to reduce operating costs and is
also concentrating on its most profitable banking activities. Paid-in capital
and reserves have remained virtually without change, rising from US$17.6 mil-
lion in 1973 to only US$18.0 million in 1976 (1971 - US$14.0) Tables 2 and 3
provide further details. Projections to 1980 are in Table 4, but the capital
and reserve structure of BNP is not an issue in itself.
22.       A comparative analysis of the loan portfolio for 1974, 1975, and
1976 as to due and past due accounts shows the following:



BANCO NACIONAL DE PANAMA
STATEMENT OF DUE AND PAST DUE POSITION OF THE LOAN PORTFOLIO
AT DECEMBER 31, 1976
Total                             Due-/                                 In Arrears -
_____--________--____________    -(-US- 000)------------------ --------- 
1976      1975       1974       1976       1975      1974       1976      %        1975     %        1974      X
Commercial        39,392    43,713    44,500    31,202    34,910    37,434    8,190    20.8    8,803    20.1    7,066    15.9
Agriculture and
livestock       30,639    32,983    30,971    26,984    26,676    26,694    3,655    11.9    6,308    19.1    4,276    13.8
Mortgage          29,719    36,036    30,008    28,757    31,209    22,950           962     3.2    4,826    13.4    7,059    23.5
Industrial        15,743    15,352      8,207    15,066    14,826        7,838      677      4.3       526      3.4      369      4.5
Personal           9,339    12,316    17,622       6,339      7,853    14,532    3,000    32.1    4,463    36.2    3,089    17.5
Sub-total      124,832   140,400   131,308   108,348   115,476   109,448   16,484    13.2   24,926    17.8   21,859    16.6
Public sector   126,432    68,453    56,510   121,583    68,453    56,510    4,849           3.8      n.a.              n.a.
Overseas loans    5,250       5,250       250      5,250      5,250        250      -        -         -                 -
Total
Portfolio      256,514   214,103   188,068   235,181   189,177   166,208   21,333                 24,926            21,859
Percentage         100.0      100.0     100.0       91.7       88.4       88.4    100.0      8.3    100.0               100.0
1/ Loans due up to 90 days.
2/ Loans in arrears more than 90 days.
Source:  Independent auditor's report (Comptroller General) on the consolidated
financial statements at December 31, 1975. 1976 figures are unaudited
data supplied by BNP as at December 31, 1976.
Note 1:  The aging analysis of the past due portion of the total portfolio (11.6%)
demonstrates the following significant state of affairs which pertains only
to private sector business of BNP for 1974 and 1975 but also includes the
public sector for 1976.
Percentage                   US$ '000
1976     1975      1974      1976     1975      1974                             b
90 days              15.6      44.8      30.0    3,322    11,163   6,561
120 days               3.2       5.1       2.3      671        1,282    4957,11
5 - 12 months         54.1      20.6      32.5   11,550      5,126   7,110
more than 12 months  27.1       29.5      35.2    5,790      7,355   7,692
100.0    100.0    100.0   21,333    24,926  21,858
Note 2:  BNP considers that an account begins to fall into arrears after 90 days.



ANUIEX 3
Page 9
The figures for 1976 show an improvement over those of 1975, and 1976,
and indicate that as a result of actions taken during 1976, overall
arrears as a percentage of total portfolio at the end of 1976 had been
reduced to 8.3% as compared with 11.6% for 1975 and 1974.
23.       Capital Reserve Account.  The movement on capital reserve account
is analyzed as follows:
/1
1976      1975       1974       1973
_____-- (US$    000)        
Balance at beginning of year       3,983      3,810      3,584      2,881
Add:  Net profit for year             592       443       432       2,393
4,575     4,253      4,016      5,274
Less:  Pension payments               165       244        207        190
Transfer to Capital /2    2,000           26         -      1,500
Balance at end of year             2,410      3,983      3,809      3,584
/1  1976 figures unaudited data supplied by BNP.
/2  Law 11 of 1956 (Art. 40) authorizes BNP to increase its capital
when the capital reserve exceeds US$1,000,000. By Executive
Decree 85 of 1973, the Ministry of Finance and Treasury authorized
an increase in capital of US$1,500,000. In 1972 US$500,000 was
also transferred to capital under this concept.
The external auditors have reported that BNP had not established the basis for
calculation of its pension reserve and has in the past, annually charged total
amounts paid to its pensioners against the capital reserve. They have recom-
mended that services of an actuary from the Social Security Service be engaged
to advise on the constitution of a pension reserve, i.e., on the assumption
that periodic pension costs should be provided on an actuarial basis. The
situation has been resolved by legislation enacted in 1975 and 1976, and which
is retroactive in April 1975, under which all aspects of pensions have been
transferred to and assumed by the Department of Social Security. Final
actuarial calculations have, however, yet to be made, but are nevertheless
under study.
24.       Debt/Equity Ratio.  While the 1975 and 1976 gross operating incomes
have shown an increase, they have been absorbed by higher administration costs
in those years. BNP's yearly surpluses have been added to capital reserve but
the latter's strength has been weakened by charges for pension payments pro-
visions for bad debts and transfers to capital.



ANNEX 3
Page 10
25.       The bank's equity ratio showed a deterioration from 1971 to 1975.
(1971 = 3.93:1, 1975 = 11.59:1), particularly because of public sector fi-
nancing, however, at the end of 1976, this ratio had been reduced to 10.4:1.
In addition, it is the intention of BNP to reduce this ratio to 8:1 by the
end of 1978 and to 6:1 by 1980.
Accounting and Auditing
26.       With regard to the 784-PAN and 901-PAN projects, independent audi-
tors of the Comptroller General's office examined the "Statement of Invest-
ments" and the related registers of operations for 1975 and reported that,
in their opinion, such statement of investment and the attached supplementary
financial information satisfactorily showed the financial situation of the
programs partially financed by the Bank in accordance with the loan contracts.
They made recommendations for improving internal accounting controls, which
have been implemented during 1976.
27.       The internal auditing function is carried out by a staff of 41
auditors, responsible directly to BNP's General Manager. Independent audi-
tors from the Comptroller General's office also examined BNP's Consolidated
Statement of Financial Situation and the related Consolidated Income and
Source and Application of Funds Statements as of December 31, 1975. The
examination was carried out in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards and thus included tests of the accounting records and other pro-
cedures considered necessary under the circumstances. In their opinion, the
financial statements present fairly the financial situation of BNP as of
December 31, 1975 and the results of its operations and source and applica-
tion of funds for the year ending on that date are in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles applied on a consistent basis with
those of the previous year. Figures for the year ending 1976 are unaudited
data supplied by BNP.
January 12, 1977



ANNEX 3
Table I
Page 1
PANAMA
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
Banco Nacional de Panama
Sources and Application of Funds
Year Ended December 31, 1975
1975              1974          1973
Amount
Source                   (In US$)   Percentage   Percentage   Percentage
Revenue, and expenses which
did not require cash outlays    1,285,006           1.5          1.4           8.4
Increase in liabilities          58,598,610        69.5         15.5          46.1
Decreases in assets              24,454,243        29.0          3.1         45.5
Total                 84,337,859       100.0        100.0         100.0
Appl ications
Increase in assets               60,725,385        72.0         82.8         80.9
Decreases in liabilities         23,342,277        27.7         17.0          18.6
Decrease in reserve fund
and capital                         270,197         0.3          0.2           0.5
Total                 84,337,859       100.0        100.0         100.0
Notes:    Principal sources of funds:
(a)  Fixed-term deposits received from domestic and foreign sources
totaled US$40,089,701, of which US$17,618,543 had been attracted
from domestic banks, US$18,870,391 from foreign banks, and the
balance from private foreign investors.
(b)  Deposits made in foreign banks located abroad decreased of term
deposits of US$7,500,000, and US$7,959,838 under the heading-
Foreign Banks and Corporations.
(c)  International Monetary Fund liabilities of which US$12,600,682
related to an IMF authority to draw, (using a previous credit),
as a result of oil price increases.



ANNEX 3
Table 1
Page 2
Main application of funds:
(a) Credit and investment portfolio for a total US$26,365,328, of
which loans to the Industrial Sector accounted to US$7,144,699;
overdraft granted to Public Sector, US$11,945,450; and over-
drafts granted to sight deposit holders and mortgage loans,
US$6,027,566.
(b) Increased deposits in domestic banks by US$19,156,019 by con-
verting deposits in foreign banks into term deposits in
domestic banks.
(c) Increases in domestic and foreign sight deposits amounting to
US$16,810,281 were applied to National Government Funds, as a
result of an overdraft in the account "Contratos y Tesoro
Nacional."
October 14, 1976



PANAMA
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
Banco Nacional de Panama - Comparative Balance Sheets Fiscal Years 1971 through 1976
(US$'000)
1971           1972           1973            1974           1975          1976
Assets
Cash                                                  12,567         14,867          13,065         15,345          15,529      17,542
Local Banks and Overseas Correspondents               12,887         49,342          35,966         48,724          49,047      77,607
Movable Property                                        --                             -              -              3,506            9
Remittances in Transit                                 4,303             143           -             5,301             240       1,775
Credit and Investment Portfolios                      89,316        123,319         150,754        190,398         216,764    259,791
Fixed Assets (Net)                                     2,649          2,795           3,354          4,159           5,324      24,340
Contingent Asset IMF                                  11,996         12,316          12,148         14,400          20,497       6,422
Deferred and Other Assets                              2,956          3,517           4,547          3,568           8,068      16,661
Total Assets                                    136,674        206,299        219,834         281,895        318,974    404,147
Liabilities
Sight Deposits                                        61,537        108,586         115,602        107,804          90,888    100,627
Term Deposits                                         33,132         38,963          43,277         90,412         130,923    173,165
Borrowings:
Overseas Banks                                       5,000         16,375          11,426          8,004           7,789      28,888
International Organizations                          3,650          3,626           3,426          5,006           9,105
Contingent Liabilities IMF                            13,526         13,864          14,936         35,117          47,718      71,745
Deferred and Other Liabilities                         5,428           9,472         13,551         17,711          14,536      11,312
Total Liabilities                               122,273        190,886        202,218         264,054         300,959    385,737
Capital and Reserves
Capital                                               12,011         12,511          14,011         14,011          14,011      16,000
Capital Reserve                                        2,390           2,902          3,605           3,830          4,003       2,410
Total Capital and Reserve                           14,401         15,413          17,616         17,841          18,014      18,410
Total Liabilities and Capital                      136,674        206,299         219,834        281,895         318,974    404,147
I.A
Source:  Controller's Department, Banco Nacional de Panama.                                                                          m x
March 11, 1977                                                                                                                      w



PANAMA
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
Banco Nacional de Panama - Analysis of Profit and Loss Accounts 1972 through 1976
(TtSS)
Income From Operations                   1972           1973           1974           1975            1976
Interests and Discounts Earned        8,336,666      11,660,219    14,050,637    16,682,734    21,046,995
Commissions                           1,321,910       1,955,122      1,825,162      1,799,045      1,381,877
Sub-total                       9,658,576      13,615,341    15,875,799    18,481,779    22,428,872
Other Income                            570,918         640,099        621,488        703,686        997,900
Total Income from Operations       10,229,494      14,255,440    16,497,287    19,185,465    23,426,772
Overhead Expenses
Administrative                        4,318,557       4,686,600      5,557,100      7,033,478      7,996,576
Operations                            3,534,631       6,369,922      9,805,133    10,866,981    13,586,971
Sub-total                        7,853,188     11,056,522    15,362,233    17,900,459    21,583,547
Provisions                              611,598         805,300        702,600        841,435      1,251,074
Total Overhead Expenses             8,464,786      11,861,822    16,064,833    18,741,894    22,834,621
Net Profit                          1,764708        2,393,618        432,454        443,571        592,151
Source: Controller's Department, Banco Nacional de Panama.
March 3, 1977
(r X
m >c
W W



ANNEX 3
Table 4
PANAMA
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
Banco Nacional de Panama
Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss'Projections
(US$ Million)
1976        1977         1978         1979        1980
Paid-in capital          14.0         14.0        14.0         14.0         14.0
Net Profits           1,036.6      2,366.4     2,914.9      3,343.0      3,921.0
Deposits (sight)        114.4        120.4       125.2        136.5        149.1
Deposits (term includ-
ing foreign deposits)   97.7        100.3        105.8        110.0        122.4
Overseas Banks and
International Organi-
zation                   17.7         18.2        18.8         19.6         20.5
Contingency IMP          46.8         46.8        46.8         46.8         46.8
Source: Controller's Department, BNP.
October 14, 1976



ANNEX 4
Page 1
PANAMA
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
Fresh Water Fish and Oyster Farming
1.        Panama has potential for development of inland fisheries resources.
The Government is promoting development of fish culture as a subsidiary
activity among subsistence farmers as a means of agricultural diversification
and to provide a source of protein to the rural population. The project would
increase fish and shellfish production through establishment of an economic-
ally viable aquaculture system for selected species.
A.   Fresh Water Fish Farming
Background
2.        Panamanians consume 4 - 5 kg of fish per capita each year, a small
amount compared to consumption in most other countries. Most of the fish
are marine species and consumption is heaviest in urban areas. Consumption
in rural areas is estimated to be 1 to 2 kg per capita per year.
3.        The rural people like fish, but have limited access to markets and
little cash income with which to make purchases. Although numerous small
rivers run through the countryside from the mountains to the oceans with
uncounted tributaries branching off from them, little fishing is done because
of the scarcity of fresh water species and availability of technology within
Panama.
4.        Panama has already initiated a fish farming program.  A fresh water
fish farming project has been established in Divisa to carry out research
and experimentation in the selection of suitable species and methods of pond
culture for selected species. Three local experts have been educated and
trained in the field of aquaculture under a USAID program. The project would
expand on the existing research and experimentation program carried out at
the laboratory in Divisa and focus on the development of commercial fresh
water fish farming in selected rural areas.
The Project
5.        Under the project, farmers would, as a subsidiary operation, estab-
lish simple fish farming systems in natural or constructed pools or in small
tributaries. Farmers could operate individually or work with several other
families in a group effort (Chart 1). Fingerlings of suitable fish species --
tilapia, common carp, tropical cyprinids and domestic fish -- would be culti-
vated in Government hatcheries and provided to farmers, free in the first



ANNEX 4
Page 2
stage of farming and at a nominal price (approximately 2 cents each) after
participants become established. Demonstration ponds would be established for
training purposes, and extension services and courses would be provided to
improve fishpond management practices among participating farmers. About 150
ponds covering 55 ha would be established by over 300 farm families during the
project period. The hatcheries would provide materials to the farmers for
pond construction, free of cost; in turn, farmers would contribute labor
input. Total production would amount to 110 metric tons during the fourth
year on the project, rising to 350 metric tons at full development. Since
market prospects in rural areas are good, farm families raising fish would be
in a position to earn additional cash income of US$180 to US$240 per annum as
a result of the project; this is considered an adequate incentive for farmers
to participate. Based on the demonstration effect of the project, it is
estimated that at full development about 675 ponds involving 175 ha and up to
1,000 farm families would be established. In addition, the diet of the rural
population would be enriched as a result of having fish protein readily
available.
6.        Hatcheries.  Research and experimentation programs would be carried
out on selection of suitable species, production yields, and costs and
methods of fishpond culture. The hatcheries would provide materials to con-
struct ponds as well as provide fingerlings and fertilizer to participating
farmers. A hatchery for tilapia and other selected domestic fish would be
located at a laboratory set up two years ago in Divisa to study fresh water
fish culture. Improvement would be made on concrete tanks for a race-way
system and still water method for fingerlings to be combined on rearing ponds.
A new hatchery would be built for raising carp and other transplanted types,
probably in Santa Fe, Veraguas.
7.        Demonstration Ponds.  In order to provide participation of farmers,
a total of 12 demonstration ponds would be built by the Government in Gualaca
(Chiriqui), Los Santos (Los Santos), Penonome (Cocle), and Buena Vista (Colon),
based on three models -- Model A, 0.2 ha, for individual farmers; Model B,
0.5 ha, for three or four families; and Model C, 1.0 ha, for five to eight
families (Chart 1).
8.        Extension Services.  Adaptive technology and fishpond management
practices would be transferred to farmers. The techniques of fish culture
are unknown to the farmers so extension services would concentrate first on
presentation of short training courses at the hatcheries and at the demonstra-
tion ponds.
Cost
9.        The total investment costs associated with cash expenditures for
the fresh water farming component would be US$292,000, of which US$34,000
would be for the improvement of the Divisa laboratory, US$225,000 for the
establishment of the new hatchery, US$13,000 for demonstration ponds and
US$19,000 for farmer's ponds.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
10.       The cost of cash items to construct a Model A fishpond would be
US$50, and US$200 and US$400 for Models B and C, respectively. In addition,
family labor inputs of 30, 60 and 100 man days would be required for construc-
tion of each Model A, B and C pond respectively. Total current costs of
hatcheries, demonstration ponds and extension services would amount to
US$151,000, rising from US$8,700 in year 1 to US$40,000 in year 4. The cost
of extension services at the hatcheries and demonstration ponds for four
years would be US$60,000. Details of investment and current costs are shown
in Tables 1 and 2.
Implementation
II.       Working under an agreement with the Project Unit, the Ministry of
Agriculture would be responsible for the implementation of the freshwater fish
farming program. The Direccion Nacional de Acuacultura which would be estab-
lished to handle all matters related to fish culture would be directly respon-
sible for the program. Three local experts trained under the USAID program
would form the backbone of the new department. In addition, two assistant
biologists for hatcheries and four assistant biologists for demonstration ponds
would be employed to provide support to the fresh water fish farming program
under the project. A fresh water fish farming specialist would be contracted
by the Project Unit for 18 months to work directly with the Direccion Nacional
de Acuacultura in training technical staff and providing assistance on all
aspects relating to the component.
B.   Oyster Farming
Background
12.       World oyster production over the last five years has amounted to
about 750,000 tons per year, about 80% of which is provided by three countries
40% by the USA, 30% by Japan, and about 10% by France.  Farming systems
used are mostly raft and longline in Japan, bottom and tray in France, and
bottom in the USA. Mangrove oysters (crassostra rhizophorea) are already
being grown to marketable size and commercialized in Cuba, where about 3,500
tons a year are harvested. Venezuela produces about 300 tons annually, and
several other tropical countries are also going into business at an experi-
mental level.
13.       At present there is no cultivated oyster farming in Panama.  Oyster
growing wild on mangrove branches and roots are gathered but they are small
and of little commercial value. Mangrove trees grow mostly in Bocas de Toro
on the Atlantic side and all along the Pacific coast. However, the tidal
variation on the Pacific side is large, causing muddy conditions and a strong
tidal current that runs six hours a day. This makes it difficult for oyster
seeds to attach themselves to a suitable substance on which to grow. Condi-
tions on the Atlantic side in Bocas de Toro are, on the other hand, much more
favorable for oyster farming, with lower tides and a slower running current.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
14.       In 1975, the Government, jointly with the United Nations Food and
Agriculture Organization (FAO), carried out a study to determine the potential
for oyster and mussel cultivation in Panama's Atlantic and Pacific waters.
The study which identified major areas exhibiting favorable environmental
conditions for oyster cultivation and suitable local oyster species, provides
the basis for further research and experimentation and development of commer-
cial oyster farming.
15.       The project would center its oyster farming component in the Bocas
de Toro area. External markets are limited; however, the main market would
be the restaurant industry in Panama City, which has a local population of
0.6 million and which is visited each year by about 0.5 million tourists.
The Project
16.       The project would aim to develop mangrove oyster farming on a
commercial basis as a subsidiary activity for small farmers in Bocas de Toro,
who now have little means of earning a cash income. Only 210 of 868 farmers
in the area engage in any marketing of their agricultural produce, the rest
growing only subsistence crops. Since each participant family would be able
to make its own gear from materials readily found in the jungle, the only
investment required is family labor. As a result, there are no cash costs
associated with oyster production at the farm level.
17.       Five experimental oyster farms would be set up in several suitable
areas in the first year of the project. These experimental farms would make
comparisons of growth, mortality and yield rates and other conditions to
determine suitable species and favorable growing areas. The spat (young oys-
ter) collection equipment would be installed after investigations have indi-
cated the best sites. Mangrove oyster spats fall regularly in the southern
portion of the Caribbean and appear to favor branches of the red mangrove.
A Government laboratory would also be established to analyze sea conditions
and to develop techniques suitable for use in the areas and by the farmers.
All techniques developed would be kept as simple and easy as possible
(Chart 2). Extension assistance and training in construction of oyster beds,
in their care, and in harvesting would be provided to the farmers at the
laboratory and at the experimental oyster farms. In the third year, after
the second harvest by the experimental farms, farmers would be able to con-
tinue farming by themselves. It is estimated that 200 families would initiate
oyster farming in the fourth project year.
18.       Based on farm yields of 1,000 kg of oyster (with shell) per annum,
at full development total production is estimated at 200 metric tons of oyster
with shell or 34 metric tons of oyster meat. Oyster can be marketed in Panama
City through a lobster market channel since one food market and two wholesalers
already collect lobster in Bocas de Toro and send them to Panama City. The
price of oyster meat in Panama City is expected to be US$3 to US$4 per kg,
so the price in Bocas de Toro would be about US$1.50 per kg. Oyster farming



ANNEX 4
Page 5
families could therefore earn additional cash incomes of up to US$250 per
year as a result of the project. This is considered an adequate incentive
for farmers to participate in the project.
Cost
19.       Total investment costs for the construction of the laboratory at
Bocas de Toro and the five experimental oyster farms would be US$57,000.
Current cash costs would amount to US$19,300 per year during the project
period. Investment and current cash costs are detailed in Table 2.
Implementation
20.       For the implementation of the oyster farming component, the Project
Unit would enter into agreement with the Directorate of Marine Resources,
Ministry of Commerce and Industry. The Directorate of Marine Resources which
has some trained staff would employ one biologist and one assistant biologist
at the research center at Bocas de Toro. The Project Unit would contract an
oyster farming specialist for a period of one year to assist the Directorate
of Marine Resources on technical aspects relating to the development of
commercial oyster farming. In the initial period, the Directorate of Marine
Resources would conduct a survey to determine:
(a) the location of the laboratory;
(b) the location of experimental stations and spat collecting
areas by season;
(c) the layout and design of suitable oyster-rearing beds for
farmers; and
(d) management procedures for oyster farming.
Implementation would be carried out over four years, with design and construc-
tion (experimental stations and laboratory) in year 1 and emphasis on spat
collection and rearing areas through year 4.
January 12, 1977



ANNEX 4
Table 1
PANAMA
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
Fresh Water Fish Farming
Investments and Current Costs
(US$)
--------------------Year-----------------
1            2          3           4             Total
Investment Cost
Hatchery - Improvement:l/
Well and Piping               15,000           -          -          -           15,000
Concrete Pools                 5,000           -         -           -            5,000
Improvement of Ponds           4,000           -         -           -            4,000
Truck                          8,000           -         -           -            8,000
Miscellaneous                  3,000           -          -          -            3,000
Sub-total             35,000           -          -           -
Hatchery - New
Office Laboratory            72,000         3,000        -           -           75,000
Equipment                     80,000           -         -           -           80,000
Water Control System           5,000           -         -           -            5,000
Concrete Pools                 5,000           -         -           -            5,000
Ponds                         45,000           -         -           -           45,000
Truck                          8,000           -         -           -            8,000
Miscellaneous                  7,000           -         -           -            7,000
Sub-total            222,000          1=          -           -
Demonstration Ponds
Construction 2/               13,000           -         -           -           13,000
Farmers Ponds Construction         -             -      8,000       11,000         19,000
Total              270,000        3,0        8,000      11,000        292,000
Physical Contingency (10%)    27,300            300       800        1,100         29,200
Total              297,000        3,300     8,800       1,0           321,200
Current Cost
Hatcheries                       8,700       12,400    14,100       16,500         51,700
Demonstration Ponds                -         12,500    13,300       13,500         39,300
Extension Services 3/              -         20,000         20,000                 60,000
Sub-total             8,700       44,900    47,400       50,000
Physical Contingency (10%)         870        4,490     4,740        5,000         15,100
Total                9,570       49,390    522140       55,000        166,100
1/ Improvement of laboratory in Divisa.
2/ Three model ponds in each of four locations.
3/ Six man-years per annum at US$3,333.
November 10, 1976



ANNEX 4
Table 2
PANAMA
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
Oyster Farming
Investments and Current Costs
(US$)
-------------------Year------------
1           2       3         4          Total
Investment Cost
Laboratory                        20,000        -       -         -          20,000
Laboratory Equipment               2,500        -       -         -           2,500
Experimental Oyster Farms        20,000         -       -         -          20,000
Operating Boat                    6,000         -       -         -           6,000
Canoes with Outboard Engine        3,500        -       -         -           3,500
Radio Communication                2,500        -       -         -           2,500
Seed Collector                    1,000         -       -         -           1,000
Overhead                           1,500        -       -         -           1,500
Sub-total                57,000        -        -        -          57,000
Physical Contingency (10%)         5,700        -       -         -           5,700
Total               62,700         -       -         -          62 700
Current Cost
Laboratory/Experimental
Oyster Farms                  19,300    19,300  19,300   19,300           77,200
Physical Contingency (10%)         1,930     1,930   1,930    1,930           7,720
Total               21,230    21,230  21,230   21,230           84,920
October 4, 1976



PANAMA
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT                                     ANNEX 4
Chart 1
MODEL A O.2ha (1l                                         MODEL B O.Sha 12)
20m
A                                                                   PLAFOR              FARRFARMER'S
HOUSE
fl S-TOCKYARDC
PLATFORM
t                          2;                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-20-30m
2m2m2
27 DIKE 
MODEL C 1.0ha (3) 
T  Xe  =  STOCKYARD
SP .LWY                   PLATFORM                                              A       S
i  ..   < -   ,. ; . > ,    .FARM ER'S
l > > ~~~TRAP FOR
- >. :  <.- - . CATCHING
.            S.                                 FRESH WATER FISH POND
s1E' Ur
i  SILLWAY                                                   WrJrld Bank-16443



PANAMA
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT                       AMtEX 4
OYSTER FARMING
Family Size Model
20.0 M-25.0 M                  4             2.0 M-2.5 M
GROWING STATION                               SPAT COLLECTOR
102CM - 15 CM          -                                    4
20       M     10CM- 15 CM 
10~~ cm - sc
JUVENILE GROW
SPAT COLLECTOR               ON MANGROVE STICKS
World Bank-16444



ANNEX 5
Page 1
PANAMA
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
Administrative and Technical Services
Project Administration
1.        BNP would continue to be responsible for project administration and
management, and the Project Unit set up under the first fisheries project
(Loan 784-PAN) would be responsible for project implementation.
2.        Set up under the Department of Industrial Credit, the Project Unit
is under the direction of a senior BNP officer who concurrently holds the
position of Director of Municipalities under BNP's Government Assistance
Division. The project director who works on a part-time basis is assisted
by a full-time Project Unit officer, a field supervisor and an accounts clerk.
Other administrative functions appropriate to project activities are carried
out, as required, by personnel of the Industrial Banking Division. A naval
architect, contracted by the Project Unit, has assisted in vessel design and
supervision of construction of project vessels, and is also responsible for
boats being brought to the shipyard at least twice a year for major mainte-
nance and inspection. The captains' training program (basic navigation, use
of modern navigational equipment, operational safety at sea and preventive
maintenance) is being carried out by an FAO expert, contracted by the Project
Unit. Currently, BNP is actively considering establishment of maintenance
and administration sections within the Project Unit to facilitate supervision
of routine maintenance operations of the fleet, and provision of management
accounting services to sub-borrowers.
3.        To enable the Project Unit to implement more effectively, technical
and financial aspects of the proposed project, there is a need to strengthen
and structure the present Project Unit. The Project Unit under the proposed
project would be established as part of the newly created Development Depart-
ment, and would be headed by a full-time project director who would be respon-
sible for programming and control of project objectives and who would be in
charge of day-to-day activities. He would coordinate vessel procurement,
hiring of consultants, participation of some governmental agencies in project
execution, and supervision of all sub-lending operations. The project director
would be consulted on all policy matters affecting the project administration.
4.        The present project director is a competent and diligent individual.
In the event that the present project director cannot continue om- a full-time
basis, then the project director would be either a senior BNP officer or
another Panamanian with appropriate qualification and experience acceptable
to the Bank recruited from outside BNP.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
5.        The Project Unit would have two line functions (administrative
and technical departments) and would be supported by a nucleus staff, some
with previous experience under Loan 784-PAN (Chart 1). The Technical
Department would be responsible for carrying out activities relating to
maintenance and operation of trawler fleet, operational and maintenance
training for captains, credit analysis on sub-loans, and collecting and
disseminating price and market information for project related commodities.
Two qualified credit analysts would be assigned to the Project Unit on a
part-time basis from within BNP to carry technical and financial analysis of
sub-loan applications. Also, the Directorate of Marine Resources, Ministry
of Commerce and Industry, would assist in the technical aspects of sub-
loan analysis. The Technical Department would have the services of a naval
architect and a training officer who would be contracted by the Project Unit
for a period of 27 months and 18 months, respectively (para 8). In addi-
tion, a Fisheries Project Committee comprised of representatives of BNP, the
Directorate of Marine Resources, the Fishermen's Association and independent
fishermen, which was inactive under the first fisheries project, would be
reactivated and would function at the advisory level on matters relating to
boat specifications and evaluation of bids. The Administrative Department
would be responsible for administrative matters and would maintain accounts
of sub-borrowers under Loan 784-PAN, and independent boat owners under the
proposed project. The Project Unit would acquire support from the legal
staff within BNP on legal matters pertaining to project.
6.        A project evaluation and monitoring section would be set up within
the Project Unit to conduct a continuous study of project activities and to
evaluate project performance in relation to project objectives. It would
monitor sub-loans made to fishermen and processors, and would evaluate
periodically the economic impact of the credit program. It would also exa-
mine the training program extended to captains. The evaluation and monitoring
unit would collect and study results and trends of each project component,
fishing fleet capacity and resources, and the fisheries industries. The
Project Unit would make available to the Bank quarterly evaluation reports
highlighting the progress and results of the project.
7.        For the execution of fresh water and oyster farming component and
quality control program, the Project Unit would enter into agreements with
the Ministry of Agriculture, the Directorate of Marine Resources and the
Ministry of Health. The Ministry of Agriculture would be responsible for
fresh water fish farming program and the Directorate of Marine Resources
would carry out the oyster farming program. The Project Unit would advise
and set priorities on these sub-components and would review detailed programs
prepared by each agency. Each participating agency would designate someone
from within its own organization to function as the working level contact
for the project director. The Project Unit would contract consultant ser-
vices (food processing engineer, quality control specialist, fresh water
fish farming specialist and oyster farming specialist) to work directly with
participating agencies on project execution.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
Consultant Services
8.        Technical experts would be contracted by the Project Unit during
the implementation period of the project for specific activities where there
is absence of local technical expertise. A naval architect would assist the
Project Unit in the formulation of safety and operational standards for
fishing vessels, prequalification of shipyards, determination of detailed
specifications and vessel designs, preparation of tender documents for ICB,
evaluation of bids, and supervision of project vessel construction and re-
novation. The Project Unit would hire a training officer to assist in
training captains in theoretical and practical aspects of operating fishing
vessels, safety measures, modern navigational equipment, and vessel mainte-
nance. Two experts, one each in the fields of fresh water fish farming and
oyster farming program, would assist the Ministry of Agriculture and the
Directorate of Marine Resources with the development of fresh water fish and
oyster farming program. A food processing engineer would assist the National
Port Authority and shrimp processors in relocation (planning of plant design,
co-packing arrangements, time schedule for moving, and moving arrangements)
and would assist the Project Unit in preparation of tender documents and bid
evaluation for new equipment. Also, an expert would be contracted by the
Project Unit to assist the Ministry of Health in the development of quality
standards and improvements of manufacturing and handling practices and
training of its personnel; training plant management personnel in developing
techniques and interpreting all regulatory standards; and training shrimp
vessel captains and crew in methods of good handling practices on vessels.
Terms of reference for the consultants would be as follows:
Naval Architect
9.        The naval architect should have at least five years experience
in supervising design and construction of purse seiners and shrimp trawlers,
and knowledge of operational standards for fishing vessels. In the initial
period, the naval architect would participate in purse seiner and shrimp
trawler fishing operations in order to acquire a knowledge of the sea condi-
tions in the Gulf of Panama. He would also become familiar with landing
facilities now under construction at Punta Vacamonte. He would be assisted
by the Fisheries Project Committee (para 5). His principal duties would be
to assist the Project Unit in the following:
(a) preparation of detailed designs and specifications for purse
seiners and shrimp trawlers;
(b) preparation of pre-qualification documents, evaluation of
pre-qualification documents submitted, and recommendations
concerning qualified bidders;
(c) preparation of tender documents for international competi-
tive bidding procedures;
(d) assistance in bid evaluations;



ANNEX 5
Page 4
(e) supervision of workmanship, and equipment and materials
used in construction of purse seiners and shrimp trawlers;
(f) supervision of renovation of obsolete wooden shrimp trawlers;
(g) supervision of bi-annual major maintenance and inspection
of project vessels; and
(h) review and establishment standards for shrimp trawlers to
improve their seaworthiness and operational efficiency.
Fishing Operations Training Officer
10.       The training officer should have at least ten years experience as
captain of purse seiners and shrimp trawlers. He should have knowledge of
modern fishing gear and some previous experience as an instructor. He would
also have to be able to speak Spanish. He would assist the Project Unit in
the following:
(a) training of local skippers in fundamental coastal naviga-
tion by use of magnetic compass, echo sounder and radio
telephone;
(b) teaching of local skippers basic traffic regulation through
application of proper navigation and fishing lights;
(c) training of skippers, particularly for purse seiners, the
use of sonar to locate shread herring resources;
(d) familiarization of local skippers with safety regulations
by proper use of fire extinguisher, sand bag, water pump,
disaster signal and first aid kit, life jacket, bouy,
raft and boat;
(e) training of skippers in preventive maintenance of vessels; and
(f) establishment of a skippers' licensing system to be issued by
the port master after a short course in fundamental training
in coastal navigation, modern navigational equipment, safety
regulations, and preventive maintenance of vessels.
Food Proc   ing Engineer
11.       He should be a university graduate in engineering with training in
industrial engineering and at least five years experience in food processing.
The experience should include a knowledge of processing equipment; purchasing
specification procedures; process systems; design, electrical and refrigera-
tiOii systems; and analysis of materials handling systems. He should have a
working knowledge of Spanish. His principal duties would be the following:



ANNEX 5
Page 5
(a) to assist processors and the Port Authority in executing
all technical aspects of relocating the shrimp processing
plants;
(b) to advise shrimp processing companies on engineering
matters pertaining to equipment transfer and installa-
tion, plant processing flow patterns and processing
efficiencies;
(c) to coordinate the scheduling of plant construction, utility
installations and moving activities of the shrimp process-
ing plants to meet the requirements of the relocation time-
table;
(d) to advise on the coordination of the co-packing operations for
the shrimp processors in order to maintain the established
level of production and minimize added production costs during
each processor's moving operation;
(e) to prepare the tender documents for international competitive
bidding for the purchase of shrimp processing equipment; and
(f) to work with the Quality Control Consultant to assure the
established standards of quality are maintained during the
relocation phases (construction and moving) of the pro-
cessing plants.
Quality Control Specialist
12.       He should be a qualified food scientist with at least five years
experience in food processing quality control. The experience should include
establishment of standards for quality, a knowledge of food manufacturing
procedures, practical aspects of handling seafoods on vessels and current
methods of regulatory inspection and quality control. He should have a
working knowledge of Spanish. His responsibilities would be he following:
(a) to assist the Ministry of Health in the development of
standards of quality, good manufacturing practices in
plants and good handling practices on boats, and to assist
in the training of inspectors;
(b) to train plant management personnel, develop techniques and
interpret regulatory standards on all matters pertaining to
the control of quality and the establishment of good
manufacturing practices for shrimp processing;
(c) to train boat captains and their crew in methods of good
handling practices for the control of shrimp quality on
vessels; and



ANNEX 5
Page 6
(d) to coordinate activities of quality control with processing
plant relocation component of the project.
Fresh Water Fish Farming Specialist
13.       The specialist in fresh water fish farming should have graduate
training and a background in tropical fish farm engineering, particularly
for cyprinid fish, and at least five years practical experience. He
should be able to read, write, and speak Spanish. His principal duties
would be to assist the Direccion Nacional de Acuacultura of Ministry of
Agriculture which would be responsible for the fresh water fish farming
program.  The specialists would be responsible for:
(a) preparing information on water volume, temperature, soils
and other conditions necessary for fish culture;
(b) determining the suitable fish species and identifying poten-
tial areas for fishpond development;
(c) assisting in the construction of hatcheries and demonstration
ponds;
(d)  formulating good fish pond management practices for partici-
pants and preparing information on management of fish farming
(fertilizer application, stocking rates, maintenance, and
harvesting);
(e) training technical staff of the Direccion Nacional de
Acuacultura; and
(f) designing extension services necessary for project participants.
Oyster Farming Expert
14.       The oyster farming specialist should have at least five years ex-
perience in commercial production of tropical oyster. He should read, write
and speak Spanish. He would work directly with the Directorate of Marine
Resources which would be responsible for the implementation of the component.
His specific assignments under the project would be:
(a) to prepare a distribution map of oysters by density and by
season;
(b) to determine best season and site for spat collection and
calculate growth rates by season;
(c) to recommend suitable growing areas where experimental
stations could be constructed;



ANNEX 5
Page 7
(d) to prepare a distribution map of oyster spat by season
and identify environmental conditions such as salinity,
rainfall, and bottom conditions;
(e) to conduct research on predators and other hazards
threatening oysters;
(f) to formulate suitable oyster farming practices for project
participants;
(g) to design extension services for farmers; and
(h) to train junior biologists and other technical staff in
oyster culture methods.
January 12, 1977



PANAMA
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
Administrative and Technical Services
Investment Costs
(trs$ ' ooo)
-     -- - - -------------- - -Year--------------------
Item                            No.           1               2                3            4            Total
Project Administration
Project Director                 1          23,400          25,000          26,800        28,600        103,800
Evaluation - Economist           1          14,000          15,000          16,100        17,200         62,300
Fleet - Manager                  1          14,000          15,000          16,100        17,200         62,300
Operation and Administrative
Staff                         4          24,300          26,000          27,800       29,800          29,800
Sub-total                            87,700          93,800          100,500      107,500        389,500
Ministry of Health                             11,850          20,900           32,600       35,000        100,350
Ministry of Agriculture                         8,700          44,900           47,400       50,000        151,000
Directorate of Marine
Resources                                   19,300          19,300          19,300        19,300         77,200
Sub-total                            39,850           85,100          99,300      104,300        328,550
Consultant Services 1/
Naval Architect                  1          48,000          48,000           12,000         -           108,000
Fishing Operations Training                   -             48,000          24,000          _            72,000
Officer                      1          2400            48,000          2400-7,0
Food Processing Engineer         1          24,000          48,000                          -            72,000
Quality Control Expert           1            -             48,000          24,000          -            72,000
Fresh Water Fish Farming
Expert                       1          24,000          48,000            -            -             72,000
Oyster Farming Expert            1          24,000          24,000                   -                   48,000
Sub-total                          120,000         2646000           60-                        444,0
Sub-total                          247,550         442,900          259,800       211,800    1,162,050
Physical Contingency (10%)                     24,755          44,290           25,980        21,180       116,205
Total                              272,305         487,190          285,780       232,980    1,278,255
1/       Consultant Services                  Unit             Unit Cost            Total Units
Naval Architect                      man-month     -    -48,000-    2- 
Fishing Operations Training
Officer                                "                48,000                 18
Food Processing Engineer                  "                48,000                 18
Quality Control Expert                                     48,000                 18
Fresh Water Fish Farming Expert                            48,000                 18
Oyster Farming Expert                                      48,000                 12
b   1
October 5, 1976



PANAMA
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
PROJECT UNIT ORGANIZATION
EXECUTIVE
MANAGER
FOR
DEVELOPMENT
FISHERIES                               PROJECT
PROJECT          mm                        DIRECTOR
COMMITTEE
r                             mm
r-------|------l  ---- -----------
LEGAL     l                                                                      AND
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I
COMMITTEE                                                MNTRN
I 
TECHNICAL                                                                    [ADMINISTRATIVE
,DEPARTMENT                                                                     DPRMN
P3X z
" ><
rt X
World Bank- 16571    t_ u



PANAMA
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
Project Costs
(US$)
Foreign
--Project Years ------------------   Component                              Foreign
Reference         1          2          3           4           (%)          Local      Exchange       Total
1. Fishing Vessels
5 Shrimp Trawlers - New                              -          -         500          -          65             175          325          500
5 Sets of Gear for Shrimp
Trawlers                                         -         -           30          -         80                6           24           30
10 Shrimp Trawlers - Renovated                        -          -         500          -          65             175          325          500
10 Purse Seiners                                      -       4,000         -           -          65           1,400        2,600        4.000
10 Sets of Gear for Purse
Seiners                                          -         350         -           -          80              70          280          350
Sub-total                                  -        4,350      1.030          -         66           1,826        3.554         5.380
2. Processing Plants - Relocation
New Equipment                                        -          647       403          -         100             -          1,050         1,050
New Plant Construction                              280         655       261          -          40             718          478         1,196
Moving and Installation                              -          313       102          -          23             318           97           415
Sub-total                                 280       1,615        766          -         61           1.036        1,625         2.661
3. Fresh Water Fish and Oyster Farming
Fresh Water Fish Farms                              270           3          8         11         39             179          113           292
Oyster Farms                                         57          -         -           -          39              35           22            57
Sub-total                                 327           3          8          11        39              214          135          349
4. Administrative and Technical Services                   247         443        260         212        32              786         376         1.1,62
Total Base Cost                           854       6,411      2.064         223        60           3.859        5.693         9.552
5. ContinRencies
Physical                                             86        641        206          22         60             386          569           955
Price                                                91      1,290        602          69         60             814        1.238         2.052
Sub-total                                177       1,931        808          91        60           1.200        1.807         3.007
Total Project Costs                    1,031       8,342    _2,87           314        59           5.059                     12.55
October 16, 1976



SICOND FISUMIES PSOJIICT
AIfEX 6
Project Costs:  Contineencie                                        Table 2
(USO)
Factors Applied to Costs
for CIIIulating Contingencies                                                             Poreign
-Prol4ct  er----------           ---------------Project Yar-----------                Co_net                        Foreign
1        2       3        4           1           2            3           _ 3                          Local        Exchange        Total
Physical Contingencies
1. Fishing Vessels
5 Shrimp Trawlers - New                10       10       10       10          -            -          50.0          -              65             17.5         32.5          50.0
5 Sets of Gear for Shrimp
Trawlers                           10      10        10       10          -           -            3.0         -               80              0.6         2.4            3.0
10 Wooden Shrimp Trawlers -
Renovated                        10       10       10       10           -           -           50.0         -               65             17.5        32.5           50.0
10 Purse Seinera                        10       10       10       10          -           400.0         -           -               65           140.0        260.0         400.0
10 Sets of Ge-r for Purse
Seiners                          10       10       10       10           -           35.0          -          -               8O              7.0        28.0           35.0
Sub-total                                                          -          4 0         103.0         -               66            12.6         353.4         535.0
2. Processing Plants - Relocstion
New Equipent                           10       10       10       10          -            64.7       40.3          -              100             -          105.0         105.0
New Plant Construction                 10       10       10       10         28.0         65.5        26.1          -              40             71.8         47.8         119.6
Moving and Installation                10       10       10       10           -           31.3       10.2          -               23            31.8          9.7           41.5
Sob-total                                                         28.0         161.5       76.6         -               61            103.6       162.5          266.1
3. Fresh Water Fish and oyster FarminR
Fresh Water Fish Farms                 10       10       10       10         27.0           0.3        0.8         1.1              39            17.9         11.3           29.2
Oyster Farms                           10       10       10       10          5.7           -           -           -               39             3.5          2.2            5.7
Sub-total                                                         32.7          0.3         0.8        1.1              39             21.4         13.5          34.9
4. Administrative and Technical
Services                                  10       10       10       10          24.7         44.3        26.0       21.2              32             78.6        37.6          116.2
Total PhYsical Contingencies                                                     85.4        641.1      206.4        22.3              60            386.2       569.0          955.2
L    F     L    F     L    F     L    F
Price Contingencies
1. Fishing Vessels
5 Shrimp Tr-alers - New         12   12   12   12   10   10   10   10    -                  -        205.0        -                 70            61.6        143.4         205.0
5 Sets of Gear for Shrimp
Trawlers                      8    8    8    8    8    7    8    7    -                  _          6.9        _                80              1.4          5.5           6.9
10 Wooden Shrimp Trawlers -
Renovated                     8    8    8    8    8    7    8    7    -                           115.4        -                65             40.4        75.0          115.4
10 Purse Seiners                 12   12   12   12   10   10   10   10    -               902.0         -          _                69            292.6        609.4         902.0
10 Sets of Gear for Purse
Seiners                       8    8    8    8    8    7    8    7    -                46.2         -          -                80              9.2        37.0           46.2
Slb-total                                                          -          948.2       327.3                          68           405.2       870.3        1,275.5
2. Processing Plants - Relocation
lNw Equipment                    8    8    8    8    8    7    8   7          -            85.4       93.1         -              100              -          178.5         178.5
New Plant Construction          12   12   12   12   10   10   10  10    58.5              137.0       91.9        -                40            172.6        114.8         287.4
Moving and Installations        12   12   12   12   10   tO   10  10          -            65.4       35.9         -               23             78.0         23.3         101.3
Sub-total                                                         58.5        287.8       220.9        -                56            250.6       316.6          567.2
3. Fresh Water Fish and Oyster
Farming
Fresh Water Fish Farms          12   12   12   12   10   10   10  10    18.9                0.6        2.8        5.5               32            18.9          8.9           27.8
Oyster Farms                    12   12   12   12   10   10   10  10          3.8           -          -           -                39             2.3          1.5            3.8
Sob- total                                                        22.7           0.6        2.8        5.5              33             21.2         10.4          31.6
4. Administrative and Technical
Services                          7    7    7    7    7    7    7   7           9.5         53.6       51.5        63.0              23           136.7         40.9          177.6
Total Price Contingencies                                                        90.7      1,290.2      602.5        68.5              60            813.7     1,238.2        2,1051.9
Totsl Contingencies                                                             176.1      1,931.3       808.9       90.8              60          1.199.9    1,807.2         3,007.1
L = Local
F . Foreign
October 16, 1976



PANiAMA
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
AGENCY RESPONSISILITY
MAIN  AIWONSIEU             1Sfl~~~~~~~~~~1B1I                    1,7./1gm~~ood                                                                      AMEX S  uOlU
ACTIVITIE                AGENICY                            lotI     IV                                                                                                                    IV.2..........EuF____________
513   MTR UCTION                                                         -t
SVESSELS                                                            NE -         W
CONSTRUCTIOYN                                                         NN,,
TRAL Tt RGCOVTIO
60 VESSELS
RENOVATION  SNY                                    --~~~~~~-1--J-AN--
FRESH      HATCHPERY
WATER     VENIEA
FISH       CONST RUCTION 
FARMING    of 
CgONSRUIN F.r.o.--                                                                                                                      -      - 
PONDS1
PONDSLBRTR
FMIG  CONSTRUCTION            M
OF OFFIC
INSALLRMENTALI                                                                          
OfSPATIO                                      I-                                                                                                           _
COLLEVCT,ORS
OFy OYTERR
FARLIN    ERNSTD.           DE
EPLAI.NTAL1                                                                                                                !
SCTO NOISAT.N
CONSTRUCTION-
PLANT 
MOVING           I
PLA AT       2
CO NST V LTION
%A-TT
TS TP         CrS                                       [-                                                          __ _ __ __ ___N_ __ __ _ ___N_
F       LANTS5
ON1ST, ILTON
CO.STHIITGO
FRS V.AL F
O  T FIN N
F.ARMING             RP
F/PEET
,TDPRCESS              P
COA11 L I TTy
CONTROLMO
-    IC-YITMENT
FSOJECTRN
.Z   IMPLEMENTATION
VAGREEMENITS
*     ITI UIIDA
SI II   tFlY   AS,DT AAII~  INfCI,I~Al YIVVI-YVA



ANNEX 8
PANAMA
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements-
(US$'000)
IBRD Fiscal Year                  Cumulative Disbursement                  Balance
and Quarter                    at End of Quarter                        of Loan
1977/78
December 31, 1977                            50                             7,450
March 31, 1978                              100                             7,400
June 30, 1978                               150                             7,350
1978/79
September 30, 1978                          435                             7,065
December 31, 1978                           865                             6,635
March 31, 1979                            2,015                             5,485
June 30, 1979                             3,820                             3,680
1979/80
September 30, 1979                        5,647                             1,853
December 31, 1979                         6,706                               794
March 31, 1980                            7,270                               230
June 30, 1980                             7,325                               175
1980/81
September 30, 1980                        7,379                               121
December 31, 1980                         7,500
1/ Assumes loan effectiveness by September 30, 1977.
February 28, 1977



ANNEX 9
Page 1
PANAMA
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
Economic Analysis
1.        The net economic benefits resulting from the proposed project were
calculated by comparing the benefits that would accrue from its various com-
ponents with the benefits that would result from likely alternative fisheries
activities without the project. For purposes of analysis the economic life
of the project is 16 years. Costs during the investment period (1977-81) are
those shown in Annex 6. Price contingencies are excluded from the economic
analysis. Calculations based on constant prices and costs are summarized in
Table 1. The overall economic rate of return for the project is 15% excluding
the processing plant relocation which is justified in the Fishing Port Project
(Loan 1114-PAN). The economic rate of return for the new shrimp trawlers
component is 30.8%, the cost of which is US$0.8 million; 20.6% for the rehabil-
itated shrimp trawlers component, the cost of which is US$0.7 million; 19% for
the purse seiners component, the cost of which is US$5.4 million; 12.9% for
the fresh water fish farming component, the cost of which is US$0.3 million;
and 17.6% for the oyster farming component, the cost of which is US$0.1 million.
Major assumptions underlying the analyses are outlined below for each project
component.
2.        New Shrimp Trawlers (5 units).  Following the discussions of para-
graphs 2.14 and 2.15 vessels introduced under the project are assumed to
replace obsolete vessels in the existing shrimp fleet and maintain shrimp
yields at their maximum sustainable level. On these all net benefits arising
from operations of these vessels are imputed to the project. Economic earn-
ings have been based upon the assumptions used in Annex 1 (Tables 3, 4 and 5)
for the financial forecasts; however, taxes have been deducted from operating
expenses.  The assumptions include, inter-alia, that the catch for each
vessel will range over its economic life between 37,700 and 50,600 lbs per
annum, depending on fishing intensity. About 40% of the costs of the Naval
Architect and 33% of the costs of the Fisheries Operations Training Officer
provided under the project have been allocated to this component, reflecting
expected allocations of the consultants' time. Output has been valued at
US$2.05/lb ex-vessel which is a conservative estimate of the economic value of
output over the life of the project (paras 6.06 and 6.07).
3.        Rehabilitated Shrimp Trawlers (10 units).  For this component, it
was assumed that without rehabilitation participating vessels could continue
operations for at least eight more years; however, it was assumed that their
operating efficiency would decline as machinery and equipment became less
efficient with age and that annual catch would diminish as more and more
fishing time was lost due to increasing needs for repair and maintenance.
Economic earnings have been based upon the assumptions used in Annex 1 (Tables
6, 7 and 8) for the forecasts of incremental financial results; however, taxes
have been deducted from operating expenses. The assumptions include, inter-alia,



ANNEX 9
Page 2
that the incremental catch generated by each vessel will range over its
economic life between 7,300 - 8,700 lbs per annum depending on fishing
intensity. About 20% of the cost of Naval Architect and 33% of the costs
of the Fisheries Operations Training Officer have been allocated to this
component. As above, incremental output has been valued at US$2.05/lb.
The assumptions include, inter-alia, that the incremental catch generated
by each vessel will range over its economic life between 7,300 - 8,700 lbs
per annum depending on fishing intensity.
4.        Purse Seiners (10 units).  It was assumed that vessels provided
bh this component would either replace obsolete seiners within the existing
floot or serve to increase fleet size. On this account, all net benefits
ar-sing from operations of these vessels are imputed to the project. Eco-
nomic earnings have been based upon the assumptions used in Annex 1 (Tables
10, 11, and 12) for the financial forecasts; however, taxes have been deducted
from operating expenses. The assumptions include, inter-alia, that the catch
for each vessel over its economic life will range between 5,320 and 6,600
short tons, depending on fishing intensity. Also, 40% of the costs of the
Naval Architect and 33% of the costs of the Fisheries Operations Training
Officer have been allocated to this component. Output has been valued at
US$33 per metric tons, which is a conservative estimate of the economic value
of output over the life of the project (paras. 6.06 and 6.07).
5.        Fresh Water Fish and Oyster Farming.  Net benefits arising from
these non-traditional activities are imputed entirely to the project. Inso-
far as participation under the fish and oyster farming schemes is concerned,
it is estimated that within the 16-year project life, 675 fishponds (involv-
ing up to 1,000 families) and 200 oyster farms will begin production.
6.        Costs are based upon those outlined in Annex 4; however, inputs of
unskilled labor have been valued at 80% of the agricultural wage to reflect
estimated opportunity costs. Output from fish farms is valued at US$0.8/kg,
which, is based upon observations of existing market prices. For oyster, it
is assumed that a portion of output will substitute for shrimp in the domestic
market, thereby permitting a commensurate increase in shrimp exports. For
purposes of analysis, 50% of oyster output is valued at the export price for
shrimp (US$4.51/kg or US$2.05/lb), while the balance is valued at US$1.50/kg,
which is its estimated "farmgate" price. The costs of technical consultants
associated with oyster and fish farming are allocated to the respective
project component.
7.        Incremental Administrative Expenses have been budgeted as shown in
Annex 5 within years 1-4, and adjusted downward for subsequent years.
8.        Risk Analysis and Sensitivity Testing.  Over the life of the
project, the events considered most likely to affect project results would
be (a) a 10% decrease in the catch of industrial fish due to cyclical biolo-
gical and climatic reasons; (b) a 10% increase in operating costs associated
with production; (c) a 10% increase in capital costs associated with produc-
tion; and (d) a 20% effective decline in the exchange rate of the balboa
relative to the US dollar. The results of these events can be summarized as
follows:



ANNEX 9
Page 3
10% Decrease  10% Increase  10% Increase  20% Decrease
in Catch of        in             in             in
Parameters    Industrial       Operating       Capital        Exchange
(Estimated)       Fish           Costs          Costs           Rate
Project economic
rate of return        15             11               12             13              21
Rate of Return
of purse seiner
component alone        19            13               --             --
January 12, 1977



PANAMA
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
Economic Results of Project
(US '000)
Project Year                                             1           2             3           4            5             6             7            8             9           10            11            12            13           14            15            16
Ne. SO' Shrimp Trawlers (5 units)
Economic Benefit from Catch                        (1)                        -          311.2       508.8        499.5         489.6        480.3         470.4        461.1         451.2         441.9         432.0        422.7         412.9         403.5         393.7
ECOnOmic Operating CostS                           (2)           -            _          181.9       301.1         299.2        297.3        295.6         295.1         293.5        291.7         290.2         288.6         287.1        285.7         284.3         283.0
Net Benefits from Operations  (1)-(2)              (3)           -            -          129.3       207.7         200.3        192.3         184.7        175.3         167.6         159.5        151.7         143.4         135.6        127.2         119.2         110.7
Investment Costs and Residual Value
Vessels and Equipment 1/                          (4)           -            -        (616.7)         -             -            -                          -113.7
Technical Services 2/                             (5)         (21,1)      (38.5)        (14.1)                      -          _ _             _    _                     _           _               -           -              _             _ 
Net Econonic Benefits (3)+(4)+(5)                  (6)         (21.1)      (38.5)       (501.5)      207.7         200.3        192.3         I84.7        175.3         167.6         159.5        151.7         143.4         135.6        127.2         119.2         224.4
Rate of Return = 30.8%
Rehabilitated Shrimp Trawlers (10 units)
Incremental Economic Benefits                      (7)           -           -           178.2       174.5         169.7        166.0        161.3         157.5         152.8        149.0
Incremental Economic Operating Costs               (8)           -            -           40.0        37.7          34.9         32.6          29.8         27.4          24.5          22.1
Incremental Benefits from Operations               (9)           -            -         138.2        136.8         134.8        133.4         131.5        130.1         128.3         126.9
(7)-(B)
Investment Costs and Residual Value                              -            -         (550.0)        -             -             -            -             -            -
Rehabilitation of Vessels                        (10)           -           -
Technical Services 2/                             (11)        (10.6)      (27.9)        (11.4)        -             -            -             -             -            -             -             -            -             -             -             -            -
Net Economic Benefits (9)+(10)+(11)                (12)        (10.6)      (27.9)       (423.2)      136.8         134.8        133.4         131.5        130.1         128.3         126.9
Rate of Return = 20.6%
Purse Sainers (10 units)
Economic Benefits from Catch                       (13)           _      1,089.0      2,147.6    2,116.9        2,086.6       2,055.9      2,027.9       1,997.2       1,966.8      1,936.1    1905.8          1,875.4       1,844.7       1,814.3      1,783.7       1,755.6
Economic Operating Costs                           (14)           -        570.5      1,138.4    1 1359         1,133.7       1IL16       1,130.4       1128.7       1,127.2      1L126.0       1,125.0       1L124.2       1 123,6      1.2.3    1.123.2            1.124.
Net Benefits from Operations (13)-(14)             (15)           _        518.5      1,009.2        981.0         952.9        924.3         897.5         868.5        839.6         810.1         780.8         751.2        721.1         691.0         660.5        631.6
Investment Costs and Reaidsal Val..
Vessels and Equipment                             (16)                    (4,785)         -           -             -             -            -             -             -            -             -             -             -            -             -          440.0
Technical Services 2/                             (17)        (21.1)      (38.5)        (14.1)                                                                             -            -             -
Net Ecosomic Benefits (15)+(16)+(17)               (18)        (2i.1)    (4,305)         995.1       981.0         952.9         924.3        897.5         868.5        839.6         810.1         780.8         751.2        721.1         691.0         660.5      1,071.6
Rate of Returs = 19.0%
1/  Includes   US$33,700 for initial working capital and deposits for insurance premia.                                                                                                                                                                                  a
2/  Naval architect and fishing operations training officer.
October 29, 1976



PANAMA
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
Economic Results of Project (Continued)
(US$'000)
Project Year                                  1           2            3           4            5            6            7            8            9           10           11           12           13           14           15          16
Fresh Water Fish Farming
Economic Benefits from Output                    (19)          -          10.9        10.9        47.7         98.9        135.7        172.5        209.3        246.1        282.9        282.9        282.9        282.9        282.9        282.9       282.9
Economic Operating Costs                         (20)         9.6        49.4         52.1        60.0         67.3         74.1         80.8         87.5         94.2        101.0        101.0        101.0        101.0        101.0        101.0       101.0
Net Benefits from Operations (19)-(20)           (21)        (9.6)       (38.5)       (41.2)     (12.3)        31.6         61.6         91.7        121.8        151.9        181.9        181.9        181.9        181.9        181.9        181.9       181.9
Investment Costs and Residual Value
Hatcheries                                      (22)     (282.7)         (3.3)         -                                  (17.6)         -            -            -            -          (61.6)         -            -            -            -         112.1
Demonstration Ponds                             (23)      (14.3)           -           -          -             -           -            -            -                         -            -            -            _            _                        7,1
Farmers' Ponds                                  (24)          -            -        (13.7)      (19.1)       (12.6)       (12.6)       (12.6)       (12.6)       (12.6)         -            --                                                             63.0
Technical Services 1/                           (25)      (26.4)       (52.8)          -          _             _           -            -            -            _            _            _            _            _            -            -           -
Net Economic Benefits (21)+(22)+(23)             (26)     (333.0)       (94.6)       (54.9)      (31.4)        19.0         31.4         79.1        109.2        139.3        181.9        120.3        181.9        181.9        181.9        181.9       364.1
+(24)+(25)
Rate of Return =  12.9%
Oyster Farming
Economic Benefit fron Output                     (27)          -            -         12.6        25.5         51.0         76.5        102.0        102.0        102.0        102.0        102.0        102.0        102.0        I02.0        102.0       102.0
Economic Operating Costs                         (28)       21.2         21.2         23.2        25.2         29.2         33.2         37.2         37.2         37.2         37.2         37.2         37.2         37.2         37.2         37.2        37.2
Net Benefits from  Operations (27)-(28)          (29)       (21.2)       (21.2)      (10.4)        0.3         21.8         43.3         64.8         64.8         64.8         64.8         64.8         64.8         64.8         64.8         64.8        64.8
Investment Costs and Residual Value
Experimental Station                            (30)      (62.7)           -          _           -            _           (9.4)         -            -            -            -           (9.4)         -            -            -             _         22.0
Technical Services 2/                           (31)      (26.4)       (26.4)                                                            -            -                                -            -            -                   -           -
Net Economic Benefits (29)+(30)+(31)             (32)     (110.3)       (47.6)       (10.4)        0.3         21.8         33.9         64.8         64.8         64.8         64.8         55.4         64.8         64.8         64.8          64.8       86.8
Rate of Return = 17.6%
Administrative Expenses                          (33)     (140,3)      (196.8)      (219.7)    (233.0)       (116.5)      (116.5)      (116.5)      (116.5)      (116.5)      (116.5)      (116.5)      (116.5)      (116.5)      (116.5)      (116.5)    (116.5)
Combined Net Economic Benefits for
Entire Project 3/                               (34)     (636.4)   (4.710.4)       (214.6)  1.061.4       1,212.3      1,198.8      1,241.0      1,231.4       1,223.1    1,226.7          991.7     1,024.8         986.9        948.4        909.9   I.,630.4
(6)+(12)+(18)+(26)+(32)+(33)
Rate of Ret-rs =  14.9 T
a/  Fresh water fish   farming expert.                                                                                                                                                                                                                      m
2/  Dyster  farming  expert.
E/ Escioding costs and benefits associated with relocation of processing plants.
3ctober 29, 1976



PANAMA
SECOND FISHERIES PROJECT
Estimated Proiect Cash Flow
(US$'00OO
Project Year /                                1         2         3         4         5         6         7         8         9         10        11        12         13         14         15
RECEIPIS
1.  IRD Loan                                                     435      5,212    1,732         121      -         -         -       -           -         -
2.  BNP Funds
a)  for On-lending                                          71      1,540       523        37       -         -         -      -            -         -         -         -          -          -          _
b)  for Technical and Administrative Services              119         163      141       149       -         -         -       -                                                               _          _
3.  Sub-borrowers' Contribution                                    74      1,122       407        24      -         -         -       -
4.  Government Funds                                              172        199       151       167                 -   -        -         -          -          -         -               -          -          -
5. Sub-loan Repayments
a)  New Shrimp Trawlers                                     -         -          38        76        76        76        76        76        76        76        76        45
b)  Rehabilitated Shrimp Trawlers                                      -         41        82        82        82        82        82        82        46       -         -
c)  Purse Seiners                                           -         -         414       552       552       552       552       552       552       552       561       147
d)  Relocation of Processing Plants                         -         199       398       398       398       398       398       398       206       -         -         -
6.  Interest on Sub-loans
a)  New Shrimp Trawlers                                     -            8       66        73        64        56        46        38        28        19        10          1
b)  Rehabilitated Shrimp Trawlers                           -            7       58        60        50        40        30        20        10         1       -         -          -          _           _
c)  Purse Seiners                                           -         187       536       51i       448       383       316       251       184       119        51         4
d)  Relocation of Processing Plants                           9       130       263       240       192       I"         96        48         6       -         -         _          -          _           _
Total                                             880       8,767    4,768    2,490   1J862    1z731    1,596i    l465    1,144I             813       698       J07         -          -          _
DISBURSEMENTS
7. New Shrimp Trawlers
a)  Sub-loans  1/                                           -         277       380        34                     -          -         -        -                    -          -
b)  Sub-borrowers' contributions                             -         41        56          6      -         -         -       -
8. Rehabilitated Shrimp Trawlers
a)  Sub-loans  2/                                           -         232       347       -         -         -         -
b)  Sub-borrowers' contributions                            -           34       52       -         -         -         -
9.  Purse Seiners
a)  Sub-loans  1/-                                                  4,238       623       125       -         -         -
b)  Sub-borrowers' contributions                            -         635        94        19       -         -         -
10. Relocation of Processing Plants
a)  Sub-loans  2/                                          297      1,664       832       -         -
b)  Sub-borrowers' contributions                            74        418       209       -         -
11. Contribution to:
a)  Fresh Water Fish Farming                               207        112        12        18       -
b)  Oyster Farming                                          11         44         12      -         -
c)  Technical e_ Aaiinistrative Services                   282        541       337       296       -
12. Debt Service IBRD Loan 3/
a)  Commitment Fee                                          41          37         5       -        -
b)  Interest Payments                                        13        215       586       628      582       527       472       416       361        306       250       195        140         84         29
c)  Principal Repayment                                      -         -        _         325       650       650       650       650       650        650       650       650        650        650        675
Total                                               925      8.488    3.545    1.451    1.232    1.1V7    1 122    1066    1o011               956       900       845        790         734        704
Annual Cash Balance                                                 (45)      279    1,223    1,039         630       554       474       399       133       (143)    (202)      (648)      (790)      (734)      (704)
4/
Cumulative Cash Balance                                            (45)       234    1,457    2,496    3,126    3,680    4,154    4,555    4,666    4,543    4,341    3,693                 2,903      2,169      1,465
1/  Terms:  10 years (including 1 year grace) @ 11.5% plus 0.5% technical service fee, interest and principal payable semi-annually.
2/  Terms;   8 years (including 1 year grace) @ 11.5% plus 0.5% technical service fee, interest and principal payable semi-annually.
3/  Terms:  15 years (including 3-1/2 years' grace) ( 8.5% per annum, interest and principal payable semi-annually and a Comitment Fee of 0.75%  per annum payable semi-annually on the undSeb.rsed bal.es.
4/ Deficit to be met by BNP.
5/ Project Year 1 assumed to start at loan effectiveness (Septeber 30, 1977).
February 24, 1977






BRD-12 456
#1  BB~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~OCTOBER 1976
9 5                                                      E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AV.- OR HAkl--EATHH  RPARSI 
*   AlR oELDS BtIPARLRAIom R RS                                                                9~SPpoI   OO        LNH
UFC  ~ ~ ~ ~  ~        ~             IMARRRATIBRALAIBPRHTE                                                         /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L  Pft    I/OONILS  E*
POSTS A~~~~~~~~~ WEATWR AGAW~HE  E                                             Cpion
C...~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
IN                                 LO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
ce". P. t.N   IjH                                                         \               IEP                     ~I2Z  AHHAY~",
HAITI  REP  'N  CRIOA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'  1                                     C  TINENRBINN'~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~D                                     ,'RNI     
C,H I RI 0 U I               O                                                                                    P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ EAA&BIESLIP SHR.ASS 
T.16~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
1                                                     OH~~~~~~~~~~~~~i.d  0    fl                                                      SPAMNTERN         At



