CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1398 PAN
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Second Fisheries Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANCO NACIONAL DE PANAMA
Dated April 28, 1977


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 28, 1977, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and BANCO NACIONAL DE PANAMA (hereinafter called the Borrower).


﻿- 2 -
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Unit" means the project unit referred to in
Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement;
(b) "Project Account" means the project account referred to
in Section 3.03 (c) of this Agreement;
(c) "sub-loan" means a loan made by the Borrower to an
eligible applicant in accordance with the lending policies and
procedures set out in Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(d) "sub-borrower" means an eligible applicant to whom a
sub-loan is made;


﻿-3-
(e) "shrimp trawler" and "purse seiner" mean a shrimp trawler
and purse seiner included in the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement; and
(f) "First Fisheries Project Loan Agreement" means the Loan
Agreement (Fisheries Project) dated August 2, 1971 between the
Bank and the Borrower.


﻿ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or re-
ferred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to seven
million five hundred thousand dollars ($7,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1981
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.


﻿Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and one-half per cent (8.50%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿- 6 -
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Parts A, B and
D of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial and engineering practices,
and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall cooperate with the Guarantor in the
carrying out of Part C of the Project and shall make available to
the Guarantor, the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from time to
time from the Loan Account for expenditures for Part C of the
Project.
(c) The Borrower shall make contractual arrangements with
the Guarantor, satisfactory to the Bank, providing, inter alia,
for the transfer to the Guarantor of the proceeds of the Loan for
the purpose of carrying out Part C of the Project and for the
repayment of such proceeds, and except as the Bank shall other-
wise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, assign, abrogate or
waive any provision of such arrangements.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out the Project, the Borrower shall employ qualified and experi-
enced consultants and experts (including those referred to in Part
D of the Project) whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿(b) The Borrower shall employ the consultants and experts
referred to in Part D of the Project no later than the respective
dates specified in relation to them under this Section or within
such other period as the Borrower and the Bank may determine,
namely, (i) naval architect: by November 1, 1977; (ii) fresh water
fish farming expert, oyster farming specialist and food processing
engineer: by February 1, 1978; and (iii) fishing operations train-
ing officer and quality control expert: by August 1, 1978.
Section 3.03. For the purpose of carrying out Parts A, B and
D of the Project, and unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall:
(a) continue to operate the Project Unit which it had set
up under the First Fisheries Project Loan Agreement, as such Project
Unit shall be strengthened and modified in accordance with Part II
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(b) provide the Project Unit, promptly as needed, with such
qualified and experienced supporting staff, facilities and other
resources as shall be required for the efficient operation thereof;
(c) set up and maintain, upon terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank, a Project Account to be operated and managed by the
Project Unit, to which all amounts as shall have been withdrawn
from the Loan Account from time to time by the Borrower on account
of expenditures for the Project, as well as other monies to be
used for such expenditures, shall be credited;


﻿-8-
(d) make sub-loans to sub-borrowers in accordance with Part
I of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(e) exercise its rights under the sub-loan agreements in such
a manner as to protect its interests and those of the Bank, and
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, refrain from assigning,
amending, abrogating or waiving any of the sub-loan agreements or
any provision thereof; and
(f) obtain and pay on behalf of the sub-borrowers all-risk
marine insurance for each of the vessels included in the Project
and to be financed by a sub-loan, such insurance to be payable to
the Borrower as first beneficiary.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall continue to employ a
Project Director to be in charge of the Project Unit. The quali-
fications and experience and terms and conditions of employment
(including terms of reference) of the Project Director shall be
satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The Project Director shall at all times be employed
on a full-time basis and a provision to that effect shall be in-
corporated in his terms and conditions of employment.
Section 3.05. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its obligations under Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement, the
Borrower shall out of its own resources, provide the Project Ac-
count from time to time with all the amounts required to make its
own financing for Parts A, B and D of the Project equal in the
aggregate to not less than two million seven hundred forty-three
thousand dollars ($2,743,000).


﻿- 9 -
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall continue to operate the
Fisheries Project Committee established under the First Fisheries
Project Loan Agreement. The members of the said Committee shall
consist of representatives of (A) the Borrower, (B) the Guarantor's
Directorate of Marine Resources, (C) the Fishermen's Association
and (D) independent fishermen. The Committee, with the assistance
of the naval architect referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agree-
ment, shall be responsible for advising the Project Unit on matters
relating to boat specifications and evaluation of bids for con-
struction or rehabilitation of vessels under the Project.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall no later than November 1,
1977 or within such other period as the Bank and the Borrower may
determine, set up within the Project Unit a Project Evaluation
and Monitoring Section. The said Section shall: (i) conduct a
continuing study of project activities and evaluate project per-
formance; (ii) monitor sub-loans made under the Project and eval-
uate periodically the economic impact of the credit program under
which the sub-loans are made; (iii) assess the training program
for skippers; (iv) collect and study results and trends of each
project component, fishing fleet capacity and resources and of
the fisheries industries.
(b) The Borrower shall, through the Project Unit, furnish
the Bank, not later than two months after the end of each quarter,
with reports showing progress and operating results of the Project.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall, through the Project Unit,
enter into operational agreements satisfactory to the Bank with


﻿- 10 -
(i) the Guarantor's Ministry of Agricultural Development with
respect to the fresh water fish farming program included in the
Project (ii) the Guarantor's Directorate of Marine Resources with
respect to the development of oyster fishing under the Project and
(iii) the Guarantor's Ministry of Health with respect to the quality
control program included in the Project.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to re-
place or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.10. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or addi-
tions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
reflect the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project;


﻿- 11 -
(ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities, construction sites and shipyards included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall
furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed out of
such proceeds.
(c) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives
to examine all plants, installations, sites, shipyards works,
buildings, property and equipment of the Borrower and any relevant
records and documents.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall at all times conduct its
business and carry on its operations in respect of the Project
in accordance with sound administrative, financial and engineering
practices under competent management assisted by qualified and
experienced staff.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon
as available, but in any case not later than four months after the
end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial state-
ments for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such
other information concerning the accounts and financial statements
of the Borrower and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time
to time reasonably request.
Section 5.03. Without limitation or restriction upon any
of its obligations under Sections 5.01 and 5.02 of this Agreement,
the Borrower shall: (i) establish and maintain detailed accounting
procedures for the Project Account; (ii) have the Project Account
audited annually in the manner provided in Section 5.02 of this


﻿Agreement; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such documentation and
information with regard to the Project Account as is described in
Section 5.02 of this Agreement.
Section 5.04. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on
any of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally
and ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest
and other charges on, the Loan, and,in the creation of any such
lien express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost
to the Bank; and (ii) if any lien shall be created on any assets
of the Borrower, other than under (i) above, as security for any
debt, the Borrower shall grant to the Bank, at no cost to the
Bank, an equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank; provided,
however, that the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall
not apply to: (A) any lien created on property, at the time of
purchase thereof, solely as security for the payment of the pur-
chase price of such property; or (B) any lien arising in the
ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a debt
maturing not more than one year after the date on which it is
originally incurred.


﻿- 15 -
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof: Law No. 11 of February 7, 1956, Law No.
14 of March 20, 1975, Law No. 58 of November 23, 1976 or Decree
No. 13 of March 1, 1977 of the Guarantor shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as to
materially and adversely affect the ability of the Borrower to carry
out the covenants, agreements and obligations set forth in this
Agreement.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that any event specified in
Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 16 -
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) provision for the full-time employment of the Project
Director as required under Section 3.04 of this Agreement;
(b') the enactment of legislation satisfactory to the Bank
to regulate the size of purse seiners and to limit the number of
licences for operating purse seiners issued to any one licensee;
and
() the exemption of goods (including vessels) required
for the Project from any and all regulations prohibiting their
importation into Panama or restricting their period of operation
in Panama.
Section 7.02. The date July 29, 1977, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 17 -
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INTBAFRAD                     140098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
6145   (wUI)
For the Borrower:
Banco Nacional de Panamfi
Calle 33y Avenida Cuba
Panama 5, Panama
Cable address:                Telex:
BANCONAL                      2136 BANCONAL
Panama


﻿- 18 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Adalbert Krieger
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
BANCO NACIONAL DE PANAMA
By /s/ Ricardo de la Espriella
Authorized Representative


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of ex-
penditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) (a) Sub-loans for         3,554,000          76% of amounts
construction and                        disbursed
rehabilitation
of equipment for
fishing vessels
(b) Sub-loans for         1,626,000
relocation of
processing
plants
(2) Fresh water fish            137,000          39%
and oyster farming
programs
(3) Technical assis-             376,000         100% of foreign
tance                                       expenditures
(4) Unallocated               1,807,000
TOTAL      7,500,000


﻿- 20 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Guarantor and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loen
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase
or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy
of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made (a) in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; or (b) in respect
of expenditures under Category (1) (b) or (2) until the Project
Unit has entered into the operational agreement referred to in
Section 3.08 of this Agreement with respect to: (i) Category (1)
(b) with the Guarantor's Ministry of Health and (ii) Category (2)
with the Guarantor's Ministry of Agriculture and the Directorate
of Marine Resources.


﻿- 21 -
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such
Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall,
proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to another Category
and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other
expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then appli-
cable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under
such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or lim-
iting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the
Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to provide further assistance to the
Guarantor's fisheries industry including support for small inde-
pendent fishing boat operators and small rishing enterprises. The
Project consists of the following:
A.   (1) Design and construction of five modern steel shrimp
trawlers each powered by 220-hp diesel engines and
having an overall length of about 50 feet.
(2) Design and construction of ten new fish steel purse
seiners, each equipped with a fish-hold capacity of
100 short tons and powered by 260-hp diesel engines.
(3) Rehabilitation of ten obsolete wooden shrimp trawlers
to improve their seaworthiness and operational
efficiency.
(4) Provision of loans to eligible applicants for purposes
of (1) to (3) above.
B.   (1) Relocation of shrimp processing plants to the new
fishing port at Punta Vacamonte, including construction
of new plant facilities, installation of utilities and
support equipment, purchase and installation of new re-
placement equipment, and direct costs of moving existing
equipment.


﻿- 23 -
(2) Relief of Panama City from pollution problems caused by
the operation of shrimp processing plants.
(3) Provision of loans to eligible applicants for the
relocation and construction of new plant facilities
under (1) above.
C.   (1) Development of inland fisheries resources through a
program requiring the participation of low income
families in simple fish farming in natural or constructed
pools or in small streams and in the development of
mangrove oyster farming on a commercial basis in Bocas
de Toro area of Panama.
(2) Establishment of quality control standards for the
seafood processing industry.
D.   Provision of administrative services for the Project and
technical assistance consisting of the services of a naval
architect, a fishing operations training officer, a fresh water
fish farming expert, a food processing engineer, a quality control
expert and an oyster farming expert.
*              *              *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1981.


﻿- 24 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                              (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 1 and November 1
beginning May 1, 1981
through   November 1, 1991                    325,000
On May 1, 1992                                     350,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 25 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                         1.70%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                         3.40%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                         6.25%
More than eleven years but not
more than thirteen years
before maturity                         7.35%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                         8.50%


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Contracts for the purchase of all new fishing vessels,
contracts for equipment and materials required for the rehabili-
tation of vessels estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000
or more and contracts for new equipment for processing plants
shall be let in accordance with procedures consistent with
those set forth in Part A of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis
of international competitive bidding.
2.   (a) Bidders for vessels included in Parts A (1) and (2)
of the Project shall be prequalified as described in paragraph 1.3
of Part A of the Guidelines.
(b) Such prequalification shall include evaluation of the
construction and technical capacity, managerial capability and
financial position of the bidder.
(c) Bidders shall be required to bid for a vessel together
with main engine, equipment and fishing gear as one unit. Shrimp
vessels shall be procured in a single lot and purse seiners in
two lots of five each or, if necessary, in a single lot.


﻿- 27 -
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
All contracts for equipment and materials required for the
rehabilitation of vessels estimated to cost the equivalent of
less than $100,000 and all contracts for equipment and materials
for fresh water fish and oyster farming included in Part C of the
Project and all civil works contracts included in the relocation
of processing plants shall be let after competitive bidding based
on local advertising in accordance with local procurement procedures
acceptable to the Bank.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance with
local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the ex-
factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and sim-
ilar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and
(iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expen-
ditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of their
use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Panama may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:


﻿- 28 -
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be fol-
lowed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Panama
if the bidder shall have established to the satis-
faction of the Borrower and the Bank that the manu-
facturing cost of such goods includes a value added
in Panama equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory
bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Panama.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be impo.-ted and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.


﻿- 29 -
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this fur-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of cus-
toms duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification: the Borrower shall, before quali-
fication is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the procedure to
be followed, and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure
as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified bid-
ders, together with a statement of their qualifications and of the
reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification
shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Bank for its comments
before the applicants are notified of the Borrower's decision,
and the Borrower shall make such additions to, deletions from, or
modifications in, the said list as the Bank shall reasonably
request.


﻿- 30 -
2,   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equivalent
of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked or prequalification invited.


﻿- 31 -
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be delivered
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery
to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall deliver to the Bank, promptly after its execu-
tion and prior to the delivery to the Bank of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of
such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for
award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably re-
quest. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such de-
termination.


﻿- 32 -
SCHEDULE 5
Operating Policies and Procedures
I.   Sub-loans
A.   Purpose
The Borrower shall make sub-loans to eligible applicants for
the exclusive purpose of assisting in financing the construction
of steel shrimp trawlers, steel purse seiners, the rehabilitation
of obsolete wooden shrimp trawlers and the relocation of shrimp
processing plants.
B.   Eligibility
(1) To qualify for a sub-loan an applicant must deliver
to the Project Unit: (i) in the case of a sub-loan
for new shrimp trawlers or for the rehabilitation of
wooden shrimp trawlers, past financial and onerational
data on his shrimp fishing activities; and (ii) in
the case of a sub-loan for relocation of plants, a
plan for the relocation of plants, a plan for the
construction of detailed internal plant features,
including cost estimates, equipment lists, costs of
replacing equipment that cannot be moved, itemized
cost estimates of installation of utilities and
support equipment and estimates of direct moving
costs of equipment.


﻿- 33 -
(2) The criteria for the selection of sub-borrowers shall
include:
(a) New Shrimp Trawlers and Rehabilitation of Old
Wooden Trawlers
(i) proven competence and experience in shrimp
fishing;
(ii) possession of a valid fishing license;
(iii) age and characteristics of vessels to be
replaced or rehabilitated;
(iv) reasonable assurance of lack of alternative
sources of credit on reasonable terms; and
(v) references of creditworthiness.
(b) Purse Seiners
(i) ownership structure of the business;
(ii) possession of a valid fishing license;
(iii) age and characteristics of vessels to be
replaced;


﻿-34 -
(iv) reasonable assurance of lack of alternative
sources of credit on reasonable terms;
(v) current financial position evaluated on the
basis of the financial statements on previous
three years of operation;
(vi) in the case of a company or association, proof
of formation of such company or association;
and
(vii) references of creditworthiness.
(c) Plant Relocation
(i) ownership structure of business;
(ii) reasonable assurance of lack of alternative
sources of credit on reasonable terms;
(iii) current financial position evaluated on the
basis of the financial statements on previous
three years' operation;
(iv) sub-borrower's capacity to repay and the
soundness of his financial plans and projections;
and
(v) references of creditworthiness.


﻿- 35 -
(3) In the case of shrimp trawlers priority shall be given
in selecting sub-borrowers to applicants who are small
independent boat operators.
C.   Terms and Conditions
(a) The repayment period for: (i) new shrimp trawlers
and purse seiners shall be 10 years including
one year of grace; and (ii) rehabilitation of
trawlers and for shrimp plant relocation shall be
8 years including one year of grace.
(b) Each sub-borrower shall pay interest at the
rate of eleven and one-half per cent (11-1/2%)
per annum and a technical service fee of one half
per cent (1/2%) on the principal amount of the
sub-loan outstanding from time to time.
(c) Each sub-loan for a fishing vessel shall be secured
by a mortgage on the new or rehabilitated fishing
vessel and gear and for shrimp plant relocation
by adequate security.
(d) Each sub-loan shall provide for the repayment
by the sub-borrower to the Borrower of the cost
of the respective all-risk insurance referred
to in Section 3.03 (f) of this Agreement.


﻿- 36 -
(e) Each sub-borrower shall be required to contribute
not less than: (i) five per cent (5%) of the
estimated cost of vessel construction or rehabili-
tation in the case of shrimp trawlers; (ii) fifteen
per cent (15%) of the estimated cost of purse
seiners; and (iii) twenty per cent (20%) of the
estimated cost of relocating the shrimp processing
plants.
D.   Sundry
(1) All sub-loan analyses shall be forwarded by the Borrower
to the Bank for review, and any comments, objections
or reservations arising from such review shall be taken
into account before making any decisions.
(2) The terms and conditions of all sub-loans shall be
subject to the approval of the Bank.
II. Project Unit
(1) The Project Unit shall be located in the Borrower's
Development Department under the authority of the
Project Director referred to in Section 3.04 of this
Agreement. The Project Director shall be responsible for
programming and day to day activities of the Project
Unit. He will co-ordinate vessel procurement, hiring of
consultants and experts, participation of agencies of
the Guarantor in the Project and supervision of all
sub-lending operations.


﻿- 37 -
(2) (a) The Project Unit shall have a technical department
which shall be responsible for carrying out activi-
ties relating to the maintenance and operation of
trawlers included in the Project, operational
and maintenance training of skippers of fishing
vessels, credit analyses of sub-loans and collec-
tion and dissemination of price and market infor-
mation for Project related commodities.
(b) Two qualified credit analysts shall be assigned
to the department on a part-time basis to carry
out technical and financial analyses of sub-loan
applications and also the naval architect and
training officer mentioned in Section 3.02 of
this Agreement.
(c) The naval architect shall assist the Project Unit
in the formulation of safety and operational
standards for fishing vessels, prequalification
of shipyards, determination of detailed specifica-
tions and vessel designs, preparation of tender
documents for international competitive bidding,
evaluation of bids and supervision of construction
and rehabilitation of vessels under the Project.
(d) The training officer shall assist in the training
of all operating fishing vessel skippers in theore-
tical and practical aspects of operating fishing
vessels, safety measures, modern navigational
equipment and vessel maintenance.


﻿- 38 -
(3) The Project Unit shall also have an administrative
department which shall be responsible for administrative
matters and for the maintenance of accounts of indepen-
dent boat owners under the Project.
(4) The operational agreements referred to in Section 3.08 of
this Agreement shall inter alia provide that:
(a) the participating agencies shall furnish the
Project Unit with their investment plans and
work programs (including staffing arrangements)
for their respective parts of the Project for the
Project Unit's comment and review;
(b) each participating agency shall designate a
liaison officer for the purposes of the Project;
(c) the participating agencies shall promptly provide
the Project Unit with such information relating
to the Project as the Project Unit shall reasonably
request; and
(d) the Project Unit shall satisfy itself that
expenditures of a participating agency under
the Loan conform to investment plans previously
agreed with the Project Unit.
(5) For the purposes of (4) above the term "participating
agencies" shall mean the Guarantor's agencies specified
in Section 3.08 of this Agreement.


﻿- 39 -
III. Fresh Water Fish Farming and Oyster Programs
(1) (a) The Direcci6n Nacional de Acuacultura of the
Guarantor's Ministry of Agriculture shall have
direct responsibility for the fresh water fish
farming program included in the Project.
(b) Six assistant biologists shall be employed to pro-
vide support for the program.
(c) The Project Unit shall employ a fresh water fish
farming specialist for at least 18 months to work
directly with Direcci6n Nacional de Acuacultura
in the training of technical staff and to provide
assistance on aspects of the fish farming program.
(2) (a) The Directorate of Marine Resources shall be respon-
sible for the oyster farming program included in
the Project. The Directorate shall employ one
biologist and one assistant biologist at the
research center at Bocas de Toro for the said
program.
(b) The Project Unit shall employ an oyster farming
specialist for a period of at least one year to
assist the said Directorate on technical aspects
relating to the development of commercial oyster
farming.


﻿- 4o -
IV. Relocation of Processing Plants
(1) (a) The National Port Authority acting together with
the shrimp processors shall determine space alloca-
tion requirements and rental rate for each plant
and shall co-ordinate the construction of the shell
building to meet the requirements for each processor's
plant plans.
(b) Each processor shall develop detailed individual
plant plans for the construction of interior plant
features in the shell structure, the specifications
for which should meet at least minimum standards
to permit sound manufacturing practices for process-
ing of shrimp products. The plants should make
satisfactory provision for treatment of waste
products in order to prevent pollution of the
environment.
(c) The Project Unit shall employ a food processing
engineer for at least 18 months to work jointly
with the National Port Authority in assisting
processors in carrying out the details connected
with the relocation of plants. The food processing
engineer shall also assist the Project Unit
in the preparation of tender documents and bid
evaluation for new equipment.


﻿- 41 -
V.   Quality Standards
The Project Unit shall employ a quality control expert to
assist the Guarantor's Ministry of Health in the development of
quality standards and improvement of manufacturing and handling
practices and training of its personnel; the training of plant
management personnel in developing techniques and interpreting all
regulatory standards; and in the training of shrimp vessel skippers
and crew in methods of good handling practices on vessels. The
Ministry of Health shall employ two food inspectors to assist it
in establishing quality control standards under the Project.


