Report No. PID7517
Project Name                     Brazil-Social Security Technical...
Assistance Project
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                           Public Management/Pension Reform
Project ID                       BRPE62619
Borrower                         Federative Republic of Brazil
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Social Security (MPAS)
Esplanada dos Minsterios, Bloco "K" - 5 andar
70040-906, Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Date PID Prepared                March 23, 1999
Appraisal Date                   April 2, 1999
Board Date                       May 13, 1999
COUNTRY AND SECTOR BACKGROUND
1.      Brazil is the latest of the major countries in Latin America to reform
its public pension system. As in other countries with an unreformed Pay As
You Go (PAYGO) system, the imbalance of the social security accounts have
become a dominant factor in the deterioration of the country's fiscal
position. The main causes of the fiscal imbalance of the pension system are
the absence of a relationship between pension benefits and contributions,
primarily in the public sector pension systems, and the number of special
pension regimes. During the past periods of high inflation, the government
could easily make generous promises to future pensioners, since inflation
increased nominal revenue, but eroded the value of pension benefits. With
the reduction of inflation in 1994, brought about by the Real Plan, the
unsustainability of the pension system became evident.
2.      Recognizing that urgent measures had to be taken to reduce expenditures
and increase revenues, the Government made social security system a
centerpiece of its adjustment strategy, not only for the fiscal payoff, but
also as a signal to international financial markets that the Government is
able to succeed in tackling a fundamental structural problem. Pension reform
in Brazil has been difficult because the main tenets of the pension system
are spelled out in the Federal Constitution of 1988, and the groups
benefiting from the system have strong political power. However, after three
years of intensive debate, an amendment to the Constitution was approved in
December 15, 1998. Approval of this amendment was a critical first step
towards reforming the system.
3.      The Government's pension reform program is being implemented in two
phases, and will complement major reforms in the areas of labor legislation
and administrative reform. The First Phase of Pension Reform involved
approval of the Constitutional Amendment to: (i) introduce the principle of
actuarial and fiscal balance for the pension systems of private and public
sector workers; (ii) replace pensions based on length-of-service by pensions
based on years-of-contribution; (iii) eliminate the benefit rule to determine
pensions for private sector workers from the text of the Constitution; (iv)



eliminate most special pension regimes; (v) impose a minimum retirement age
on civil servants; and (vi) extend the option of creating complementary
pension funds to states and municipalities. Congress also approved
legislation to reduce the deficit of the state and municipal pension regimes.
The first phase of pension reform also included the initial stages of
restructuring of the National Institute of Social Security (INSS) to improve
revenue collection and reduce evasion. The Second Phase of Pension Reform
will involve: (i) the implementation of the Constitutional Amendment reform
through the passage of complementary and ordinary laws to define the
parameters of the new pension systems; and (ii) institutional reforms of the
government agencies that oversee the pension system. These agencies are: the
INSS, which administers the pension system of private sector workers, and the
Secretariat of Complementary Pension Funds (SPC) which regulates and
supervises the complementary private pension system. Both agencies are under
the Ministry of Social Security (MPAS).
THE PROJECT
4.      Project Objective.   The main project objective is to support the design
and implementation of institutional and legal reforms needed for the second
phase of Social Security and Pension Reform in Brazil. Specifically, the
project would support: (i) the design and selected implementation of
institutional reforms to enable the INSS to carry out its new
responsibilities within the reformed system; (ii) the design of legislation
and regulation defining the new parameters for the pension systems for
private sector workers; and (iii) the strengthening of the supervisory and
regulatory functions of the SPC. In addition, the project would finance a
public information and dissemination effort to increase awareness of the
importance of pension reform and of the lessons from international
experience.
5.      Project Description.   The project will have three components:
(i)Restructuring of the INSS. This project component would finance technical
assistance for the diagnostic work and the preparation of the Strategic Plan
for the institutional restructuring of the INSS. (the implementation of the
Strategic Plan would be supported by a follow up technical assistance loan).
It would also finance technical assistance for the preparation of a Master
Plan for Information Systems Renewal; expand a new system of revenue
collections; and improve the National Integrated Data Base of Social
Information.
(ii) Development of Pension and Insurance Legal Framework: This component
would finance technical assistance to strengthen the capacity of the MPAS to
carry out the technical studies and legal work to reform the pension system
of private sector workers, following the principles of actuarial and fiscal
balance, as stipulated by the Constitutional amendment. It would also
support the reform of the work related injury insurance system.
(iii) Regulation of Complementary Pension Funds. This component would
finance technical assistance to strengthen the capacity of the SPC to
regulate and monitor complementary pension funds, including the preparation
of ordinary laws and regulations, improving its information system, and
administrative procedures, and the diagnostic/strategic work for the creation
of a new regulatory agency. This component would be implemented in
- 2-



coordination with a technical assistance program financed by a US$1.2 million
grant from the Inter American Development Bank (IDB).
6.      Project Financing.   The estimated total project cost is about US$10.05
million, with the Bank providing US$5.05 million and the Government and IDB
providing the remaining US$5.0 million.
7.      Project Implementation.   A Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) will be
established under the MPAS. An experienced Project Coordinator will be hired
to head this unit. The Project Coordinator will be assisted by a small team
including an accountant and a lawyer. A Technical Unit (TU) will be
constituted at MPAS to assist the PCU in managing the technical aspects of
the project. It will vet terms of reference for consultants, organize
workshops and generally manage, provide opinions, and handle all technical
aspects of the project. The TU will include technical staff from the MPAS
and INSS. The Project Coordinator and all members of the Project
Coordinating Unit will undergo training in Bank procurement, disbursement and
financial management procedures. Procurement will be supervised from the
Bank's Brasilia office. A Brasilia based Financial Management Specialist
will assist the PCU to meet Bank standards and help with project
implementation thereafter.
8.      Project Sustainability. The implementation of the proposed project is
expected to have permanent effects on the institutions involved and on the
legal framework regulating the pension system for private sector worker and
complementary pension funds. Additionally, the PCU that will be created for
this operation is expected to become a permanent Technical Assistance Unit
that will oversee the technical work to be carried out by the different
departments of MPAS, and manage technical assistance funds provided by the
Ministry and donor agencies
9.      Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector.    The Bank
has accumulated an important experience in the area of pension reform through
several adjustment operations targeting national systems. The Bank also has
experience in restructuring pension administration agencies. The main
lessons learned from previous loans, which have been incorporated in the
proposed operation, are the following: (i) Reform of pension administration
is most effective in the context of a prior or ongoing programmatic pension
reform. This proposed technical assistance loan will support the
implementation of a major pension reform already approved by Congress; and
(ii) Reform of pension administration is most effective if the Government
authorities view the institutional reforms as crucial to achieve the
objectives of the programmatic reforms. In Brazil, the authorities view the
restructuring of the INSS as crucial to the implementation of the pension
reform, including the adoption of individual accounts, and as a way to reduce
costs by improving efficiency and reducing errors, fraud and evasion. Also,
the they view the strengthening of the SPC as fundamental to the growth of
the complementary pension system.
10.     Environmental Aspects. This project is not expected to have
environmental implications.
11.     Program Objective Categories. The project supports the Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal of supporting reform in the area of social
security reform. Indirectly, it also supports the goal of attaining public
- 3 -



sector responsiveness and efficiency.
12.     Poverty Category.   This project will not be included in the Program of
Targeted Intervention.
Contact Point:           The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Task Manager             Mariluz Cortes
Telephone: (202) 473-0029
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
This PID processed the week ending April 2, 1999.
- 4-



