                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                    Report No: 32449-BR

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                              (CPL-45370)

                                                  ON A

                                LEARNING AND INNOVATION LOAN

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$5.05 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL

                                                 FOR A

                      SOCIAL SECURITY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT




                                             JUNE 30, 2005




BRAZIL COUNTRY MANAGEMENT UNIT, LCC5C
POVERTY REDUCTION AND ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT UNIT
LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN REGION

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                          (Exchange Rate Effective May 26, 2005)

                                 Currency Unit = Brazilian Real (R$)
                                        R$2.43 = US$ 1
                                     US$ 0.40 = 1 R$

                                       FISCAL YEAR
                                 January 1 -   December 31

                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANSES    Argentina's National Social Security Administration
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CNIS     Unified Data Base of Social Information
DATAPREV The Government's data processing service
ESW      Economic and Sector Work
FGTS     Severance Guarantee Payment Fund
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
ICT      Information and Communication Technology
IADB     Inter-American Development Bank
INSS     National Institute for Social Security
IT       Information Technology
LCR      Latin American and the Caribbean Region
MARE     Ministry of Administration and State Reform
MPAS     Ministry of Social Security
NGO      Non-Governmental Organization
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PCU      Project Coordination Unit
PDTI     Information System Master Plan
PMA      Attention Improvement Program
PMR      Project Management Report
QAG      Quality Assurance Group
RGPS     Private Sector Workers Pension System (Regime Geral da Previdencial Social)
RJU      Public Sector Workers Pension System (Regime Juridico Unico)
SAP      Secretaria de Estado da Admiistracao e do Patrimonio (formerly MARE)
SPC      Secretariat of Complementary Pension Funds
SIGECOF  Intergrated Financial Management System
S/SECAL  Special Sector Adjustment Loan
SUNSEP   Superintendency of Pension Insurance
UNDP     United Nations Development Program

                               Vice President:   Pamela Cox
                            Country Director:    Vinod Thomas
                             Sector Manager:     Ronald E. Myers
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         Chris Parel

                                           BRAZIL
               SOCIAL SECURITY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            15
6. Sustainability                                                                16
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 16
8. Lessons Learned                                                               17
9. Partner Comments                                                              17
10. Additional Information                                                       19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             21
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             23
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             24
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             25
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                26
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            27
Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation Report                                            28

Project ID: P062619                                                  Project Name: BR INSS REF LIL
Team Leader: Chris Parel                                             TL Unit: LCSPS
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 28, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: BR INSS REF LIL                                          L/C/TF Number: CPL-45370
   Country/Department: BRAZIL                                                             Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Compulsory pension and unemployment insurance (94%); Law and
                            justice (5%); Central government administration (1%)
                  Theme: Law reform (P); Administrative and civil service reform (P); Social
                            risk mitigation (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 01/11/1999                                     Effective: 03/31/2000                05/24/2000
     Appraisal: 03/25/1999                                         MTR: 10/01/2001                  03/03/2002
      Approval: 02/07/2000                                      Closing: 12/31/2002                 12/01/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL/MINISTRY OF SOCIAL SECURITY (MPAS)
                      Other Partners:      N/A

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Pamela Cox                                     David de Ferranti
Country Director:               Vinod Thomas                                   Gobind T. Nankani
Sector Manager:                 Ronald E. Myers                                Danny Leipziger
Team Leader at ICR:             Chris Parel                                    Mariluz Cortes
ICR Primary Author:             Denise von Gersdorff; Kathrin A.
                                Plangemann; Chris Parel


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The objective of the Project was to provide technical assistance for the design and implementation
of institutional and legal reforms in order to help put into effect constitutional changes in the
Brazilian Government's social security system, and for advancing changes in the system's
provisions regarding private sector workers.

To these ends, the Project plan called specifically for supporting measures to: (a) enable the
National Institute of Social Security (INSS) to carry out new responsibilities; (b) strengthen the
pension and insurance legal framework; and (c) strengthen supervision and regulation of the
complementary pension funds system by the Secretariat of Complementary Funds (SPC).

These objectives were set to help further the Government's pension reform program. The latter
was part of the comprehensive fiscal reform campaign launched to overcome a crisis in Brazil at
the end of the 1990s. This was fueled to a considerable extent by a sharp increase in pension
expenditures and deficits, which contributed to an overall rise in the country's fiscal deficits and
its substantially increased public debt.

In November 1998, the Congress approved constitutional amendments which provided the basis
for a first phase of social security reforms. The amendments were mainly aimed at: (a)
introducing principles of actuarial and fiscal balance in private and public sector workers' pension
systems; (b) eliminating certain special benefit rules and regimes; and (c) enabling states and
municipalities to create complementary pension funds. The Bank subsequently approved an
S/SECAL of $757. 57 million in December 1998 in support of these policy actions, constituting
its initial support of this phase of the pension reform program.

This loan for the Social Security Technical Assistance Project, along with the S/SECAL, were
consistent with the June 1998 CAS Progress Report (Document R98-116). It called for quick
Bank financial support for key reforms in such areas as social security if the Government
responded to external shocks with suitable corrective measures. Still other Bank measures taken
for these purposes included a State Pension Reform TA Project (PARSEP) and help in arranging
a PHRD grant for preparation of a second Social Security S/SECAL.

The subject loan, in the course of seeking additional progress in pension reform, attempted to
draw on the advantages of LIL features to provide some "learning and innovative" benefits. One
of these elements was a provision to draw on, and to disseminate, international experience in
pension reform. This was intended to inform social security stakeholders of the options available
in such programs in order to have a more informed public (and possibly enlarging the constituency
for reform). A second LIL aim was to define the parameters of possible solutions to the problems
of restructuring social security institutions.

The Project's objectives were well formulated and timely in relation to the Government's
problem. They were closely linked to the requirements for rationalizing the social security
system's issues. The Project's design provided clear and well-directed approaches to their
remediation. Its components were well aligned with the desired institutional and technical



                                                  - 2 -

changes.

3.2 Revised Objective:
N/A

3.3 Original Components:
Component 1. Restructuring of the INSS

The 1998 constitutional changes included provisions calling for reforms of the INSS (which
administers the private sector workers' pension system-RGPS) in line with the Government's
intentions of reducing that system's generous benefits formula. The authorities were also
interested in the possible adoption of individual accounts under further pension system reforms.

In addition to these factors, attention was focused on requirements for restructuring the INSS in
order to try to overcome some of its deficiencies. The Institute was then the composite of several
merged prior organizations. It suffered also from the problem of a very large scale and costly
operation. Its revenue collection and benefit control procedures were weak, and its customer
service facility had a poor public image.

Consequently, the aforementioned S/SECAL set the stage for a series of remedial actions. It
helped introduce measures to reduce INSS' costs and improve its collections. For this Project, it
was decided to initiate even broader strengthening measures. These include an assessment of the
Institute's strengths and weaknesses, based on which a strategic plan would be elaborated. (It
should be noted though that consideration of the full implementation of the strategic plan was
explicitly left for possible financing under a larger TA loan). In parallel, it was decided to
determine what could be done to overcome INSS' lack of both reliable information on
contributors and beneficiaries, as well as efficient data processing services.

(i)     Diagnostic/Strategic Plan

This sub-component was to support the preparation of the diagnostic work and design of the
Strategic Plan for institutional restructuring. It would evaluate possible institutional changes,
define a future profile of the agency and formulate the Plan. Other activities included the
evaluation and strengthening of the program to improve attention to users, improvement and
validation of information system plan, audit planning and research. The aim of the Strategic Plan
work was to design alternatives for the restructuring.

(ii)    Information System Renewal Master Plan - PDTI

This sub-component was to diagnose the prevailing IT situation, design solutions and then
develop a Master Plan for information system renewal. The renewal aimed: (a) to improve
collection, monitoring and benefit payment functions; (b) adopt a system of individual pension
accounts; (c) improve communications between INSS/MPAS and the Government's data
processing agent; (d) improve client service center links to the information system; and (e)
introduce an effective management information system.




                                                  - 3 -

(iii)   Implementation of Management of Contributors by Segment (SGS)

This sub-component was to expand the "collection by segments system" (SGS). This was
established to implement a contributors' management system. It was focused on groups including
the 10,000 largest employers which account for 70% of all collections. The idea was to build on
activities completed including the system's design and installation. It envisaged the following
complementary activities: (a) SGS installation in 195 centers; (b) training of supervisory staff in
SGS uses; and (c) study and research.

(iv)    Evaluation of CNIS

This sub-component was to evaluate the quality of INSS' Unified Databases of Social Information
material for determining pension benefits. The INSS had made significant efforts to unify the
different data bases of social information under the CNIS.

(v)     Public Information Dissemination Strategy

This sub-component was to help design an effective strategy for informing social security
stakeholders about the choices and implications of system reform.
Component 2. Pension and Insurance Legal Framework

The Project was also concerned with the need for new parameters of the pension system for
private workers to conform with the constitutional changes stipulating actuarial and fiscal
balances. This component therefore called for studies to show trade-offs of different alternatives
for achieving these balances.

(i)     Regulation of Work-Related Injury Insurance

This sub-component would finance: (a) an evaluation of the proposed Injury Insurance Law, and
(b) an examination of the regulation of private sector participation in the worker insurance
system.

(ii)    Regulation of the Private Sector Workers System

This sub-component was to prepare the legal framework for planned reforms of the RGPS,
including the adoption of individual pension accounts. Activities to be financed would be: (a) the
elaboration of actuarial models; (b) a study on expanding coverage of social security and (c)
additional research.

Component 3: Strengthening of Secretariat of Complementary Pension Funds-SPC

The constitutional amendment for reforming the complementary system prescribed activities to
eliminate or reduce the subsidization of these funds and to tighten their governance. Therefore,
the SPC had undertaken institutional strengthening measures to enable it to implement these new
provisions. Their main elements include: (a) the elaboration of laws and regulations regarding the



                                                - 4 -

constitutional changes, (b) upgrading the Secretariat's regulatory and supervisory activities, and
(c) consideration of the creation of a new national agency which would regulate all pension funds
according to a single set of business practice standards.

(i)    Preparation of Complementary Laws and New Models

This sub-component would finance: (a) the preparation of complementary laws; (b) design and
implementation of a new investment model; (c) preparation of actuarial, financial, registration,
accounting and other modules; and (d) coordination of related activities.

(ii)   Preparation of Ordinary Laws

This sub-component was to support the: (a) drafting of ordinary laws and regulations; and (b) the
conduct of conferences and seminars on the new framework.

(iii)  Strategic Plan for Regulatory Agency

This sub-component was to support the preparation of a strategic plan for the creation of a the
new national agency to regulate complementary pension funds. The activities to be financed
would be: (a) drafting of the plan; (b) equipment purchases; and (c) staff training.

(iv)   SPC's Information System

This sub-component was aimed at improving, expanding and upgrading SPC's information system
and related administrative procedures. The activities financed would be: (a) elaboration of a plan
for these purposes; and (b) purchase of equipment and (c) training.

(v)    External Information Network

This sub-component was to provide advisory services for preparing and implementing a new
external information network. The Project would finance: (a) a design of the network; (b)
equipment; (c) training; and (d) additional studies.

Component 4: Project Coordination

This component was to enable the implementing institution, the Ministry of Social Security and
Social Assistance (MPAS), to establish a project coordinating unit (PCU). The component would
provide funds for project administration assistance including training in Bank procurement,
disbursement and financial management procedures; the purchase of equipment for the PCU and
UNDP management services. It also aimed to create a Technical Unit in the Ministry to assist the
PCU in meeting the technical requirements of the Project.




                                                 - 5 -

3.4 Revised Components:
The Project's plans regarding the institution for regulation of complementary pension funds were
altered to the extent that the planned changes to affect the SPC were set aside. Only after the
change in the Brazilian Government administration, did the authorities decide to proceed with the
envisaged creation of a new autonomous national agency and new legislation was recently
submitted to create a new autonomous organization, "PREVIC". Hence, much of the planned
work on this activity was not carried out.

In their place, the Government requested the reallocation of the funds involved to provide greater
support for the evaluation of CNIS than had been originally designed. The work done in the
evaluation had shown a need to expand the existing date bases and create additional ones. As a
result, the Government requested, and the Bank subsequently approved, the reallocation of Loan
funds to meet the enlarged task.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Satisfactory. Quality at entry was not assessed by the Quality Assurance Group (QAG). This
review concludes that the Project's quality at entry was satisfactory. The Project's objectives were
consistent with the Government's need and program to improve the long-term actuarial balances
of the social security system, in view of its heavy burden on public finances. The Project was
well shaped to address the structural problems involved, alongside of the policy measures
addressed by the S/SECAL and other Bank-assisted activities. It was thus consistent with the
Bank's strategy too. The preponderant Loan support for INSS was appropriate, as well as
suitably focused on the reforms it needed to discharge its new responsibilities. During project
design, the operation's controversial aspects were well evaluated and covered (although the
proposed creation of a new complementary fund national agency was not considered to be very
risky). The design did not, however, include particularly substantial "learning and innovation"
features.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Satisfactory. The Project achieved its main objectives. Its accomplishments can be expected to
help arrest over time the growth of national expenditures and of the public sector pension system
deficit, as well as to reduce the complementary funds' debt. In turn, these developments should
contribute to the advancement of greater national equity.

It bears noting, though, that the Project's accomplishments were 'limited' by the influence of
political forces on some planned measures. This applied most notably to the proposed creation of
a new national agency for regulation of pension funds, discussed above, and IT strategy and
platform definition. However, the deficiency in the case of SPC may be considered to have only
constituted a temporary setback. The subsequent enactment of new legislation (Law MP 233) in
December 2004 established a new autonomous supervision agency, which has taken over some of
the supervisory functions of the SPC. It is expected that this will contribute to a more effective
private pension system. In addition, there were also problems which still remain unsolved
concerning the proposed improvement of the Ministry's IT operation. It proved difficult to obtain
decisions on the related strategy and the platform.


                                                 - 6 -

The project's accomplishments are also significant in that they advanced the changes needed for
momentum in the second phase of the social security reform program. This was no small feat
given that this reform has to be considered as meeting one of the most important challenges in
Brazil. Significant political and technical obstacles still continue to impede these efforts but the
project provided important assistance and resources for continuing analytical work and debate and
many technical solutions. (Ref. section 4.2) Notable examples include the following:

(a) The Project contributed to strengthening the legal framework for pension reform through the
design of three Complementary Laws, (two of them already approved by Congress) and the
drafting of a Law on Injury Insurance.

(b) The Project contributed to the strengthening of INSS' institutional capacity. Its Strategic and
Technology Master Plan is now beginning to be implemented (albeit slowly). It helped the INSS
to reorganize its activities and staff, improve the calculation and approval of benefits, and to
accelerate their payments. The effectiveness of the INSS was also enhanced by the improvements
that were made to the integrated data base (CNIS). Similarly, the INSS strengthened its internal
audit process and follow-up of large contributors.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1. Restructuring of the INSS

Enabling Legislation (Satisfactory)
Output Sought: Enabling legislation to implement the Constitutional Amendment of 11/98.
Target: To have enabling legislation in place
Actual: This was completed and approved by Congress. The studies done with Loan funding that
contributed to the drafting of laws included:

·        Upgrading/reform of CNIS and verification of data quality and that the data could be
used for calculation of benefits from 1976 Draft Law--Inversao do Onus da Prova ("Inverting the
Burden of Proof")

·       Elaboration of a Draft Law regarding Workers/Workplace Insurance; publication of
volume #5 of the Social Security Collection, "Work Injury Insurance System in the Americas" (
Sistema de Seguro Contra Acidentes de Trabalho nas Américas).

Institutional reforms (Satisfactory)
Output Sought: To have reforms in place
Target: INSS diagnosis and Strategic Plan for institutional restructuring of this agency completed
within 6 months after Loan effectiveness.
Actual: INSS diagnostic and Strategic Plan involving numerous agencies and activities completed
(note: it took about 12 months). The institutional reforms began to be implemented in a largely
satisfactory manner.




                                                  - 7 -

Sub-components:

(i)     Diagnostic/Strategic Plan for the INSS (Satisfactory)

The following studies and activities were undertaken and completed.
·       Strategic Plan for INSS with recommendations completed.
·       Diagnostic of processes and service quality in the agencies completed, including the
implementation of specific measures intended to improve attention to clients
·       Modernization and improvement plan for Internal Auditing completed.
·       Diagnostic and proposals made for restructuring INSS.
·       Institutional strengthening diagnostics/recommendations across key agencies undertaken.
·       Diagnostic/recommendations completed regarding administrative/judicial efficiency of
collections.
·       170 officials trained as a result of the above study and 40 officials were trained in fiscal
management.
·       Computer equipment provided to 102 Executive Offices.
·       Data Mart (MIS) developed for Procuradoria.
·       Data Mart developed for Fiscal Planning and Collections Directory.

(ii)    Information Systems Master Plan (Satisfactory)

Output Sought: Information Systems Renewal Master Plan (PDTI) finished
Target: Information System Master Plan finished within 6 months after Loan effectiveness
Actual: Master Plan finished

Significant progress was made on the design of a high quality IT Strategy Plan. However, its
development was not followed by significant progress in its implementation following the Lula
administration's assumption of government. The new administration reviewed work done and
made changes. Debates continue regarding key issues. Some criticism has been leveled at
PROAST and the GOB regarding the need to evaluate more critically INSS's interactions with
other institutions and programs. In particular, questions were raised as to whether it should have
tackled the debatable issue of the role of DATAPREV, the Government agency which manages
the INSS data base and has been criticized for its technical limitations and policy decisions. And
greater attention should have been paid to data security in the design of the PDTI. But the PDTI,
despite its criticisms, remains an important and technically sound contribution. In addition,
component products included: (i) the completion of a diagnostic and recommendations for IT
strategic architecture, and (ii) information systems strengthening activities implemented.

(iii)   Implementation of the SGS system (Satisfactory)

Output Sought: Strengthening of the SGS system to manage large debtors
Target: The SGS system implemented--connected to all management units--and INSS staff
trained.
Actual: System changes completed, plus provision of equipment for 103 INSS Management



                                                  - 8 -

Units.

The following studies and activities were carried out.
·       Evaluation, review, conceptualization and detailing of the processes of the Active
Debt-Divida Ativa system.
·       Redesign of the process of Judicial Collection of the INSS Divida Ativa in the states of
Sao Saulo and Rio de Janeiro
·       Evaluation and reform of administrative and judicial collections verifying inconsistency of
data, fragmentation of credits, low success rates-especially for large credits.
·       Training of 170 officials in reformed processes
·       102 INSS Executive Agencies equipped and making use of the SIGS system, Internet,
networks, etc.--acquisition of 148 microcomputers, 130 printers, 12 scanners, 29 notebooks
·       Training of 40 INSS staff in a Fiscal Management MBA course
·       Support for developing Data Mart for the area of "Fiscal Action Planning" of the INSS
Collections Department
·       Definition of a "Portal of Fiscal Intelligence," (a managerial vision for planning
supervisory)
·       Development of Data Mart for the Procuradoria, making available essential data for
managing administrative and judicial collection efforts.

(iv)    Evaluation of CNIS (Satisfactory)

Strengthening CNIS ("Unified Data Base of Social Information")--including evaluating its data
and proposing improvements to the system--was contemplated in the original loan design. It
expanded by the reallocation of funding (from the SPC component) to implement
recommendations and carry out the work program identified in the initial studies. The studies
undertaken were strategic, generally quite solid, comprehensive and well addressed. The
implementation of study recommendations could possibly have been pushed more proactivly,
which would have required stronger high level leadership, resolution of PDTI issues, and
considerable staff training. The remaining challenges include greater exchange of information
between different ministries.

The following studies and activities were completed:
·       Evaluation of quality of data
·       Development of GFIP information system for obtaining information directly from
employers
·       Development of cadastre of natural persons
·       Development of program to permit migration of data to Oracle
·       Development of Data Mart for CNIS
·       Development of system to incorporate unemployment insurance information from the
Ministry of Labor
·       Development of a security system controlling access to CNIS
·       Development of a system for identifying natural persons based upon Portuguese phonetics
·       Development of a system (Oracle) to recognize employees' rights related to



                                                  - 9 -

employment/remuneration
·      Implementation of OLTP technology in CNIS
·      Elaboration of Data Mart for CNIS-UNISYS
·      Elaboration of system for quality control of the data base of pessoas fisicas ("Protective
Shield-Escudo Protetor")
·      Elaboration of system to develop the validate awards/payments of the INSS system (
Projeto Ambiente de Homologacao- Homologation Environment Project)
·      Elaboration of a system to disseminate statistics--GFIP
·      Elaboration of Data Mart--CNIS-OracleElaboration of a system to disseminate statistics
regarding legal persons pessoas juridicas of CNIS
·      Purchase and installation of six servers and other equipment for CNIS
·      Development of a Project to Create Statistical Indicators ­GEFIP
·      Elaboration of a Strategic Communications Plan for social security
·      Elaboration of standard visual identity norms in INSS agencies
·      Acquisition of a large central storage equipment--server for the network servers system.

(v)    Public Information and Dissemination Strategy. (Satisfactory)

Output Sought: Studies on expanding coverage
Target: Studies completed
Actual: Studies completed

This component is rated satisfactory because of the sizeable number of activities carried out and
their outreach. However, there was not always adequate support from the Ministry to carry out
the component dissemination strategies. As a result, in some cases, the design of the
dissemination was suboptimal in its targeting, and its implementation could have been more rapid
and effective. It is also important to note that the studies performed contained qualitative
analyses rather than quantitative ones.

Studies and activities completed:
·      Diagnoses of IT and "e-Government" to attend the production of films portraying reforms
in employers' electronic payment of obligations ("guidelines for electronic payment of social
security" and "payment of Social Security into individual retirement accounts") and nation-wide
dissemination
·      Elaboration of a prototype website to portray individuals social security situation
(Prev-Cidadao)
·      Development of a website regarding INSS "INTRA-PREV"
·      Elaboration of a system to present on a website an extract of the work life of individuals
·      Contracting of consultants to support expansion effort in 10 states
·      Publication of "Social Security inclusion, and combating poverty", Social Security and
Social Stability; and "Basic course in Social Security"
·      Training of all members of Regional Committees of the Social Stability Program
·      Publication of volumes on strategic topics: political economy of reform, actuarial and
financial management, pension reform in Latin America, and the translation of actuarial



                                                 - 10 -

mathematics of social security.

Component 2: Pension and Insurance Legal Framework (Satisfactory)

(i) Workers Accident Insurance Law ­SAT (Modest)

Output Sought: Draft Workers Accident Insurance Law
Target: Present a draft Law to Congress
Actual: Studies completed; a Final Draft Law was produced but was not submitted to Congress.
Studies also included
·       Diagnostic/recommendations regarding repercussions of the new SAT model.
·       Survey leading to publication of Volume # 13 of the Social Security Collection Colecao
Previdencia Social, "Machinery and Work Accidents"

(ii) Regulation of RGPS (Satisfactory)
Studies included the following
·       Actuarial analysis --probability tables regarding the concession of benefits for new
retirement/pension/LOAS beneficiaries.

·       Study of the Actuarial Model for Government Employees--creation of a cadastre of 2,150
state and municipal laws and social security benefits in 900 municipalities.

Component 3: Strengthening of Secretariat of Complementary Pension Funds-SPC
(Modest)

When the Government decided not to set up an independent SPC, work under this component
was focused on more limited institutional and systems strengthening.

(i)     Preparation of Complementary Laws and New Investment, Actuarial, Financial,
Supervision Models (Satisfactory)
Output Sought: Draft Ordinary Laws to Regulate Complementary Pension System
Target: Required ordinary laws presented to Congress
Actual: Several ordinary laws were presented to Congress

Studies carried out included the following.
·       Development of specific norms and analytic tools--resulting in a draft decree to regulate
Complementary Law 109 of 2001.
·       Proposals to alter the minimum retirement age which influenced the improvement of
actuarial results and financial health of systems, and the harmonization of legislative and actuarial
practices.

(ii) Strategic Plan for new regulatory agency for Complementary Pension Funds
(Unsatisfactory)

Output Sought: Strategic Plan for new regulatory agency for Complementary Pension Funds



                                                 - 11 -

Target: Strategic Plan for new regulatory agency for Complementary Pension Funds
Actual: This work was not done during loan implementation because the Cardoso administration
ruled out proceeding with the creation of an autonomous agency.

(iii) Strengthening of SPC Information System (Modest)

Output Sought: Upgrade SPC information systems
Target: Plan to expand and upgrade SPC's information system completed
Actual: A new system partially developed

Studies and activities undertaken included:
·        Digitalization and indexation of SPC archived documents resulting in facilitating access
and dissemination of documents.
·        Development of specific norms and analytic tools--governing profitability calculation,
budgeting, portability, market risks, and dissemination strategies.
·        Development of the DAIEA system that maintains data bases of affiliated complementary
pension systems resulting in greater transparency, norms for calculation, standard reports, and
facilitating policy development.
·        Development of an integrated MIS-SPC system and affiliated companies' systems

(iv)     External Information Network and Institutional Strengthening Studies (Satisfactory)

Studies and activities carried out produced:
·        Publications (3) on Complementary Pensions' proportional deferred benefits, market
regulation, principal norms.
·        Organization of events involving SPC, companies and government agencies with closed
systems to explain the application of legislation.
·        Study on acquired rights and breaking contracts, which influenced the definition of plan
parameters for financial equilibrium, age limits, compatibilization of rights with pension policy.
·        Manual of procedures on restructuring processes, documents, guidelines.
·        Training of 20 officials in the evaluation of assets and investment portfolios
·        Study on proposals to alter minimum retirement ages which impacted on improving
actuarial results and financial health of systems, and equating legislation and actuarial realities.

Component 4: Project Coordination

Project Coordination was initially rated "highly satisfactory". Nearly the entire loan had been
disbursed by the original Closing Date. Taking into account that the Ministry was not always an
easy work environment, the PCU did well, e.g., to generate quality terms of reference for the
consultants, evaluating proposals and performing the work required to negotiate and sign
contracts.

However, the final period's work considered just "satisfactory" because of the delays in the
purchase of the server which required extensions of the Closing Date of two years. The new
administration, upon taking office, questioned the management and direction of the program and


                                                  - 12 -

brought in fiscal inspectors to verify procurement. It also undertook changes affecting all PCUs
in the Federal Government that resulted in an almost complete turnover of staff. This had less
impact on PROAST than other MPS loans because most of the loan had been implemented.

Procurement Issues. Issues arose as a result of the changes in the PCU and resulting project
implementation difficulties. A two year extension was allowed for the purpose of procuring a
single large server, which also proved to be a difficult process owing to confusion regarding
equipment specification and guarantees. These problems were identified during supervision
missions. All procurement under these categories was halted. The Procurement Specialist
concluded that the aggregate amounts could not be increased for a second time. The
Disbursements Department indicated that the amounts disbursed in "excess" of the aggregate limit
were ineligible expenditures and should be refunded to the Bank. The PCU suggested, that to
solve the issue, they would reverse the disbursement applications of a number of contracts
exceeding aggregate limits and fund them instead with counterpart funds. The idea was that, once
refunded, these amounts would be available for use against subsequent expenditures, provided
these were procured in accordance with Bank rules. The Bank accepted this proposal.

Auditing and Financial Management. Initially, there were concerns regarding auditing
methodologies and supporting financial systems. The COFRE financial management system
introduced by the PCU around the time of start-up was assessed by the Bank, and found to be
adequate for generating financial reports and requisite information. It proved to be reliable.
FMRs were submitted on a timely basis. In addition to improving financial management systems,
the PCU was also instrumental in improving auditing of project funds and INSS funds. Good
progress was made by moving towards greater `preventive auditing' and the good practices
initiated in the PCU were replicated in other ministries.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Typically, activities of this nature are not subject to conventional economic analyses.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Typically, activities of this feature are not subject to conventional financial analysis

4.5 Institutional development impact:
One of the principal objectives of the Project was to help bring about reforms to improve the
Government agencies that oversee the pension system. This assessment concludes that the
Project's performance was satisfactory on balance in meeting this goal.

The Project was unsuccessful in realizing the goal of setting the basis for the creation of a new
national agency of complementary pension fund regulation. As noted above, this intention was
thwarted because of the Cardoso administration's decision to not implement the reform. To be
sure though, as para. 4.1 indicates, this can be considered to have been a temporary shortfall since
the passage of the 2004 law did ultimately result in the establishment of a new supervisory agency
(which partly succeeds SPC). Meanwhile, the targeted plan for internal SPC improvements was
developed.

The Project was more successful in bringing about the envisaged INSS improvements. The



                                                       - 13 -

Government obtained the important agency assessment and resulting strategic plan, which sets a
framework for accomplishment of the intended restructuring. Initial implementing actions have
been taken. Thus, the target was met. And it merits noting that the Borrower's segment of this
ICR (ref. Annex 8) cited still other useful achievements than those reported in para. 3.3 on
Component 1. These include the creation of a new information technology unit, installation of
better yardsticks to gauge the performance of executing management units, and the installation of
stronger controls on employer contribution payments.

Collectively, these actions represent a quite positive advance. However, they do not comprise
fundamental structural improvements (which the Project did NOT promise). It is uncertain
moreover how far and well the INSS strategic plan will be fully put in place.

         COMPONENT/                  ACTIVITIES/         Current Use and Impact of Outcomes
         BENEFICIARY             MAJOR PROJECTS
I ­ Restructuring the INSS    1. INSS Strategic Plan     The Annual Operating Plan of the INSS employs
                                                         strategic guidelines established by the INSS Strategic
INSS (Controller's Division                              Plan undertaken with Project resources.
(`Controladoria'), CGINF and
SGS)
MPS (SE, Social Communication)
                              2. Information Technology  At present, all contracts and procurements involving the
                              Master Plan                information technology area must be in line with the
                                                         Information Technology Master Plan drawn up by the
                                                         company contracted.
                              3. Implementation of       The Segment Management System was an innovative
                              Segment Management         task based on dividing debtors into different segments
                              System - SGS.              and different economic status levels. The training that
                                                         was provided and the expanded technical resources
                                                         incorporated by the SGS contributed to improvements
                                                         in the quality of work.
                              4. Quality Assessment of   The CNIS is the National Register of Social
                              CNIS data                  Information, basically a register containing data about
                                                         Brazilian workers. The register is used by Social
                                                         Security and a number of other government bodies. A
                                                         range of measures and rules was introduced to enhance
                                                         the security of the data contained in the CNIS.
                                                         Furthermore, a quality evaluation was undertaken of
                                                         such data, which confirmed that the registered data is
                                                         reliable and can be employed for granting benefits from
                                                         1976 onwards, thereby eliminating the need for
                                                         beneficiaries to present date-specific documentation. A
                                                         Bill was drawn up covering utilization of all CNIS data
                                                         in the process of automatic recognition of rights for the
                                                         award of benefits for workers from 1976. However, this
                                                         Bill has not yet been voted on in the Congress. The
                                                         figures have in effect been used for calculating benefit
                                                         payments from July 1994 onwards.
                              5. Strategic Social        A company undertook a survey dealing with the public's
                              Communication Plan         image and opinion of, and satisfaction level with, the
                                                         INSS. At present, the measures outlined in this Plan
                                                         are used indirectly by the Ministry of Social Security,
                                                         with the research data being employed as a source of
                                                         information for social communication projects.




                                                    - 14 -

 II ­ Legal Structure of the Social 1. Legal appraisal of        The final draft of the Bill concerning Accidents at
 Security General Regime ­          Parliamentary Bill           Work insurance, drawn up on the basis of appraisals
 RGPS and SAT                                                    and opinions of contracted consultants, was not
                                                                 approved by the National Congress.
 MPS and Social Security
 Secretariat­ SPS
                                    2. Regulating the            In view of the non-approval of the Bill, the resources
                                    participation of the private that were initially earmarked for this activity were
                                    sector in the `Accident at   reallocated to the activity on "Study of the Expansion of
                                    Work' System - SAT           Coverage".
                                    3. Elaboration of the pure   Consultants were contracted to draw up probability
                                    actuarial model              tables of entries concerning new retirement pension (
                                                                 aposentadoria) and family survivor (pensão) benefits.
                                                                 These projections are used for awarding retirement
                                                                 pensions and family survivor benefits.
                                    4. Studies on the expansion A range of training activities was carried out in addition
                                    of coverage                  to activities aimed at educating the public in general on
                                                                 Social Security questions. The latter consisted of
                                                                 seminars and a series of publications on the influence of
                                                                 Social Security on Brazilian society.




5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Positive. The devaluation of Brazilian currency vis-à-vis the US dollar resulted in significant
increases in Project funds. This helped give more momentum to the implementation of activities.

Negative. The transition disruption attending the change in Government plus change in rules
regarding employment in PCUs caused some delays in project implementation.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Positive. The support and commitment of high level Ministerial authorities were critical, as were
the experience and dedication of the PCU team which was able to implement almost the entire
loan in the 3 year loan period--a rarity in Brazil.

Negative. Government's delay in taking decisions constrained the reform of SPC. The new
administration brought a different approach to IT and other issues that resulted in important
changes and leaving some issues still pending.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Positive. Procurement, disbursement and financial management issues were managed efficiently
by the PCU. Its stability was an important factor up to the change in administration. Monthly
meetings and presentations to top Ministerial staff facilitated implementation.

Negative. The Borrower also indicated that the inexperience of new PCU staff created some
delays in procurement and contract/implementation.


                                                            - 15 -

5.4 Costs and financing:
The total cost of the Project was US$9,722,270 compared with the Project Appraisal Document
(PAD) estimate of US$10,050,000. The Bank financed US$4,857,107 million (49.96%), while
the Government contributed a total of US$4,865,166 million equivalent (50.04%)


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Since fiscal sustainability continues to be Brazil's central economic challenge, and increased equity
one of its most pressing social challenges, the Government has shown its appreciation that the
pension system will need further reforms. Therefore, it is likely that the changes which this
Project advanced will be sustained for the further advancement of the reform program. This
forecast is supported by the now extensive evidence that Brazilian Government administrations
(even of differing parties) have been serious about tackling the pension systems' strains on public
resources and ending their past abuses. The constitutional amendment of December 2003
demonstrated continuing resolve as well as progress in efforts aimed at rationalizing pension
expenditures and deficits. However, the expectation of still greater changes needs to be qualified.
Some of the additional reforms required involve some complex areas and very sensitive political
undertakings, a number of which may need the approval of two thirds majorities in Congress.
And much will depend on the extent to which Brazil maintains a sound macroeconomic program.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
In June 2005, the Bank approved a programmatic Loan for further social security reform,
primarily for public sector works, along with further changes concerning private sector workers
and the "voluntary pillar". In addition, it is preparing a TAL that addresses INSS/Complementary
Pension issues.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Satisfactory. The Bank's extensive sector and operational work provided it with an in-depth
knowledge of social security in Brazil, which led to an effective identification of the main
challenges it faced. It also led to a high quality in the design of the operation as well as other
Bank projects in Brazil and Argentina. The Project's monitoring yardsticks were well designed
and targeted.

7.2 Supervision:
Satisfactory. The Bank's supervision was satisfactory. The Project was supervised regularly and
its ratings were adequately reported. During the interviews conducted as part of the ICR
preparation, management and staff in government repeatedly praised the input from Bank
counterparts. Tasks managers and teams were perceived as very responsive to client needs,
reacting promptly to requests and dealing professionally and courteously with the clients, even
under difficult circumstance, and providing adequate support as needed. At times, relations were
tense but task managers and other staff succeeded in maintaining the channels of communication



                                                  - 16 -

open.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Satisfactory. Overall Bank performance was satisfactory during all stages of the Project cycle.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Satisfactory. The Borrower's performance in the preparation of the Project was satisfactory. The
Administrations were committed to accomplishing the objectives set out for the implementation of
the second phase of pension reform. Government officials and staff of the implementing agencies
worked closely with the Bank's team on a continuous basis providing good cooperation and all
information required.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Satisfactory. Under the Cardoso Government there was strong commitment for fulfilling the
Project's objectives. The new administration, however, halted progress on many initiatives made
under the Bank loan for 8-10 months (not counting the six months prior to elections when
everything stopped) as it took stock of what had been done. The Minister was changed as were
the technical teams. Progress on important initiatives and especially on the fate of key IT Strategy
work was stopped and changes were introduced. On balance, however, the Government's
performance is rated "Satisfactory" because it largely achieved what it set out to do under the
loan. Also, the PCU and MPS officials demonstrated considerable flexibility and creativity in
carrying out the numerous activities. And according to the Ministry, the practices developed for
project management were recognized as a national model by the Office of Good Practices at
INFASIG.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Satisfactory. In the first three years of operation, almost all anticipated results were achieved, a
significant achievement. Project unit staff have generally been highly professional, technically
strong and results-oriented although the turnover in project staff under the successor
administration initially created problems.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory. Overall Borrower performance is rated satisfactory. The Project did not suffer from
major counterpart funding, procurement or financial administration problems; audit reports were
generally available on or just after the due dates, and there were no major accountability issues.


8. Lessons Learned

(a)     Project ownership and implementation team continuity is key. Under the first
administration, and when the PCU team was intact, loan implementation functioned very well.
But the project suffered when the turnover of staff occurred. Could anything have been done to
improve the transition from one administration to another? Perhaps not as the gulf between the
two political parties was very great. Conceivably, some mitigating actions were possible, e.g. (i)
preparation of a transition strategy and studies supporting key reforms, (ii) a fuller dissemination
of project objectives among staff likely to continue in important ministerial positions, (iii) planning
for the transition and courting the new administration, explaining the advantages of carrying


                                                 - 17 -

through with the existing programs, (iv) stressing the high cost/benefit return of IT and other
reforms, (v) undertaking public information and stakeholder campaigns prior to elections. But it
is not at all certain that any of these would have made a difference. Also it would have required
unusual action on the part of the project team and a willingness to intervene in such sensitive
circumstances. These actions are not always advisable either.

(b)     Upfront investment in PCU staff. The Ministry had little experience in multilateral (IFI)
project funding and lacked trained procurement and financial management staff. (Even today the
procurement unit in the Ministry does not handle IFI projects). In such circumstances, an
investment in helping the client adapt to a "project culture" and master Bank procedures could
pay dividends. The Bank should insist on Bank training for PCU staff, especially in procurement.

(c)     Promoting a culture of strategic planning. During interviews, the Borrower
consistently highlighted the need for a culture of strategic planning for project management and
the need for better defined mechanisms for project monitoring and control. It suggested that
instruments for control of project activities be designed well before implementation begins and
then fine-tuned during the period of execution, especially for IT systems.

(d)     Maintaining Flexibility. Much work was carried out for this project which contributed
importantly to its impact. Many of the studies and activities were shaped as the project
progressed. e.g. the CNIS work. In this regard, a LIL's flexibility can be very important,
especially in difficult institutional strengthening projects in challenging environment. The early
LILs, before they were converted into 'hypothesis testing' exercises, were well suited to
challenging institutional environments. PROAST testifies to the utility of small, flexible and well
targeted technical assistance operations. The State Pension Reform LIL--PARSEP which closes
in December will reaffirm this finding. The Bank needs to continue to make space for small,
targeted, flexible operations which are too often avoided because of cost, a bias towards larger
loans, and limitations on SIL and total loan numbers.

(e)     Maintaining contact with middle income countries. Social Security system reforms in
Brazil were the culmination of many years of ESW and policy dialogue. In an MIC such as
Brazil, this association plays a valuable role. And the Bank has learned a good deal from Brazil in
this process.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
See Annex 8 [Borrower's Evaluation Report]

(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A

10. Additional Information

A. The Bank's ICR Team consisted of the following members:



                                                  - 18 -

Chris Parel, Senior Operations Officer, Task Team Leader/Task Manager
Kathrin A. Plangemann, Senior Public Sector Specialist, ICR Mission Leader
Denise von Gersdorff, Consultant
Ruxandra Burdescu, Consultant
Herman Nissenbaum, Consultant
Ada Garcia, Program Assistant
Sharon Spriggs, Program Assistant

B. List of Task Team Leaders of the project in chronological order:

(i)     Mariluz Cortes, Task Team Leader/Task Manager
(ii)    Chris Parel, Task Team Leader/Task Manager

C. Persons interviewed for the preparation of the ICR:

(i)     Chris Parel, Senior Operations Officer, Task Team Leader/Task Manager
(ii)    Katrin A. Plangemann, Senior Public Sector Specialist, ICR Mission Leader
(iii)   Mariluz Cortes, Task Team Leader/Task Manager
(iv)    Valter Silveira, Financial Coordinator for the PCU (Coordenador Administrativo
Financeiro da UCP)
(v)     Vera Lucia de Sousa Gavazzoni, Support Technician for the PCU (Tecnica de Suporte da
UCP)




                                               - 19 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                1
               Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                       Actual/Latest Estimate
Enabling legislation to implement the        Enabling legislation                        Done.
Constitutional amendment
Institutional Reforms to implement the       INSS and SPC Institutional reforms and      INSS studies completed and reforms
Constitutional amendment in place            strengthening                               initiated. SPC reforms held up by GOB
                                                                                         indecision
Enabling legislation to implement the        Enabling legislation                        Done
Constitutional amendment




Output Indicators:
                                                                                1
               Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                       Actual/Latest Estimate
INSS diagnosis and Strategic Plan            INSS diagnosis and strategic plan completed Done
completed
Information System Master Plan finished      Information System Master Plan finished     Done. Note that MPS has distanced itself
                                                                                         from results under the Lula administration.
Strengthening of the SGS system to manage SGS large debtors system implemented           Done
large debtors
Draft Ordinary Laws to regulate              Ordinary law presented to Congress          Done
Complementary Pension System
Strategic Plan for new regulatory agency for Strategic plan developed for Complementary Bank adjustment loan and TAL Indefinition on
Complementary Pension Funds                  Pension Funds                               SPC reform by Government; persist and will
                                                                                         be addressed by
Plan to expand SPC's information system      SPC Information System Plan Completed       Done. But indefinition on SPC reform by
                                                                                         Government
Draft law for work related injury insurance  Draft law for injury insurance presented    Done
Study to reduce evasion and expand           Studies completed                           Done. But implementation depends on
coverage of social security                                                              follow-on loan in part.

1End of project




                                                                 - 20 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                           Estimate      Estimate       Appraisal
                       Component                          US$ million   US$ million
Component 1                                                5500.00         7120.03         129.46
INSS Institutional Restructuring
Component 2                                                 300.00          299.17          99.72
Work Injury Insurance & RGPS Legal Framework
Component 3                                                3900.00         1470.11           37.7
Strengthening of Regulatory Framework Capacity of the
Complementary System - SPC
Component 4                                                 300.00          782.46         260.82
Project Coordination

Total Baseline Cost                                       10000.00         9671.77
                         Total Project Costs              10000.00         9671.77
                                        Front-end fee        50.00           50.50         101.00
                   Total Financing Required               10050.00         9722.27


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2        N.B.F.    Total Cost
                                                                Other
1. Works                                            0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                    ()             (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                         1050.00            0.00         0.00         877.00      1927.00
                                (1050.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)    (1050.00)
3. Services                        0.00             0.00       5473.00        2100.00     7573.00
Consultants                       (0.00)           (0.00)      (3450.00)       (0.00)    (3450.00)
4. Training                        0.00             0.00        500.00         0.00        500.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (500.00)        (0.00)     (500.00)
   Total                         1050.00            0.00       5973.00        2977.00     10000.00
                                (1050.00)          (0.00)      (3950.00)       (0.00)    (5000.00)




                                                - 21 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                   1
                                                         Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                               Other
   1. Works                                0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   2. Goods                               624.00            161.00            416.00             16.00           1217.00
                                         (499.00)           (129.00)         (235.00)            (0.00)          (863.00)
   3. Services                             0.00               0.00            5740.00          1108.00           6848.00
   Consultants                            (0.00)             (0.00)          (3543.00)           (0.00)         (3543.00)
   4. Training                             0.00               0.00            1607.00            0.00            1607.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)          (401.00)            (0.00)          (401.00)
      Total                               624.00            161.00            7763.00          1124.00           9672.00
                                         (499.00)           (129.00)         (4179.00)           (0.00)         (4807.00)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Component 1                  3000.00      2500.00                  4056.00       3064.00                135.2    122.6
INSS Institutional
Restructuring


Component 2                   250.00       50.00                    203.00        96.00                 81.2     192.0
Work Injury Insurance &
RGPS Legal Framework
and SAT
Strengthening of             1500.00      2400.00                   525.00       945.00                 35.0      39.4
Regulatory Framework
Capacity of the
Complementary System -
SPC
Component 4                   250.00       50.00                    73.00        760.00                 29.2     1520.0
Project Coordination
Total                        5050.00      5000.00                  4857.00       4865.00                96.2      97.3




                                                          - 22 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N.A.




                                      - 23 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               8/1998
               5/1997

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               11/16/1999                2     1 Consultant, 1 Task                 S               S
                                               Manager
               3/16/2000                 1     1 Task Manager                       S               S

 Supervision
               2/4/2002                   1    1 Consultant                         S               S
               3/03/2002                  1    1 /Task Manager, 1 Pension           S               S
                                               Administration
               02/22/2003                 1    1 Task Manager                       S               S
               06/21/2003                 1    1 Task Manager                       S               S
               09/30/2003                 1    1 Task Manager                       S               S
               12/03/2003                 1    1 Task Manager                       S               S
               02/23/2004                 1    1 Task Manager                       S               S
               05/23/2004                 1    1 Task Manager                       S               S
               12/03/2004                 1    1 Task Manager                       S               S

 ICR
               3/13/2005                       1 Senior Public Sector               S               S
                                               Specialist



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                  .4                            1.2
  Appraisal/Negotiation                   17.20                             51
  Supervision                             32.41                            107
  ICR                                         1.                            8.2
  Total                                       51                        167.40




                                               - 24 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Project Management Report - PMR periodo ate 31 dezembro 2004
Review of Audit Report year end 2003
Audit Secretaria Executiva-MPAs FY end Dec. 2002
Project Management Report - PMR periodo ate 31 dezembro 2002
Project Management Report - maio-junho 2002
Project Management Report 01-january - 29-March 2002
Audit UCP-SE-MPAs FY end Dec. 2001
Project Management Reprot 30-Setembro - 31 - dezembro 2001
Audit - PROAST - FY end Dec. 31, 2001
Project Management Report - PMR periodo 01-July 2001 - 30 setembro 2001
Audit Min Previdencia and Assistencia Social FY end dezembro 2000
Borrower's Evaluation Report
Project Implementation Plan (PIP)
Loan Agreement dated May 2, 2000
Amendment to Loan Agreement dated October 18, 2001




                                                - 27 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation Report

   Assessment of Development Objectives and Design, and of Quality at Entry

   ·    Was the project objective well designed, relevant and realistic?

   The growing social security deficit highlighted the need to restructure the entire welfare system
   through the creation of a new model. PROAST was developed at a particularly useful moment
   since it focused on a highly relevant issue for the Brazilian government ­ the need to contain
   shortfalls in public finances. The pensions question is of course a major concern not only in
   Brazil but also in many other countries.

   The overall objective of the Project was to assist the implementation of institutional and legal
   reforms needed to create a new social security model. The specific aim was to provide the
   wherewithal for the Ministry of Social Security and the National Social Security Institute
   (INSS) to take forward the Social Security Reform Project from the legal and institutional
   point of view by implementing the provisions contained in Constitutional Amendment No 20,
   published in December 1988. In order to achieve its objectives, the basic aim of the Project
   was to develop activities related to institutional strengthening and to endow management and
   information systems policies with a formal structure. The components of this approach are
   listed in the following chart:


COMPONENT/BENEFICIARY                                  ACTIVITIES/MAJOR PROJECTS
I ­ Restructuring the INSS                             1. INSS Strategic Plan

INSS (Controllers, CGINF and SGS)
MPS (SE, Social Communication)
                                                       2. Information Technology Master Plan
                                                       3. Implementation of Segment Management System - SGS.
                                                       4. Quality Assessment of CNIS data
                                                       5. Social Communication Strategic Plan
II ­ Legal Structure of the General Social Security    1. Legal appraisal of bill
Regime ­ RGPS and SAT

MPS and Social Security Secretariat­ SPS
                                                       2. Regulating the participation of the private sector in the
                                                       `Accident at Work' System ­ SAT (workers disability
                                                       insurance)
                                                       3. Elaboration of a `pure' Actuarial Model
                                                       4. Studies on the expansion of coverage and reduction of
                                                       evasion
III ­ Secretariat for Complementary Social Security    1. Elaboration of Ordinary Laws and Regulations

MPS ­ Secretariat for Complementary Social
Security


                                                   - 28 -

                                                            2. Studies for implementation of the Regulatory Agency
                                                            3. Expanding and updating the SPC Integrated Information
                                                            System
                                                            4. Interconnecting the SPC Integrated Information System
                                                            with other government organs and the EFPP
IV ­ Project Coordination                                   1. Technical Assistance for the Technical Management

MPS ­ Executive Secretariat - UCP
                                                            Units (UCP)
                                                            2. Implementation of the UCP
                                                            3. Payment of fees to UNDP and IBRD
                                                            4. Management of the Cooperation Agreement (project
                                                            implementation)


The PROAST objectives were well designed and timely. They fully satisfied Brazil's requirements
concerning the social security question. In view of the type of project (basically studies), measuring the
actual results is a more difficult matter. It is difficult to gauge outcomes in numerical terms - the
performance of activities over the longer term will be a more accurate reflection of the value of the Project.

l Revised objective


One of the objectives of the project underwent revision. This involved reallocating funding between
components I (INSS restructuring) and III (Regulation of Complementary Pension Funds). This was
proposed as a result of a change of strategy at the ministerial level, since at the time of the LIL #4537
negotiation, a government project existed which involved establishing a "National Agency for the
Regulation of Private Pension Funds". Implementation of the latter would have resulted in the extinction of
the Secretariat for Complementary Social Security (MPS) and simultaneously in the establishment of a new
structure to be put together and implemented by the Ministry itself. All the activities flowing from the
establishment of such a body and the transition phase were to have been carried out under component III of
the LIL. In November 2000, the plan to transform the SPC into an Agency was abandoned as a result of
modifications to governmental guidelines. The resources that had been earmarked for the transition were
therefore reallocated into other activities of greater priority for the Ministry.

Following a series of analyses and with due consideration for the basic objectives of the LIL, it was
proposed to reallocate resources for the ISS Restructuring Component specifically to the Evaluation of the
National Register for Social Information (CNIS). The latter register is effectively a databank containing all
the information on the insured parties in the Social Security system. It constitutes a key element in the
information infrastructure of the Ministry. In order to upscale NPS/INSS capacity to implement the
reforms in its systems, the CNIS required modernizing, and a number of different projects were developed
and presented to the IBRD concerning this modernization. These embraced the following:

-   Structural projects aimed at increasing the amount of information retained in the CNIS and improving
the quality and speed with which data could be accessed, together with introducing tools which would
enable the INSS to enhance its management procedures using data entered in the register regardless of
origin;

-   Technical improvements dealing principally with technical aspects and targeted at improving the
technical infrastructure of the CNIS through the introduction of tools designed to improve the quality of


                                                       - 29 -

response to inquiries by CNIS users, reducing the length of time required for developing new applications;

-   Statistical improvements aimed at helping the CNIS to generate data about the labor market, employing
the database to provide background information for studies and surveys of interest in the Social Security
area.

l Original components: objectives and costs


Components                                           Cost in US $     % of total     Bank         % of
                                                     million                         Financ.      Bank
                                                                                     US$m         Financ.
I ­ INSS restructuring                               4,850.00         48.3%          3,000.00     59.4%
                                                     300.00           3%             250.00       5%
II ­ Legal Structure of the Social Security General
Regime ­ RGPS and SAT
III ­ Regulating the Complementary Pension Funds 3,900.00             38.8%          1,700.00     33.7%
IV ­ Project Coordination                            949.50           9.4%           49.50        1%
IBRD fees                                            50.50            0.5%           50.50        1%
Total including fees                                 10,050.00        100%           5,050.00     100%

l Revised components


Components                                         Cost in US $     % of total     Bank           % of
                                                   million                         Financ.        Bank
                                                                                   US$m           Financ.
I ­ INSS restructuring                             7.062,74         70,3%          3.783,57       74,9%
                                                   300,00           3%             250,00         5%
II ­ Legal Structure of the Social Security General
Regime ­ RGPS and SAT
III ­ Regulating the Complementary Pension         1.687,26         16,8%          916,43         18,1%
Funds
IV ­ Project Coordination                          949,50           9,4%           49,50          1%
IBRD fees                                          50,50            0,5%           50,50          1%
Total including fees                               10.050,00        100%           5.050,00       100%


Achievement of Objectives and Outputs

Component I ­ INSS Restructuring.

-   Elaboration of the INSS Strategic Plan.
Result: An INSS Strategic Plan was elaborated and strategic guidelines put in place.

-   Evaluation of the new Agencies on the basis of the PMA.
Result: The analysis and evaluation of the processes and quality of the services provided in the revamped
Social Security Agencies.

-   Elaboration of the ongoing Modernization and Improvement of the INSS Internal Audit Division.



                                                   - 30 -

Result: Modernization and improvement program for the INSS Internal Audit Division elaborated and
under implementation.

-    Elaboration of the Technology and Information Master Plan (PDTI).
Result: Social Security Technology and Information Master Plan was elaborated and is under
implementation.

-    Definition of the Social Security services available to the public through IT ­ e-government.
Result: The Social Security PDTI was linked with the Federal Government/Ministry of Social Security
e-government programs.

-    Analysis and evaluation of large capacity IT installation in the Social Security system.
Result: DATAPREV large capacity installations and contracts (physical and logistical components) linked
to it were evaluated.

-    Evaluation, revision, conception and detailed presentation/scrutiny of the Outstanding Debt (`Divida
Ativa') Procedures and Systems ­ Redesigning the Procedures of INSS Outstanding Debt repayment
through the legal channel ­ Sao Paulo/Rio de Janeiro.
Result: Improvements made in the recovery of Outstanding Debt through administrative and legal channels.
The following was confirmed: i) the database is inconsistent; ii) debt is fragmented into small credits; iii)
poor debt recovery success rate; iv) recovery of higher value credits have lowest rate of success; v) limited
liaison between the different stages of the collection process.

-    Training of 170 employees in the new debt recovery approach, with emphasis on segmentation and
economic status of debtors.
Result: Improved liaison between the Segment and Executive Management Units. Improved debt recovery
through administrative and legal channels. Segment Managers trained to draw up proposals for action
within their segments.

-    Procurement of 148 desk top computers, 130 printers, 12 scanners and 29 notebooks.
Result: 102 Executive Management Units of the INSS supplied with suitable equipment employing the
SIGS system, Internet, Net, Informar etc. The equipment is used in Fiscal Enforcement Planning.

-    Training of 40 INSS inspectors in Fiscal Management (MBA ­ FINATEC/UNB).
Result: Improved efficiency of the management of Social Security contributions. Participants are in a
better position to acquire a deeper understanding of government policies and new management instruments
in the area of tax administration including the new model of collection management and the Fiscal
Intelligence Project.

-    Contracting consultants to elaborate DATA MART for the Fiscal Enforcement Planning Division of
the INSS Collection Directorate.
Result: Definition of the Fiscal Intelligence Portal ­ a management-based overview of the information
needed for planning of fiscal enforcement. Implementation of the Fiscal Intelligence System as a planning
tool for fiscal proceedings.

-    Contracting consultants to elaborate DATA MART for the INSS Attorney's Department
(`Procuradoria').
Result: Management information made available to the INSS Procuradoria aimed at improving collection



                                                     - 31 -

procedures through the administrative and legal channels.

-   Evaluation of CNIS data quality.
Result: Short term actions developed to improve data quality and enhance CNIS (see below). It was
confirmed that the data can be utilized for granting benefits from 1976 onwards. ­ Support provided for a
new Bill: "Automatic Recognition of Right to Benefits".

-   Improvements in the CNIS
Result: Specialized consultants contracted to develop the original GFIP Project.
Construction of computerized system to secure general GFIP data directly from employers. In addition ,
the following important activities were undertaken to strengthen CNIS and related systems and procedures.

·   Specialized consultants contracted to develop the `Migration (Individuals) Project' for ORACLE.
·   Construction of new computerized system for the Register of Individuals on the ORACLE platform.
·   Specialized consultants contracted to develop the Migration (Individuals) Project for ORACLE.
·   Construction of new computerized system for receiving payments from individual contributors on the
ORACLE platform.
·   Specialized consultants contracted to develop specifications for CNIS DATA MART.
·   Specifications for a multidimensional database for delivering statistical information related to the entire
CNIS (with the exception of company-related data ).
·   Specialized consultants contracted to develop the Unemployment Insurance Base Project.
·   Construction of computerized system able to incorporate into the CNIS data referring to employees
seeking Unemployment Benefit (`Seguro de Desemprego') from the Ministry of Labor.
·   Specialized consultants contracted to develop the Access Control Project.
·   Implementation of access procedures, as set forth in the Ministerial Ruling No 862/2001, for all the
computerized systems in the CNIS.
·   Specialized consultants contracted to develop the Alphabetic Processor Project
·   Implementation in the computerized system of the CNIS Register of Individuals of a routine method for
identifying people using Portuguese language phonetics.
·   Specialized consultants contracted to develop the `Updating Linkages (`Vínculos')and Remuneration
Project' on ORACLE.
·   Construction of a computerized system for the ORACLE platform to provide information for the Social
Security regarding the process of automatic recognition of insured contributors'rights.
·   Specialized consultants contracted to develop the Components Library Project and to introduce more
modern technical standards (OLTP) in the CNIS large-scale computer system.
·   Specialized consultants contracted to construct CNIS DATA MART ­ UNISYS.
·   Construction of computerized system with a multidimensional database for disseminating statistical
information relating to the entire CNIS
·   Specialized consultants contracted to develop Phase 1 of the "Protective Shield Project".
·   Construction of computerized system for data quality management referring to individuals.
·   Specialized consultants contracted to develop the `Data Matching Project' (Projeto Ambiente de
Homogolação) .
·   Construction of computerized system to be utilized by the project developers, with the aim of quickly
facilitating the authorizations required for ensuring correct matching of the Social Security applications.
·   Specialized consultants contracted to develop the `Insured Individual's Integrated Working Life
History' Project.
·   Construction of computerized WEB system to facilitate registering of work histories of employees.
·   Specialized consultants contracted to develop the GFIP Book Project.
·   Construction of computerized system with a multidimensional database for disseminating GFIP


                                                     - 32 -

statistical data.
·   Specialized consultants contracted to develop `PREV-Citizen' Pilot Project (PREV- Cidadão) .
·   Construction of a functioning WEB prototype for the PREV-Cidadão application.
·   Specialized consultants contracted for constructing DATA MART of the CNIS ­ ORACLE.
·   Construction of a computerized system with a multidimensional database for disseminating statistical
data referring to Companies registered in the CNIS.
·   Procurement of 6 application/data servers, 6 laser printers and 5 notebooks.
·   Data stored securely. Technical upgrading of CNIS.
·   Specialized consultants contracted to develop Statistical Indicators Project (GEFIP).
(i) Definition of the indicators and elaboration of estimators; (ii) Definition of the Sampling Plan; (iii)
Consistency and organization of data; (iv) Data processing; (v) Presentation of indicator estimators.

-   Strategic Communication Plan for Social Security.
Result: Strategic Communication Plan was elaborated and the following was carried out.
·   Training of officials in the Social Security Communication Advisory Units through attendance at the
Media Texts Workshop (Oficina de Texto Jornalístico).
·   Films made about the specific type of bank document (GPS) for paying in social security contributions
by electronic means (Previdenciário Eletrônico) and for the payment of Retirement Pensions and Survivor
Family benefits into individuals' bank accounts.
·   Public dissemination throughout Brazil of the new services provided by Social Security.
·   Consultants contracted to introduce standardized visual identity for the Social Security and the Social
Security Agencies and also for the corporate website known as INTRA ­ PREV. Making all members of
the public in Brazil aware of the institutional logo of the Ministry.

Component II ­ Legal Structure of the General Social Security Regime (RGPS) and of the Accidents
at Work Insurance (SAT-Workers Disability Insurance).

-   Contracting Brazilian and international consultants to evaluate and produce legal opinions
regarding the viability and repercussions of the new SAT model, covering the following points:
international experience; background of Brazilian national attitudes to prevention and treatment;
organization and working methods related to the economy and the national health system; ensuring
compliance with current legislation.
Result: Final draft of the Bill ; Volume Nº 5 of the Social Security Collection "Insurance System for
Work-Related Accidents in the Americas."

-   Contracting of Brazilian consultant to undertake a survey on machines capable of causing
work-related accidents.
Result: Publication of Volume Nº 3 of the Social Security Collection - "Machines and Work- Related
Accidents".

-   Contracting of Brazilian consultant to draw up probability tables covering entries for new retirement
and family survivors' benefits.
Result: Long term projections for granting new retirement and family survivors' benefits and LOAS.

-   Contracting of 11 consultants, to operate in different areas, charged with informing the public about
the expanded Social Security programs
Result: Public information activities undertaken in 10 states, covering 3,020 people.

-   Study of Expanded Coverage and Reduction of Evasion


                                                     - 33 -

Result: An article "Social Security, Social Inclusion and Fighting Poverty", published in the Report on
Social Security (Informe de Previdência Social) for July 2001, and in the April/June edition of "Social
Situation" (Conjuntura Social); Hardback book published with an anthropological-photographic study on
the influence of the Social Security in Amazonian communities. This book will be a special volume to form
part of the Social Security Collection;

-   Training and publications to support training and dissemination activities including
·   Trainingof all members of the Social Stability Program Regional Committees.
·   Revised version of the 2nd Edition of Vol. 7 of the Social Security Collection - "Social Security and
Social Stability: "Formation Course for training specialists in Social Security ".
·   Publication of Vols. Social Security Collection: 9 ­ the "Political Economy of Social Security
Reform"; 10 ­ Specialist Meeting: "Actuarial Techniques and Financial Management"; 11 ­ "Social
Security `own' regimes";
·   "Organizational, Legal and Investment Management Model"; 12 ­ "Pension System Reform in Latin
America";
·   Training of all the members of the Social Stability Program Regional Committees; Revised version of
the 2nd Edition of Vol. 7 of the Social Security Collection - "Social Security and Social Stability:
Formation Course for specialists in Social Security". Booklets and folders produced on Social Security
benefits.
·   Translation of the book "Actuarial Mathematics of Social Security Pensions" by Subramaniam Iyer,
published in a Social Security Collection volume, March 2002.
·   Contracting Brazilian consultant to undertake a Study on the Actuarial Model of Federal Government
Employees.
Results: Registration of 2150 State and Municipal Legislations in CADPREV; Analysis of the Social
Security Compensation Covenant process involving 900 Municipalities (596 Prefectures completed);
Guidance provided for 250 Municipalities with own Social Security regimes; fine-tuning SIPREV;
organization of six technical meetings in Florianópolis, Fortaleza, Brasilia, São Paulo, Tocantins and Rio
de Janeiro.

-   Contracting consultants to elaborate proposals for structuring the SPS.
Result: SPS restructuring plan defined.

Component III ­ Expanding and updating the SPC Integrated Information System

-   Contracting consultants to carry out technical studies to endow the SPC with a range of specific
norms and analytical tools.
Result: Draft decree for introducing regulatory framework to 2001 Supplementary Law N.º 109;
Standardization of the method for calculating the profitability of the schemes of the closed complementary
social security entities (EFPC) based on the `quota' model; budget model standardized for the EFPC; Study
of the way portability is applied in Europe and the United States; Definition of the methodology for market
risk analysis; Strategies for publicizing the SPC project.
-   Publication of books about Complementary Pensions in Brazil i) deferred proportional benefit; ii)
regulating markets; and iii) Complementary Social Security: Collection of Main Rules.
Result: Improvement of the relationship between the SPC and society on the basis of discussion of issues
related to Complementary Social Security; guidance for the users of the complimentary Social Security
system regarding the application of current legislation; background information for improving MPAS
strategic planning.
-   Consultants contracted to carry out a study on acquired rights and contract breaking.



                                                    - 34 -

Result: Definition of parameters to achieve economic and financial equilibrium of schemes; examining
concept of progressive upper age limit for retirement; bringing the rights of participants into line with
Social Security policy.
-   Consultants contracted to carry out an economic study on the applications of the proposal to modify
the minimum age requirement in the complementary pension schemes. Result: Improved actuarial results
of the EFPP; financial health of the complementary Social Security system; bringing legislation into line
with current Brazilian demographic realities.
-   Consultants contracted to introduce instruments for restructuring the working methods of the SPC to
secure maximum advantage from the relevant instruments and to assemble them for easy access in a
Manual of Procedures.
Result: Description of the activities in the RH area of the SPC; manuals elaborated; summary description
model of the new procedures; documentation model; model of the principal stages and deadlines to be
observed.
-   Training of 20 SPC officials: MBA in Evaluation of Asset and Investment Portfolios.
Result : Improved performance by SPC officials who were able to acquire solid knowledge regarding the
evaluation of risk in investment markets and, as a result of training, were able to research, analyze and
monitor EFPC financial applications made in Brazil.
-   Consultants contracted to assist development of the DAIEA - Analytical Presentation of Investments
and Monitoring of Financial Applications (a system with a database containing investment portfolios
aimed at endowing the SPC with managerial instruments capable of following up and monitoring
investments made by the pension funds).
Result:. Transparency in the administration of pension fund assets; standardization of calculation of the
rate of return enabling comparisons to the made between profitability and actuarial minimums; setting up
EFPC investment portfolios; improving the database for formulation of public policies.
-   Consultants contracted to assist the SPC. to integrate its information system into the information and
data structure of Closed Complementary Social Security bodies.
Result: System enhanced.
-   Procurement of 16 Notebooks, 2 data servers, 4 desktop computers and increasing disk size for NEC
server.
Result: To speed up the scrutiny (fiscalização) process, making it possible to access basic fiscal
enforcement software; improving SPC technical assets; managing/storing files related to all SPC users.
-   Consultants contracted to provide technical assistance to the Secretariat for Social Security as part
of a process of modernization and integration of the SPC information system, Closed Complimentary
Social Security entities and governmental bodies connected with the organization of events relating to the
application of Complementary Social Security legislation.
Result: EFPC data updated, made available, stored and monitored.

Socioeconomic outcomes and other social benefits

l Transparency in the execution of INSS funds and measurement of the executive performance of the
    Executing Management Units through the employment of performance indicators designed to follow up
    the activities undertaken by the administrative and functional units;
l Creation of the Information Technology Unit within the ambit of the INSS and MPS together with the
    standardisation of new information systems developed for supporting the operational activities of the
    Institution;
l Creation of social control mechanisms for payment of employer contributions (`contribuições
    patronais'),with Social Security beneficiaries securing access to the CNIS database via the Internet;
l Enhanced security and reliability of the data in the Social Security databases, thereby facilitating the




                                                    - 35 -

    creation of mechanisms to provide benefits in a quicker and more reliable manner;
l Identification of possible fraud by using data cross-referencing in the CNIS database;
l Priorities established in supporting the legal actions undertaken by the INSS resulting in improving
    success rates.
l Dissemination of information about Social Security through publications. The latter cover, for
    example, the activities undertaken by Social Security in riverine communities and explanations about
    technical aspects of Social Security legislation.

Major factors affecting implementation and outputs

l Factors outside government control or implementation agency control (positive/negative)


-   Positive: The devaluation of the Brazilian currency against the dollar substantially increased the
resources available for use in the project, thereby favoring the complementarity of the planned activities.

-     Negative: The project was held back by the change of government. The amount of time needed for the
new managers to adapt and acquire the necessary knowledge caused major delay towards the end of the
project.

l Factors within Government Control or implementation agency control (positive/negative)


-   Positive: The commitment by the top echelons in the Ministry of Social Security was a determining
factor in the success of the activities undertaken under the aegis of the project. Individuals were nominated
to be responsible for each of the activities in order to ensure that results were in line with project
expectations, thereby creating an `accountability mechanism'.

-   Negative: The strategic modification introduced by the Ministry of Social Security in the course of the
project affected the development of a number of activities, making it necessary to revise and reallocate
resources within the ambit of the project.

l Factors subject to control of implementation agency


-   Positive: By retaining officials responsible for project activities and coordination, the project proceeded
in a uniform manner and with no drawbacks. The Project Coordination Unit adopted a pari-passu
follow-up of activities by organizing monthly meetings with those responsible for the activities. At these
meetings the outcomes were presented to Senior Directors, as a result of which the latter were induced to
show heightened commitment to the project.

-   Negative: The lack of experience of the Coordination Team caused a number of delays and difficulties
in complying with the contractual conditions. This situation led to work having to be repeated and to
adjustments to be made to the project.

l Costs and financing


Total costs amounted to US$ 9,722,273.90 (nine million, seven hundred and twenty two thousand , two
hundred and seventy three dollars and ninety cents) corresponding to 96.74% of the costs of project. Of
this amount, US$ 4,857,107.83 was financed by the World Bank and US$ 4,865,166.07 from national
counterpart funds.




                                                      - 36 -

Sustainability (See the Annex at end of this report)

In order to implement the studies, a loan of US$ 94 million was negotiated with the IDB. This loan,
PROPREV ­ `Programme in Support of the Modernisation of the Management of the Social Security
System' - targeted the redesign of the working procedures of INSS, the development of new corporate
systems, training technicians in the new procedures and systems, upgrading Social Security technical/IT
facilities to access the new systems and updating the Social Security agencies with a view to improving
services to members of the public. The project is in its fourth year of execution and is currently developing
the new systems and upgrading the technical facilities based upon the Technical Master Plan developed
under PROAST.

Bank and Borrower Performance

l Bank performance during preparation


The World Bank was an excellent partner for the Ministry of Social Security, both in the elaboration and
execution of the project. As far as elaboration was concerned, the Bank made an important contribution by
indicating activities (not planned at the outset) to help ensure the integrity of the project. Furthermore, the
World Bank contributed to the creation of the Project Coordination Unit within the Social Security
Ministry. The latter had no experience at the time in executing projects financed with external resources
and the Bank's intervention made it possible to provide training for technicians in IBRD contracting and
procurement rules as well as encouraging Financial and Disbursement Management best practice.

l Bank performance during supervision

During execution of the project, the World Bank, through its local representation, afforded every
support in the area of contracts and procurement as well as supporting the financial management
of the project. The Bank was always on hand to assist the UCP and the technical divisions of the
Ministry of Social Security in the elaboration of the TOR, bids, rendering of accounts and to help
overcome a range of difficulties encountered in complying with contractual conditions.

l Government Implementation Performance

Brazilian government bodies provided all necessary support and demonstrated their commitment
to the successful implementation of the project by the Ministry of Social Security. It is worth
highlighting the support given by the Ministry of Planning through SEAIN and that of the Finance
Ministry through PGFN and COREX.

l Implementing Agency Performance

We consider that the performance of the executing agency was excellent throughout virtually the
whole project. However, the performance of the Ministry of Social Security fell short of
expectations in executing one of the activities ­ the procurement of a `Storage Capacity' to
facilitate CNIS data cross-referencing. The procurement of the server caused the project to be
postponed two years.

Lessons learned



                                                      - 37 -

Among the lessons learned during execution of the project the following should be highlighted:

-Lack of an international project "culture" ­ The execution of an activity with a predetermined
beginning, middle and end is a source of difficulty within the context of the Brazilian public
administration. The change of culture associated with the execution of activities planned under
the aegis of the project and requiring adherence to a strict timetable calls for a certain dynamism
which is not evident in the public service - where bureaucracy and budgetary problems are at the
root of constant delays.

-The need to make projects well-known internally so that individuals can fully participate ­
In order to ensure that projects are successful, it is necessary at the outset to undertake an
ongoing campaign to familiarize people within the institutions with all the relevant issues vis-à-vis
the projects. Officials working for the institutions involved must know about and show interest in
what is happening and be fully aware of the changes that will flow from project implementation.
The parties involved need to feel that they have an important role to play in achieving project
results, especially those outcomes which concern social matters, and officials need to be in a
position from which they can make a contribution. It is important to implant the idea that the
above-mentioned campaign should not be restricted to Project launch. The information flow
needs to be constant during the course of the entire project in order to provide transparency and
uniformity.

-Lack of engagement in the areas involved - The lack of participation occurs as a result of
ignorance of the project, as mentioned in the above paragraph. Participation in the project
remains confined to those people who are directly involved. This undermines development of the
project, and is especially onerous for those who are committed to changing the institutional
culture. Application of the results effectively becomes obligatory, thereby creating resistance to
the proposed changes.

-The need for the commitment and support of the Administration­ In order to achieve the
success of the project, it is vital to gain the support and involvement of the Administration. Such
support helps to make the decision-making process more rapid and efficient. All those involved
are thus stimulated to work towards obtaining results, basically on account of the need for them
to present results to the Directors of the Institution. Commitment by the top echelons of the
Administration ensures that in the case of modifications to the direction of the project or changes
of government, procedures can be rapidly adapted to the new circumstances.

-The need to adjust procedures - The relevant procedures need to be well-defined and available
in manuals or other documents easily accessible to all those involved in the project-related
activities. Such measures ensure that familiarity with the activities underway do not remain solely
in the hands of particular individuals but are of interest to the Institution as a whole. Well-defined
procedures guarantee an easy transition in the event of changeovers of managers or other officials
concerned with the project.

-Better definition of responsibilities­ As with case-flow management, the responsibilities of



                                                   - 38 -

each of the parties involved in the project must be properly specified. Instruments (decrees/edicts,
regulations, etc) current within the Institution must be clearly set out in writing so that everyone is
fully aware of their own responsibilities within the project.

-Better definition of the instruments of control­ The instruments of control must be
established before the project commences and fine-tuned during the course of its execution. The
creation of computerized systems for following up the project must be a relevant concern for its
managers and not simply a mechanism to make the project more effective. The requirement for
information to be available for all the institutions involved directly or indirectly in the project, such
as the World Bank and the internal and external control bodies of public entities, calls for reliable
data to be freely available. However, in spite of the widespread existence in the various organs of
financial follow-up systems, the majority of projects lack mechanisms to facilitate evaluation of
the social outcomes. The impact generated by the projects, especially in the area of Brazilian
Social Security, with its substantial structure and social reach, is extremely difficult to evaluate.
Results are generally long-term and need to be continuously followed up in order to obtain an
accurate final evaluation.

-Improved document management ­ The project documents need to be stored in an organized
and easily accessible way. The is a constant need for `closed documents' and case data to be
consulted, whether for audits or for researching progress of the project.

-Improved elaboration of terms of reference­ The Term of Reference is the basic document for
effecting contracts and procurements within the project. Poorly drawn up terms will inevitably
result in badly-drafted contracts. It is important for the project to have within its team (or to be in
a position to contract) specialist consultants to draw up such documents in accordance with
World Bank rules, particularly in order to avoid future problems with bidding exercises, given that
errors made in the documentation can lead to the cancellation of the latter.

Partner Comments

We regard the project as a model to be followed both by the Brazilian Government and by IBRD,
given that the commitment shown by both parties to its success was out of the ordinary. The
close interest shown in the project by the senior administration of the Ministry of Social Security
made it possible to elaborate high-quality products in which we were able to identify outcomes
that were reflected in improvements in the quality of services provided for members of the public.
We find the `quality' aspect difficult to measure, since any improvement in the quality of services
provided for the public are basically the sum total of the activities undertaken directly by the
organization and those developed by the project. A good example of this is the advantage to
society as a whole of being able to access the CNIS to effect individual control of social security
contributions collected by companies.

The Ministry of Social Security received the unconditional support of the World Bank, which
made it possible to execute 93.5 8% of the project within a period of three years, in accordance
with the original plan.




                                                  - 39 -

- 40 -

