Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4537-BR
Loan Agreement
(Social Security Technical Assistance Project)
between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated May 2, 2000
LOAN NUMBER 4537-BR 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated May 2, 2000, between the FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL (the 
Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS (B) by an agreement, dated December 23, 1998, between the Borrower and 
the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), IDB has made a grant to the Borrower in the 
amount of one million two hundred thousand Dollars ($1,200,000) to assist in the 
financing of Part C.1 of the Project, and in the financing of the technical assistance 
for the preparation of three complementary laws (leis complementares) required to 
implement provisions of Constitutional Amendment No. 20 (as such term is defined in 
Section 1.02 (a) of this Loan Agreement) regarding a new framework for closed pension 
funds, establishment of pension funds by federal, state and municipal governments, and 
operation of closed pension funds of public sector enterprises, which drafts have 
already been prepared; and
WHEREAS (C) the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend to the Borrower the loan set forth in Section 2.01 of this Agreement (the Loan) 
upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Currency Pool Loans” of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997), with the modification set forth below (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions is modified to read as 
follows: 
“(c) Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower 
shall prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall reasonably  request, on the execution and initial operation of the 
Project, its cost and the benefits 
derived and to be derived from it, the 
performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their 
respective obligations 
under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of 
the Loan.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“Constitutional Amendment No. 20” means Amendment No. 20, promulgated on 
December 15, 1998, to the Borrower’s Constitution, which amended existing, and 
introduced new, provisions regarding the Borrower's social security systems for 
private sector and public sector employees, and the Borrower's complementary pension 
systems; 
(b)
“DATAPREV” means Empresa de Processamento de Dados da Previdência Social, 
MPAS’s data processing agency; 
(c)
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (3) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(d)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(e)
"INSS" means Instituto Nacional do Seguro Social, the Borrower's 
institute for social security;
(f)
"MPAS" means Ministério da Previdência e Assistência Social, the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Social Security; 
(g)
"PCU" means the unit in MPAS, established pursuant to Portaria No. 6197, 
of December 9, 1999, of the Minister of MPAS, for purposes of being responsible for 
Project coordination; 
(h)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;  
(i)
“SPC” means Secretaria da Previdência Complementar, the Secretariat of 
Complementary Pension Funds within MPAS; and 
(j)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, various currencies that shall 
have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of five million fifty thousand 
Dollars ($5,050,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with 
each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Page  3
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, and in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%).  On each of the dates 
specified in Section 2.07 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued 
on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated 
at the rate applicable during such Interest Period. 
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.  
(c) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
“Interest Period” means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately 
preceding each date specified in Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement, beginning 
with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
“Cost of Qualified Borrowings” means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the 
Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of the 
outstanding borrowings of 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
excluding such borrowings or portions 
thereof as the Bank has allocated 
to fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) 
loans which may be made by 
the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates 
determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section. 
(iii)
“Semester” means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar 
year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months’ notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
“(a)
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Quarter, plus three-fourths of one percent 
(3/4 of 1%). On each of the dates 
specified in Section 2.07 of this Agreement, the Borrower 
shall pay interest accrued 
on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest  Period, calculated 
at the rates applicable during such Interest Period.”
“(b) 
As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify  the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of 
such Quarter.” 
“(c)
(iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period commencing on January 
1, April 1, 
July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year.” 
Page  4
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09. The Minister of Social Security of the Borrower and any person or 
persons whom he or she shall designate in writing are designated as representatives of 
the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken 
under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01.  (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project, through MPAS, with the assistance of INSS and DATAPREV, with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative and 
financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b) 
The Borrower, through MPAS, shall enter into arrangements with INSS and 
DATAPREV, satisfactory to the Bank, to govern the participation of INSS and DATAPREV 
in the Project, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
amend, suspend or fail to enforce any of such arrangements. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, during the execution of the Project: 
(a)
maintain the PCU with a structure and functions satisfactory to the Bank, 
and with qualified staff in adequate numbers as required to carry out its 
responsibilities; and 
(b)
maintain, within MPAS, a technical unit comprised of qualified technical 
staff from MPAS, INSS and DATAPREV to be responsible for assisting the PCU in all 
technical aspects related to the carrying out of the Project. 
Section 3.04. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.01 of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall, in the eighteenth month after the date of this 
Agreement or when 50% of the Loan amount has been withdrawn, whichever occurs first, 
hold with the Bank an in-depth review of the progress in the carrying out of the 
Project and in the achievement of its objectives, such progress to be measured on the 
basis of the indicators for Project monitoring and evaluation purposes set forth in 
the attachment to the letter (Ofício No. 553/AAI/MPAS, dated December 14, 1999), from 
MPAS to the Bank, and thereafter take all such action which shall have been agreed 
upon by the Borrower and the Bank during such review as necessary for the efficient 
execution of the Project or the achievement of its objectives, any such action to be 
taken in the manner and within the timetable agreed upon during such review.
Section 3.05. The Borrower, through MPAS, shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to 
ensure the continued achievement of the objectives of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Page  5
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain in the PCU a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph 
(a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to 
the Bank, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year: (A) certified 
copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such 
statements, records and accounts and 
report of such audit, by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 
and 
accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project 
Management Reports submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied 
upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Bank for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph 
(a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than six months 
after the Effective Date, or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare 
quarterly Project management reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which: 
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following 
the period covered by said 
report; and (B) shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by said 
report 
and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan during the six-month period following the period covered by said report;
Page  6
(ii)
(A) in the case of the Project Management Reports for the periods 
ending on 
March 31 and September 30 of each year, describes physical 
progress in Project 
implementation, both cumulatively and for the 
relevant preceding six-month 
period; and (B) explains 
variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation 
targets; and 
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, 
as at the end of the 
period covered by said report. 
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement, within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a) 
the Borrower has established the financial management system referred to 
in Section 4.01 (a) of this Agreement; and 
(b) 
the arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement have 
been entered into. 
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that this Agreement has been validly 
registered with the Central Bank of Brazil. 
Section 5.03. The date August 2, 2000 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministério da Fazenda
Procuradoria Geral da Fazenda Nacional
Esplanada dos Ministérios - Bloco “P” - 8° andar
70048-900, Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
With copies to:
Ministério do Planejamento, Orçamento e Gestão
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco “K” - 5º andar
70040-906, Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
Ministério da Previdência e Assistência Social
Secretaria de Previdência Social
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco "F" - 7( andar
Page  7
70059-900, Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the city of Brasília, D.F., Brazil, as of the day and year first above written.
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By /s/ Almir Martins Bastos 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Gobind Nankani 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Latin America and Caribbean
Witnessed by: /s/ Waldeck Ornelas
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
A.
General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods (other than
   1,049,500
100% of foreign
under Part C.1 of
expenditures,
the Project)
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 80 % of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally
Page  8
(2)
Consultants'
   3,450,000
100%
       services (other
       than under Part
       C.1 of the Project)
(3)
Training (other
     500,000
100%
       than under Part
       C.1 of the Project)
(4)
Fee
      50,500
Amount due under
Section 2.04 of this
Agreement
TOTAL
   5,050,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
(c)
the term "training" includes travel costs and per diems of trainees, and 
costs of training materials and facilities. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$500,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date 
but after February 1, 1999, or after a date which is twelve months before the date of 
this Agreement, whichever is later. 
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for training and under any contract for 
goods or services which is not subject to prior review by the Bank pursuant to the 
provisions of Part D.3 of Section I and Part D.3 of Section II of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
B. Special 
Account 
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a 
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received: (i) the first Project Management 
Report referred to in Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement, and (ii) a request from the 
Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and 
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to 
Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1. 
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
Page  9
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this 
Agreement; 
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records 
and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on 
the basis of Project Management Reports. 
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of 
this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Not 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the 
amount of $100,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account, 
plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or exceed the 
equivalent of $600,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
Page  10
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis 
of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested. 
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank 
shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn 
by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports 
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such 
deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account 
under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and 
(b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the Project Management Report 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance 
Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such report; 
provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by 
said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special Account, shall not 
exceed the amount of $700,000.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to support the design and implementation of 
institutional and legal reforms to the Borrower’s social security system for private 
sector workers and to the Borrower's system of complementary pension funds, as 
required to put into effect the reforms approved by the Constitutional Amendment No. 
20.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Restructuring of INSS
Page  11
Provision of technical assistance and training for the on-going restructuring 
program of INSS which aims at improving its efficiency, reducing its operating costs, 
and enabling it to implement the systemic reforms of the Borrower's social security 
system for private sector workers. Such assistance will consist of: 
(a)
the carrying out of a diagnostic study of INSS strengths and 
opportunities, and the formulation of a strategic plan for its restructuring;
(b)
the development of a master plan of information systems renewal for the 
purposes of: (i) improving collection by INSS of social security contributions, and 
INSS monitoring and benefit payment functions; (ii) adopting in INSS a system of 
individual pension accounts; (iii) improving the communication network among INSS, 
MPAS and DATAPREV; (iv) improving the links of client service centers to INSS's 
information system; and (v) introducing in INSS an effective management information 
system; 
(c)
the expansion of INSS's system to monitor and collect social security 
contributions; 
(d)
a qualitative and quantitative evaluation of INSS's national cadaster of 
social information, and formulation of proposals for an expansion of the data in such 
cadaster; and 
(e)
the design of a program of public information and dissemination of the 
above referred measures.
Part B:
Pension and Insurance Legal Framework 
Provision of technical assistance to MPAS’s Secretariat of Social Security in 
the preparation of draft laws (including the carrying out of the corresponding 
technical studies) required by Constitutional Amendment No. 20 for the implementation 
of the reform of the Borrower's social security system for private sector employees 
and for the Borrower's insurance system for work-related injury.
Part C:
Regulation of Complementary Pension Funds
1.
Provision of technical assistance to SPC in: 
(a)
development of a technical accounting model that meets international 
accounting standards for pension funds; and 
(b)
the design of new investment, actuarial, financial and supervision models 
for complementary pension funds.
2.
Provision of technical assistance to SPC in: 
(a)
the preparation of draft ordinary laws (leis ordinárias) and other 
instruments required to regulate the provisions of the complementary laws referred to 
in the Whereas Clause (B) of this Agreement, after their enactment; 
(b)
the improvement of SPC's information system and administrative 
procedures, including acquisition of equipment and training of staff; and 
(c)
the carrying out of studies on, and preparation of a strategic plan for, 
the creation of a regulatory agency for complementary pension funds.
Part D:
Project Coordination 
Strengthening, through technical assistance, of the capacity of the PCU to 
coordinate the execution of the Project.  
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3 
Page  12
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
   (Expressed in 
Date Payment Due
      Dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
beginning September 15, 2005
through September 15, 2014
255,000
on March 15, 2015
205,000
________________________
*
The figures in this column represent Dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective 
dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
The interest rate (expressed
as a percentage per annum)
applicable to the Loan
on the day of prepayment
multiplied by:
Not more than three years
0.20 
before maturity
More than three years but
0.40 
not more than six 
years before maturity
More than six years but
0.73 
not more than eleven 
years before maturity
Page  13
More than eleven years but not
0.87 
more than thirteen 
years before maturity
More than thirteen years
1.00 
before maturity
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General 
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 
(the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
In the procurement of goods pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 1 above, the 
provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto, 
regarding preference for domestically manufactured goods, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.  For purposes of the Guidelines, the 
term “custom duties and other import taxes” includes the Borrower’s Freight Surcharge 
for the Renewal of the Merchant Marine (Adicional ao Frete para a Renovação da Marinha 
Mercante), established pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree-law No. 1,142 of December 30, 
1970, as amended on December 31, 1987, or any other tax, levy or charge that, in the 
reasonable opinion of the Bank, may substitute it, in whole or in part, after January 
1, 1998.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures  
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $350,000 per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines.  In the procurement of goods under this Part B.1, bidding 
documents in a standardized form for the Project shall be used. Without limitation to 
any other provisions set forth in this Schedule or the Guidelines, the following shall 
apply to the procurement of goods under this Part B.1: 
(a) 
contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been determined to 
be the lowest evaluated bid, such evaluation to be based on price and, whenever 
appropriate, to also take into account factors similar to those referred to in 
paragraph 2.51 of the Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid evaluation shall 
always be based on factors that can be quantified objectively, and the procedure for 
such quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid; 
(b) 
whenever required by the Bank, the invitation to bid shall be advertised 
for at least three consecutive days in a newspaper of wide circulation in Brazil;
(c) 
the arrangements, under the invitation to bid, for joint-ventures 
(consórcios) of Brazilian and foreign firms shall be approved in advance by the Bank 
in each case; 
(d) 
the invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of acceptance of 
bids, minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices; and 
(e) 
the purchaser shall not, without the Bank's prior approval, issue any 
change order under a contract which would increase or decrease by more than 15% the 
quantity of goods (and related services) without any change in the unit prices or 
Page  14
other terms and conditions of sale. 
2.
International or National Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount of $100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of international or national shopping procedures, at the option of the 
Borrower, in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of 
said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review 
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply to any contract to be awarded in accordance with the provisions of Part 
B.1 above, and to the first contract to be awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of Part C.1 above. 
3.
Post Review 
The procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 above. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services, 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more per contract, shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and 
cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Least-cost Selection
Consultants’ services for assignments of a standard or routine nature, estimated 
to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount of 
$250,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for assignments, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount of $250,000 equivalent, for which the need for 
preparing and evaluating competitive proposals is not justified, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Page  15
Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Single-Source Selection
Consultants' services which may be subject to single-source selection pursuant 
to the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Consultants Guidelines and are estimated to 
cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount of $250,000 
equivalent, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, costing in the aggregate not more than $250,000 equivalent, may 
be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review 
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 above, the procedures 
set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply, 
provided that the terms of reference for the respective assignments shall be approved 
by the Bank prior to the selection of the consultant.
