Dacumc_Of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Ripet Nt. P-3924-KO
REPORT AND RECoMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERtATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION A-ND DEVELOPMENUT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$53 MILLION
TO SEOUL METROPOLITAN GOVERNMENT
WITH THE GUARAhN-TEE
OF THE REPUBLIC CF KOREA
FOR THE
SEOUL URBAN TRANSPORTATION PROJECT
MARCH 28, 1985
This docume  has a restricted distibuoo and may be used by recpiets only in the performae of
their ficial dues Its conteb My not odtrwise be sdbdosed widhou Wodd Bank autherirdon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      -     Won (V)
US$1               =     U 800
(as of December 1, 1984)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
meter (m)                        3.28 feet
kilometer (km)         =         0.62 miles
square meter (sq m)              10.8 square feet
pyong (py)                       3.307 sq m or 35.586 sq ft
liter (1)                       0.26 US gallons
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CBD    =  Central Business District
ERR    =  Economic Rate of Return
GNP    -  Gross National Product
ICB    =  International Competitive Bidding
HOC    =  Ministry of Construction
SMG    =  Seoul Metropolitan Government
TPD    =  Traffic Police Department
TSM    =  Transportation System Management
UTIC   =  Urban Transport Improvement Committee



FOR OFFICIAL IUS ONLY
KOREA
SEOUL URBAN TRANSPORTATIO! PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:            Seoul Metropolitan Government (SMG)
Guarantor:           Republic of Korea
Amount:              $53.0 million equivalent
Terms:               RepayabLe in 15 years with three years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate. SMG would bear the
foreign exchange risk.
Project Description: The proposed project is expected to improve traffic and
transport conditions in the Seoul metropolitan area. It
includes the provision of m.Lssing road links on three
major arterials together with road widening and
reconstruction of major intersections, all within Seoul
City. The project would also improve SMG's capability in
transport planning and traffic engineering and management
by introducing a program to maximize the utilization and
improve the safety of existing roads and by supporting
-the related investment, organizational and staff training
needs necessary for successful implementation.
Risks:               There are no speciaL risks associated with the project.
SMC is welL experieiced and capable of constructing the
major civil works. However, the instituticaal develop-
ment components can be expected to require more time to
take hold. The project includes provision for consul-
tants to assist SHG in these matters.
Tbb documnSt ha a  t    distributio and may be used by recipients onb in the paformance
of their olicid dutm Its contents may not otherwoc be disclesed without World Bankt authoriztion. 



- ii -
Project Costs a!                                         Local    Foreign   Total
:                         -  ~~~~~(S million)  -
Civil Works                      68.5      39.0    107.5
Land acquisition                 47.3       0.0      47.3
TSM, Safety                       9.8       8.9      18.6
Institutional Development         0.6       0.6       1.2
Base cost                  126.1     48.5    174.6
II.
Physical contingencies            7.5       5.5      13.0
Price contingencies               8.6       8.4      17.0
Total project cost            142.2      62.4    204.6
Financing Plan:
IBRD                              0.0      53.0     53.0
SMG                             142.2       9.4    151.6
Total Financing              142.2      62.4    204.6
Estimated Disbursements:  Bank EY             1986   1987   1988   1989   1990
Annual             6.90  12.30   18.40  10.80   4.60
Cumulative        6.90  19.20   37.60  48.40  53.00
Rate of Return: 41%
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 5406-K0 dated March 20, 1985
ap: IBRD 18779
a/   Including taxes and duties estimated at $6.1 million equivalent.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED IOAN
TO THE SEOUL METROPOLITAN GOVERNMENT
FOR AN URBAN TRANSPORTATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
tc the Seoul Metroipolitan Government (SMG) in an amount equivalent to $53
million for a Seoul Urban Transportation Project. The Guarantor is the
Republic of Korea.  The loan would have a term of 15 years, including three
years of grace, and would bear interest at the standard variable rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The latest Economic Report entitled "Korea's Development in a Global
Context' was distributed under cover of Sec M84-570 dated June 21, 1984. The
following sumnary is based on this Report. The Country Data Sheets are
attached as Annex L.
3.        Past Performance.  Twenty years ago, Korea was one of the poorest
developing countries, heavily dependent on agriculture, with a weak balance of
payments position financed almost entirely through foreign grants. But the
ability to sustain a growth rate of 8% p.a. from 1960 onwards raised Korea's
per capita income from $180 in 1960 to $1,700 in 1982 (both in current
prices), with more than 80Z of the population above the poverty line, and
enabled her to join the ranks of the semi-industrial nations. During this
period, the share of the manufacturing sector in GNP rose from 14Z to 29%
while the share of agriculture fell from 39Z to 17%. Merchandise exports,
principally manufactured goods, accounted for almost 41X of GNP as against a
mere 4% two decades earlier and the balance of payments position had been
considerably strengthened.
4.        Rapid industrial growth also brought about a marked siift in the
structure of employment.  In the eari- sixties well over half the labor force
had been employed in agriculture. By 1982, employment in this sector had
fallen to a third, while manufacturing absorbed over 22% of the employed.
Heavy migration from the rural areas to the cities combined with deliberate
Government policies to improve the agricultural terms of trade and a steady
increase in agricultural value added helped to ensure growth in per capita
rural incomes more or less in line with the rest of the economy through the
1970s.
5.        Adjustment to Oil Crises and Domestic Shocks, 1974-84.  Foreign
borrowing, an increase in public sector savings, and export diversification
resulting from an ambitious industrial policy enabled the country to negotiate
the first oil crisis without faltering, and thereafter, to grow by 10% p.a.
until 1978. However, the very success of the Korean planners in stimulating
the economy generated serious inflationary pressures. Real wages rose at an
average annual rate of 18% between 1975-78, well in excess of the growth in
productivity, and by 1978 the Consumer Price Index was increasing at over 18%



-2-
p.a., compared to a rate of 10% in 1977.  In addition, the large volume of
subsidized credit which vas made available to the heavy and chemical
industries by the financial system under the Government's direction, brought
about an excessive expansion of capacity in subsectors faced with weak demand
while the traditional light industries were frequently starved of funds. This
trend was in line with the Government's view of Korea's changing comparative
advantage, but it created structural imbalances in the manufacturing sector
and in conjunction with exchange rate rigidity and a rising price level,
dampened export growth in the latter part of the 1970s.
6.        The Government announced, in April 1979, a far reaching program of
stabilization-cum-restructuring to contain price pressures and revive exports,
but it was overtaken by a series of unexpected shocks. The oil price adjust-
ment by OPEC raised Korea's petroleum import bill from about $2.3 billion in
1978 to $6.2 billion in 1980 with the price-induced increase eq,.al to nearly
6Z of GNP in 1980. In October 1979, President Park Chung Hee, the chief
architect of Korea's "economic miracLe" since the mid-sixties, was assassina-
tea. This was followed by a period of the severest political uncertainty and
social unrest in twenty years, with the situation returning to normal only
after a new Administration under President Chun Doo Hwan was installed in
September 1980. On top of these developments, unfavorable weather reduced
agricultural output by about 22% in 1980, or over 4Z of GNP, and a 20% decline
in investment led to a worsening of deflationary pressures that outweighs the
10Z growth of export volume. As a result, GNP fell by 6.2% in 1980, unemploy-
ment increased to 5.2Z from 3.2% in 1978 and the higher costs of fuel, raw
materials and foodstuffs pushed up consumer prices by 29%.
7.        To stabilize the economy and promote external adjustment, the
Government attempted, with some success, to restrain wages. It also adopted a
system of managed float, as a consequen_e of whirh the effective exchange rate
was cut bv 30% in 1980. Improved competitiveness and weak domestic demand
allowed export volumes to increase by 10Z in 1980 and a further 17Z in 1981.
This sizeable expansion in trade brought about a narrowing of the current
account deficit from $5.3 billion in 1980 (9.4Z of GNP) to $4.6 billion (7.4%
of CNP) in 1981. Meanwhile a 0.3% cut in real wages following on the heels of
a 5% drop in the previous year, together with some levelling off of import
prices, led to an easing of inflationary pressures. These favorable develop-
ments continued through 1982, a year which saw inflation declining to 7.3% and
the payments deficit to 3.9% of GNP, largely because of movements in the terms
of trade favoring Korea, modest success on the wages front and rather more
conservative fiscal and monetary policies.
8.        1983 and 1984 saw a continuation of the improving trend brought
about by the stabilization and adjustment program begun in 1979/80. Helped by
the recovery of export demand in the electronics, machinery and transport
sectors, the current account deficit shrank further to $1.6 billion in 1983
and $1.4 billion in 1984. With money supply growth restrained to a
conservative 12Z-15% and with wages running behind productivity inflation
continued to slide, being 3.4% in 1983 and 2.8% in 1984. Real GNP surged by
9.5% in 1983 and 7.7Z in 1984. In short, Korea not only jumped back on to a
high growth trajectory but managed to do so while keeping its current account
deficit low and its prices stable.



-3-
9.        Medium-Term Prospects.  As was the case during the 1970s, Korea's
rate of growth during the 1980s will be determined largely by the performance
of exports on the one hand and savings on the other. The revised version of
the Fifth Plan aims for a growth rate target of 7.5Z which is to be achieved
via an export growth rate of 10% and a national savings rate of 29Z. All this
is to be accomplished in an environment of stable prices and equilibrium in
the balance of payments. The proposed targets are ambitious and the self-
imposed constraints are tight. Hence, careful macroeconomic management will
be required over the next few years.
10.       Export performance over the last eighteen months has been very
encouraging. Merchandise exports grew by 12% during 1983 and 132 in 1984.
However, this performance has been tied largely to the U.S. economic recovery
and the continued strength of the U.S. dollar. Exports to the U.S. grew by
32.1% in 1983 while exports to the European countries rose only 6.9Z and to
Japan only 0.5%. Therefore, if the U.S. recovery falters, or if protectionist
sen.iment increases, it is likely that Korea's exports will grow more slowly
and the pace of GNP growth slacken. Korea is aiming to soften the impact of
such eventualities by investing in domestic R&D and in upgrading the skills of
its labor force so as to be able to diversify its export base. It is also
diversifying its export markets.
11.       National savings are being promoted partly through a process of
financial liberalization which raised real rates of interest for depositors of
up to 5% in 1983, partly through budget surpluses arising from restrained
government expenditure and partly through measures to increase efficiency in
public sector activities. The savings rate stood at 24.4% in 1983, up from a
recent low of 21.9% in 1980. However, a sat ngs rate of 29% and a leveL of
fixed investment of about 31% will be needed if growth is to be maintained at
7.5Z without pressure on the balance of payments. On the basis of past
aggregate savings performance, it is likely that the Koreans will attain their
savings target. However, the process may be more difficult in the future than
it has been in the past. There has been a marked upward shift in the demand
for consumer durables in recent years.   While the burden of increasing
savings will largely be met by private savings as a result of rising income
and profit levels, Government is also taking action to raise further the
contribution of the public sector to savings.
12.       External Resource Balance.  While total debt is high ($40.4 billion
in 1983, 54% of GNP), the debt service ratio, including interest on short-term
*      debt, remains a manageable 20Z.  The share of short-term maturities in total
debt is, however, high (at 35%), and is a cause for concern. This aspect of
its debt and the continuing uncertainty in international financial markets,
which has led to high and volatile interest rates, has persuaded the Koreans
to hold their new foreign borrowing at about $6 billion per annum through 1986
and to seek balance of payments current account equilibrium by then. This
implies a level of net external borrowing of $2.5-$3 billion per year through
1986. Our assessment is that this level of borrowing is reasonable, and that
while a significant proportion of official assistance should be continued,
Korea is likely to move increasingly towards reliance on private flows to meet
external capital requirements. This assessment was endorsed by the Consulta-
tive Group for Korea which met on July 16, 1984 in Seoul. At that meeting,



- 4 -
the Consultative Group, recognizing the rapidly evolving character of Korea's
economy and the trends in external assistance, concluded that its role as a
forum for aid coordination and enhanced mobilization of external capital is
now being fulfilled by Government. A_cordingly, it was agreed that the Group
should be formally dissolved. Nevertheless, the Government explicitly
indicated its need and its intention to continue with a substantial program of
borrowing from the Bank and its wish to continue with an active economic
dialogue that would provide a vehicle for continued advice on matters of
economic policy.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
13.       As of September 30, 1984, Korea had received 73 Bank loans (includ-
ing one Third Window Loan) and 8 IDA Credits, totalling $5,170.88 million in
loans and $115.58 million in credits (taking into account cancellations and
the refinancing of one IDA Credit in a subsequent Bank loan). As of that
date, $1,261.23 million remained undisbursed on effective loans, mostly from
commitments in the past two years. Annex II contains a list of outstanding
Bank loans, IDA Credits, and IFC Investments as of September 30, 1984.
Progress on project implementation is generally satisfactory. Although
implementation delays had occurred in several projects - mainly irrigation,
highways and population - due primarily to shortfalls in Government budgetary
contributions, they have been addressed and resolved. The Government has
taken measures to increase local funding of Bank-financed projects. Since the
Government's budgetary situation continues to be tight, the status and plans
for counterpart contributions will remain an integral part of country
implementation reviews held jointly with the Government. Nevertheless,
despitc the recent delays, Korea's disbursement rate remains the highest among
major Bank borrowers in East Asia.
14.       The current pipeline of projects in the lending program for Korea
reflects an evolution in the Bank's strategy from lending for discrete
projects concerned with micro-institutional issues increasingly to making
loans which are aimed at addressing more broadly based policy and institu-
tional issues. This gradual change in the Bank's lending approach, made
possible by the relatively sophisticated Korean institutions, is proceeding
well. The Bank has made two Structural Adjustment Loans (SALs), which
complement this approach by concentrating on issues that have macro and multi-
sectoral impact.
15.       Bank lending for the industrial sector is aimed at helping improve
Korea's trade and industrial incLntives policies, at improving the performance
of the financial system and at developing the technological capabilities of
Korean enterprises. So far, trade and incentives issues have been addre-sed
through two SALs. Issues pertaining to the strengthening of the financial
system are being addressed under the Bank's lending for industrial finance.
For example, the Industrial Finance project approved by the Board in June 1983
supports the Government's ongoing program of financial sector reform. The
Bank's technology enhancement objectives are being pursued through three proj-
ects, two approved in 1982, for the Korea Technology Development Corporation



-5-
(KTDC) which finances research, development and engineering and for the
machinery industries which is designed to provide financial and technical
assistance to raise the productivity of small and medium machinery firms and a
third approved in October 1984 for a second KTOC project. Future lending
planned for industry in Korea would include continued support for the
financial sector reform, for KTDC and for the small and m2dium-industry
subsector which is expected to play an importont role in the growth of the
skill-intensive industries which are crucial to the next stage of development
of Korean industry.
*      16.        Future Bank lending for agriculture is expected to be limited,
reflecting the completion of the Government's program of major infrastructure
works. A planned fourth credit loan would address some of the institutional
issues related to the provision of agricultural credit which have been defined
in a sector survey. This would complement public finance issues related to
farm subsidies and the restructuring of agro-industries that were included in
the second SAL.
17.       The Bank has played a major role in assisting the Government to
modernize and expand the transport system through lending for the railroad,
highway construction and improvement, and port expansion. The Highway Sector
loan approved in March 1984 as well as future operations would address
sectoral and subsectoral issues such as improving the integration of invest-
ment planning, energy conservation and transport efficiency related to
regulation and road user charges. Those transport issues which involve
macroeconomic policies affecting other sectors of the economy, such as
relative fuel prices, are being handled within the context of the second SAL.
18.       The Bank Group has been involved in helping to meet the requirements
for skilled technical manpower, a precondition of up-market industrial diver-
sification. The Bank's first sector loan for education, approved in 1980, was
aimed at improving engineering and management education and technician train-
ing. A second sector loan, approved in Kay 1984, supports measures designed
to improve qualitative aspects of secondary and higher level science and
technology education.
19.       The Bank's objectives for urban sector lending to Korea, including
urban transport are:
(a) to assist in effectively expanding urban infrastructure and provid-
ing services equitably;
(b) to introduce new technologies and innovative approaches to project
planning and management;
(c) to strengthen the ability of sector inst-itutions to plan and imple-
ment projects; and
(d) to promote a more comprehensive and long-term approach to policy
formulation.



-6-
20.       Since 1979, the Bank has made eight loans in support of urban devel-
opment projects, two land development and low-income housing projects, three
regional development projects and three water supply projL.ts. All have been
designed to support policy and institutional changes.
PART III - THE URBAN TRANSPORT SECTOR
21.       Urbanization Trends.  High growth rates and the changing structure
of the economy have resulted in a shift in much of the population out of rural
areas. While the overall population growth has declined to under 1.5% p.a.,
the urban population continues to increase at more than 5Z p.a. Today, over
60% of the 40 million Koreans live in urban areas, and this is projected to
increase to 80% by the end of this century.
22.       Korea is also a densely populated country with over 400 inhabitants
per square kilometer. The combination of economic prosperity and rapid struc-
tural change in the economy in a physically crowded environment has created a
significant number of very large cities. The metropolitan area of Seoul now
includes approximately 14 million inhabitants, and there are three other
cities over one million, and thirty-six over 100,000. This situation has led
to a rapid rise in the demand for all types of urban services and the need to
resolve problems associated with very large cities.
23.       Urban Transport in Korea.  The urban transportation system in Korea
has functioned well but is approaching a critical phase in its development.
The salient characteristic is the low but rapidly rising number of privately
owned automobiles. At the end of 1982 there were 225,631 private automobiles
in the country or 5.7 cars per thousand population (174 persons per car).
This compares with 18 persons per car in Malaysia and 65 in the Ivory Coast,
which both have income levels less than Korea's.
24.       The present low level of motorization is a result of high taxation
on both the acquisition and the use of private cars during a period when
Korean incomes were much lower than today and the stock of automobiles was
small. However, based on recent trends, the future growth of the automobile
population seems assured. Since the economy resumed growth in 1981, private
automobile registration has been increasing at a rate of 20X p.a., which is
fast enough to double the stock in four years. Although Government policy
favors the developmnent of a strong vehicle export industry which will be
based, in part, on a solid domestic market, there are no signs that the
financial disincentives to ownership and use will be significantLy reduced.
Nevertheless, rising incomes in a strong economy and the experience of other
countries at Korea's income level suggest that a Large increase in the number
of autos seems plausible. This would certainly lead to a much greater demand
for transportation infrastructure than presently exists. This expected
increase in vehicle supply will be principalLy absorbed by the urban areas,
and it is likely to quickly lead to extreme traffic congestion.
25.       A serious aspect of the road transport sector in Korea is the poor
accident record. In 1982, 6,110 persons were killed as a result of traffic
accidents and over 130,600 persons injured, of which 45,200 were seriously



-7-
injured or maimed. Pedestrians accounted for 63Z of fatalities and 53% of
injuries. Insurance claims amounted to $279 million equivaLent. Interna-
tional comparisons based on 1978 data show that Korea had the third highest
rate of deaths per 10,000 vehicles among 36 developing countries, with an
accident rate roughly four to five times higher than in other Asian
countries. It is doubtful whether the relative position of Korea has changed
significantly since 1978 since little has been done to combat the problem on a
systematic basis.  It is estimated that road accident costs currently
represent about 1% of GNP per year.
*       26.        Transportation in Seoul.  Almost one third of Koreans live in the
greater Seoul area whc-e "0% of the CNP and 60% of manufactured goods are
produced. All types of activities and facilities are concentrated in Seoul,
including over half (55%) of the vehicles in the country. Although the
Government has tried to limit the growth of Seoul City through measures aimed
at stimulating the development of secondary and satellite cities, the popula-
tion has continued to increase at about 4Z p.a. over the past decade in the
city itself and twice as fast in the metropolitan region as a whole.
27.       The populations of Seoul City and the greater Seoul area were esti-
mated to be 8.7 million and 13.9 million respectiveLy in 1982, making it one
of the largest concentrations of urban population in the world. Seoul has
been the capital of Korea since the fourteenth century. and the location of
the Central Business District (CBD) and the street layout date back to that
time. Until the early 1970s, development was concentrated on the north side
of the Han River. The basic aim of the present master plan for the capital
region is decentralization through the establishment and growth of satellite
cities within a 40 km radius of the center of Seoul. Within Seoul City, the
goals of the plan are to achieve equal population distribution both north and
south of the river and to develop urban activity centers which will take some
pressure off the CBD and, in transportation terms, reduce the concentration of
trips to and from the CBD. Many construction projects in the past decade were
on the south bank of the Han River where population density is high but
employment still relatively low. The newly developed areas south of the river
are well laid out w.th wide arterial roads connecting residential and commer-
cial centers. A measure of the importance of the south bank development is
the fact that the number of bridges across the river has more than doubled (to
14) since 1975.
28.       The urban transport system in Seoul city is composed of two main
e       elements:  the road network carrying public, private and commercial vehicles.
and the subway/urban rail network. Compared with cities of the developed
world, Seoul has a relatively small road area as a proportion of the total
urban land, amounting to 10.4% in 1971, and 15.3% in 1981.  The road area is
planned to be increased to about 20% by the year 2000, and at the same time
the proportion of paved roads is planned to be increased from 69% (1981) to
100l (2000). The emphasis of Seoul City's current road construction program
is towards circumfereticial road projects and the improvement of cross-city
links along the northern and southern banks of the Han River. Seoul is plann-
ing to construct approximately 36 km of arterials and expressways per year
from now until the end of the century, involving an investment program of at
least $60 to $80 million per year. The major focus of the short-term road



-8-
program is to eliminate bottlenecks, built and improve major arterials of
regional importance, and provide access to the eastern portion of the south
bank where the stadiums for the 1988 Olympics and many apartment complexes are
located.
29.       Public transport plays a major role in Seoul's transportation
system. Compared to 1977, the shares of private cars and railways/subways
have increased while those ef buses, taxis and others have decreased. If
walking is included, (journevs of more than 10 minutes), the daily total
number of trips in 1982 was estimated to be 18.9 million with the following
breakdown by mode: 59Z by bus, 13% by taxi, 7% by rail/subway, 8X by car, 12%
by foot and 1% by other modes.
30.       In 1982, the vehicle fleet of Seoul City was made up of some 128,000
private cars, 30,000 taxis, 13,000 buses and 78,000 trucks and vans. The
number of fixed-route buses was 8,055, with the remainder being operated as
tour and company employee buses. The fixed-route buses comprised 6,810 city
buses (20-25 seats with standing allowed) and 1,245 seat buses (25-37 seats
with no standing). In addition to these two basic types of urban bus systems,
a suburban bus system exists linking Seoul to communities in the surrounding
region. On some sections of the central area road system, bus volumes attain
300-600 vehicles per hour, representing up to 501 of the total traffic. All
bus services in Seoul are privately owned and operate without subsidy. Ninety
private firms operate on 323 regular and seat bus routes throughout the
city. A tyr,ical company owns 90 buses, each running between 350 and 400 km
per day and each carrying some 1.380 passengers per day. These figures
suggest an efficiently run system providing a good level of service. However,
both the opening of the subway system (first phase in 1974 with full operation
expected in 1985) and the growing p-ivate automobile traffic pose chaLlenges
for the bus system. Proper integration of the bus and subway systems is
essential both to maximize utilization of the subway investment and to retain
the viability of the bus svstem as it is adjusted to accommodate the subway
lines. Although there are practically no public transport priority measures,
such as bus lanes, in use at this time, they will become necessary to assure a
continued high level of bus service in the face of greater road congestion in
the future.
31.       In addition to roads and surface rail, the other major infrastruc-
ture component of the Seoul transport system is the rapidly expanding subway
network and the interlinked Korean National Railroad (KNR) passenger services.
A first subway line of 9.5 km was opened in 1974; the second phase cf 54.3 km
in 1984, and the remaining two lines are expected to be complete by the end of
1985, when the entire system will include 123.0 kilometers and 102 stations.
At the present time there is very little coordination among the subway system,
the KNR system, and the bus route network. A major reorganization of the bus
network is planned by SeouL Metropolitan Government (SMC) to maximize effi-
ciency and provide feeder services to the principal subway stations.
32.       Although the traffic situation is not yet serious compared to many
other large LDC cities, Seoul's congestion is rapidLy worsening. According to
a recent study by Korean consultants, between one-half and three-quarters of
the 112 critical intersections in Seoul will be saturated by 1988. The



-9-
planned expansion of vehicle manufacturing for the home market, which could
increase the number of cars in Seoul 4 to 5 times by 1996, will have a major
detrimentaL impact on traffic speeds. The full consequences of this national
level policy on the local transport system are not yet fully appreciated by
Korean authorities.
33.       The extensive subway system being constructed in Seoul cannot be
expected to resolve the urban transport problems on its own, since most users
must transfer from buses at both ends of their journey, and because subway
ridership is projected to be mainly made up of existing bus users and not of
automobile paszenzers.  The resuLting reduction in the number of buses will be
small, because buses a-e presently overcrowded, and will offer only a very
temporary imprcv-pwnt on the roads, since the current rate of growth of car
traffic will overtake the -eleased road space in a matter of two to three
years. The signs of rising congescion are already apparent in Seoul where
traffic volumes are growing by 10-1SZ p.a. The continuation of the present
policies, which give emphasis to major road construction, will not be
sufficient to resolve the traffic problems, because resources are too limited
to accommodate unrestrained demand. This is now recognized in Korea, and
there is official support for a comprehensive approach to demand management
stressing cost efficiency, traffic management and bus priorities combined with
strict controls on parking.
34.       Although congestion is most severe in the CBD and its approach
reads, this is the most difficult part of the city in which to make improve-
ments, since development is -very dense, with associated high land costs and
new right-of-ways almost impossible to find. Traffic in part of the central
area of Seoul is controlled by a computerized signal control scheme, which in
the next three years is to be extended from the present 131 intersections to
421, including major intersections south of the river. Although the control
center is manned by the Traffic ?oLice Department (TPD), very few officers
have any t-aining in traffic control.  The traffic accident situation in Seoul
is serious. as in the country as a         whoL, with over 1,100 fatal accidents
annually, a large Droportior. of which involve pedestrians, and some 36,000
recorded annual in jury accidents.
35.       Sector Organization.  Cities in Korea are responsible for urban
transportation planning, construction of cransport infrastructure, traffic
management and the provision and operation of their public transit systems.
In Seoul, as is typical of the larger cities, a number cf bureaus have respon-
sibility for different aspects of the transportation 3ystem.  The Office of
Construction and Engineering constructs major civils works, the City Planning
Bureau prepares the transportation master plan, the Construction Management
Bureau programs road investments, the Transportation Bureau regulates public
transport and places some road signs and the Traffic Police Department is
responsible for traffic control, enforcement and safety. Each Bureau does a
good job within its well-defined responsibilities but comprehensive planning
or horizontal coordination of the whole urban transport system is weak. There
are also a number of activities, such as traffic management, which have not
been done in the past, both because they fall outside the mandate of the
existing bureaus, and because the city has not traditionally recruited staff
trained in these areas.



- 10 -
36.       These fragmerzed responsibilities, aLong with a shortage of skilled
technicians in the fields of transport planning, traffic engineering and
project evaluation. have Led to an u_ban transport system in Seoul City where
planning is characterized by isola:ed treatment of individual problems. The
existing road facilities are technically well constructed and efficiently
implemented but are poarly integrate!, :..d suffer from lack of continuity,
poor connectivity and variable standards. In particular, very Little atten-
tion, or budget, is aevoted to improvements which are specifically designed to
enhance the capacity of the existing road network except in the area of road
maintenar.ce, which is generally well carried out.
37.       Government Priorities and Bank Lending Strategy.  As part of the
development strategy of the past twenty years the Government has deliberately
directed resources toward industry and the promotion of export capacity in the
economy. Investments in social infrastructure and services during this period
did not match the spectacular growth of personal incomes.  The rapid urban
population growth, combined with under-investment in the past, has placed
considerable strain on the quality of many urban services. In recent years,
particularly starting with the Fifth Development Pran (1982-86), the Govern-
ment began to give a higher priority to investments in housing, water supply,
environmental improvement and other urban services thich enhance the quality
of life. Planned investments in water supply ircreased more than six-fold in
real terms between the Third (1972-76) and Fifth Plans; investment in housing
reached an all time high of over 6% of GNP in 1983. In urban transport, major
investments have been made in major arterial roads and for subway construction
in Seoul and Busan, although insufficient attention has been given co the
effectiveness of some of their investments. Bank support for urban develop-
ment coincided with this new emphasis, with lending in the last five years
shifting largely to support urbanization, industry and energy.
38.        --e proposed project would follow the Bank's sector lending
strategy. This approach allows for basic pLanning and evaluation techniques
to be learned through their application on routine investments and for the
process of institutionaLizing systems which are new to Korea, such as
Transportation System Management (TSM), to be methodically introduced and
supported over a reasonable tine period.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
39.       Project Origin and Formulation.  At Government's request a Bank mis-
sion visited Korea in October 1980 to review the urban transport situation
generally and project possibilities specifically. The mission prepared an
overview report for the Government, which, while noting significant progress
made in recent years, highlighted the need for improvements in traffic and
transport planning, traffic management, and urban transport policy formula-
tion. The mission also suggested the need for strengthening key institutions
and for Improved coordination among the various national and local government
institutiGns.  The mission identified specific projects for Seoul, Busan and
three other cities. Regarding Seoul, the report observed that the transport
situation was entering a critical stage because of the rapidly increasing
automobile ownership, the need to integrate the subways with the surface sys-



- 11 -
tems, and the need to better connect the satellite cities to Seoul. Based on
the findings of the mission, transport planning studies were initiated in
various cities under supervision of the Ministry of Transportation (starting
with Seoul in 1982 and Busan and other cities in 1983). These studies were
financed from Loan 1758-KO. The Seoul study, which formed the basis for this
project, was conducted by Korea Advanced Institute of Science and
Technology. The Project was appraised in July-August 1984. Negotiations were
held in Washington in February 1985.  The Staff Appraisal Report (No. 5406-iO
dated March 20, 1985) is being distributed separately. A supplemental project
data sheet, including a time-table of key events and a summary of special
conditions, is attached as Annex III.
40.       Project Rationale and Objectives.  The objectives for this project
include not only the construction of needed and justified urban transport
infrastructure but also the promotion of more capable and better coordinated
urban transport institutions. Korean agencies are now well experienced in
general civil works, but are still weak in planning and coordinating a system
of investments such as those necessary in the public transport field. There-
fore, che rationale for the Bank to support urban transport projects in Korea
is to promote institutional development in order to strengthen planning capa-
bility and to introduce traffic management concepts and practices.
41.       This project has pursued these objectives, both during the prepar-
ation phase where interbureau coordination and the application of more
rigorous evaluation techniques were required and in the project, by focusing
on the introduction of a mechanism for planning and implementing improvements
on the existing road and public transport network in Seoul through the
practice of TSH. TSM is a comprehensive approach to traffic and transpor-
tation management, involving a wide variety of traffic control techniques and
physical improvements ranging from minor road works to full scale recon-
struction of m'jor intersectrns.  Institutional changes and reorganization
are being undertaken in SMG specifically in response to the need to plan and
implement the TSM program.
42.       The objectives for the proposed project would be to:
(a) improve the transportation system in Seoul through a comprehensive
set of investments and programs, including: (i) the introduction
and application of TSM techniques along selected major t-ansport
corridors and in the CBD; (ii) improvements to major intersections;
and (iii) the construction and widening of strategic road links;
(b) preserve and strengthen the public transport system by: (i) intro-
ducing bus priority measures; and (ii) promoting the integration of
the bus and subway systems; and
(c) promote institutional development through strengthening the capabil-
ities of SMG and TPD to plan, implement and evaluate traffic and
safety improvements.
43.       Project Description.  The proposed project would include four prin-
cipal components:



- 12 -
44. I. Major Road Investments. The construction and widening of major
arterial roads would be the largest project item involving approximately 70Z
of project costs. The proposed components are all high priority items in
Seoul City's current transportation master plan. Three main routes are
involved, as summarized below.  (See IBRD Map 18779).
(a) Eastern Arterial. The aim of this component is to upgrade and widen
the eastern arterial road which forms an important regional link be-
tween Euijeongbu in the northeast and Seongnam in the southeast. A
5.7 km section in the north will be widened from 6 lanes to 6 lanes
and a new 3.0 km six lane section will be constructed in the south.
(b) Western Arterial. This component involves new construction of a
missing link to form an effective western distributor and bypass to
the central areas. The link is a 10.8 km, four lane expressway
including four grade-separated interchanges.
(c) Gangbyeon. (North Han Riverside Road). The objective of this
component is to upgrade the existing North Han Riverside Road from
two lanes to four lanes between Hannam Bridge and Jamsil Bridge.
This 8.4 km link is built to inferior standards and is currently a
bottleneck on this route.
45. II. Major Intersection Imurovements. Severe congestion is currently
caused by a number of bottlenecks on the road network. Three such priority
projects, currently in Seoul City's road program, are included in the project,
representing about 16Z of project costs. The feasibility and design studies
for the Yeong Dong Int-erchange have been reviewed and found satisfactory by
the Bank. The remaining two candidate intersections, which are scheduled for
later implementation, will also be subject to detailed feasibility and design
studies. The Bank's satisfactory review of the results of these studies is a
condition of disbursement for these two investments (see para 3. of Schedule 1
of the draft Loan Agreement). The three major interchanges are (see IBRD Map
18779):
(a) Yeong Dong Interchange. The construction of a grade-separated
interchange between the Eastern Arterial and the North Han Riverside
Road (Gangbyeon Ro) will effectively reduce traffic congestion at
the junction of two important corridors. The widening of the North
Riverside Road together with TSM actions along the Eastern Arterial
are also included as part of the project.
(b) Yeongdeungpo Rotary. The conversion of an existing rotar7 into a
fully grade-separated interchange at the junction of Kyongin Ro and
Gangnam Ro will accoL Jdate rising volumes of both roads and
rationalize the traffic flows through this congested location.
(c) Gilum Interchange. This intersection, at the junction of Hia Ro and
the Second Ring Road, will be rebuilt as a fully grade-separated
interchange to facilitate traffic movements westward onto the Ring
Road.



- 13 -
46. III. Transportation System Management ZTSM) and Safety Programs. The
principal objective of this component is to introduce and carry out a four-
year program of low-cost traffic improvement measures along about ten major
corridors and in the CBD aimed at increasing road capacity, improving traffic
flows with particular priority for public transport vehicles, and improving
road safety. TSM is a comprehensive approach to traffic and transportation
management, involving a wide variety of traffic control techniques and physi-
cal improvements. The program involves the identification of traffic bottle-
necks, traffic conflicts between different types of transport (buses, private
cars, taxis, Dedestrians). and accident blackspots along specific corridors.
Typical measures utilized to deal with these problems include junction
improvements, one-way streets, channelization, markings, signaling, bus bays
and priority lanes, selective road widening and pedestrian facilities such as
safety islands and controlled crossings. For purposes of implementation, TSH
*_iovements have been divided into "major" and "minor" categories on the
basis of implementation responsibility. Preliminary plans for these corridors
have been prepared which will be updated and detailed by the TSM Section (see
para. 51 below) on an annual basis.
47.       In addition to the safety measures included as part of the TSM Pro-
gram, Lhe project also includes a city-wide remedial program of accident pre-
vention. This includes introduction of safety measures at about 200-300
hazardous locations, over four years. by carrying out investments recommended
by the proposed accident investigation and analysis system to be introduced as
a part of the institutional development of the Traffic Police Department (TPD)
as indicated in para. 52 below.
48.       in contrast-with other major project investments which are discrete,
the TSM and safety components represent programs which should become a regular
continuing activity within SMG. Thus, development of institutional arrange-
ments for this purpose is an important part of these programs. Both the
preparation of the project itself and the design and implementation of the TSM
and safety programs address institutional weaknesses in the urban
transportation activities of SMG. More rigorous project evaluation exercises
and considerable coordination among relatively independent bureaus took place
as a result of project preparation. The TSM and safety programs, in the
project, require inter-bureau collaboration and the impLementation of new
types of investments for which the institutional structure has been put in
place as part of thi; project. For TSH, SMG has established and staffed a new
Section in the Bureaj of Transportation and provided for coordination among
bureaus through the Urban Transport Improvement Committee (UTIC). The safety
pr-ogram also addresses dispersed responsibility by linking the TPD to both the
UTIC and the safety aspects of the TSM Program. The project includes staff
training and expert advice to the TSM Section and the TPD as a part of the
inscitutional development program. The TSM and safety programs represent
approximately 13Z of project costs.
49. IV. Institutional Development. This component supports technical
assistance, training, studies and a limite.d amount of equipment to improve
both the content and process of u-ban Lrarlsporr administration in Seoul
City.  It is focussed on the two main exet:-ing agencies - SMG and Seoul TPD -
and represents about 1% of totaL base project costs. Although institutional



- 14 -
changes are being undertaken specifically in response to the need to pLan and
implement the TSM and safety programs, the development of a TSM Section in SMG
and an Accident Prevention Unit (within the TPD) would have a wider impact,
since these agencies would serve as models for other local authorities to
learn and assimilate new techniques for dealing with traffic and safety prob-
lems. The objectives for each portion of this component are described in the
following paragraphs.
50.       Transportacion Bureau.  The institutional development component to
be implemented by SMG principally concerns the TSM Section within this
Bureau. This compunent has three main objectives: (a) to strengthen the
newly formed TSM Section; (b) to train staff in the use of TSM and highway
safety techniques; and (c) to develop, within SMG, a coordinated and compre-
hensive approach to resolving urban transport problems.
51.       These objectives would be achieved through the funding of:
(a) an Advisor to the TSM Section to assist in: (i) the preparation and
implementation of traffic and safety improvement schemes for
selected zorridors and the CBD; and (ii) the establishment of a
city-wide traffic monitoring program;
(b) consultants to carry out: (i) the detailed design and engineering
of the traffic and safety improvement scheme-; (ii) a traffic
monitoring program to evaluate the impact of the TSM program; and
(iii) a demand management and comprehensive parking policy study;
and
(c) the participation of SMG staff in local and overseas training pro-
grams.
52.       Traffic Police Department (TPD).  The institutional development
component to be implemented by the TPD will focus on accident prevention, road
safety and traffic control. The objectives of this component are: (a) to
strengthen the Safety Unit of the TPD; (b) to train staff in the gathering and
use of accident intelligence data and accident prevention techniques; (c) to
prepare a citywide program of remedial actions at accident blackspot loca-
tions; and (d) to strengthen enforcement and traffic control practices. These
activities would be undertaken in close collaboration with the newly formed
TSM Section.
53.       Project Cost.  The total project cost, including price and physical
contingencies, taxes and duties is estimated at $204.6 million, of which
$62.4 million or about 31Z represents the foreign exchange component.
Property and land acquisition costs, estimated at about $47.3 miLlion, are
included. Taxes and duties are estimated at $6.1 million. Cost estimates are
based on detailed engineering designs for the 1985 construction program for
roads, major interchange improvements and bridge widenings, and preliminary
engineering designs for the balance of the road construction program except
for the Yeongdeungpo and Gilum Interchanges as well as TSM and safety works.
The base cost is expressed in December 1984 prices. Physical contingencies
have been estimated at 15% for civil works with preliminary engineering, and



- 15 -
5% for those with detailed engineering, averaging about 7% of total base
costs. Price contingencies for foreign costs have been estimated at 8.0% in
1985, 9.0% p.a. thereafter. For local expenditures, price increases are
estimated at 2.5% for 1985 and 5.5% thereafter. It is assumed that the real
value of the Won in dollar terms will remain constant over the life of the
project.
54.       Financing Plan.  The proposed Bank loan of $53.0 million would con-
tribute about 26% of total project costs. The loan would cover 85% of foreign
exchange costs. The loan would be made to the Seoul MetropoLitan Government
for a term of 15 years including three years of grace. The Republic of Korea
would guarantee the Loan. The balance of the project cost, Won 121 billion
($151.6 million), would be financed by SMG. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that SMG would provide the necessary counterpart funds in a
timely manner (Section 3.01(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
55.       The Borrower and Project Implementation.  The project would be
executed by SMG, the borrower, which is an independent legal entity having the
status of a "special city" under Korean law. The Mayor is appointed by the
President of the Republic, reports directly to the Prime Minister and is an
ex-officio member of the State Council. Notwithstanding the special
relationship of the city with the national government, the finances of SMG are
substantially independent of the national government and the bulk of its
revenues are generated locally. Government grants have accounted for only 3%
of SMC's income in recent years and, if the size of the local tax revenue base
increases as expected, the relative size of transfers from the Gover.nent is
likely to decline to negligible levels by the late eighties.
56.       The Korean presentation of municipal accounts does not distinguish
between recurrent and capit-al -woenditures. The total revenues of SMG for
1984 amounted to the eqnivalent o' US$1.2 billion compared with total
expenditures of US$1.0 billion. In both 1983 and 1984, the overall surplus
was significantly high reflecting a generl fiscal retrenchment at all levels
of Government. It is a measure of the conservative fiscal management of SMG
that borrowing has been small and related to the project requirements of
individual departments rather than to any overall fiscal need. As of
end-1984, there was only an estimated US$90 million equivalent of debt
outstanding on the general account of SMG. Service payments, both principal
and interest, amounted to only 2% of total revenues during 1984. Projections
indicate that borrowing will continue to be marginal to SMG's revenue require-
ments and that total debt service will be no more than 2% of revenue by the
end of the project-executing period. It was agreed during negotiations that
the audited financial statements of SMG would be sent to the Bank within nine
months of the end of each fiscal year (see Section 4.01 (b) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
57.       The Project Management and Evaluation Bureau will have responsi-
bility for overseeing and monitoring the project with the following Bureaus
directly involved in the implementation: Transportation: feasibility,
design, supervision of the TSM Program as welt as direct implementation of
"iminor works" and some aspects of the Safety Program; Construction
Management: feasibility and design of major roads, intersection and bridge



- 16 -
widening and design of "major" TSM works; Office of Construction and
Engineerin:  construction of major roads, intersection and bridge widening
and "major TSM works; and the Traffic Police Department: feasibility, design
and implementation of the Safety Program. Other bureaus would be involved in
the TSM component through the UTIC, which has been set up to coordinate com-
prehensive planning of traffic improvements.
58.       The Office of Construction and Engineering is well experienced and
capably staffed to carry out its role in the project. The newly created TSM
Section within the Bureau of Transportation would initially be staffed with
six members drawn from existing SHG employees supported by local and foreign
advisors. The SMG's own plans caLl for upgrading the TSM Section to a full
Division within about one year if the program proves to be successful.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that SMG would engage the TSH Advisor
by June 30, 1985 and maintain this Section in operation with adequate staff
(para. 4 of Schedule 5 of the draft Loan Agreement). Assurances were also
obtained that the TPD would engage advisors in the fields of safety and
traffic control, by JuLy 31, 1985, to introduce modern accident investigation
and analysis procedures as well as to train TPD in the techniques of enforce-
ment and safety improvement design (para. 5 of Schedule 5 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
59.       Implementation Schedule.  The project will be implemented over a
four-year period, 1985-89. DetaiLed engineering has been completed for the
major intersection and bridge widening schemes and for major road works in the
1985 construction program. Related land acquisition has also been completed
or is proceeding satisfactorily. The tendering process on the major first-
year works has already -started and the first set of contract awards is expec-
ted in June 1985. The southern end of the Western Arterial requires either
that the Ministry of Construction (MOC) construct a short connecting road
outside the city boundary, or for SMG to upgrade an existing link road. MOC
has already programmed this connecting road in its budget starting in 1985.
Assurances were obtained from SMG that should HOC not go ahead with this
construction, SMG will upgrade the existing link to adequate standards in time
for the opening of the new section (para. 2 of Schedule 5 of the draft Loan
Agreement). SMG also gave assurances that a 0.9 km link between the northern
end of the Eastern Arterial and the main Euijongbu Road, across Nowon Bridge,
would be improved at approximately the same time as the widening of the
Eastern Arterial is undertaken (para 3 of Schedule 5 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
60.       Procurement and Disbursement.  There would be about ten contracts
for major works totalling about $126 million, and a large number of smaller
contracts totalling about $24 million. All major contracts would be awarded
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding (ICB) to prequalified
contractors in accordance with World Bank Guidelines. The smaller civil works
contracts will be awarded on the basis of Local Competitive Bidding (LCB), in
accordance with Government procedures which are acceptable to the Bank.
Advance contracting would be allowed to enable SMG to adhere to its first-year
construction program. It is anticipated that such advance contracting would
amount to no more than $5.0 million in total. Goods contracts totalling about
$0.6 million equivalent will be grouped in appropriate bidding packages and



- 17 -
procured by ICB in accordance with Bank Guidelines. A preference margin of
the lower of import taxes or 15% of the c.i.f. value, in accordance with Bank
Guidelines, would be granted to domestic manufacturers in bid comparison.
Miscellaneous goods costing less than $30,000 but totalling not more than
$300,000 may be procured by prudent local shopping involving solicitation of
at least three bids.  Consultants to be financed by the Bank loan would b,
selected according to the Bank's Guidelines.
61.       Disbursements of loan proceeds will be made against (a) 40% of civil
works contracts, including major TSM and Safety component contracts; (b) 100l
of local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 100% of foreign expenditures for
materials and equipment; and (c) 100% of total expenditures for technical
assistance and training. Disbursement for the following components will be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure: (a) civil works for TSM and
Safety components contracts, (b) for goods costing the equivalent of $30,000
or less each contract, and (c) for technical assistance and training con-
tracts. All other disbursements would be fully documented. A small provision
of $50,000 has been made for the retroactive financing of consultant services
to facilitate the TSM Section engaging an advisor as soon as possible. It is
expected that disbursements will be completed by June 30, 1990, about 18
months after completion of civil works, to allow for payment of contractors'
retention monies. The proposed loan is expected to disburse in about five
years, approximately the average time indicated by the disbursement profile
for Korea. In order to facilitate project implementation, a special account
of $4 million would be established, denominated in dollars. The Closing Date
will be June 30, 1990.
62.       Accounts and Audits.  SMG will be responsible for maintaining
detailed project accounts, giving a breakdown for land acquisition, civil
works, equipment and services provided. SMG will also arrange for an annual
audit by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and send audited reports
to the Bank within nine months of the close of each FY, and will prepare the
Project Completion Report. Audits would contain a separate opinion on expen-
ditures made against statements of expenditures that confirms to the Bank that
claimed expenditures were used for the purposes for which they were provided
(Section 4.01(c)(iv) of the draft Loan Agreement).
63.       Justification and Benefits.  The proposed project would improve the
transport and traffic conditions in Seoul City and its environs through
improvements in road infrastructure and traffic management.  The various
investments included in the project are aimed at reducing traffic congestion,
improving speeds and reducing travel times as well as improving road safety.
Improvements in traffic are also expecred to have a positive effect on the
environment. Besides physical improvements, the project will have significant
institution building benefits. It will contribute to the strengthening of
SMG's capacity in traffic and transport planning. The establishment and
strengthening of the TSM Section and the Accident Prevention and Safety Unit
will introduce, to Seoul, techniques in urban traffic management which have a
high pay-off in economic terms.
64.       The weighted average Economic Rate of Return (ERR) for the project,
based on reduced vehicle operating costs and time savings of passengers, is



- 18 -
estimated at 41X. The ERR of individual components varies from 18% to over
57X. Sensitivity analysis shows that a 15% reduction in benefits, a 15Z
increase in costs or both events would reduce the ERR to 35Z, 36% and 31%
respectively. The TSM and Safety Programs, which constitute about 14% of
project costs, were not subject to economic analysis because of the difficulty
in calculating the cumulative effect of many individual measures which form a
part of the total TSM package, and because of the difficulty in quantifying
benefits such as accident reduction.  However, the experience of other
countries is that the returns on TSM type actions are very high because signi-
ficant improvements are possible with relativeLy smaLl additions to existing
facilities. It is difficult to estimate the precise impact of the project on
the poverty group since project benefits would accrue to the population at
large rather than to any particular income group. The benefits of this proj-
ect are expected to go at least proportionately to lower income groups because
the investments are focused on heavily travelled routes where bus and taxi
traffic are higher than average and because ,lic transport priority measures
will be introduced for the first cime.
65.       Project Risks.  SiG, the implementing agency for the civil works, is
competent and wall experienced, and there are no special risks associated with
implementation of major civil works components. The implementation of the TSI
and safety components, particularly the first-year program, will require
technical support from advisors with international experience. Adequate
technical assistance is provided for in the project to assist the TSM Section
and TPD. The institutional development measures wilL require more time and
effort to become a permanent part of each organization. For this reason the
project preparation has included extensive and detaiLed discussions on the
institutional aspects of the project which culminated in agreements to
establish and strengthen key SMG Bureaus involved in the project. The actions
already taken by SMG in this respect give a good indication of the commitment
of SMG to diligently pursue implementation.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
66.       The draft Loan Agreement between Seoul Metropolitan Government and
the Bank, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Korea and the
Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4
(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors.  Special conditions of the project are listed in Section               g
II of Annex III.
67.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 19 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
68.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachment
March 28, 1985
Washington, D.C.



-20 -                                                ANNEX I
TAUt S    A L2                                      3
111   PUUIC OF        - NCIAL IUICA?CUS 1*AS 3133?
muREA  31us1c1 or                  REuuHC  0605  (wsURUIU AIUBou) 
NM                      tmwrT ucIr unWT)h
a Cu3           INEU  KNm              lmy   lI
IOU.b-     lUtd.0- zvuusauLk      6SA 6 PACIFIC          LAT. MC  66ca
an clmalms  N. U)
TOTAL                               91.3       93.3      N.3
ACRICULTIJRL                        20.6       23.2      13.6
an PM CAPA (US)                       130.0      630.0   1310.0             1031.2                  2106.6
(KILORAMS Or OIL E4UIVALmNY)   .    143.0     4.0   1104.0                567.3                   395.3
uoPunoflhu usvl   wiO
POPULATION.KIDYTKA (TOUIAIID)    251j.0    33241.0  39336.0
UK"A POUTAUOI (2 oF TOTAL)          27.7       61.1      61.3             36.7                     66.5
POPULAION IPRJCTIONS3
POPULATION INM    2000 (MILL)                          50.3
STATION   POPULATION (HILL)                            70.2
POPULATION NMCMI                                        1.7
roPuLATloN DENSITY
PER SQ. IN.                      253.9       327.6    393.2             261.9                    35.7
PEA SQ. UK. AGtI. L"D           1223.2      1387.3   1730.3            1735.1                    92.4
POPULATIW AcE STYUTURI (2)
0-16 RS                          42.9        62.1     33.1              39.0                    39.9
15-66 TRS                         53.7       54.6      62.3              37.6                    36.0
65 AND ABOVE                       3.3        3.3       6.1               3.3                     6.1
POPULATION CROoN RATE (2)
TOTAL                              2.1         2.5      1.7               2.3                     2.6
URUAN                              4.7        6.7       5.1               6.3                     3.6
CRUDE URrTH RATE (PER THOIUS)       42.5       30.6      22.8             30.1                     31.3
CR110 DEATH RATE (PR THOUS)         13.7        9.6       6.1               9.3                     8.1
GRr-SS REPRODUCTION RATE             2.3        2.1       1.5              2.0                      2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPORS. ANNUAL (THOUS)            *.       671.0    686.0 /c
USES (X OF MARRIED WE1              .        25.0      34.0              5.?                    460.3
- A flitle
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(19&9-71-100)                       89.0       99.0    125.0              123.0                   114.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (2 OF REQUI3RHENTS)      98.0       109.0    126.0             114.4                   110.6
PROTEINS (CRAMS PER DAY)          57.0       64.0      74.0              57.0                    67.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL ND PULSE         7.0         6.0     14.0 Id           14.1                    36.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE          8.6        4.0       1.9              7.2                      5.7
NEALiII
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIrTN (YEARS)       53.9       39.1      67.3             60.4                     64.7
117AM HORT. RATE (PER T7OUS)        78.3       50.1      32.0             66.3                     t0.6
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (MPOP)
TOTAL                             12.1        5n.0     71.0 /.           37.0                    65.4
URBAN                             18.6       64.0      85.0 7r           34.8                    78.1
RURAL                              9.5        36.0     54.9              26.4                    46.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(Z O PO7PULATION)
TOTAL                               *-        25.0     64.0 Ic           41.3                    32.9
URSAN                               ..        59.0     so. 0 I            7.6                    67.0
RURAL                                                  so .  5o  72      33.3                    24.5
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          3540.0     2240.0   1440 3             7769.6                  1917.7
POP. PER NURSING PERSON           3240.0     1790.0    35r               2460.6                   815.6
POP. PER HOSPXTAL  CD7
TOrAL                           2510.0      l950.0    640.0 lb         LOU.2                    367.2
URAN                            1280.0 /f  1100.0    7o0.071            631.2                   411.5
RURAL                               ..         .         ..            2394.6                  2636.3
ADHISSONS PER HOSPITAL BED            *         14.9       ..              27.0                    27.3
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.6         5.2      4.5
URBAN                              5.6        6.9       4.6
ItURAL                             5.6        5.5       6.7
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROoK
TOTAL                              2.5        2.3       2.0 Ic
URAN                               2.8        2.7       2.1 7..
RURAL                              2.4        2.2       2.0 77
ACCESS TO ELECT. (Z OF DWELLS)
TOTAL                             28.4        69.9
URBAN                             67.3       92.4        .- 
RURAL                             12.4        29.9     64.9 id



-21 -                                                ANNEX I
T A I L t  3A                                      PAGE i
KEA. RRPUWLSIC Or      - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SOEET
KOREtA. RUtPUBLIC or                 RERENCE GROUPS (WEIGC TD AVERAGES) /a
MOST                     CMOST RECENT ESTIMTATE  lb
RcCeNT           MIDDLE INCONE           mIDDLE iNCoME
196oLb     1970Lb %STImATOtL        ASIA 4 PACIFIC         LAT. AMERICA I CAR
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIIAXIs  TOTAL                     94.0       103.0    107.0              102.0                     105.4
PALS                     99.0       104.0    108.0               105.9                    106.3
FEMALE                   89.0       103.0    105.0                98.2                    104.5
SKCONDARYs TOTAL                    27.0        42.0      85.0              46.0                      43.2
MALE                     38.0        50.0      89.0               48.7                     42.3
FEMALE                   14.0        32.0      80.0              43.1                      44.5
VOCATIONAL CZ OF SECONDARY)           14.2        14.3      18.6              17.5                      33.6
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             55.0        57.0      46.0              31.8                      30.1
SECONDARY                           34.0        37.0      39.0              23.5                      16.8
ADULT LITCRACY RATE (1)               70.6        S7.6      96.0              72.9                      79.5
WIUPTION
PASSENGE  CARS/THOUSAND POP            0.5         1.9      6.5               10.1                      46.0
RIADO RlC2lVERS/THOUSAIID POP         31.2       124.4    393.5              113.6                     225.6
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP              0.3        13.0    L64.7               50.1                     107.2
NEWSPAPER (-DAILY CGNERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PZR THOUSAND POPULATION             6H.2       136.3    173.1 /1            53.9                      63.5
CINEMA AINUAL ATTENDANCEICAPITA        4.1         5.2       1.7 7r            3.4                       2.8
LABOR VOCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)           8304.0    112B5.0  15414.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    26.1        32.7      32.5              33.5                      23.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               66.0        50.0      34.0              52.2                      31.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   9.0        17.0      29.0              17.9                      23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               33.2        35.0      39.2              38.7                      32.2
HALE                                49.5        46.8      52.4              50.9                      49.3
FEMALE                              17.2        23.0      25.7              26.6                      15.2
ECON1MIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.4         1.3       0.9               1.1                       1.4
IXm  DISTrINDTIOU
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOlE
RtECEIVED BY
HICHEST 5 OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..        17.1      16.1 /1           22.2
HICHEST 20S OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..        44.5      45.3 TI           48.0
LOWEST ZO OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..         7.l       5.7 7T            6.4
LOWEST 401 OF HOUSEIIHOLDS            ..        17.7      16.9 7f           15.5
POVEY  TAMCET GOUS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..         ..    320.0 lh            188.6                     288.2
IURAL                                 ..         ..    270.0 7ih           152.0                     184.0
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (MSS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..         ..    370.0 /h            177.9                     522.8
RURAL                                 ..          ..    310.07E            164.6                     372.4
V ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (Z)
URBAN                                 ..          ..      18.0 lh           23.4
RUIAL                                 ..         ..      Il.O7ih            37.7
NOT A"'AILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The group averages for each Indicator are population-weighted arlthmetic means. Coverage of countries among the
indicator, depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
Ib  UnLern otherwise noted. -Data for 1960' refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; 'Data for 1970' between 1969 and
1971; 4ad data for -`ost Recent Eatiste" between 1980 and 1982.
Ic  1975; /d 1977; /e 1979; If 1962; /L RegisLered, not all practicing in the country;  lh 1978; /I 1976.
UINE. 1984



-22-                                                                                
Io*s.  aitmoe  i.1% da. A.r  dial et- unico imeonils tSwoi"        o I   iericeac nasal.. totalsui  bi su.W. Shoe tl.  nep as ft. innii
oa,atala  eea  it ch'. labS esdf  i       iisaeni   sasun   ydltci aminrem Ge AN ellcli  ch. d... lb. a.4 Am, eCARaWih.l.,  1..ue  S.
dgibuslCC .  apis,tm  USn.Iftid.". aSi .nsi.iustinlaNNj.r dllisuf           o  bleact imuri
lb    ia.    ii un III Sb. usa   t- ails,  .ai    i-.hgiu.l-A-u.r ad iap .  lack..S gs. dih .uau.ui itches suus, tiar  .bat S  aa.ara    t
.M1 Itilnl      bibassiesib wa mc       S. rca akfpte.  - , misil  aiad4k   Mm Ems,ti  em&A in "atb lasia   sib i,  5.l-I  at   AN agnis rat t.mtairai
Otmtni.  i its lis1iAjie. qu   its  --oia    Sa          &Ne  sac NM iLh      i diiAN - is  asiibbli"V u dci. iad iii  asicc e, au2AlN   ua U
Cad      IC  w INI d na--  -  I.k..sjuaii. - ., e   .ti   uit*tpll   siu   yiea   t*aisi
nst..lt.sr - tusuui atuisuisluraua   srrl a.t._,N   f     susamet-s suis tad seaul. es.  isWIN. uNieliu  it.....                        d pn.Iu5%se  aid
595.5JM   MY At duiuea.                                                                iviaeJ_er teslNCj_              R .t.[ h ccl..i   a'Idlq ""C"i"ni " in  i l.l
IWO. Silt,  d iWi duiu 4by S  ices--pbpsltleu. s--b.Ibesi iiiuili orapslyi..uli
ald souel.rl ciuarftleastI. bIlnacc utf  .na ~clac bu, swat..g it.                      p-6sd. a Ililiud ..Ms At NNALi-&eiil.
IiiM  a d liii at..                                                                   al5C.L4AlL1  iu   asl.   0 a"dtascis  L. -  iseibeaca
S., O     N UJF.,  .9 W, Is iuodat.iifaillogit. ace. 101di
.beft .-a~& N.M. 1-70.  W INN" 4-..                             1~~~~~aracki.1d fl, a.lsthld -at   a   .s'iJ  .i..ibc   u   i
usmusuanai.useuuats.uuu,-& PMu. LINtbi ims-  sau  baitcas                         - InRism  etaiiii    ..4 ugsa  A  uost:ulW1!  tcilcq  e
PICIN.  UIJ -aotaat suiausI'I10 is.eciili   tanN t d. &-.ihn                         .uuscaepi   puns...l   .     - -1
lNincH.1 ucebt ilk suIteter --"blat tanni, s.il  wirats                           flfJj-is5.erea.   la.a      telst.ad.ua 
I 'taNCIt.   -% A eni. letctisM. aih. tasm..anii  Scs liaauC-p                            bj~f  dlf it.            rg riias 5eil    reitis.s c  sI-
ngA mnhus'C .2    -a hiR a           . iiInIc  un-Ca arailtaa  isyaR                                         sui Mi  t            .  - -ca.al d   isaa
dcb   alat. liial  amie    inlca    -lusl             N -as                        tint  uhiI.nsI nauuaai  ssah-   lb ciuS.1.atSl*-  aid  s
a  ~aa ii ib. dna vet.,.ii   . a,  cicahi sI    mni   dS.                         cnlnsba iasa   iec.   ilci 4aco   c  ss
cal.  t St.wajand aIcc. c".iC  ati.epiclaI.i   c                               flaUnLi1t,;cAjn                            C- (sis- :.cbtc  i--sdI
run,as i  seais dtlanat sns iis Stum .Iasaucin  -tins                        P-la..~ s~F~raTnacaaSsius   setSi
.It..am ol  t.--F   Cns.a C.i  hi. rtc5tus.l.                                            aii   s..l
oasuace siulai, sa-icu  Sc- itVt.lsai  t  sss  ls                               uil   uit..Shsr              . a   arel. -I C.55    -,a.5      .-
5%  aini  iot  _s isi-i  .ii.-  aaiuc   -aiPZ  ns                                  cdc.i.ts - dscsnsisi u                    Ris   I-..sa M
-r1.i.    a-i,iruis    -  te.a.S   iid IOUstaiid.uii.si5.i s alt, 
ctcal arias 55c, saNg,             Z       1  -           .sa iis  ad-.Ia-a. aSsa. iis*.itt       i rs   dlili.a  ciiS.5-
i-rn.  e. C,Ilts.irtI.-Leie  asu.iiucruc    lasS                                    4:  ft fiaiiicS   i,l  uai.itiafi Susaii
r-  Ps"il ad 1rinse  Id scs   a~ aCn.)cirswfsa-uryaui rt-u  iSfi0. ssa:ii stig.uiii-a.dt-cc                                                       lai
s-ar pS...ti Itr 14nit.aO, in-o.caOit.ss  urisa Ca  hutiaisa -1 C-t                                                                  i_   s 41 .sac   Sa. Idii
GiCNilN 1 Crashl Me. tysAnuip  --        sla   a nuns anI i-blis ems 2                   4 t,raarusi      nAtal a.i__laara  ScamS   t  T ismaiie  sicta.dat
-iueAs  is. flAlet, ma-na  a   50-1                                                 atlaaad itainciIa cist  at i sar thus  .isuis - It "
rear- puNin" u 113, stat. a    I -"fS    - as rt.mum    ataIisbd ilidelia
Crid  Ouha.C-     sia   -s   s                             tS-ari  sae.ts  sueciiilaii-i sit,c                                        sc it  iArNt 55
sqitftopa  ItS, 1410, ad awl dasa.                              ~~~~~~~~PeruPati- e-.d isin f nt   sn  iiild    -.inc   tiiLSisd
bit aunt terrudetain pius ii a seasiss~A.   at  io-ug' iii                miC..   riasc tar INaia   uisil                       t  as
tin.1                                                                                 r.hisiaaned prni icrndaociia.   ii it iudr
piWI" "mawui  f- ircit    nat) tibiusais - iaiifi   a5 siir                          ic   b   ub   Si  sus i   .ifrsi      n
blis-custut  asia eatr  c m  Sa.i.ai rnkspicnc       tie betS  itndics  ir  us-.cut 'aa   1- Oi Pse. tnt.A.4 at              .
iitgia.                                                        sicheis~~~~~~9 sai  .enc thi  at,S-il.di   dnlaadaesn                u
iiu(i. Piantn - nsa. (anon at oases-i nasa - rissiascis ci as.lcS  abut est.,.9.  41m.INTO   CT d..
am  it abud-ciric a, a  in rtilcic ar diii lafi enI I-   C--
.i.iii                                                                                                                        -Am;nat claspsciit iians aa.mi  t
carsdi -  anisnusai  curSiroiU    naaa                                                 ari  i       -.wIrsai a-I tsbI, Csimetnt. iads-i t'I -.ciri
lea-. cc raiie-es.  -r Lss.isit.itsillet- tsa  c .sCO  ice L.n                               ... rI.e  -.  kni   tue csr.Mat sait...i Isi i-.r low. 1,
aund -aiiu a1-      cit Sad fu0lat Wgtsn1siius. sultan nad iSQ                      ta       itw  ar4 t      ae  iei  tsli.iste .s
'aWse     iacb    s  ih. adic'nl.ti.c.i.,ieus       s.i   Shdtue  rr   a,s5 as ui'llti te
a,ttam  teas at noelIbi Uas  IS.adcac   ita.....   g-si.,iiir  ess -                                ..c.  iscsa si.  tnunrtut   tIts.iu-    ic
ma usasic!ensm piat           tt  dt     gK.ietplii -aU 42a   aWlUm dec.                            9   L           -.POL1            1   m-olt-7
a"       A1111L.taIIct.Nl          -a                U"t   -tNiR.St1sMn  SaSs isd-es  T-iua  ius b.-                                s-I -   itrauspt.1p in a.e
ci  u-i ng   i  irtstirs    1-S t             L.ecdti   ..- Lntc  Sifuh    une   ops  a  ai   at,.   aisihs    au
NNNeWC     -&-ntc l at n a. fad  c pile  nuabsa it ices  pa. sell  puspiaui                               Ittal talcN ad p ti -s s -nc -i at all cn s.spsd i
amitie          etd  iat,adlsii dlu-Isrthein4 -[ I         .   aet'i    iivi.ii Miatsi sL-  n                                  sei.
anisitIRad  t.uli11Ncbslrc ptaoiiw.ia  iriSe O CI, ely asai.i.uni   g  aunu  i aeil-a
allan- 5    vRNaN AN teal" pisi  P.r dij ad 20 decun at' aun  Ad
FeIn  wails, C1 ibi   W uan  CAM-i4 be c l P-.1i.  Thatloo
it-ida"d  a  le"As  as ia it 71 sia  it WRsIa  l musi  ad Ii aim-                   itkIindis ccaa, usssai                          aa.5 poe-ap  -I..hi ai
it   nt3 PMsts al is  --a  tr- it. arId  inuniac by P;S C. et.                         .uti  be a -.s.cec   uieiirbisr.
Isse Cash usussi Soasis 1ite tint alnd  lowa -ct Psah   sl cisaac   sIst Pen "ca  is  la nI                                            Ie    as-bt.ie
EaNs.                                                                                 Of-ad0st..
Nielas.9  daCA dsbd        U isS.sLNbIai1 M"0, 59,70 ad sa1l1 dtci.                   c-,icuti        it it.. c-is,. isbn Iel ii dastad isa 5. --Ia
ascii tie. ajusei  tat tiabur uns it Ilalg hi attn    -
s   ilm  %-- -  *N--a  as0 t F teasitlie,  suli                        dsri-kis  tslua    la   intuItuaseet
bins  stuiss sa eltl itiadi -ee"  INCut 1sieb -i asian d- a
ns.. c  Iota3 O.s liast.i   ameift       - tasa.- san. adc rur. -
as %a    a    saa.i .a  rural .isb seaista.aO Scut                                                                      diis   eif          sht  ltu
nes  tol (inu    iriced e-ti  -Sid awr usinsad    Mccet
go.asa.u.ais   vuiwet   tinR  pic.issb0.             s...~..~hi    uil  a  naste   iatp
ctPy---P alas  usla seobesica.a    u  missileAa   aipalatluss, CNW  usl
a.=     tit  byiE          a  is ls mV. a            g dlscatina   we 



AM I
? lanifoa    : 39.96    (uid-1963)                                                                                   Paw . of 5
mm- c zwmwos
Atm
(uilli IS 3  at                              -wa  grwth rates CZ)
currant prices)                              t                                   Projected
bladcator                                    19W31           19J9        1980        1961       '962       1983J.            1990
AX0AL C
Cras domestic proxct /A                   76.551            7.1        -3.5         6.9        5.5         9.5              7.5
*XSimilznre                            210.52             6.7       -21.7        24.5        *.1         6.3              3.5
_     * a-aeryr                                30,Z19            8.2        -1.0        5.0        6.8        12.7             10.0
Sereices                                35.605            6.7         2.9         3.1        4.9         6.9              6.5
CcMIDnOcI                                 56530            7.4        -1.0         3.2        4.3         6.3              7.5
Crss inavessct                            20.763           17.5       -24.4         2.2       13.1        16.6              7.6
Eb4eorts of WS                            27.919           -3.6         9.9        17.0        6.9        11.6              8.2
IMorswn  of CWS                           28.661            8.6        -7.7         7.6        3.2         9.1            802
Crass nraional                            19.156            3.7       -17.7         3.0        9.0        21.0              7.4
Prices
CGP eflator (1960 - 100)                                    0.796       1.0         1.158      1.241       1.274          157.7
*ianue rate (1SS1  -    )                                 484.0       607.6       681.0      731.1       775.75
oport priae Ind=x  (i-- 100)                               95.6       100.0       103.0       99.2        96.4            142.7
impact price IM&  (1960 - 100)                             7S.4       100.0       104.0       98.Y        94.6            141.0
ME=& of trade i.iit   (19i0 - 100)                        115.3       100.0        97.9      102.2       103.1            101.2
Sbre of CW at arket prIces CT:)                       Average sumal Increase (Z)
ax tcurvent prices ) lb                            (at constant 1972 prices)
1960   1970    1975   1960   1985   1990          1960-70   1970-75   1975-60   1980-85   1985-90
Croms domesic pmrdect              100.0  100.0   100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0            8.6       9.8       8.2      7.0        7.5
Acricnture                       36.7   26.9    26.S   16.5   13.6   11.3             4.3       6.9      -1.2      7.3        3.5
Inaustry                         20.1   29.S    33.8   41.3   34.4   38.S            17.4      15.3      13.S      8.5       10.0
snrvces                          43.2   43.6    61.7   *2.3   42.8   40.9             8.1       7.7       7.6      6.7       6.5
Consumption                       85.3   83.0    80.1   76.4   72.7   69.6            6.7       7.8       7.1      5.7        6.8
Gamos fawestcmt                   11.0   26.9    29.0   30.2   28.8   30.8           23.6      11.2      14.6      6.0        8.9
eports of  ors                    3.4   14.3    27.6   35.7   36.6   41.7            29.3      25.4      16.1      9.8        S.5
taPOcts of WEFS                   12.8   24.1    36.3   42.7   40.1   42.2           20.2      15.8      17.0      6.8        8.3
Crte  national savings            8.0   19.5    20.6   21.7   26.5   29.8            17.2      14.6       9.0    12.7        9.5
AS : o0  CDI                     LAbor Force in 1983        MIllions    (Z)
1960     1970      1975      1980      1984
PUMLXC FINA1CZ
Curnt tee .                         18.S     17.8      17.9      19.9      19.4      Agricultuae                   4.3    286
bros.t exsnsditete.                 14.3      13.1      1S.4      15.6      159       in-dstry                     4.2      27.7
Corraat surpaUs                      4.2       4.7       2.5       4.3       3.5      Services                      6.0      39.6
Crpital ependitumr                   3.4       6.4       6.4       5.9       5.5      Dnewployed                    0.6       4.1
Foreign financing                     -        1.0       1.3       1.0       0.5
Total Labor Force       15.1    100.0
1960-70       1970-75        1975-80        1980-85        1985-90
OcT  IWICATORS
al sIC  growith rate CT)                                           8.7           9.0            7.9            7.0            7.5
Assx^l GOP per capita groetb rats (:)                             59            6.9            5.2            5.5            5.9
Annu  enmr  c_eaption  graoth rate CT)                            14._           9.6            8.7            5.7            5.4
Ioot                                                               1.9           2.7            5.4            4.2            4.0
Ir-u-a1 savinpg rats                                               0.3           0.3            0.3            0.3            0.35
Import eolascLcty                                                  2.2           1.6            2.0            1.2            1.11
la Preliminary.
East Asia nd Pacific Regional OffIce
Drecember 1984



-24 -
AM=X I
Population       39.9S1    ("id-1963 thmad                                                             P3 S  of S
CUP per capita: US1.884 (1963)
501 -  MAIM OF PArIS. .1T AX. 4mrAAL AIID OM
(Mill.e. US5 at current prlces)
Ar-tnel                                 Pr_et"e 
indicator                             1970    1975     1978    1979       19-      11       1982    1963       -"-a
NALAIEE OF PAMI3ST
Izports of goods and eertyc.s      1.379   S.9%v   17.124   19,528   22.587   27.552   23,500   30.389    S2.S02
Of bficb: Narcbandise f.o.b.      J82   5.028   12.678   14.694   17.220   20,936   20.961   23.204    70.568
Imports of goods and services      2.180  7.992   18.651   24,115  28.360   32.476   31.500   32.586    64.033
Of ubich:  krembandIse f.o.b.    1.804   6.671   14.436   19.266   21.604   24.337  23.361   24.904    70.737
Sec tranfers                         178     225      467      439      449       506      473      592       600
Currant Account Uelvace             -623 -1 1858  -1 0       4 153  - 532S  -4 418   -2   6  -1 607          -930
(: of GNP)                         C-47.2) t--) -            -V -7)   (-9.3)   (- 7. -)  (-3L.9)  (T-h      C-2-.O)
Direct invest nt                      66      53       61       17       -5       59       LSO    101.4       483
HLI Loan (net)                       242   1.252    2.216    2.945    Z.096   4.Z67    2.051    1.332       3.296
OEficial                           147     486      663      862      689    1.337      860       661     1.064
Prlvate                             95     765    1.552    2.093    1.408    2,929    1.171       471     2.214
Otber capital (Itcl. erro- 4         : 2     929    -510    2.090   3.770         367      484     -975       322
omissions)
COaage in reserves (gross)           -57    -376    -707    -898    -536        -275      -91       -74    -3.174
International reasrves (gross)       606   2.O12    5.405    6.303    6.839    7.114    7.212    6.910    21.167
Reservere as motbs Imports           3.3     3.0      3.5      3.1      2.-       2.6      2.7      2.1       -3.0
EXIEtnAL CAPITAL AND DEBr
Cross Dibahraseets
Official grant                       -       -        -        -        -        -        S0        -
Concessional loans                 123     123      1U4      193      138       159      14S    203.3         -
-MC                              12Z     108      167      173      T2.1      158      148    2033        200
OPEC                               -       -       13       20        17        1        -        -         -
EaK                                1      14        3        -        -        -        -         -         -
Other                              -       I        -        -        -                  -        -         -
UeOes-siorazl Loans               317   1.511    3.729    4.448  - 3-65S   4.779    3 937    3.230    S 6"1
Officil  e  .rt credits          18     l51      219      341      606      84       S32       500
I12D                               7     187      321      426      ZS4       306      43B      364       780
Other inltri teral                 5      87       89       91       90       104      11S      1SJ       23
Private - source (residual)      ZS7   1.083    3.101    3.59j    2,705    3.575    2,851    2. 15      3.692
9-diin- and LoT g-Tern Debt
Debt ottata t .n & dlesbrsed     1.797   5.540   11.937   14,553   16.274   19.964  22.006   29.170   46.319
Offclal - source                 613   2.657    5.016    5.667    6.498    7.702   8.57Z          -    15.832
Private      source            1.15   2.883   6.921    86886   9.776   12.263   13.433           -    30.487
tbdisbarsed debt                   902   1.679    6.294    5.337    7.072    5."6    5.324    4.29        6.370
Debt Service on lILt TALoa
Total service payments             268     667   I,25    2,578    2.762    3.597    4.199   46.570       8.509
Imterest                          70     283      657      890    1,310    1.777    2.164    2.187      3.295
Payments as : exports             19.4    11.3     10.7     13.2     12.Z      13.0     14.5     15.4      11.1
Sbart-Terr Debt
Debt outstanding and dlsbursed       -   2.409    3.575    6,279   10.047   13.658   14.100   11.940    13,030
Interest payments                    -       -      236      377      907    1.810    1.528    1.169      1.303
Interest as *     emports            -       -      1.4      1.9      4.0      6.7       5.3      3.9       1.7
Ave-!Me Interest eite on N1v Zoans (I)
Of fcial                             4.5     7.9      7.4      7.6      7.5       8.4      8.0     10.9      10.9
private                              7.1    9.3       9.7     11.4    14.0       13.6     13.7    11.7       11.7
Average bteurlty on New Loans (year)
Official                            28.0    19.3    19.6    16.8    19.6         15.3    15.5      16.4      16.4
Private                             10.9     5.7     10.9    10.7       1 .2     13.1      8.1     11.8      11.3
As I of debt intatandin
at end of mt recent
year (198Z)
Iturity structure of debt outstanding
H tarities due within 5 years                                     53.4
Haturitles due within 10 years                                    73.1
Interest structue of debt outandiog                                  8.7
rnterest de withiDn firtc year
la Prelimlinry
Eat Asia and Pcftifc Ragioal Office
-cmber 194



- 25 -
AMNE XX
Page 1 of 2
KDREA6
THE STATUS OF BAXK GROUP OPERATIONS IN IHE REPUBLIC OF XOREA /a
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (an of September 30. 1984)
Loan or                                                                              Amount (S million)
Credit     Calendar                                                                (less cancellations)
Namber       Year         Borrover                Purpose                   Bonk      TV       ID"    Und1sbursed
Forty-f 3ur loans and eight credits fully disbursed                       2,640.78   40.00   115.58
1319         1976     ADC                 Irrigation                         29.0                            0.28
1364         1977     ADC                 Irrigation                         95.0                            3.52
1503         1978     ADC                 AgriculturefIrrigation             36.0                            8.."
1530         1978     Republic of Korea   Rural Infrastructure II            95.0                            a.-
1666         1979     ISZACO              Chungju Nultipurpose              l25.0                           10.57
1676         1979     Republic of Rorea   Electronics Tecbnology             29.0                            8.44
1758         1979     Republic of Korea   Second G4angju Regional            65.0                           15.86
1774         1979     Republic of Korea  Population I                        30.0                           21.46
1788         1979     Korea Electric Co. Power                              1-15.0                          15.23
1800         1980     Republic of Korea  Education V                        100.0                            5.80
L536         1980     Republic of xCorea   Railway V.                    -  94.0    _ -    -            -   4.67
-1851         1980     AFDC                 Agriculture II                    50.0                            5.00
1932         1981     KLTCB VIII          Div. Finance Co.                   90.0                            5.02
1933         1981     KDB IV              Div. Finance Co.                  100.0                            0.16
1980         1981     Republic of Korea   Nat. Urban Land & EHusing          75.3                           22.38
2004         1871     SiUv IV             Dew. Finance Co.                   60.0                            8.02
2072         1982     Republic of Korea  Water Sapply                        90.0                           37.47
2111         1982     Republic of Korea  Agricultural Marketing              31.3                           10.78
2112         1982     XTDC                Technology DevelopmQet             50.0                           18.88
2144         1982     CEB       -         DFC                                30.0                           15.42
2215         1982     Republic of Korea  Machiuery Industry                  70.0                           64.75
7216         1982     Republic of Korea   Nat. Urban Land aud Housing       100.0                           9Z.95
2228         1982     Republic of Korea   Provincial and County Roads       125.0                           92.29
2267         1983     Republic of Korea   Coal and CeAent Distribution      1Z2.0                          121.54
2309         1983     Republic of Korea   Industritl Finance                255.0                          213.38
2350         1983     Republic of Korea   Second Water Supply                78.5                           71.22
2388         1984     Republic of Korea  Jeonju Regional Development         60.0                           59.85
2392         1984     Republic of Korea   Uigbvay Sector                    230.0                          227.91
2627         1984     Republic of Korea   Education Sector                  100.0                           99.75
Total                                                        5,170.88   40.00   115.58      1,261.23
of which has been repaid                                     716.19    2.92     6.58
Total now outstanding                                        4,454.69   37.08   109.00
Anount sold                  8.83
of which has been repaid   8.83                                         -        -
Total now beld by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange adjustment)                             4,454.69   37.08   109.00
Total undisbursed                                            1,261.23     -        -          z61.23
/a   The status of the projects listed in Part A are described in a separate report on all Bank/IDA-financed
projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30
and October 31.



- 26 -
P     20 f 2
S.  Statemnt of IFC Investmets (La  of Septer 30. 1984)
Fiscal                                                     Amount (S million)
Year        Oblior            Typs of  Buiseas             Loan    Uy Total
1968    KDFC                   Development Financing         -     0.7    0.7
1969     1om  Silk Co.         T1atie                       1.4    0.3    1.7
1970    Atla  Paper            Pulp and paper               4.5    0.5    5.0/a
1971    lorea Investmt
Finance Corp.       Capital Market Developmet   -       0.7    0.7
1974    KDFC                   Developent Financing          -     0.4    0.4
1974    Korea Investment
Finance Corp.       Capital Market Development   -       0.3    0.3
1975    Gold Star & Co. Ltd. Electronic Products            16.0    1.3   17.3
1975    Korea Securities
Finance Corp.       Capital Market Development  5.0    0.6    '.6
1975    Tong Yang Nylon
Company, Ltd.       Synthetic Fibers             6.9    2.1    9.C
1975    HLe Un Dae Develop-
went Company Ltd.  Tourin                         2.8    0.7    3.5
1976    Korea Investmcnt
Finance Corp.       Capital Market Development    -      0.4    0.4
1976    COonju Paper KEg. Co. Paper                         5.0    0.8   5S8
1976    Korea Zinc. Co. Ltd.  Zinc                         15.0-   4.0-  19.0
1976    IDFC                   Development Financing       17;8     -    17.8
1976    Cold Star a Co. Ltd.  Electronic Products          10.0    0.4   10.4
1977    Gold Star & Co. Ltd. Electronic Products             -    -0.2    0.2
L977    KDFC                   Development FLnancing         -     0.3    0.3
1977    Worea Securities
Finance Corp.       Capital Market                -     0.5    0.5
1977    Korea Development
Leasing Corp.       Capital Market              15.0    0.4   15.4
1978    KDFC                   Developnt Financing           -      1.1    1.1
1979    Cold Star & Co. Ltd.  Electronic Products            -     1.7    1.7
1979    KIFC                   Capital Market                -      0.6    0.6
1979    Korea Development
LeasIng Corp                                      -     0.2    0.2
1979    Cold Star & Co. Ltd. ElectronLc Products             -     1.5    1.5
1980/84  Gold Star & Co. Ltd.  Electronic Products           -     5.3    5.3
1980    Korea Investment
Finance Corp.       Capital Market                -     0.6    0.6
L980/   Korea Securities
82/84     Finance Corp.                                     -      Z.3    Z.3
l980    KDFC                   Development Financlng         -     2.2    2.2
1981    Taihan Bulk Terminal
Co. Ltd.            Crain Port Terminal          7.0    2.5   9.5
198:    KIFC                   Capital Market                -     0.6    0.6
1982    K-ThC (Korea Technology
Advancement Corp.)  Research 4 Development        -      0.6   0.6
1983    KDIC                   Mbney & Capital Market        -     0.9   0.9
i?84    Halla Cement           Cement Const. Material       4.4    3.9   8.3
1985    Korea Fund             Mbney & Capital Market        -     9.1   9.1
Total gross commitment                            110.8  47.7  158.5
less cancellations. terminations
repayment and sales                             94.7  14.7  109.4
Total commltmaents now held by IFC                 16.1  33.0  49.1
TOTAL undisbursed                                   4.4    3.9   8.3
/a Cancelled at the request of the Company.



ANNEX III
- 27 -
KOREA
SEOUL URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
s                                   Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I:  Timetable of Key Events
Ca)  Time taken by the country to prepare the project:    Z years
(b)  Project preparation agency:                           HOTlSMc
Cc)  Date of first presenrtnion to Bank, and Bank          1980
consideration thereof:
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:               JuLy 1984
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:                   February 1985
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:                        June 1985
Section II: Special Implementation Conditions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
Assurances were obtained from SMG that:
si) the Bank's review of satisfactory feasibility and engineering
studies would be a condition of disbursement on the Yeongdeungpo
Rotary and Gilum Interchange (para. 45);
(ii)  the necessary counterpart funds would be provided in a timely
manner (para. 54);
9            (iii)  the TSM Advisor be appointed by June 30, 1985, and the section
would be adequately staffed and maintained (para. 58); and
(iv)  the Safety and Traffic Control Advisors would be appointed by
July 31, 1985 (para. 58).



REPUBUC OF KOREA
SEOUL URBAN TRANSPORTATION PROJECT
New Rod Cttion                                                GOVYANG
Rood Wideng
CI]    Mjior Intersection Improvements
Potential TSM Corrkdors
EqISw0y (To!                              Subway System:                           /
Mcaor Road                       _            sting
I--[   Tmnes                                       Under Contruction
Railwaysi                                  Subwy Using Railwuy Lirm
Cetracl Business District                 Seoul City and County Bound Xies
00000.0  Related Projects to be Constructed by SMG                                  I
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
...gw .            /
0
0
0
SHIH-lEUNG  GUN                                       \.       |i
(  Gwong Myeong City      \ \                      (
o        2                                       1 6   e   lo \0 \d                      f 
KILOMETERSJ
GW
SbVq~~~~~   A . o..g



IBRD 19779
GUN                                          /oo~'
U. Do..g 
-               I               -~-
Im                                                                                           C-v AN J
GUGU
--~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~%
C- DSgoO.' --V~:.~z
GWANGJUo  ~  P
(Seongnom City 
-CHEON    '\ To-.,
_____  ___________-- -MARC!- 






