Dooment of
The World 
FOR omCan4L USE ONLY
Repwt No. 5406-KO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KOREA
SEOUL URBAN TRANSPORTATION PROJECT
March 20, 1985
Urban and Water Supply Division
East Asia and Pacific Projects Department
This document has a estricd diibution and may be used by recipients only in the perfomance Of
thir official dutis Its ctents -y not otherwise be dsdowd widtout Wodd Bank auhorizatio.



cRcr EQvUTS
(As of Deceber 1, 1984)
Currency Uit             won (W)
US$1               =     1800
-    FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
EIMGHTS AND MEASURES
meter (a)              =        3.28 feet
kilometer (km)                  0.62 miles
square meter (sq a)    =        10.8 square feet
pyong (py)             =        3.307 sq a or 35.586 sq ft
liter (1)              =        0.26 US gallons
ABBREVAIONS AND ACZOUNS
CBD    =  Central Business District
ERR    =  Economic Rate of Return
GNP    = Cross National Product
ICE    =  International Competitive Bidding
KAIST  =  Korea Advanced Institute for Science and
Technology
HoC   =  Ministry of Construction
MOfA   -  Ministry of Home Affairs
NOT    =  Ministry of Transportation
smG    =  Seoul Metropolitan Government
TPD    =  Traffic Police Department
TSK    =  Transportation System Management
UTIC   =  Urban Transport Improvement Committee



FOt OFFICIAL US ONLY
KOREA
SEOUL URBAN TRANSPORTATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                 Seoul Metropolitan Government (SMG)
Guarantor:                RepubLic of Korea
Amount:                   $53.0 million equivalent
Terms:                    Repayable in 15 years with three years of grace, at
the standard variable interest rate. SMG would bear
the foreign exchange risk.
Project Description:      The proposed project is expected to improve traffic
and transport conditions in the Seoul metropolitan
area. It includes the provision of missing road
links on three major arterials together with road
widening and reconstruction of major intersections,
aLl within Seoul City. The project would also
improve SMG's capability in transport planning and
traffic engineering and management by introducing a
program to maximize the utilization and improve the
-    safety of existing roads and by supporting the
related investment, organizational and staff train-
ing needs necessary for successful implementation.
Risks:                    There are no special risks associated with the
project. SMG is well experienced and capable of
constructing the major civil works. However, the
institutional development components can be expected
to require more time to take hold. The project
includes provision for consultants to assist SHG in
rlese matters.
This document has a retited distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Project Costs:                                           Local    Foreign   Total
(S million)
Civil Works                       68.5     39.0    107.5
Land acquisition                  47.3      0.0      47.3
TSM, Safety                        9.8      8.9      18.6
Institutional Development          0.6      0.6       1.2
Base cost                  126.1      48.5    174.6
II.
Physical contingencies             7.5      5.5      13.0
Price contingencies                8.6      8.4      17.0
Total project cost /a          142.2     62.4    204.6
Financing Plan:
IBRD                               0.0     53.0      53.0
sMG                              142.2      9.4    151.6
Total Financing              142.2      62.4    204.6
Estimated Disbursements:  Bank FY              1986   1987   1988   1989   1990
Annual             6.90  12.30   18.40  10.80   4.60
Cumulative         6.90  19.20   37.60  48.40  53.00
Rate of Return: 41%
Map: IBRD 18779
a/   Including taxes and duties estimated at $6.1 million equivalent.



KOREA
SEOUL URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  SECTORAL CONTEXT .........................................    1
Urbanization Trends .......................                 1
Urban Transport in Korea .................................  1
Transportation in Seoul ..................................  2
Sector Organization ........                ............    5
Government Priorities and Bank Lending Strategy ..........  5
II.  THE PROJECT ..................  o..........................  6
Project Origin and Formulation ........  o..............    6
Project Rationale and Objectives .-...............          7
Project Description       ................................. _-  8
Major Road Investments ..         ................... . ..  8
Major Intersection Improvements ........o........           9
Transportation System Management (TSM) and
Safety Programs ...................   o....................  9
Institutional Development ..............................   10
Project Costs and Financing Plan .....  ................. ...   11
III.  PROJECT EXECUTION         ..............    . ...   13
the  Borrower ......................................................  13
Implementation Arrangements            .     .     .       14
Implementation Schedule ......  ............................   15
Procurement and Disbursements ............ *.*&* ........  15
Accounts and Audits .......  ............................  17
Progress Reporting and Monitoring ............. . ...... ....   17
IV.  PROJECT JUSTIFICATION . ........................ .... .    18
Project Benefits ....... _._      ...........................   18
Economic Evaluation .......   ...............................   18
This report is based on the findings of an Appraisal Mission consisting of
Messrs. L.M. Hannah, K.H. Willen, S.I. Kang (AEPUW) and R. Barrett (Consul-
tant) who visited Korea between July 16 and August 4, 1984. Messrs. Hannah,
Kang and Barrett visited Korea November 26 through December 7, 1984 for a
follow-up mission. Ms. Elisabeth Hellman assisted in preparing the report.



- ii -
Page No.
Impact on the Urban Poor .....        ............................  20
Project Risks         ...........................................  20
V.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDAIIONS ...................        21
ANNEXES
1.   Terms of Reference for Advisors and Consultants and Timetables for TSM
and Safety Programs
2.   Existing and Proposed Structure of SHG's Transportation Planning
Bureau and Membership on Urban Transport Improvement Committee
3.   Detailed Project Cost
4.   Seoul Metropolitan Government Income and Expenditure 1981-88
5.   Implementation Schedule
6.   Schedule of Disbursements
7.   Economic Analysis:  Basic Assumptions and Data
8.   Documents Available in the Project File
MAP
IBRD 18779



I. SECTORAL CONTEXT
Urbanization Trends
1.01      Two decades of rapid economic growth brought Korean per capita
income to $2,000 by mid-1984. The high real rates of increase in the CNP
(average 8.5Z per annum Cp.a.) since 1964) have been led by an expanding manu-
facturing sector, while agriculture has declined from over 40Z of GNP in the
early 1960s to less than 15Z today. These high growth rates and the changing
structure of the economv have resulted in a shift in much of the population
out of rural areas. While the overall population growth has declined to under
1.5% p.a., the urban popuLation continues to increase at more than 5% p.a.
Today, over 60Z of the 40 million Koreans live in urban areas, and this is
projected to increase to 80% by the end of this century.
1.02      Korea is also a denseLy populated country with over 400 inhabitants
per square kilometer. The combination of economic prosperity and rapid struc-
tural change in the economy in a physically crowded environment has created a
significant number of very large cities. The metropolitan area of Seoul now
includes approximately 14 million inhabitants, and there are three other
cities over one million, and thirty-six over 100,000. This situation has led
to a rapid rise in the demand for all types of urban services and the need to
resolve heretofore non-existent problems associated with very large cities.
Urban Transport in Korea
1.03      The urban transportation system in Korea has functioned well but is
approaching a critical phase in its development. The salient characteristic
is the low but rapidly rising number of privately owned automobiles. At the
end of 1982 there were 225,631 private automobiles in the country or 5.7 cars
per thousand population (174 persons per car). This compares with 18 persons
per car in Malaysia 1nd 65 in the Ivory Coast, which both have income levels
lower than Korea s.-
1.04      The present low level of motorization is a result of high taxation
on both the acquisition and the use of private cars during a period when
Korean incomes were much lower than today and the stock of automobiles was
small. However, based on recent trends, the future growth of the automobile
population seems assured. Since the economy resumed growth in 1981, private
automobile registration has been increasing at a rate of 20% p.a., which is
fast enough to double the stock in four years. Although Government policy
favors the development of a strong vehicle export industry which will be
based, in part, on a solid domestic market, there are no signs that the finan-
cial disincentives to ownership and use will be significantly reduced. Never-
theless, rising incomes in a strong economy and the experience of other
countries at Korea's income level suggest that a large increase in the number
1/   Figures for Malaysia and the Ivory Coast are for 1981, cited in the Motor
Vehicle Manufacturers Association, World Motor Vehicle Data 1983 Edition.



of autos seems plausible. This wouLd certainly lead to a much greater demand
for transportation infrastructure than presently exists. This expected
increase in vehicle supply will be principally absorbed by the urban areas,
and it is likely to quickly lead to extreme traffic congestion.
1.05      A serious aspect of the road transport sector in Korea is the poor
accident record. In 1982, 6,110 persons were killed as a result of traffic
accidents and over 130,600 persons injured, of which 45,200 were seriously
injured or maimed. Pedestrians accounted for 63Z of fatalities and 53% of
injuries. Insurance claims amounted to $279 million equivalent. Interna-
tional comparisons based on 1978 data show that Korea had the third highest
rate of deaths per 10,000 vehicles among 36 developing countries, with an
accident rate roughly four to five times higher than in other Asian
countries. It is doubtful whether the relative position of Korea has changed
significantly since 1978 since little has been done to combat the problem on a
systematic basis. It is estimated that road accident costs currently
represent more than 1Z of GNP per year.
Transportation in Seoul
1.06      Background.  Almost one third of Koreans live in the greater Seoul
area 21 where 40% of the GNP and 60% of manufactured goods are produced. All
types of activities and facilities are concentrated in Seoul, including over
half (55%) of the vehicles in the country. Although the Government has tried
to limit the growth of Seoul City through measures aimed at stimulating the
development of secondary and satellite cities, the population has continued to
increase at about 4% p.a. over the past decade in the city itself and twice as
fast in the metropolitan region as a whole.
1.07      The populations of Seoul City and the greater Seoul area were esti-
mated to be 8.7 million and 13.9 million respectively in 1982, making it one
of the largest concentrations of urban population in the world. Seoul has
been the capital of Korea since the fourteenth century, and the location of
the Central Business District (CBD) and the street layout date back to that
time. Until the early 1970s, development was concentrated on the north side
of the Han River. The basic aim of the present master plan for the capital
region is decentralization through the establishment and growth of satellite
cities within a 40 km radius of the center of Seoul. Within Seoul City, the
goals of the plan are to achieve equal population distribution both north and
south of the river and to develop urban activity centers which will take some
pressure off the CBD and, in transportation terms, reduce the concentration of
trips to and from the CBD. Many construction projects in the past decade were
on the south bank of the Han River where population density is high but
employment still relatively low. The newly developed areas south of the river
are well laid out with wide arterial roads connecting residential and commer-
cial centers. A measure of the importance of the south bank development is
the fact that the number of bridges across the river has more than doubled (to
14) since 1975.
2/   Includes Seoul and the surrounding cities which are part of a continuous
urbanized area.



1.08      The urban transport system in Seoul city is composed of two main
elements:  the road network carrying public, private and commercial vehicles,
and the subway/urban rail network.  Compared with cities of the developed
world, where more than 25% of the city area is typically devoted to transpor-
tation infrastructure, Seoul has a relatively small road area as a proportion
of the total urban land, amounting to 10.4% in 1971, and 15.3% in 1981.  The
road area is planned to be increased to about 20% by the year 2000, and at the
same time the proportion of paved roads is planned to be increased from 69%
(1981) to 100% (2000). The emphasis of Seoul City's current road construction
program is towards circumferential road projects and the improvement of cross-
city links along the northern and southern banks of the Han River. Seoul is
planning to construct approximately 36 km of arterials and expressways per
year from nou until the end of the century, involving an investment program of
at least $60 to $80 million per year. The major focus of the short-term road
program is to eliminate bottlenecks, build and improve major arterials of
regional importance, and provide access to the eastern portion of the south
bank where the stadiums for the 1988 Olympics and many apartment complexes are
located.
1.09      Public transport plays a major role in Seoul's transportation
system. Of the estimated 16.6 million daily trips by mechanical modes, about
67% are by bus, 15% by taxi, 7% by rail/subway, 9% by car and 2Z by other
modes such as bicycles. Compared to 1977, the shares of private cars and
railways/subways have increased whiLe those of buses, taxis and others have
decreased. If walking is included, (journeys of more than 10 minutes), the
total number of trips in 1982 was estimated to be 18.9 million per day with the
following breakdown by mode: 59% by bus, 13% by taxi, 7Z by rail/subway, 8%
by car, 12% by foot and 1% by other modes.
1.10      In 1982, the vehicle fleet of Seoul City was made up of some 128,000
private cars, 30,000 taxis, 13,000 buses and 78,000 trucks and vans. The
number of fixed-route buses was 8,055, with the remainder being operated as
tour and company employee buses. The fixed-route buses comprised 6,810 city
buses (20-25 seats with standing allowed) and 1,245 seat buses (25-37 seats
with no standing). In addition to these two basic types of urban bus systems,
a suburban bus system exists Linking Seoul to communities in the surrounding
region. On some sections of the central area road system, bus volumes attain
300-600 vehicles per hour, representins up to 50% of the total traffic
measured in passenger car units (PCU)./ All bus services in Seoul are
privately owned and operate without subsidy. Ninety private firms operate on
328 regular and seat bus routes throughout the city. A typical company owns
90 buses, each running between 350 and 400 km per day and each carrying some
1,380 passengers per day. These figures suggest an efficiently run system
providing a good level of service. However, both the opening of the subway
system (first phase in 1974 with full operation expected in 1985) and the
growing private automobile traffic pose challenges for the bus system. Proper
integration of the bus and subway systems is essential both to maximize
utilization of the subway investment and to retain the viability of the bus
3/   A PCU is a measure of road space taken by various types of vehicles.



- 4 -
system as it is adjusted to accommodate the subway lines. Although there are
practically no public transport priority measures, such as bus Lanes, in use
at this time, they will become necessary to assure a continued high level of
bus service in the face of greater road congestion in the future.
1.11      In addition to roads and surface rail, the other major infrastruc-
ture component of the Seoul transport system is the rapidly expanding subway
network and the interlinked Korean National Railroad (KNR) passenger ser-
vices. A first subway line of 9.5 km was opened in 1974; the second phase of
54.3 km in 1984, and the remaining two lines are expected to be complete by
the end of 1985, when the entire system will include 123.0 kilometers and 102
stations. At the present time there is very little coordination among the
subway system, the KNR system, and the bus route network. A major reorganiza-
tion of the bus network is planned by Seoul Metropolitan Government (SMG) to
maximize efficiency and provide feeder services to the principal subway
stations.
1.12      Although the traffic situation is not yet serious compared to many
other large LDC cities, Seoul's congestion is rapidly worsening. According to
a recent study by Korean consultants, between one-half and three-q r rters of
the 112 critical intersections in Seoul will be saturated by 1988-'  The
planned expansion of vehicle manufacturing for the home market, which could
increase the number of cars in Seoul four to five times by 1996, will have a
major detrimental impact on traffic speeds.  The full consequences of this
national level policy on the Local transport system are not yet fuLly appre-
ciated by Korean authorities.
1.13      The extensive subway system being constructed in Seoul cannot be
expected to resolve the urban transport problems on its own, since most users
must transfer from buses at both ends of their journey, and because subway
ridership is projected to be mainly made up of existing bus users and not of
automobile passengers. The resulting reduction in the number of buses will be
small, because buses are presently overcrowded, and will offer only a very
temporary improvement on the roads, since the current rate of growth of car
traffic will overtake the released road space in a matter of two to three
years. The signs of rising congestion are already apparent in Seoul where
traffic volumes are growing by 10-15% p.a. The continuation of the present
policies, which give emphasis to major road construction, will not be
sufficient to resolve the traffic problems, because resources are too limited
to accommodate unrestrained demand. Some officials now recognize that a
comprehensive approach to demand management stressing cost efficiency, traffic
management and bus priorities combined with strict controls on parking.
4/   Saturated means volume/capacity (v/C) ratios in excess of one which, if
widespread, would signify massive traffic backups throughout the city and
the extension of current peak hour conditions to two or even three
hours. The projection assumes low and high growth rates for private
vehicle traffic of 5% p.a. and 14% p.a., yielding 54% and 75Z saturated
intersections respectively.



- 5-
1.14      Although congestion is most severe in the CBD and its approach
roads, this is the most difficult part of the city in which to make improve-
ments, since development is very dense, with associated high land costs and
new right-of-ways almost impossible to find. Traffic in part of the central
area of Seoul is controlled by a computerized signal control scheme, which in
the next three years is to be extended from the present 131 intersections to
421, including major intersections south of the river. Although the control
center is manned by the Traffic Police Department (TPD), few officers have any
training in traffic controL. The traffic accident situation in Seoul is
serious, as in the country as a whole, with over 1,100 fatal accidents annual-
ly, a large proportion of which involve pedestrians, and some 36,000 recorded
annual injury accidents.
Sector Organization
1.15      Cities in Korea are responsible for urban transportation planning,
construction of transport infrastructure, traffic management and the provision
and operation of their public transit systems. In Seoul, as is typical of the
larger cities, a number of bureaus have responsibility for different aspects
of the transportation system. The Office of Construction and Engineering con-
structs major civils works, the City Planning Bureau prepares tte transporta-
tion master plan, the Construction Management Bureau programs road invest-
ments, the Transportation Bureau regulates public transport and places some
road signs, and the Traffic Police Department is -esponsible for traffic con-
trol, enforcement and safety. Each Bureau does a good job within its well-
defined responsibilities, but comprehensive planning or horizontal coordina-
tion of the whole urban transport system is weak. There are also a number of
activities, such as traffic management, which have not been done in the past,
both because they fall outside the mandate of the existing bureaus, and
because the city has not traditionally recruited staff trained in these areas.
1.16      These fragmented responsibilities. along with a shortage of skilled
technicians in the fields of transport planning, traffic engineering and
project evaluation, have led to an urban transport system in Seoul City where
planning is characterized by isolated treatment of individual problems. The
existing road facilities are technically well constructed and efficiently
implemented but are poorly integrated, and suffer from lack of continuity,
poor connectivity and variable standards. In particular, very little
attention, or budget, is devoted to improvements which are specifically
designed to enhance the capacity of the existing road network except in the
area of road maintenance, which is generally well carried out.
Government Priorities and Bank Lending Strategy
1.17      As part of the development strategy of the past twenty years the
Government has deliberately directed resources toward industry and the promo-
tion of export capacity in the economy. Investments in social infrastructure
and services during this period did not match the spectacular growth of per-
sonal incomes. The rapid urban population growth. combined with under-invest-
ment-in the past, has placed considerable strain on the quality of many urban
services. In recent years, particularly starting with the Fifth Development
Plan (1982-86), the Government began to give a higher priority to investments



- 6 -
in housing, water supply, environmental improvement and other urban services
which enhance the quality of life. Planned ir-vestments in water supply
increased more than six-fold in real terms between the Third (1972-76) and
Fifth Plans; investment in housing reached an all time high of over 6X of GNP
in 1983. In urban transport, major investments have been made in major
arteriaL roads and for subway construction in Seoul and Busan, although
insufficient attention has been given to the effectiveness of some of these
investments. Bank support for urban development coincided with this new
emphasis, with lending in the last five years shifting largely to support
urbanization, industry and energy.
1.18      The Bank's objectives for urban sector lending to Korea, including
urban transport are:
(a)  to assist in effectively expanding urban infrastructure and provid-
ing services equitably;
(b)  to introduce new technologies and innovative approaches to project
planning and management;
(c)  to strengthen the ability of sector institutions to plan and imple-
ment projects; and
(d)  to promote a more comprehensive and long-term approach to policy
formulation.
1.19      Since 1979, the Bank has made eight loans in support of urban devel-
opment projects, two land development and low-income housing projects, three
regionaL development projects, and three water supply projects. All have been
designed to support significant policy and institutional changes. Implementa-
tion of all projects is proceeding satisfactorily with one project completed
and two others substantially completed. The proposed project would follow the
Bank's seccor lending strategy. This approach allows for basic planning and
evaluwtion techniques to be learned through their application on rouitine
investments and for the process of institutionalizing systems which are new to
Korea, such as Transportation System Management (TSM) to be methodically
introduced and supported over a reasonable time period (see 2.03 below).
II. THE PROJECT
Project Origin and Formulation
2.01      The proposed project was first discussed with the Government in May
1980, when the Government raised the possibility of Bank financing of urban
transport projects for several cities. A Bank mission visited Korea in
October 1980 to review the urban transport situation generally and project
possibiLities specifically. The mission prepared an overview report for the
Government, which, while noting significant progress made in recent years,
highlighted the need for improvements in traffic and transport planning,
traffic management, and urban transport policy formulation. The mission also



- 7 -
suggested the need for strengthening key institutions and for improved
coordination among the various national ana local government institutions.
The mission identified specific projects for Seoul, Busan and three other
cities. Regarding Seoul, the report observed that the transport situation was
entering a critical stage because of the rapidly increasing automobile owner-
ship, the need to integrate the subways with the surface systems, and the need
to better connect the sacellite cities to Seoul. Several project components
were identified including traffic management, lou-cost road improvements,
construction of missing arterial and secondary road links, public transport
planning and training. Based on the findings of the mission, transport
planning studies were initiated in various cities (starting with SeouL in 1982
and Busan and other cities in 1983). Also in 1983, studies were initiated to
consider a national training program and public transport operations. These
studies have now been substantially completed and will provide the basis for a
possible future project.
Project Rationale and Objectives
2.02      The obiectives for this project include not onLy the construction of
needed and justified urban transport infrastructure but also the promotion of
more capable and better coordinated urban transport institutions. Korean
agencies are now weLl experienced in general civil works, but are still weak
in plAnning and coordinating a system of investments such as those necessary
in the public transport field. Therefore, the rationale for the Bank to
support urban transport projects in Korea is to promote institutional develop-
ment in order to strengthen planning capability and to introduce traffic
management concepts and practices.
2.03      This project has pursued these objectives, both during the
preparation phase where interbureau coordination and the application of more
rigorous evaluation techniques were required and in the project, by focusing
on the introduction of a mechanism for planning and i=plementing improvements
on the existing road and public transport network in Seoul thrnugh the
practice of TSM. TSM is a comprehensive approach to traffic and transporta-
tion management, involving a wide variety of traffic control techniques and
physical improvements ranging from minor road works to full scale reconstruc-
tion of major intersections. Institutional changes and reorganization are
being undertaken in SHG specifically in response to the need to plan and
implement the TSM program.
2.04      The objectives for the proposed project would be to:
(a) improve the transportation system in Seoul through a comprehensive
set of investments and programs, including: (i) the introduction
and application of TSM techniques along selected major transport
corridors and in the CBD; (ii) improvements to major intersections;
and (iii) the construction and widening of strategic road links;
(b) preserve and strengthen the public transport system by: (i) intro-
ducing bus priority measures; and (ii) promoting the integration of
the bus and subway systems; and



- 8 -
(c) promote institutional development through strengthening the capabi-
lities of SMG and TPD to plan, implement and evaluate traffic and
safety improvements.
Project Descripcion
2.05      The proposed project would include four principal components:
(a) major road investments;
(b) a program of major intersection improvements;
(c) TSM and Safety Programs; and
(d) institutional development measures.
Major Road Investments
2.06      The construction and widening of major arteri&I -oa-s would be the
largest project item involving approximately 70% of project .-sts. The pro-
posed components are all high priority items in Seoul City's current transpor-
tation master plan. Three main routes are involved, as su-marized below.
(See IBRD Map 18779.)
(a) Eastern Arterial. The aim of this component is to upgrade and widen
the eastern arterial road which forms an important regional link be-
tween Euijeongbu in the northeast and Seongnam in the southeast.
This road acts as a major distributor of traffic in the eastern
suburbs and an effective bypass to the central urban areas. Two
sections of the road will be improved under the project. A 5.7 km
section in the north will be widened from 4 lanes to 6 lanes, and a
new 3.0 km six lane section will be constructed in the south. This
latter section is an important missing link which will provide
improved V cess to a Bank financed regional agricultural market in
the area.-
(b) Western Arterial. This component involves new construction of a
missing link from Sihung to the Kyong-In Expressway, to form an
effective western distributor and bypass to the central areas. The
missing link, is a 10.8 km, four lane expressway including four
major grade-separated interchanges.
(c) Cangbyeon Ro. (North Han Riverside Road). The objective of this
component is to upgrade the existing North Han Riverside Road from
two lanes to four lanes between Hannam Bridge and Jamsil Bridge.
This 8.4 km link is built to inferior standards and is currently a
bottleneck on this route. The Yeong Dong interchange, at the
intersection of Gangbyeon Ro and the Eastern Arterial, wonld also be
constructed under the project (see 2.07(a) below). Preliminary
technical solutions and costs have been identified which were
reviewed by the Bank and found to be acceptable. These are now
5/   World Bank Loan No. 2111-KO.



- 9 -
being examined in detail through the ongoing detailed engineering
study, the final results of which will be reviewed by the Bank in
due course.
Major Intersection Improvements
2.07      Severe congestion is currently caused by a number of bottlenecks on
the road network. Three such priority projects, currently in Seoul City's
road program, are included in the project, representing about 16Z of project
costs. The feasibility and dp-;in studies for the Yeong Dong Interchange have
been reviewed and found satisfactory by the Bank. The remaining two candidate
intersections, which are scheduled for later implementation, will also be
subject to detailed feasibility and design studies. The Bank's satisfactory
review of the results of these studies is a condition of disbursement for
invzstments under this category, other than the Yeong Dong Interchange. These
three are (see IBRD Map 18779):
(a) Yeong Dong Interchange. The construction of a grade-separated
interchange between the Eastern Arterial and the North Han Riverside
Road (Gangbyeon Ro) will effectively reduce traffic congestion at
the junction of two important corridors. The widening of the North
Han Riverside Road together with TSM actions along the Eastern
Arterial are also included as part of the project.
(b) Yeongdeungpo Rotary. The conversion of an existing rotary into a
fully grade-separated interchange at the junction of Kyongin Ro and
Cangnam Ro will accommodate rising volumes of both roads and
rationalize the traffic flows through this congested location.
(c) Cilum Interchange. This intersection, at the junction of Mia Ro and
the Second Ring Road, will be rebuilt as a fully grade-separated
interchange to 'acilitate traffic movements westward onto the Ring
Road.
Transportation System Management (TSM) and Safety Programs
2.08      The principal objective of this component is to introduce and carry
out a system of low-cost traffic improvement measures along major corridors
aimed at increasing road capacity, improving traffic flows with particular
priority for public transport vehicles, and improving road safety. The Pro-
gram involves the identification of traffic bottlenecks, traffic conflicts
between different types of transport (buses, private cars, taxis, pedes-
trians), and accident blackspots along specific corridors. Typical measures
utilized to deal with these problems include junction improvements, one-way
streets, channelization, markings, signaling, bus bays and priority lanes,
selective road widening, and pedestrian facilities such as safety islands and
controlled crossings. For purposes of implementation, TSM improvements have
been divided into "major" and "minor" categories. The distinction would be
between those larger improvements implemented by the Office of Construction
and Engineering and the smaller actions directly handled by the TSM Section.
The cumulative effect of these measures is expected to lead to improved traf-
fic flows and safety along the corridor as a whole. The project includes a



- 10 -
four-year program of TSM measures along about ten major traffic corridors and
in the CBD. Preliminary plans for these corridors have been prepared which
will be updated and detailed by the TSM Section (see para. 2.13 below) on an
annual basis.
2.09      In addition to the safety measures included as part of the TSM
Program, the project also includes a city-wide remedial program of accident
prevention. This includes introduction of safety measures at about 200-300
hazardous locations, over four years, by carrying out investments recommended
by the new accident investigation and anaLysis system to be introduced as a
part of the institutional development of TPD (see para. 2.14 below).
2.10      In contrast with the major road investments which are discreet, the
TSM and Safety components represent programs which should form a regular
continuing activity within SMG. Thus, development of institutional arrange-
ments for this purpose is an importanc part of the Programs. Although many
existing units of SMG will be involved in the implementation of specific ele-
ments of the TSM Program, there is no singLe unit with the responsibility for
developing such a comprehensive program or for monitoring the impact of the
measures introduced as part of the preparation for this project. SMG has
established and staffed a special TSM Section for this purpose within its
Bureau of Transportation. The project includes staff training and expert
advice to the TSM Section as a part of the institutional development
program. The TSM and Safety Programs represent approximately 13Z of project
costs. Procedures and timetables for the TSM and Safety Programs can be found
in Annex L.
Institutional Development
2.11      This component supports technical assistance, training, studies and
a limited amount of equipment to improve both the content and process of urban
transport administration in Seoul City. It is focussed on the two main exe-
cuting agencies - SMG and Seoul TPD - and represents about 1Z of project
costs. Although institutional changes are being undertaken specifically in
response to the need to plan and implement the TSM and Safety Programs, the
development of a TSM Section in SMG and an Accident Prevention Unit (within
the TPD) would have a wider impact, since these agencies would serve as models
for other local authorities to learn and assimilate new techniques for dealing
with traffic and safety problems. The objectives for each portion of this
component are described in the following paragraphs.
2.12      Transportation Bureau.  The institutional development component to
be implemented by SMG principally concerns the TSM Section within this Bureau.
This component has three main objectives:
(a) to strengthen the newly formed TSM Section;
(b) to train staff in the use of TSM and road safety techniques; and
(c) to develop, within SMG, a coordinated and comprehensive approach to
resolving urban transport problems.



- 11 -
2.13      These objectives would be achieved through the funding of:
(a) an Advisor to the TSM Section to assist in: (i) the preparation and
implementation of traffic and safety improvement schemes for
selected corridors and the CBD; and (ii) the establishment of a
city-wide traffic monitoring program;
(b) consultants to carry out: (i) the detailed design and engineering of
the traffic and safety improvement schemes; (ii) a traffic monitor-
ing program to evaluate the impact of the TSM Program; and (iii) a
demand management and comprehensive parking policy study; and
(c) the participation of SMG staff in local and overseas training
programs. Terms of Reference for the Advisor and the consultants
are given in Annex 1. These Terms of Reference together with a
detailed training program and the content of the first year TSM
Program uaere reviewed during negotiations. The existing and
proposed new structure of the Transportation Planning Division are
shown in Annex 2.
2.14      Traffic Police Department (TPD).  The institutional development
component to be implemented by the TPD will focus on accident prevention, road
safety and traffic control. The objectives of this component, which are
derived in large part from a Bank-financed road safety study (Loan 2228-KO),
are: (a) to strengthen the Safety Unit of the TPD; (b) to train staff in the
gathering and use of accident intelligence data and accident prevention tech-
niques; (c) to prepare a citywide program of remedial actions at accident
blackspot locations; and (d) to strengthen enforcement and traffic control
practices. These activities would be undertaken in close collaboration with
the newly formed TSM Section. The content, size and associated training for
the TPD are described in Annex 1 and were agreed during negotiations.
Project Cost and Financing Plan
2.15      Project Cost.  The total project cost, including price and physical
contingencies, taxes and duties, is estimated at W 163,675 million ($204.6
million), of which W 49,948 million ($62.4 million) or about 31% represents
the foreign exchange component. Property and land acquisition costs, esti-
mated at about W 37,800 million ($47.3 million), are included. Taxes and
duties are estimated at W 4,850 million ($6.1 million). The base cost is
expressed in December 1984 prices. Cost estimates are based on detailed
engineering designs for the 1985 construction program for roads and major
interchange improvements, and preliminary engineering designs for the balance
of the road construction program, except for the Yeongdeungpo and Gilum
Interchanges, as well as TSM and safety works. Costs for detailed engineering
and supervision (in addition to advisory services) are estimated at 4.0% of
the cost of civil works; for TSM and road safety civil works the percentage is
5%. Consultant input is required at an estimated cost of $1.2 million. These
costs are net of price contingencies but include salaries, fees, international
travel and subsistence. Physical contingencies have been estimated at 20% for
TSM and Safety Works, 15% for civil works with preliminary engineering, and 5%
for those with detailed engineering, averaging about 7% of total base costs.



- 12 -
Price contingencies for foreign costs have been estimated at 8.0% in 1985,
9.0% p.a. thereafter. For local expenditures, price increases are estimated
at 2.5% for 1985 and 5.5Z thereafter. It is assumed that the real value of
the won in dollar terms will remain constant over the life of the project.
TabLe 2.1: PROJECT COST SUMMARY
Local   Foreign   Total    Local  Foreign  Total  Foreign
-       (W mln)             ---(US$ mln) --             Z
1. Major roads            45,230    25,496    70,726       56.5    31.9    88.4      36
2. Major interchanges      9,563     5,691    15,254       12.0     7.1    19.1      37
3. TSM & safety works      7,812     7,105    14,916        9.8     8.9    18.6      48
4. Land acquisition       37,800          0    37,800      47.3     0.0    47.3       0
5. Technical assistance
& training              470       470        940      0.6      0.6      1.2     50
Base cost
(End 1984 prices)   100,875    38,762   139,637    126.1    48.5   174.5         28
Physical contingencies    5,973      4,436    10,409        7.5     5.5    13.0      43
Price contingencies        6,878     6,751    13,629        8.6     8.4    17.0      50
Total Project Cost   113,727    49,948   163,675    142.2    62.4   204.6         27
Note:
1.    Total physical contingencies are about 7% of base cost; Local and foreign
price contingencies are about 10% of the base cost plus physical
contingencies.
2.    Taxes and duties are about W 4.85 billion (US$6.1 million).
2.16 Financing Plan. The proposed Bank loan of $53.0 million would
contribute about 26% of total project costs. The loan would cover 85X of
foreign exchange costs. The loan would be made to the Seoul Metropolitan
Government for a term of 15 years including three years of grace. The
Republic of Korea would guarantee the loan. The balance of the project costs,
about Won 121 billion ($151.6 million), would be financed by SMG.
2.17 The proposed project would represent about 20% of expenditures for
transportation during the implementation period (1985-88) or 3% of total
expenditures by SMG. Some components are already part of SMG's investment
program and the city should have no problem in providing the required funds.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that SMG would provide the necessary
counterpart funds in a timely manner.



- 13 -
Table 2.2: PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million)
SMG              IBRD Loan          Total
Civil works                        67.0                39.7              106.6
Land acquisition                   47.3                 0.0               47.3
TSM & Safety                       11.2                 8.2               19.5
Institutional Development           0.6                 0.6                1.2
Base cost                    126.1                48.5              174.6
Physical contingencies             11.0                 2.0               13.0
Price contingencies                14.5                 2.5               17.0
Total financing Required        151.6                53.0              204.6
III.  PROJECT EXECUTION
The Borrower
3.01      SMG, the executing agency for the project, is an independent legal
entity with the status of a "special city" under Korean law. The Mayor is
appointed by the President of the Republic, reports directly to the Prime
Minister and is an ex-officio member of the State Council. SMG employs 66,000
staff to serve its 8.7 million inhabitants.
3.02      The finances of SMG are substantially independent of the Central
Government and the bulk of its revenues are generated locally. Government
grants have accounted for only 3Z of SMG's income in recent years and, if the
size of the local tax revenue base increases as expected, the relative size of
transfers from the government is likely to decline to negligible levels by the
late eighties.
3.03      A summary of the past and projected future financial position of the
"general account" of SMG is given in Annex 4.  The Korean presentation does
not distinguish between recurrent and capital expenditures. It can be seen,
however, that total revenues for 1984 amounted to W 955 billion (US$1.2
billion) compared with total expenditures of U 806 billion (US$1.0 billion).
In both 1983 and 1984, the overall surplus was significantly higher than in
previous years, reflecting a general fiscal retrenchment at all levels of
Government. It was agreed during negotiations that the audited financial
statements of SMG (Statement of Settled Accounts) would be sent to the Bank
within nine months of the end of each fiscal year.
3.04      It is a measure of the conservative fiscal management of SMG that
expenditures have closely approximated revenues in recent years. Borrowing



- 14 -
has been small and related to the project requirements of individual depart-
ments rather than to any overalL fiscal need. As of end-1984, SMG had an
estimated W 71 billion equivalent of outstanding debt.  Service payments, both
principal and interest, amounted to only 2% of total revenues during 1984.
Projections indicate that borrowing will continue to be marginal to SMG's
revenue requirements and that total debt service will be no more than 2% of
revenues by the end of the project-executing period.
Implementation Arrangements
3.05      The Project Management and Evaluation Bureau will have responsibi-
lity for overseeing the project with the following Bureaus directly involved
in the implementation: Transportation, Construction Management, the Office of
Construction and Engineering and the Traffic Police Department (a quasi-
Bureau, dependent on SMG for budget for safety and traffic control invest-
ments). Other bureaus would be involved in the TSM component which will be
coordinated by a committee, the Urban Transport Improvement Committee (see
Annex 2 for membership and Annex 1, page 5 for UTIC role), which has been
established to review and approve each year's TSM program.
3.06      Table 3.1 illustrates which Bureau within SMG would have respon-
sibility for implementation for various project components.
Table 3.1: PROJECT RESPONSIBILITIES
Component                  Feasibility       Design         Construction
A.  Major roads &              CM            CM                  OC&E
intersections
B. TSM program
Minor works             TSMS           TSMS                TSMS
Major works             TSMS           CM                  OC&E
C.  Safety Program             TSMS &        TSMS &              TSMS
TPSS          TPSS
Acronyms:
CM     =  Construction Management Bureau, Roads Division of SMG.
OC&E   = Office of Construction and Engineering of SMG.
TSMS   =  Transportation System Management Section of the Transportation
Planning Division of the Transportation Bureau of SMG.
TPSS   =  Traffic Police Safety Section.
3.07        The Office of Construction and Engineering is well experienced and
capably staffed to carry out its role in the project. The newly created TSM



- 15 -
Section within the Bureau of Transportation has initially been staffed with
six members drawn from existing SMG employees and would be supported by local
and foreign advisors. The SMG's own plans call for upgrading the TSM Section
to a full Division within about one year if the program proves to be success-
ful. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that SMG would engage the TSM
Advisor by June 30, 1985 and maintain this Section. Assurances were received
that the TPD would engage advisors in the fields of safety and traffic
control, by July 31, 1985, to introduce modern accident investigation and
analysis procedures as well as to train TPD in the techniques of enforcement
and safety improvement design.
Implementation Schedule
3.08        The project will be implemented over a four-year period, 1985-88,
as shown in Annex 5. Detailed engineering has been completed for the Yeong
Dong intersection and for major road works in the 1985 construction program.
Related land acquisition has also been completed or is proceeding satisfac-
torily. The tendering process on the major first-year works has started;
prequalification notice has been issued for ICB contracts, and the first set
of bid documents are being prepared. The first set of contract awards is
expected in June 1985. The southern end of the Western Arterial requires
either that MOC construct a short connecting road outside the city boundary,
er for SMG to upgrade an existing link road. MOC has already programmed this
connecting road in its budget starting in 1985. Assurances were obtained from
SMG that should MOC not go ahead with this construction, SMG will upgrade the
existing link to adequate standards in time for the opening of the new
section. SMG also gave assurances that a 0.9 km link between the northern end
of the Eastern Arterial and the main Euijongbu Road, across Nowon Bridge,
would be improved at approximately the same time as the widening of the
Eastern Arterial is undertaken.
Procurement and Disbursements
3.09        Procurement arrangements for the project are sumnmarized in the
Table below:



- 16 -
Table 3.2: PROCUREMENT METHOD, COSTS AND BANK FINANCING /a
(US$million)
Total
Project items                  ICB         LCB            Other         cos
Civil works                   126.0        23.9                        149.9
(42.6)      (8.1)                        (50.7)
Goods                           0.6          -              0.3/b        0.9
(0.6)                      (0.3)         (0.9)
Land                             -           -            47.3          47.3
(-)          (-)
Engineering, TA and
training                       -          -              6.5           6.5
(1.4)        (1.4)
Total                    126.6        23.9           54.1         204.6
(43.2)      (8.1)           (1.7)        (53.0)
/a   Figures in parenthesis are amounts financed by the Bank loan.
7b   Procurement by prudent local shopping.
3.10      Civil Works.  There would be about ten contracts for major works
(roads and intersections) totalling about $126 million, and a large number of
smaller contracts related to the TSM and Safety Programs (less than $1.0 mil-
lion each) totalling about $24 million. All major contracts would be awarded
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding (ICB) to prequalified
contractors in accordance with World Bank Guidelines. The smaller civil works
contracts, which are geographically scattered and to be implemented over a
number of years, will be awarded on the basis of Local Competitive Bidding
(LCB), in accordance with procedures which are acceptable to the Bank.
Advance contracting would be allowed to enable SMG to adhere to its first-year
construction program.
3.11      Goods contracts totalling about $0.6 million equivalent will be
grouped in appropriate bidding packages and procured by ICB in accordance with
Bank Guidelines. A preference margin of the lower of import taxes or 15% of
the c.i.f. value, in accordance with Bank Guidelines, would be granted to
domestic manufacturers in bid comparison. Miscellaneous goods costing less
than $30,000 but totalling not more than $300,000 may be procured by prudent
local shopping involving solicitation of at least three bids.
3.12      All civil works contracts over $1.0 million each, and goods
contracts procured by ICB, will be subject to prior Bank review, which will
cover about 85% of value of works and about 70% of goods value. Other
contracts will be subject to selective post-award review. Consultants to be
financed by the Bank loan would be selected according to the Bank's guide-
lines.



- 17 -
3.13      Disbursements of loan proceeds will be made against:
(a) 40% of civil works contracts, including major TSM and Safety
coaponent contracts;
(b) 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and OOZ of foreign
expenditures for materials and equipment; and
(c) 100% of total expenditures for technical assistance and training.
Disbursement for the following components will be made on the basis of
statements of expenditure:
(a) civil works for TSM and Safety components contracts;
(b) for goods costing the equivalent of $30,000 or less each contract;
and
(c) for technical assistance and training contracts.
All other disbursements would be fully documented. An estimated schedule of
disbursements of the Bank loan is shown in Annex 5. It is expected that
disbursements will be completed by June 30, 1990, about 18 months after
completion of civil works, to allow for payment of contractors' retention
monies. The proposed loan is expected to disburse in about five years,
approximately the average time indicated by the disbursement profile for
Korea. In order to facilitate project implementation, a special account of
$4 million would be established, denominated in dollars. The Closing Date
will be June 30, 1990.
Accounts and Audits
3.14      SMG will be responsible for maintaining detailed project accounts,
giving a breakdown for land acquisition, civil works, equirment and services
provided. SMG will also arrange for an annual audit by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank with audited project accounts submitted to the Bank
within nine months of the close of each FY. Audits ,would contain a separate
opinion on expenditures made against statements of expenditures that confirms
to the Bank that claimed expenditures were used for the purposes for which
they were provided. Assurances to the above effect were obtained at
negotiations.
Progress Reporting and Monitoring
3.15      SMG (Project Evaluation and Management Bureau) will monitor project
expenditures and the physical progress of the project and will prepare the
Project Completion Report. This monitoring will include quarterly progress
reports to be sent to the Bank within one month of the expiration of each
quarter. The monitoring indicators for the major civil works would be based
upon Annex 5 for physical progress and for financial matters on the year by
year distribution of costs as shown in the detailed cost table (Annex 3). The
TSM and Safety Program monitoring indicators are listed as the expected dates



- 18 -
of key events in Annex 1, pages 5 and 6. These arrangements were confirmed at
negotiations.
IV. PROiECT JUSTIFICATION
Project Benefits
4.01      The proposed project would improve the transport and traffic condi-
tions in Seoul City and its environs through improvements in road infrastruc-
ture and traffic management. The various investments included in the project
are aimed at reducing traffic congestion, improving speeds and reducing travel
times as well as improving road safety. Improvements in traffic are also
expected to have a positive effect on the environment.
4.02      Besides physical improvements, the project will have significant
institution building benefits. It will contribute to the strengthening of
SMG's capacity in traffic and transport planning. The establishment and
strengthening of the TSM Section and the Accident Prevention and Safety Unit
will introduce, to Seoul, techniques in urban traffic management which have a
high pay-off in economic terms.
Economic Evaluation
4.03      Although the principal purpose of the project is to build long-term
institutional capacity in the urban transport sector, the major costs in the
project are related to physical components to be implemented in the short
run. The economic costs and benefits of these types of investments are
subject to quantification, and the results of such analyses are presented in
Table 4.1. In addition, there are likely to be significant benefits produced
by the other components which can only be evaluated, a priori, in a
qualitative manner.
4.04      The major road and intersection components together account for 86%
of base costs. The expected benefits from these components would be to reduce
congestion, which would be reflected both in increased travel speeds and
greater capacity on the routes involved. Economic savings occur because
vehicle operating costs (VOC) per km are lower at higher speeds (up to a limit
which is rarely exceeded within cities), and because passengers save time in
getting to their destination. The Economic Rate of Return (ERR) has been
calculated for each of these major components and the results are shown in the
following table with VOC savings indicated separately to illustrate their
relative importance. As one would expect, time savings do play a major role
particularly where bus traffic is so significant. Sensitivity analyses were
carried out for the cases of benefits being reduced by 15% and costs growing
by a similar amount as well as for both events occurring together. In all
cases, the ERRs meet or exceed the accepted criteria for projects in Korea.



- 19 -
Table 4.1: SUMMARY OF ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
(Economic Rates of Return)
(Share of      All                   Sensitivity Analysis
costs %)     benefits   VOC la   15% reduction  15Z increase
Component                     (time & VOC)   only  in all benefits   in costs    Both
A. Nowon-Gongdae       (8)         18           4            15             16        15
B. Suseo-Segok         (5)         30          18            25             26       22
C. Kyong-In-Sihung   (28)          31          11            26             27       23
D. North Han River-
Side Road         (30)         57          26           48              49       42
E. Yeong Dong
Interchange        (7)         47          26           40              41       34
Weighted ERR        (78)/b       41/c        18            35             36       31
/a   Vehicle Operation Cost Savings.
gb  The Yeongdongpo and Gilum Interchanges (together 82 of project costs) will
undergo economic evaluation as part of their feasibility studies. TSM & Safety
Programs including Technical Assistance and Training account for 13% of project
costs and equipment for the remaining 1%.
Ic   Weighted ERR.  Includes corponents A, B, C, D and E, which account for 78%
of total project costs.
4.05      The calculation of the effects of new construction and upgrading,
such as proposed under this project, requires the operation of a traffic
assignment model which is used to analyze the impact of various combinationg
of investments. The feasibility studies for the project conducted by KAIST
included the field survey work and the design and operation of a large
(200 zone) origin-destination and traffic assignment model. The investments
proposed for inclusion in this project were subjected to analysis using the
KAIST model. The basic assumptions and values utilized in this analysis are
contained in Annex 7.
4.06      The methodology described in the preceding paragraph only applies
once a particular investment has been proposed. To select subproject candi-
dates several steps were required. First, each candidate was examined for
consistency with Seoul's Master Land Use and Transportation Plan. This exer-
cise included analysis of the likely impact of ongoing transportation invest-
ments such as the subway system. Existing congestion levels served as the
second screening criteria. Since urban transport investments are not mutually
exclusive projects, a series of actions along a corridor are proposed as a
network of investments. Finally, each route or project identified by this
6/   Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology.



- 20 -
process was compared with technically feasible alternatives to confirm that a
least-cost solution was being pursued.
4.07      The TSM and Safety Programs, which constitute about 13% of project
costs, were not subject to comparable economic analysis because of the
difficulty in calculating the cumulative effect of many individual measures
which form a part of the total TSM package, and because of the difficulty in
quantifying benefits such as accident reduction. However, the experience of
other countries is that the returns on TSM type actions are very high because
significant improvements are possibLe with relatively small additions to
existing facilities. They typically augment capacity by 10% to 20% at almost
negligible cost compared to new construction. Given che prevalence of bottle-
necks and road system di.continuities identified in the feasibility study for
this project, it is anticipated that the benefits will be at least as high as
in other countries. For Seoul it is estimated that TSM actions will cost
between $200,000 and $500,000 per kilometer. If they result in increased
speeds of only 10%, ERRs from 30Z to more than 70Z should be achieved. The
present poor safety record with its high costs for Korea also means that the
returns to the program should be good. In the case of TSM, a continuous
monitoring program, which will evaluate the impact of the schemes, will also
provide an opportunity to calculate ex post economic rates of return for each
year's program.
Impact on the Urban Poor
4.08      It is difficult to estimate the precise impact of the project on the
poverty group since project benefits would accrue to the population at large
rather than to any particular income group. According to World Bank guide-
lines, the relative urban poverty line in Korea is $625 (in 1984) per capita
annually which places about 16% of the population below this threshold. The
benefits of this project are expected to go at least proportionately to lower
income groups because the investments are focused on heavily travelled routes
where bus and taxi traffic are higher than average and because public
transport priority measures will be introduced for the first time. Thus, at
least 16% of the project cost is estimated to benefit persons from the poverty
group.
Project Risks
4.09      SMG, the implementing agency for the civil works, is competent and
well experienced, and there are no special risks associated with implementa-
tion of major civil works components. The implementation of the TSM and
Safety components, particularly the first-year program, will require technical
support from advisors with international experience. Adequate technical
assistance is provided for in the project to assist the TSM Section and TPD.
The institutional development measures will require more time and effort to
become a permanent part of each organization. For this reason th'.e project
preparation has included extensive and detailed discussions on the institu-
tional aspects of the project which culminated in agreements to strengthen key
SMG Bureaus involved in the project. The actions already taken by SMG in this
respect give a good indication of the commitment of SMG to diligently pursue
implementation.



- 21 -
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.01      Agreements were reached with SHG during Loan negotiations:
(a) that the Bank's review of satisfactory feasibility and engineering
studies would be a condition of disbursement on Yeongdeungpo Rotary
and Gilm Interchange (para 2.07);
(b) that SMG would provide the necessary counterpart funds in a timely
manner (para. 2.17);
(c) that the TSM Section would engage the Traffic Engineering Advisor by
June 30, 1985, and that SMG would maintain this Section (para. 3.03);
(d) that the TPD would appoint Safety and Traffic Control Advisors by
July 31, 1985 (para. 3.03);
(e) that the link road from the southern end of the Western Arterial to
the main road would be improved to adequate standards if che section
of the Western Arterial outside the city boundary is not constructed
by MOC in time for completion of the new Sihung to Kyong-In section,
(para. 3.04);
Cf) that the link between the northern end of the Eastern Arterial and
the main Euijonebu Road, across Nowon Bridge, would be improved at
approximately the same time as the widening of the Eastern Arterial
is undertaken (para. 3.04);
(g) that a Special Account in the amount of $4 million be established at
the Korea Exchange Bank (para. 3.09);
(h)  that a separat- nroip:: account be established which would be
audited annually (para. 3.10); and
(i) that the Project Evaluation and Management Bureau monitor project
progress and prepare the Project Completion Report (para. 3.11).
5.02      The following matters were reviewed with SMG during negotiations and
understandings were reached:
(a) on the content and specific timetaible for the first years TSM
Program, the Terms of Reference of the Advisor to the TSM Section,
details of the training program and Terms o' Reference for TSM
monitoring and a study to establish a demand management comprehen-
sive parking policy, (para. 2.13);
(b) on the content, size, associated training and the Terms of Reference
for advisors to the road safety program (para. 2.14);
5.03      With the above assurances, the proposed project would be suitable
for a Bank loan of $53 million. The loan would be for a period of 15 years
including three years of grace at the standard variable interest rate. The
Borrower would be Seoul Metropolitan Government with a guarantee agreement
with the Republic of Korea.



-22-                               ANNE  I
Page 1
Summary of Draft of Terms of Reference for a
Traffic Engineering Advisor to the SMG
Bureau of Transportation (TSM Section)
Introduction
The Seoul Metropolitan Government (SMG) has recently created a new
Section in the Bureau of Transportation to undertake a citywide program of
comprehensive traffic and safety improvements. The new Transportation System
Management (TSM) Section will, be responsible for the planning, design and
implementation of the traffic and safety improvement projects. The projects
will -),-- jointly funded by SMG and IBRD as part of the Seoul Urban
Transportation Project. The services of a long term Advisor are being sought
to assist SMG with the TSM and Safety components of the project.
Objectives
The objectives of the present Terms of Reference are' (a) to set
out the qualifications and experience required of the Advisor; and (b) to
outiine his duties.
Qualifications
The Advisor should have a minimum of 5 years experience working on
traffic improvement projects in a major city. His experience should include
the design of traffic control, bus priority and pedestrian improvement
schemes.  The Advisor should preferably have an engineering background.
Duties.
The principal duties of the Advisor will be to assist the SMG Bureau
of Transportation (TSM Section) to:
(a) carry out the preliminary planning and feasibility studies for
comprehensive traffic, bus priority and pedestrian improvement
schemes along selected transport corridors and in the Central
Business District (CBD);
(b)  draw up and supervise the implementation of a program of data col-
lection to provide information for detailed design and monitoring of
the proposed traffic improvements, including volumes, speeds (car
and bus), ridership, accidents etc;
(c) prepare Terms of Reference for the detailed design of comprehensive
traffic improvement projects for the selected corridors and the CBD
and review the consultant's work;
(d) implement the TSM and Safety Programs; and



- 23 -
A.NEX 1
Page 2
(e) prepare Terms of Reference for and to assist SMG in the implementa-
tion of a study which wiLl lead to a demand management and
comprehensive parking policy for the Seoul CBD.
Duration: 36 months (may be contracted for one year at a time).



- 24 -
ANNEX I
Page 3
Draft Terms of Reference for the Feasibility and
Detailed Design of TSN Improvement Schemes
Introduction
The Seoul MetropoLitan Government (SMG) wishes to hire consultants
to carry out feasibility studies and detailed study and design of a comprehen-
sive traffic improvement scheme for the .....     ........... (Corridor or Central
Business District (CBD)). Detailed design of some major projects identified
during feasibility may be contracted separately. This project forms part of a
program of transportation system management (TSM) improvements being initiated
by the TSM Section of the Bureau of Transportation Planning. The program is
being jointly financed by SNC and IBRD.
Objectives
The objectives of the present Terms of Reference are: (a) to set
out the aims of the proposed study; (b) to described the scope of work; and
(c) to detail the outputs required.
Project Aims
The principal aim of the proposed study is to prepare a comprehen-
sive traffic and safety improvement plan for the whole of ...................
(Corridor or CBD) which: Ca) enhances the capacity of the existing route by
removing bottlenecks; (b) facilitates the smooth flow of public transport
vehicles by providing bus priority measures; (c) promotes the integration of
bus, taxi and subway systems; (d) improves travel and safety conditions for
pedestrians; and (e) reduces the accident rate at high risk sites by the use
of accident blackspot remedial measures. The solutions adopted to achieve
this aim should make full use of low-cost traffic management and TSM tech-
niques but should also include higher cost infrastructure solutions if
appropriate.
Project Scope
The consultants will be responsible for the carrying out the
following tasks:
(a) the collection of all pertinent data required to carry out
feasibilitv studies of all components and detailed design of low
cost measures. The detailed design of higher cost capital intensive
components will be the subject of a separate contract. Data collec-
tion should include as a minimum:
(i)  turning movement counts at all key intersections;
(ii)  classified counts along the corridor at approximately one
kilometer intervals (or at specified locations in the CBD) and at
high accident risk sites;
(iii)  travel speeds and delays of private and public transport vehicLes



-25 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4
along the whole corridor (or along specified roads in the CBD).
At least six runs at each timing period will be required to
obtain statistically significant results;
(iv) accident analyses and diagrams for the whole corridor and
approach roads for a two to three year period; and
(v) pedestrian counts where pedestrian flows are heavy and conflict
with traffic movements, and where significant numbers of
accidents occur;
(b) feasibility studies involving the analysis of alternative design
concepts at bottleneck Locations and high accident risk sites
together with justification (economic rate of return, reserve
capacity etc.) of the solutions recommended. Forecasts of future
traffic voLumes should be used to test the recommended solutions.
Functional plans should be prepared for low cost schemes along the
whole corridor and each major improvement; and
Cc) detailed plans of specific improvements and plans for the whole
corridor showing road markings, regulatory and direction signs,
traffic signal installations and other traffic control facilities,
bus and taxi stops and terminals; pedestrian facilities; street
lighting and any other proposed improvements. Detailed engineering
design of high capital cost structures will be the subject of
separate contracts.
Required Outputs
The results of the feasibility study and detailed design should be
presented in the form of a report together with annexes and detailed plans.
The report should contain all relevant data and information required to
support the design recommendations. In addition, the report should contain
detailed explanations of the proposals for:
(a) public transport priority improvements and public transport
facilities;
(b) phasing diagrams and linking schedules together with supporting
calculations for all traffic signal installations;
(c) detailed proposals for traffic regulations with regard to the
parking and loading and unloading of vehicles;
(d) detailed cost estimates;
(e) economic justification and calculations of reserve capacity giving
the assumptions made about future traffic growth; and
(f) calculations of accident rates at blackspot locations.



- 26 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5
The annexes should contain details of all the data collection
excercises indicating how and where the data was collected and the results.
The type of data and survey methodology should be sufficiently detailed so as
to permit similar 'after' surveys to be undertaken to monitor the impact of
the improvement schemes.
Plans should be prepared in sufficient detail for contracting
purposes. All documents should be prepared in Korean and English.



- 27 -                             ANNEX 1
Page 6
SEOUL URBAN TRANSPORTATION PROJECT
PROCEDURES AND TIMETABLE FOR TSH PROGRAM
EXPECTED TIMING                    TSM PROGRAM
By negotiations                     1. TSM Section
- established
- staffed
- Section head appointed
- study tour undertaken
- Terms of Reference for Traffic
Engineering Advisor; monitoring
and parking studies established
- agreement of UTIC to scope of first
year TSM
program
- first year feasibility studies
underway.
Agree at negotiations               2.  Overall scope and size of TSM Program
for the life of the project and all
Terms of Reference.
June 1985 (IBED review)             3.  Feasibility studies for first year
program complete. Review by UTIC.
4. Appointment of Advisor.
it                           5.  Contracts for detailed design of major
TSM works commence.
July 1985 (IBRD review)             6.  Detailed design of minor works
complete.
September 1985                     7.  Implementation of first year's program
begins.
8. Feasibility studies for second year's
program begins.
December 1985 (IBRD review)        9.  Detailed design of major works
complete.
January 1986                        10. Implementation of major TSM civil
works begins
STEPS 3 To 10 (EXCEPT 4) TO BE REPEATED ON AN ANNUAL BASIS



- 28 -
ANNEX 1
Page 7
SEOUL URBAN TRANSPORTATION PROJECT
PROCEDURES AND TIMETABLE FOR SAFETY PROGRAM
EXPECTED TIMING                     SAFETY PROGRAM
By negotiations                     1.  Preparation of Terms of Reference for
Safety Advisor.
Agree at negotiations               2.  Terms of Reference for Safety and
Enforcement Advisors, training program
and overall work program.
June 1985                          3.  Short listing of candidate Safet}
Advisors.
July 1985                          4.  Appointment of Safety Advisor.
August 1985                         5.  Completion of review of safety aspects
into first year TSM Program.
December 1985 (IBRD review)        6.  Completion of detailed design of
first-year Safety Program of remedial
actions at accident blackspots.
April 1986                          7.  Implementation of first year's Program
begins.
June 1986                          8.  Short listing of Candidate Enforcement
Advisors. Completion of training
materials for local training program.
STEPS 5 TO 7 TO BE REPEATED ON ANNUAL BASIS.



29-                              ANNEX 1
Page 8
DRAFT OUTLINE OF TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR TRAFFIC POLICE ADVISORS
Introduction
The Seoul Metropolitan Government (SMG) in collaboration with the
Traffic Police Department (TPD) proposes to carry out a major program of
traffic and safety improvements in Seoul City as part of a comprehensive
approach to resolving urban transport problems. Part of this program involves
the strengthening and training of the TPD in the fields of traffic safety and
traffic signal control and enforcement. The present Terms of Reference
pro;;ide a broad outline of the duties of the two Advisors who would assist the
TPD.
The duration of the inputs of the Advisors would be as follows:
Traffic Safety Advisor - 12 months; and Traffic Control and Enforcement
Advisor - 12 months.
Qualifications
Both Advisors should have a minimum of five years of experience in
their topic area, some of which should include experience of modern techniques
as practiced in Europe and North America.
Duties
Traffic Safety Advisor. The principal duties of the Traffic Safety
Advisor will be to assist the TPD:
Ca) to develop accident investigation techniques, selective enforcement
measures and assist in the formation of an Accident Prevention Unit;
(b) to prepare an accident blackspot alleviation program at 250 - 300
locations throughout Seoul City to be implemented over the period
1985 - 1988;
(c) to review the traffic improvement measures being prepared by SMG's
TSM Section;
(d) to establish a city-wide traffic accident monitoring program making
full use of the latest computer analysis techniques;
(e) to advise on the purchase of equipment for the Accident Prevention
Unit; and
(f) to develop training curricula and materials which can be used in the
development of local training programs.
Traffic Control and Enforcement Advisor. The principal duties of
this Advisor will be to assist the TPD:



- 30 -
ANNEX 1
Page 9
(a) to improve the performance of the existing computerized area traffic
control schemes and individual intersections;
(b) to train staff in the improved traffic signal operations techniques;
(c) to improve traffic enforcement methods in general and in respect to
modern traffic management techniques including bus priority
measures, one-way streets, reversible lanes, etc.; and
(d) to improve traffic signing and road marking standards.



- 31 -
ANNEX2-
Page 1
Existing and Proposed Structure of SMG's Transportation Bureau
BUREAU OF
TRANSPORTATION
TRANSPORTATION    TRANSPORTATION           TRANSPORTATION
PLANNING           ADMINISTRATIVE          ADMINISTRATIVE
DIVISION           DIVISION I              DIVISION II
(Faci Lities)           (ReguLations)
TRANPORTATION       TRAFFIC SIGNS      SUBWAY        I  TSM  
PLANNING            (Direction)        SECTION         SECTION 
SECTION             PARKING*________
_           ~~~SECTION
present
new for project
*     combines two existing divisions
LMH1B5



-32 -                             ANNEX 2
Page 2
MEMBERSHIP ON THE URBAN TRANSPORT
IMPROVEMENT COMMITTEE (UTIC)
Chairman                 Vice Mayor
Vice Chairman             Director General, Bureau of Transportation
Secretary                 Director of Transportation Planning Division
Members                   5 SMG Officials
Director Generals of:
City Policy
Investment Management
Urban Planning
Construction Management
Construction Engineering
Representatives from:
Traffic Police
MOT
Prime Minister's Office
5 Representatives from Transport and
Safety Associations
10 Outside Experts



ANNX3: DETAILED  PROJECT  COST
MJ'1ION  I                                    H-lLIOt  U.S.$    - -                                   1lLICN  11 -'
fllT     XcIt4ENTS                               IDCAL   MIGN   TMAL MASE   Er(2)             ICAL       RNI    MurAL z     F IGNM()          1984     1985      1986     1987     1988   MTAL
I.KJOR ROUE                                      382J4    25496    63740       46              67.81    31.87    79.68       40                  0    10198    21672    27408     4462    63740
Eastem Arterial                                 6240     4160    10400         7              7.80     5.20    13.00        40                 0     4264     2600     3536         0    10400
.jmeo DIx  - Segdk DbE                       2580     1720     4300         3              3.23     2.15     5.38        40                 0     3440      860        0        0      4300
NRwn Dr. - Gxidae aM                         3660     2440     6100         4              4.58     3.05     7.63        40                 0        0     2440     3660        0      6100
Western Arterial                               15504    10336    25840        19             19.38    12.92    32.30        40                 0     5943    13437     6460         0    25840
Kyorgin X-wy - Sihng                        15504    10336    25840        19             19.38    12.92    32.30        40                 0     5943    13437     6460         0    25840
NDrth lan River RPad                           16500    11000    27500        20             20.63    13.75    34.38        40                 0        0    6325    19250       1925    27500
2.DEQI AND S1PERSIQN                             2550        0     2550         2              3.19     0.00     3.19         0                 0      459      790     1071      229      2550
3.KUOR INll IANCS                                 8537     5691    14228        10             10.67     7.11    17.79       40                  0     2304    3136      8788        0    14228
Yeadorg                                         2304     1536     3840         3              2.88     1.92     4.80        40                 0     2304     1536        0        0      3840
Yeor*mdewEP                                     4800     3200     8000         6              6.00     4.00    10.00        40                 0        0     1600    6400         0      8000
Gilun                                           1433      955     2388         2              1.79     1.19     2.99        40                 0        0        0     2388        0      2388
4.DES1tN AND SUf VISIN                             640        0      640         0              0.80     0.00    0.80         0                  0      128      192      320        0       640
5. T91  D SAFEltY WS                              6805     6805    13609        10              8.51     8.51    17.01        50                 0      272     4899     5444     2994    13609
T11 (MtRM     & CM)                             5725     5725    11450         8              7.16     7.16    14.31        50                 0      229     4351     4580      2290    11450
SAFElY                                          1080     1080     2159         2              1.35     1.35     2.70        50                 0        0      432      756      972      2159
6.DESIQ4 AND SIPSRVIONI                            680        0      680        0               0.85     0.00     0.85        0                  0      327       88      265        0      680
7. TAXES AND ) IU      CIVIM OWS                  4823        0     4823        3               6.03     0.00     6.03        0                  0      723     1736     1640      723     4823
8a. av   w                                         300      300      600        0               0.38     0.38     0.75        50                 0      300      300        0        0      600
9. TAXES AJ   Wl'IES U JI EhT                       27        0       27        0               0.03     0.00     0.03        0                  0       14       14        0        0       27
10. IAtN ACXlSITICN                              37800        0    37800       27              47.25     0.00    47.25        0              9828      4158     9825    13986        0    37800
11. TICAL ASSIST AND TP/JNG                        470      470      940        1               0.59     0.59     1.18       50                  0      301      301      301       38      940
MABE 0ST                                        100875    38762   139637      100             126.09    48.45   174.55       28               9828    19184    42956    59223     8446   139637
PHYSICAL M2T =lIES                                5973     4436    10409        7               7.47     5.54    13.01       43                  0     1770     3539     4372      729    10409
PICE 0ON1?lIE                                     6878     6751    13629        10              8.60     8.44    17.04       50                  0      512     3289     7733     2095    13629
TrAL PRfMlr COST                                113727    49948   163675       117            142.16    62.44   204.59        31              9828    21465    49784    71328    11270   163675



- 34 -
ANNEX 4
AN=  4   SG INME AND EUITURE 1981 - 1988
(MUZCETN)
1981    1982     1983     1984      1985     1986     1987     1988
ACT      ACT    ACT       PBRL      EST      EST      UTr       Eg
REVENaE:                     492164 661100   857271   954671  1140300  1366445  1639171  1963605
IL)CAL TAX                   354295  458391   592412   635348   782749   964346  1188075  1463708
MR TAX & FM                   101812  154547   224643   279648   313206   350790   392885   440032
7RUE9    PR GDYEPMIr           24342   27922    20845    19643    20625    21656    22739    23876
WDoWING                       11715   20240    19371    20032    23720    29652    35472    35989
EMM =flhJRE:                 485128  584589   722206   806379   991211  1219120  1500427  1847024
GERMAL                       473257  572002  706797   788942   971977  1197475  1475289  1817556
MM  SERVICE                    11871   12587    15409    17:.37    19234    21645    25138    29468
NEr IKXIME BEOCE BO1    W     -4679   56271   115694   128260   125369   117673   103272    80591
SOEE:  SW (AaIIS AND PRELY)
MLSSII FROJBKMIISS (ESTMAU)



- 35 -
ANNEX 5
KOREA
SEOUL URBAN TRANSPORTATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
PROJECT COMPONENTS                   Year          1985        1986        1987        1988
Quarter   1  2 34  1 23 4  12  3 41   T   3 
A. MAJOR ROADS
1. Eastern Arterial
Suseo Dong - Segok Dong
Nowon Bridge - Gongdae Chon
2. Western Arterial
Kyong-In X-way - Sihung
3. North Han River Road
B. MAJOR INTERCHANGES
1. Yeongdong                                     -       -
2. Yeongdeungpo                                               -
3. Gilum
C. TSM
D. ROAD SAFETY



-36 -                                   ANNEX 6
KOREA
SEOUL URBAN TRANSPORTATION PROJECT
DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
(US$ Million)
Bank's       Year and
fiscal       semester   Disburse-       Cumulative       Disbursement Profile
year         ending        ment       disbursement      Korea           Project
1986        12/31/1985      3.1           3.1             5.2Z             5.8%
06/30/1986     3.8            6.9            13.6%           13.0%
1987        12/31/1986      5.4          12.3            25.7%            23.2%
06/30/1987     6.9           19.2            40.2Z           36.2Z
1988        12/31/1987      8.5          27.7            54.6Z            52.2%
06/30/1988     9.9           37.6            68.1Z           71.0%
1989        12/31/1988      6.2          43.8            78.9Z            82.6%
06/30/1989     4.6           48.4            87.1%           91.3%
1990        12/31/1989    3.10           51.5            94.0Z            97.1Z
06/30/1990    1.50           53.0           100.OZ          100.0%
Closing Date: June 30, 1990.



- 37 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1
KOREA
SEOUL URBAN TRANSPORTATION PROJECT
Economic Analysis: Basic Assumptions and Data
1.        Value of Time.  An important type of benefit derived from traffic
improvement schemes is the time saved by travellers. For the analysis of this
project, the value of time saved has been adjusted for various types of
vehicles and for work versus non-work related trips to reflect the different
income levels of those using different cravel modes, and the fact that the
opportunity cost of work hours is much greater than that of time spent
travelling to work for most people. Table 1 shows Lhe value of time (won per
minute) for the occupants of the four vehicle types on Seoul's roads as well
as the typical minimum wage being paid. Work trips are assumed to make up 5S
of traffic and are valued at 1lOZ of the numbers in Table 1 to reflect the
overhead involved in this activity. All other trips are assessed at one third
of the time values shown below.
Table 1: TIME VALUE OF OCCUPANTS
(won/minute)
Auto     Taxi    Truck       Bus      Minimum Wage
24       20        12        6            15
Source:   SMG Economic Evaluation for each of the seven components.
2.        Vehicle Operating Costs (VOC).  VOC are the principal ingredients in
benefit calculations. VOC are based on the fact that vehicle operating costs
decline as average speeds increase. VOC include fuel, oil, tire and
maintenance costs net of taxes. The following chart illustrates the
relationship between the various type of vehicles and costs per kilometer.
3.        The Cost Vehicle Delay has been calculated using the VOC value for a
low speed (8 km/hr) and adding the weighted time value per vehicle type for
time savings estimation. The result is Won 1900/hr for a passenger car, Won
6000/hr for a bus, and Won 2300/hr for a truck.
4.        For the purposes of economic evaluation, the cost of project
components has been calculated in the following manner. Costs of construction
were taken at base year prices (mid-1984) increased by the estimate of physi-
cal contingencies but net of taxes. The benefit stream, also estimated in
1984 prices, starts in year two and continues through year 20 in constant
prices, the assumed life of the major capital improvements. Maintenance is
based upon actual expenditures for similar types of projects and has been
subtracted from the benefit value for each year.



Chart 1: VEHICGf:R OPRATINn COSTS (VOC)
(Won Per Wilometer - Without tax)
Passenger Car                                'RUB                                    Triuck
Speed  Fuel       Oil  Tire  Maint  Total   Fuel    Oil   Tire  Etaint  Total   tuel    niit   Tire  Mal nt  Total
R   111.77   1,05    .22    6.n3  119.07  275.08  4.35  0.26  15.93  295.62  275.n0   4.36  n.32  12.06   291
24    44.16  n0.9      .40    6.37    51.84   95.30  2.26  0.8S  16.20  114,h61            5,95  2.26   ,n06  12,24    111
40     34.35  0.RO   .92       7.n0    43,08   62,81   1.R8  1,51   17.93   84.13   62.81  I.R4  1.8q  13.58              so
56    30.1n    .74   1.14      7.82    39.8n   51.98   1,68  2.32  2n.7q    76.77    52.2n  1.61  2.91   15.7R            72
72    31.40    .71  1.27       8.72   42.10   48.08  1.43  3.34  24.42    77.27    5.,47  1,26  4,18  1A.52               74
88     34.02    .76  1.32      9.69   45.79    5n.90  1.41  4.71  2R.48   85.5n   54.15  1.16  5s.9   21.57               82
Source:  KAIST Technical Report Voltume 1, p. 69.                                              



- 39 -                                ANNEX 7
Page 3
COST AND BENEFIT DATA
(million Won)
Economic                Benefits
Component                     cost /a    VOC/yr       Time/yr      Total/yr
A.  Nowon-Gongdae             11,944         879        1,410          2,289
B.  Suseo-Segok                7,613       1,412          898          2,310
C.  Kyong-In-Sihung           40,369      5,217         7,379         12,596
D.  North Han River Road      42,784      11,100       13,100         24,200
E.  Yeongdong Interchange    10,569       2,833         2,102          4,935
/a     Includes construction, maintenance, land acquisition and physical
contingencies, excludes taxes and duties.



40 -                                     ANNEX 8
KOREA
SEOUL URBAN TRANSPORTAIION PROJECT
Docouments Available in the Project File
Studies and Other Documents
(a) Seoul Metropolitan Government. Economic Evaluation for each of the
seven components, July1984.
tb) Seoul Metropolitan Government and Sam Woo Consulting Engineering
Co., Ltd. Detail Design for New Alignment Construction between
SEGOK - SUSEO LINK (main report and one annex), May 1984.
Cc) Seoul Metropolitan Government. Design of New Alignment and
Interchange Project of Yeongdong Bridge, 1984.
Cd) Dong I1 Consulting Engineering Co., Ltd., New Alignment and Widening
Project of Dongil-Ro. Geometric and Structural Drawings, 1984.
Ce) Seoul Metropolitan Government and Korea Engineering Consultants
Corporation. New Alignment Project of Western Arterial Road.
Cf) Seoul Metropolitan Government. Statistical Yearbook, 1983.
(g) Ministry of Transportation. Statistical Yearbook of Transportation,
1983.
(h) Ministry of Home Affairs. Financial Yearbook of Local Government,
1982-1984.
(i) Ministry of Home Affairs. Yearbook of Local Tax Administration,
1983.
(j) Seoul Metropolitan Government. Mid-Term Financial Plan, (1984-
1988).



REPUBIK OF KOREA
SEOUL URBAN TRANSPORTATION PROJECT
Ncw P Couor                                         GOYANG  GUN
Road Widening
Q   Ma  ntersection Inprovemenl
-lvm    Poteki TSM Corridkrs
Eressweay CroH)                    Subway Sysftem: 
Major Roods                         Bxisfing
H-f  Tunmels                              Under Contrction
Ra_lwa-s                     -      Subway Using Raiwy LYe
- Cdrl Bsness; Ds                  Seu city ad county BomdCrBies '
0000000 Related Projets to be Constructed by SMG
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
/
. O 2             A        68lo"\ <
:;,                                           sw-j&ir_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A-  G WACHEC-
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   U



IBRD 18M,
To &q.-I.
:     5
e ~ ~ ~ ~      ~     ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     " -      - e
\. 5 / \ \'\ux //3t \ ~YANGJU
Y_ )c i -'D, ,G
<EON ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~U
/p, f  Xw  m WA  1N
rs~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,.d   j  \ .  Mr \9>>_
--'EON   } s                       70                                                    _
AVRCH P1t 



