                                       PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                                                          CONCEPT STAGE
                                                                                                                  Report No.: AB7048
Project Name                                  Second Development Policy Loan in Support of the Plan Maroc Vert (P127822)
Region                                        MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA
Country                                       Morocco
Sector(s)                                     Agro-industry, marketing, and trade (30%); Irrigation and drainage (30%); General agriculture
                                              , fishing and forestry sector (20%); Agro-industry (10%); Agricultural Extension and Research
                                              (10%)
Lending Instrument                            Development Policy Loan
Project ID                                    P127822
Borrower(s)                                   Government of Morocco
Implementing Agency                           Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) and Ministry of Agriculture and Maritime Fisheries
                                              (MAPM)
Environmental Category                        N/A
Date PID Prepared                             20-Mar-2012
Estimated Date of Appraisal Completion 02-July-2012
Estimated Date of Board Approval              27-Sept-2012
Concept Review Decision
Other Decision


I. Introduction and Context
  Country Context
  Representing 15 percent of Morocco’s GDP and 23 percent of the country’s exports, and employing close to half of the labor force, the
  agri-food sector (together with the forestry and fishing) is a key pillar of the Moroccan economy. In the rural areas it is the primary source
  of employment and income for about 80 percent of the labor force. Although rural poverty decreased from 25 percent in 2001 to 14
  percent in 2007 largely due to the combined effect of increases in the value of agricultural production, diversification of the rural
  economy, and increases in remittances, the contribution to overall inequality of the gap between rural and urban living standards in
  Morocco is the highest of any Middle East and North Africa (MENA) country. In fact, poverty rates in rural areas are almost 3 times as
  high as in urban areas and 70 percent of poverty in Morocco remains rural. With a Gini coefficient of 0.6, land remains inequitably
  distributed: a majority of low-productivity smallholders owns only 26 percent of cultivated land, while a minority of less than one percent
  of mostly commercial and export-oriented farms owns about 14 percent.

  Despite some successes in selected commodities, the agri-food sector’s growth potential is constrained by the dualistic nature of farming
  in Morocco. The vast majority of the 1.5 million agricultural holdings are semi-subsistence farms that have low productivity and product
  quality levels and limited market integration. These farms are small (70 percent are less than 5 hectares), largely rainfed, typically
  engage in the production of low-value agricultural commodities such as wheat and barley, and vulnerable to recurrent droughts. This
  large group of smallholder farmers co-exists with a small but very efficient group of commercial farmers producing crops (such as citrus,
  tomatoes, strawberries, grapes, melons, and peppers) for high-value export markets and milk for domestic markets. This sub-sector of
  mainly irrigated production accounts for 7 percent of GDP, 50 percent of Morocco’s agricultural value added, generates over 75 percent
  of Morocco’s agricultural exports, and provides jobs to 50 percent of the rural labor force. This duality is partly a result of policies that
  have limited the opportunities of traditional agriculture and smaller farmers. First, an antiquated legislative system of commercialization
  of certain agricultural products designed to raise municipal revenues raises the cost and lowers the quality of fruits, vegetables and meat.
  The results are lower producer and higher consumer prices and reduced incentives for quality and value-addition. Second, the
  effectiveness of the traditional support (extension, credit, technology), particularly for small farmers, has eroded due to the absence of an
  integrated approach that takes account of the links between production and marketing, availability of adequate technical support and
  attention to quality of the products. Third, the participation of the farmers and communities in the design and implementation of support
  policies has been limited, with a centralized approach dominating .


  Sectoral and Institutional Context
  Morocco launched a transformative agricultural development strategy - the Plan Maroc Vert (PMV) for the period 2008-2020. The PMV is
  an ambitious strategy that aims to transform the agri-food sector into a stable source of growth, competitiveness, and broad-based
  economic development in rural areas through a combination of agricultural investments and systemic public sector reforms. The PMV
  addresses important constraints in the sector and embodies a paradigm shift from a highly protected to a more open market oriented
  agriculture and away from concerns with only farm-level production and towards integrated value-addition all along the agri-food chain
  that will bring better opportunities to small and large farmers alike. Institutionally, it represents a major shift from state intervention that
  replaces the private sector to one that focuses on delivering public goods and services and developing Public Private Partnerships
    (PPPs) to support the sector. In the period 2009-2020, an estimated 140 billion MAD of combined public and private sector investments
                                                                                                                                           1
    are envisaged in around 1,500 commercial (Pillar I) and smallholder (Pillar II) agriculture investment projects. Of the 1,500 projects
    envisaged under the PMV, 218 are currently being implemented. They include 106 Pillar I projects totaling MAD18.9 billion and 112 Pillar
    II projects totaling MAD5.6 billion. In combination with the GoM’s ongoing Programme National d'Economie d'Eau en Irrigation (PNEEI),
    a 15 year development program supporting the conversion of an estimated 550,000 hectares of surface irrigation to drip irrigation, and
    the systemic public sector reforms undertaken by the PMV, these investments are to realize the agri-food sector’s domestic and export
    growth potential, particularly in fresh and processed high-value fruits and vegetables, stemming from Morocco’s geographic position and
    privileged access to the EU and US markets, rising domestic demand for quality food driven by growing incomes, favorable climate, and
    abundant and relatively low cost labor.

    The proposed operation is the second of a programmatic series of two single-tranche Development Policy Loans. The first DPL was
    adopted by the Board of the World Bank on 15 March 2011 and closed on 15 March 2012. The DPL series is structured around four of the
    key cross-cutting policy and institutional reform priorities identified in the PMV, including: (i) domestic markets; (ii) agricultural investment
    support; (iii) agricultural services; and (iv) irrigation water. The proposed DPL builds on recent World Bank operations in the agriculture
    and agriculture-related sectors. The DPL builds on the experience of the Irrigation-based Community Development Project (DRI-PMH),
    the Rainfed Agricultural Development Project (DRI-MVB), and the first National Initiative for Human Development (INDH) project all of
    which have been supported by the World Bank. The implementation of these projects has highlighted important institutional and
    structural constraints to effectively promote integrated rural development. It has also underlined the need for greater attention to the
    marketing aspects of agricultural development as well as the importance of support structures for producers and producer organizations.
    The actions aimed at improving the sustainability of irrigation water use and management under the DPL include some of the actions
    originally foreseen under the irrigation water component of the previous Water Sector DPL series. The recently completed PARL DPL
    series’, in which the MAPM has been actively engaged, strengthened the GoM’s overall public sector management through improved
    budget management, human resources management, control of the public payroll, and e-government.

    The proposed DPL would be complemented by other World Bank operations recently approved or currently in the pipeline. The proposed
    second INDH project would further strengthen the capacity of local governments, civil society actors, and marginalized groups, to
    effectively participate in decision-making processes concerning local development projects. The SCCF/GEF grant for Integrating Climate
    Change in the PMV (PICCPMV), which became effective in October 2011, is closely aligned with the DPL, supporting the integration of
    climate change adaptation measures into selected Pillar II projects in five target Regions. Similarly, the proposed Social and Integrated
    Agriculture project (ASIMA) to be financed under GEF-5 is expected to support land, water, and biodiversity conservation measures in
    selected Pillar II projects in marginal areas. The proposed Climate Change DPL, which would build on the Bank’s previous analytical
    work with respect to climate change mitigation and adaptation, will reinforce the actions undertaken with respect to the sustainable use of
    land and water resources. The institutional and policy reforms supported under the irrigation water component of the DPL will improve
    the effectiveness and the sustainability of the investments financed within the framework of the ongoing Oum-Er-Rbia Basin Irrigated
    Agriculture Modernization project aimed at the modernization of irrigation systems and the improvement of farmers’ access to
    technology, financing, and markets. Furthermore, the ongoing Education Sector DPL series supports human capital building in rural
    areas through improved effectiveness and efficiency of service delivery and learning outcomes at the primary and lower secondary
    education levels. Finally, the proposed First Competitiveness DPL and the proposed Second Financial Sector DPL will contribute to an
    improved business environment for the agriculture and rural sector. While the First Competitiveness DPL seeks to improve the
    investment climate, further trade policy reform and trade facilitation, and improve economic governance, the Second Financial Sector
    DPL will aim to foster household and SME access to financial services, increased financial stability, supervision and regulation, and
    capital market development.
    Relationship to CPS
    The proposed DPL is aligned with the objectives and priorities defined in the existing Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) 2010-2013. It
    addresses the three long term development challenges facing Morocco identified in the CPS: (i) enhancing growth and employment; (ii)
    reducing social disparities; and (iii) ensuring sustainability. By supporting the GoM’s pursuit of institutional and policy reforms in relation
    to domestic markets, agricultural investments and services, and irrigation water resources, it contributes directly to the three thematic
    pillars around which the Bank’s program is structured: (i) growth, competitiveness, and employment; (ii) service delivery to citizens; and
    (iii) sustainable development in a changing climate. Furthermore, it is linked to the two cross-cutting themes of governance and
    territoriality. Though most pronounced in the proposed Pillar II component, both themes are mainstreamed across the four components
    of the proposed DPL.

 II. Proposed Development Objective(s)
    Proposed Development Objective(s)
    The development objective of the PMV, supported by the DPL series, is to increase the agri-food sector’s productivity and diversification
    with the goal of maintaining higher rates of agricultural growth and employment. The objectives of the DPL series are to: (i) improve the
    efficiency of domestic markets; (ii) improve the socio-economic impacts of Pillar II projects; (iii) improve agricultural services; and (iv)
    improve the use and management of irrigation water.
    Key Results
    The key results of the DPL series include:
        -    Successful introduction of new ownership and management models for fruit and vegetable wholesale markets and
             slaughterhouses;
        -    Increased participation, transparency, and accountability in the decision-making and implementation process of Pillar II
             projects;

1
  These projects were identified through a participatory planning and consultation process at the regional level and each year specific projects are/will be further developed
into bankable projects by the regional directorates. The design of these investments is based around a supply chain concept. Priority supply chains have been defined for each
region based on their economic and agro-climatic conditions.
      -    Increase in the share of small farmers benefitting from government support;
      -    Improved coordination and synergies between the different stakeholders in the agricultural innovation system;
      -    Increased availability to farmers of more diversified and higher quality extension and advisory services;
      -    Enhanced sanitary control system and reduced food safety risks;
      -    Monitoring of groundwater abstraction in areas where drip irrigation is developed;
      -    Equitable development of drip irrigation in LSI areas;
      -    Improved performance of irrigation service operators; and
      -    Improved coherence of planning of investments in water mobilization and investments in irrigation systems.

III. Concept Description
  Component A. Improve the efficiency of domestic markets

  The objective of Component A is to improve the efficiency of domestic markets by reducing marketing costs and improving marketing
  services through the modernization of fruit and vegetable markets and slaughterhouses. To this end, the DPL series supports the
  following two main institutional reforms: (i) Modernizing management and rationalizing the revenue structure of fruit and vegetable
  wholesale markets ; (ii) Modernizing management and rationalizing the revenue structure of slaughterhouses

  Prior actions of this component for DPL/2 are: (i) the signing of the three conventions between local government and relevant ministerial
  departments for implementing fruit and vegetable wholesale market pilot projects that will introduce new management models; (ii) the
  adoption of specifications concerning technical, administrative, and contractual requirements for operating municipal slaughterhouse
  concessions (Cahier des Prescriptions) by inter-ministerial decision of MAPM and MI.

  Component B. Improve the socio-economic impacts of projects directed to small farmers

  The objective of Component B is to improve the effectiveness of agricultural investments directed to small farmers. To this end, two main
  reforms are pursued through the DPL series: (i) Improving the governance and public financial management of the Pillar II projects; (ii)
  Establishing a legal and institutional framework to support contract farming

  Prior actions of this component for DPL/2 are: (i) the implementation by ADA of a pre-selection technical committee for projects directed
  to small farmers at the provincial level; and (ii) the submission of a draft law on contract farming (Projet de Loi sur l’Agrégation) for
  Government approval.

  Component C. Improve agricultural services

  The objective of Component C is to improve agricultural services. To this end, the DPL series supports the following two institutional
  reforms: (i) Improving the effectiveness of the agricultural innovation system; (ii) Establishing an effective food safety control system

  The prior actions of this component for DPL/2 are: (i) Operationalization of the National and Regional Coordination Committees,
  comprising the MAPM, agricultural research and educational institutions, and professional organizations, with uniform rules of operation
  to coordinate agricultural research, extension, and training activities; (ii) Adoption by the MAPM of the National Agricultural Advisory
  Services Strategy and Action Plan for developing a mixed (public and private) integrated system for delivering agricultural advisory
  services, including the associated regional implementing actions; (iii) Adoption by the Council of Government of the draft Law 25-11
  establishing the National Agency for Agricultural Advisory Services (ONCA); (iv) The publication of the implementing Decree of the Law
  No. 28-07 concerning the sanitary safety of the food products and the adoption of the associated implementing regulations (Arrêtés) by
  the MAPM; and (v) Adoption of a cost-recovery system for veterinary and/or phytosanitary services by the MAPM and MEF.

  Component D. Improve the use and the management of irrigation water and the planning of irrigation infrastructure

  The objective of Component D is to improve the use and management of irrigation water and the planning of irrigation infrastructures. To
  this end, three main reform areas would be supported through the DPL series: (i) Improving the efficiency and sustainability of farmers’
  water use; (ii) Improving the performance of irrigation service operator; (iii) Improving irrigation infrastructure planning by the government

  The prior actions of this component for DPL/2 are: (i) the submission to the Government Secretary General of a draft amendment of the
  Law 23/97 on direct contribution concerning farmers’ financial contribution rates to the cost of modernizing off-farm irrigation systems; (ii)
  the implementation of the adjustment plan for irrigation water tariffs according to an updated calendar; (iii) allocation of resources for the
  irrigation perimeters located downstream dams under construction or programmed in the budget law


IV. Safeguard Policies that Might Apply
   Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                               Yes                No                 TBD
   Environmental Assessment OP/BP 4.01                                                                           X
   Natural Habitats OP/BP 4.04                                                                                   X
   Forests OP/BP 4.36                                                                                            X
   Pest Management OP 4.09                                                                                       X
   Physical Cultural Resources OP/BP 4.11                                                                        X
     Indigenous Peoples OP/BP 4.10                                                   X
     Involuntary Resettlement OP/BP 4.12                                             X
     Safety of Dams OP/BP 4.37                                                       X
     Projects on International Waterways OP/BP 7.50                                  X
     Projects in Disputed Areas OP/BP 7.60                                           X

V. Tentative financing
    Financing Source                                                     Amount
                                                                         EUR 150
    BORROWER/RECIPIENT
                                                                           million
                                                                         EUR 150
    Total
                                                                           million

VI. Contact point
    World Bank

    Contact:     Julian Lampietti

    Title:     Lead Program Coordinator

    Tel:       (202) 458-8221

    Email:     Jlampietti@worldbank.org


    Borrower/Client/Recipient

    Name:      Government of Morocco

    Contact:   Ms. Sabah Benchekroun

    Title:     Chargée de mission auprès du Chef du Gouvernement, MAGG

    Tel:

    Email:
.
.
    Implementing Agencies
    Name:      Ministry of Agriculture and Maritime Fisheries (MAPM)
    Contact:   Abir Lemseffer
    Title:     Director
    Tel:       (212) 537-764612
    Email:     a.lemseffer@mpm.gov.ma
.
.
VII. For more information contact:
     The InfoShop
     The World Bank
     1818 H Street, NW
     Washington, D.C. 20433
     Telephone: (202) 458-4500
     Fax: (202) 522-1500
     Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
