 IEG
                                                                                               Report Number: ICRR14830

                   ICR Review
                   Independent Evaluation Group


1. Project Data:                                              Date Posted: 09/28/2015

                 Country: Morocco
                          Is this Review for a Programmatic Series ?                                       Yes   No
                           How many operations were planned for the                                    2
                          series?
                           How many were approved ?                                                    2
             Series ID: S127822
       First Project ID : P116557                                                  Appraisal                 Actual
        Project Name: First Development           Project Costs (US$M):                        205.0              204.10
                          Policy Loan In
                          Support Of The Plan
                          Maroc V
 L/C Number:                                       Loan/Credit (US$M):                         205.0              204.10
      Sector Board:       Agriculture and Rural    Cofinancing (US$M):
                          Development
          Cofinanciers:                               Board Approval Date :                                 03/15/2011
                                                              Closing Date:              03/15/2012         03/15/2012
          Sector(s):    Agro-industry; marketing; and trade (40%); Irrigation and drainage (30%); General
                        agriculture; fishing and forestry sector (20%); Agricultural extension and research (10%)
         Theme(s):      Rural policies and institutions (40%); Rural markets (30%); Rural services and infrastructure
                        (30%)
    Second Project ID :P127822                                                     Appraisal              Actual
        Project Name: Second Dpl In Support         Project Costs (US$M):                    203.20              192.94
                        Of The Plan Maroc
                        Vert
 L/C Number:                                          Loan/Credit (US$M):                    203.20              192.94
      Sector Board:     Agriculture and Rural         Cofinancing (US$M):
                        Development
                                                      Board Approval Date :                                 03/27/2013
           Cofinancers:                                       Closing Date:              03/15/2014         03/15/2014
          Sector(s):    Irrigation and drainage (33%), General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (33%), Animal
                        production (17%), Agricultural extension and research (11%), Crops (6%)
         Theme(s):      Rural policies and institutions (39%), Rural services and infrastructure (28%), Rural markets
                        (22%), Other rural development (11%)
Evaluator:               Panel Reviewer:          ICR Review                  Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Nestor Ntungwanayo       Fernando Manibog         Christopher David          IEGPS1
                                                  Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    The Plan Maroc Vert (PMV) is the Government of Morocco's agricultural development strategy for the period
    2008-2020. The Bank committed in 2010 to support the PMV with a programmatic series of two single-tranche
    DPLs.

    The program objective was: " to increase the agri-food sector's productivity and diversification with the goal of
    maintaining higher rates of agricultural growth and employment". [Program Document (PD)-I, p.18 , para 5, and
    PD-II, p. 24, para 63-64].

    Each of the two operations supported 4 policy areas which were identical and aimed to: " (i) improve the
    efficiency of domestic markets; (ii) improve the socio-economic impacts of investments directed to small farmers;
    (iii) improve agricultural services; and (iv) improve the use and management of irrigation water and the planning
    of irrigation infrastructures. " (PD-I, p.18 , para 5, and PD-II, p. 24, para 63-64).

    Performance of the series will be assessed against the program objective and progress made in the policy areas
    as defined in the respective Program Documents.


 b. If this is a single DPL operation (not part of a series), were the project objectives/ key
associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Policy Areas:

    Policies underlying the programmatic Development Policy Loans (DPLs) aimed to achieve outcomes in 4 areas of
    the agricultural sector as follows:

    (i) Improved efficiency of domestic markets : Key policy measures aimed to: (i) improve the institutional and
    regulatory framework governing fruit and vegetable wholesale markets, and (ii) improve the institutional and
    regulatory framework governing slaughterhouses. Key prior actions were: (i) the validation of the national fruit
    and vegetable wholesale markets reform strategy and action plan, (ii) the adoption of the specifications for
    sanitary, hygienic, and facility requirements of private slaughterhouses, (iii) the signing of an agreement between
    the municipality of Berkane, the Ministry of Agriculture and Maritime Fisheries, and the Ministry of the Interior
    introducing a new management model in the Berkane fruit and vegetable wholesale market, (iv) the adoption of
    specifications for technical administrative and contractual requirements for operating municipal slaughterhouse
    concessions, and (v) the adoption of control regulations over hygiene and cleanliness of market meats, and
    conditions of the entry and selling of market meats.

    (ii) Improved socio-economic impact of investments directed at small farmers (Pillar II projects): Pillar II
    investment projects required the conclusion of a tri-lateral arrangements among the farmers, private investors,
    traders and the Government, and aimed to leverage the private investment resources. Beneficiaries of Pillar II
    projects had to organize themselves around a valorization unit in order to guarantee sustainability of the project,
    and the commercialization of their product.

    Main policy actions intended to: (i) improve the governance and public financial management of projects directed
    to small farmers, (ii) establish a legal and institutional framework supporting contract farming. Prior actions were:
    (i) the publication of manual describing procedures for prioritizing the financing for projects directed to small
    farmers, and preparing, submitting, and implementing projects directed to small farmers, (ii) the publication of
    regulation allowing the Government support for contract farming projects, (iii) the pre-selection of technical
    committees for projects directed to small farmers at the de-concentrated level, and (iv) the adoption of a law on
    contract farming.

    (iii) Improved agricultural services : Main policy actions were to: (i) improve the effectiveness of the agricultural
    innovation system, and (ii) establish an effective food safety control system. Prior actions that contributed to the
    outcome were: (i) the modernization of legal and regulatory texts governing the competitive applied research
    financing mechanism, (ii) the publication of regulation governing the sanitary safety of food products, and the
    delegation of the food safety control functions to private operators have been identified, (iii) the establishment of
    the National Coordination Committee for Agricultural Research Extension, and Training Activities and the sixteen
    Regional Coordination Committees for Agricultural Research, Extension, and Training Activities, (iv) the adoption
    of the National Agricultural Advisory Services Strategy and Action Plan for Delivering Agricultural Advisory
    Services, and the associated sixteen regional action plans, and (v) the adoption of the cost-recovery system for
    veterinary and food products safety services.

    (iv) Improved use and management of irrigation water and the planning of irrigation infrastructure : Actions
    planned under this policy area were to improve: (i) the application efficiency of farmers' water use while
    preserving aquifer sustainability, (ii) the performance of irrigation service operators, and (iii) the irrigation
    infrastructure planning by the Government. Prior actions that contributed to the outcome were: (i) the publication
    of a regulation requiring the beneficiaries of State assistance for drip irrigation to install a water metering system
   and to include in their application package for the above assistance a declaration or authorization of water
   abstraction, (ii) the decision to waive interest and fees associated with accumulated arrears for farmers who
   commit to reimburse their debts related to irrigation water within a period of twelve months, (iii) the preparation of
   an integrated investment plan for the irrigation perimeters downstream of the dams under construction and those
   programmed for the period 2010-2012, and (iv) the adequate budget funding for the irrigation perimeters located
   downstream of dams under construction or programmed.

      Table 1: Number of prior actions per policy area and operation
      Policy Area                                               DPL-1                   DPL-2               Total
      (i) Improved efficiency of domestic market                   2                       3                  5
      (ii) Improved socio-economic impact of                       2                       2                  4
      investments directed at small farmers
      (iii) Improved agricultural service                          2                       2                  4
      (iv) Improved use and management of irrigation               3                       3                  6
      water and the planning of irrigation
      infrastructure
      Total                                                        9                      10                 19



d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

   Costs: The two operations were the first and second programmatic DPLs designed to support the Plan Maroc
   Vert for consolidated actual costs of US$397.04 million, or the equivalent of 97% of the costs at appraisal.
   Financing: The program was funded by two IBRD loans.
   Dates: DPL-1 was approved on March 15, 2011 in the amount of US$205.0 million, made effective on August 24,
   2011, and closed on schedule on March 15, 2012. Disbursed amount was US$204.1 million. DPL-2 was
   approved on March 27, 2013 in the amount of US$203.20 million, made effective on July 15, 2013 and closed on
   schedule on March 15, 2014. Disbursed amount was US$192.94 million. Disbursed amounts in US$ were smaller
   compared to the dollar amounts at approval, because of the SDR appreciation in comparison to the US dollar
   during the life period of the series.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

   Substantial

   Selectivity: When the Government initiated the two DPLs, Morocco’s macroeconomic framework was adequate
   and sustainable in the medium term, as adverse effects of the global environment on Morocco were addressed
   relatively well, due to strong economic fundamentals and sound macroeconomic policies carried out over the last
   decade, as well as through a Government's stimulus package to mitigate these effects on the population and
   business alike. The 2 DPLs were designed to help the Government confront three macroeconomic exogenous
   risks at that time: (i) the possible worsening of the global economy, in particular in European partners, (ii) the
   impact of poor weather on the agricultural sector, and (iii) the continued high prices of food and energy. If the
   above risks were to materialize the country would face destabilizing macroeconomic imbalances. While public
   finances, monetary, and exchange rate developments continued to be well managed, there were weaknesses in
   the Morocco trade structure. The trade deficit deteriorated to 24.7 percent of GDP in 2008, and reflected low
   diversification and lack of competitiveness of Moroccan exports. The Bank's support to the PMV through DPLs
   intended to address these weaknesses by promoting private sector-led investments, with particular emphasis on
   the higher quality and value of agri-food products.

   Alignment with Government strategy: The policies underlying the DPLs were in line with Government's ambitious
   agricultural strategy, the Plan Maroc Vert (PMV), for the period 2008-2020, which was articulated around two
   pillars: (i) the pillar I aiming to integrate commercially-oriented producers in high value added and high
   productivity agri-food chains, and (ii) the pillar II intended to increase incomes of smallholder farms through crop
   switching, diversification, and intensification, as well as strengthening farmer organizations and supporting their
   integration in suitable agri-food chains. The Agricultural Sector development policy letters issued by the Morocco
   Government just before the PD presentation to the Bank Board (attached to both PD) were a testimony of the
   alignment between the content of the DPLs, and the priorities of the borrower in the agriculture sector.
   Alignment with Bank CAS : The reform program supported by the 2 DPLs was aligned with the Bank's Country
   Partnership Strategy (CPS) adopted by the Bank for the period 2010-13, which featured three pillars as follows:
   (i) growth, competitiveness, and employment; (ii) service delivery to citizens; and (iii) sustainable development in
   a changing climate. They were also linked to the two CPS cross-cutting themes of governance and territoriality. In
   particular, the last two themes were mainstreamed across the four components of the two DPLs. The PMV was
   also supported by almost all donors active in the agriculture sector in Morocco, as a total of 15 donors supported
   PMV financially (Budget support, investment lending, Loans or grants), for a cumulative amount of US$1.6 billion.
   The European Union funded a DPL series in support of the PMV, and the Technical Belgian Cooperation (CTB)
   and Agence Française de cooperation (AFD) worked more on the second pillar of the PMV. Furthermore, the
   Bank team gathered donors during preparation, which led to reviving the thematic group on agriculture, and
   provided additional support from the Global Environmental Fund (GEF).

   The program objective and the 4 policy areas under each operation were clearly stated and were coherent with
   the content of the PMV and the CPS as well. The series targeted more specifically to improve the quality and
   value of agri-food products, and strengthen autonomous irrigation management. Both the program objective and
   the policy areas were relevant at approval and remained realistic and well-balanced until completion of the policy
   operations.


b. Relevance of Design:

   Substantial

   Design parameters: Beyond the objectives detailed above, the two DPLs were also designed to provide budget
   support as a contribution to building a sustainable macroeconomic framework in the country that could resist to
   external or internal destabilizing factors. Addressing macroeconomic risks of the country was at the core of the
   inception of two operations, and the design of the DPLs was built on Bank and IMF alignment as regards to their
   assessment of the recent macroeconomic developments, outlook and risks. Moreover, the Ministry of Agriculture
   and Maritime Fisheries was mandated to leverage the DPLs with the work to be provided by other donors in
   supporting capacity building and development of agricultural niches. While there was no binding macroeconomic
   framework, in the form of an IMF program, the PDs comprised a country fiscal sustainability analysis, from which
   was derived the gross financing needs to which the two DPLs contributed.

   Results framework : The results frameworks for both operations were detailed (Annex C&D for DPL-I, and Annex
   3& 4 for DPL-II). The program objective, and the specific sub-objectives were clearly stated, and there was a
   strong internal coherence between the program overarching objective, the policy areas, and the policies and
   activities envisioned to be deployed toward identified outcomes. Under each specific objective, the prior actions
   for both operations were presented, and the final target as well. The results framework was built on the basis of
   the policy matrix, and aimed to monitor progressive achievement of performance targets, starting with a baseline,
   and moving toward expected target indicators at the end of each operation. The choice of prior actions for both
   operations was cautious, and was composed of the seminal reforms or actions that could ignite the needed
   change toward identified outcome. Moreover, simplification and selection helped project implementation, as
   there was one trigger per policy area. The main weakness of the results matrix was that there was a mismatch
   between the first generation nature of the reform agenda, and the high level nature of the identified outcomes.
   For instance, policy actions toward improved use and management of irrigation water did not produce expected
   results. Similarly, setting up an effective system of irrigation service operators is a reform which is complex to
   deliver in the context of short term operations.

   Prior actions: Prior actions in the four policy areas were as follows: (i) prior actions towards improving efficiency
   of domestic markets comprised structural reforms aimed at upgrading institutional and regulatory set up of fruit
   and vegetable wholesale markets and slaughterhouses; (ii) prior actions aimed at making public investments
   benefit more small farmers set the stage for the Government to direct a big chunk of public investment toward
   agriculture, and intended to making small farmers beneficiary of public investment; (iii) prior actions towards
   improved agricultural services aimed to further agriculture sector coordination, introduce competition and a
   bigger role of the private sector, and promote research and training in the country's agriculture sector; and (iv)
   prior actions to upgrade management of irrigation water infrastructure were geared to strengthening regulation for
   drip irrigation and providing adequate budget funding for the irrigation perimeters located downstream of dams
   under construction or programmed. Overall, prior actions were intended to be transformative structural reforms
   for the fruit, vegetable, and meat markets, and to enhance and manage irrigation water infrastructure; they were
   designed as simple reforms, but far-reaching in enhancing the efficiency of parts the agricultural sector.

   Risks: The Bank team identified domestic risks which included (i) the possibility for the Government's
     commitment to agri-food sector reform to weaken, and (ii) the risks for vested interests and marginalized
     stakeholders to oppose proposed reforms, and reluctance from the private sector to buy in the aggregation model
     of the entire agriculture investment program.

     In all, the DPLs design was substantially relevant, as the decision to initiate them was derived from a fiscal
     sustainability analysis. The results framework was relatively strong, and was designed in coordination with other
     donor partners.


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

"to increase the agri-food sector's productivity and diversification with the goal of maintaining higher rates of
agricultural growth and employment"

    Achievements toward the program sub-objective of enhanced productivity in the agri-food sector included: (i) an
     upgraded institutional framework governing fruit and vegetable wholesale markets and slaughterhouses, (ii) a
     modern fruit and vegetable wholesale market, and (iii) public agricultural research financing and extension of
     advisory services awarded competitively and (iv) the establishment of an effective food safety control system.

    Results aimed at agri-food diversification sub-objective were (i) higher investments, and improved quality and
     share of new projects directed to small farmers, and (ii) effective incentives for farmers to establish a basis for
     groundwater management and in convincing them to convert to drip irrigation. However, the performance of
     irrigation service operators was limited.

(i) Improved efficiency of domestic markets : Substantial

    Improved institutional and regulatory framework governing fruit and vegetable wholesale mark ets: Achieved.
     The revised target of a fruit and vegetable wholesale market under new management model was met (Berkane),
     and discussions were underway for two additional sites at Rabat and Meknes when the project closed.
    Prior to the DPOs, there was no consensus regarding the reform of local fresh produce markets. The DPOs
     helped all parties to reconcile their positions and agreement was reached, leading to a national strategy and an
     action plan for the restructuring of the fruit and vegetable wholesale markets and providing for the introduction of
     a new ownership and management model. There has been progress in putting in place the new management
     model, and implementation of the model at Berkane was a prior action under DPL 2. The operation was
     launched through the set-up of an inter-ministerial committee at the local level, and the promulgation of the text
     for the local development firm that will develop and operate the Berkane facility. Once the Berkane pilot is
     effectively operational, the model can be progressively generalized.

    Improved institutional and regulatory framework governing slaughterhouses : Partially achieved. The target of a
     slaughterhouse concession under new management model was met, as a concession agreement was signed
     with a private firm for management of the new Al-Hoceima abattoir. The number of private slaughterhouses
     launched was partially achieved, as 3 slaughterhouses were operational in 2015, against a target of 7.
     For the red meat chain, the DPOs provided for new ownership and management models for slaughterhouses.
     The legal and enabling framework was introduced under DPLs 1 and 2 and indicators were set for inception of
     concessions on municipal slaughterhouses and for investment in private slaughterhouses. The sector
     development plan 2014-2020 provides for continued modernization of the sector through both upgrading and
     construction of new abattoirs, with management delegated to private operators through concessions. The DPOs
     supported a major reform, essentially the opening of the abattoir sector to private capital and management.
     Under the DPL 2, a further prior action was added in pursuit of the objective of a nationwide liberalization of the
     meat market (PA 13).
    Improved efficiency of domestic markets is rated as substantial because (i) institutional framework governing fruit
     and vegetable wholesale markets was upgraded, and a modern fruit and vegetable wholesale market is
     operational and, (ii) institutional and regulatory framework governing slaughterhouses was enhanced, although
     the target of operational slaughterhouses was missed. Prior actions supported by the two DPLs and detailed
     under Section 2.c were seminal to improving fruit, vegetable and meat markets, therefore contributing to
     enhanced efficiency of overall domestic markets of agriculture produce.

(ii) Improved socio-economic impact of investments directed at small farmers : Substantial

    Improved governance and public financial management of projects directed to small farmers : More than
     achieved. The first target was surpassed as the share of new projects submitted by professional reached 84%
     against a target of 40%. Implementation of the investment program for small farmers projects started in 2008 and
     has rapidly gathered pace. Projects are in line with the Regional Agricultural Plans (PARs) and the
     implementation manual.
    The two DPOs supported the strengthening of procedures designed to facilitate the financing of projects directed
     to small farmers (PA 3) and the set up of 54 pre-selection technical committees to give greater access to local
     stakeholders in developing and approving the program (PA 14). Project leaders were appointed for each region,
     two new project preparation guides were prepared, and a model agreement with professional organizations that
     sponsor projects targeting small farmers was agreed.
    The ICR reported (para 42-46) that access to funding by small-holders has improved, organization of farmers into
     associations (OPA) was generalized throughout the program, and the share of small-farmers projects which have
     been submitted by OPAs has reached 84%, well above the target of 40%. At end-2014, 492 agreements had
     been signed with OPAs as Pillar II project sponsors, and a further 70 agreements were under signature. OPA
     participation in the technical committees (PA 14) was limited to defense of specific projects being presented by
     the OPAs, but further efforts are needed in order to have satisfactory participation in the development and
     appraisal of the investment program. Overall, by completion date, 76 percent of all small farmers were benefitting
     from Pillar II support. At end-December, 2014, small farmers' projects were underway for an investment of
     US$1.6 billion, covering 748,000 hectares and benefitting 722,000 smallholders.

    Establishment of a legal and institutional framework supporting contract farming : More than achieved. The
     target was surpassed as the share of small farmers benefitting from Pillar II support reached 76% against a target
     of 15%. The indicator measures the extent to which small farmers have obtained access to investment finance
     under Pillar II of the PMV.
    Supported by the DPO, a number of policy actions were designed to put in place an equitable framework for
     contract farming that would facilitate stronger and more profitable links between commercial firms and
     smallholders, and allow Government to inject incentives. The legal framework was set up (PA 4 and 15) but
     formation of contracts started later. Lengthy negotiations proved necessary with private operators regarding
     incentives, and in the case of some products it proved hard to find qualified private agribusiness firms.
     Negotiations were concluded at end-2014, and the decrees setting out contract procedures and fixing the level of
     Government support were issued. The framework is currently operational, and the number of smallholders
     participating in Pillar II might increase further and the viability of Pillar II projects could be strengthened, because
     all participating farmers would have better means of accessing profitable markets and managing risks.
    Impact of investments directed at small farmers is rated substantial, because of the share of new projects
     submitted by professionals in the investment program for Pillar II projects, and the share of small farmers
     benefitting from Pillar II, have significantly increased. While the volume of financial support to small farmers
     increased, the impact of additional investments has not been assessed yet. Prior actions supported by the two
     DPLs as developed under Section 2.c aimed to channel public funding toward supporting projects promoted by
     small farmers.

(iii) Improved agricultural services : Substantial

    Improved effectiveness of the agricultural innovation syste m: Achieved. (i) the first target was achieved as all
     research and extension projects were funded through the competitive financing mechanism, (ii) the target of the
     number of extension advisory services contracted to the private sector was partially achieved as 85 percent of
     the targeted contracts were signed with private firms to provide technical support for the implementation of Pillar
     II projects, and (iii) the amount of training provided exceeded expected results by 20 percent, and the share of
     women in training was 20 percent, double the target of 10 percent.
    The measures under the DPL series were designed to promote demand-driven agricultural innovation
     partnerships, and to ensure the effective transfer of new technologies. The mechanism and the related
     institutional structures were established (PA 5 and 16) and have proved successful in terms of attracting high
     quality proposals from public and private stakeholders. The competitive research mechanism worked well and the
     institutional basis is now being established for all public agricultural research financing to be awarded
     competitively, managed by a national steering committee.
    A complement to the improved agricultural innovation system was the development of a pluralistic approach to
     delivering agricultural advisory services. The DPOs supported the Government in the preparation of the National
     Agricultural Advisory Services Strategy and Action Plan (PA 17). The above strategy provides for the creation of
     a national agricultural advisory services agency and the implementation of sixteen regional plans. An objective
     within the National Strategy was the expansion of private advisory services and a specific target was set under
     the DPOs, focused on building experience with contracting private extension services under Pillar II. This has
     advanced rapidly with 51 contracts operational, against an indicator target of 60. The formal procedures for
     accrediting private advisory services and the scaling up of their involvement in operations were set out in a law
     and in a related decree. Both the overall quantity of training and the proportion of women trainees exceeded
     targets.

    Establishment of an effective food safety control system: Achieved. (i) the target of Hazard Analysis and Critical
     Control Point (HACCP)-certified agri-food processing establishments was met, with 390 fisheries establishments
     and 320 dairy and meat establishments certified. In addition, a number of fruit and vegetable facilities have been
     certified; (ii) the target of Moroccan agri-food exports rejected at EU border on food safety grounds was nearly
     achieved. Private sector response to the DPO-supported guidelines has been strong with a clear progression
     toward risk-based quality and food safety management. Actual achievement was close to target and represents
     an important achievement for expanding trade of agriculture produce.
    With the support of the DPOs, the Government has put in place a legal and institutional food safety framework in
     line with international standards (PA 7 and 8). As a result, there has been a strong increase in the number of
     HACCP-certified agri-food processing units. The legal and institutional framework set up and the implementation
     of the rules have contributed to increased volume and value added in exports through greater awareness and
     skill amongst industry professionals, as well as reduction in costs due to the transition from a control-based
     system to a risk management system.
    Progress toward improved agricultural services is rated as substantial, due to the following achievements: (i) all
     public agricultural research financing and extension advisory services are awarded competitively and contracted
     to the private sector, and (ii) an effective food safety control system was established. Prior actions supported by
     the two DPLs as developed under 2.c were seminal to agricultural research and innovation, and to an effective
     food safety control system. Additional contribution came from the Government and the support of other donors.

(iv) Improved use and management of irrigation water and the planning of irrigation infrastructure: Modest

    Improved efficiency of farmers ' water use while preserving aquifer sustain ability: Achieved. (i) the revised target
     of percentage increase in declarations of groundwater, requests for authorizations for groundwater extraction
     received or delivered was achieved, reaching 14%, against a target of 10%; (ii) the target of cumulative number
     of farmers participating in collective reconversion to drip irrigation was overly surpassed and reached 25,860,
     against a target of 10,800. PMV support has been an effective incentive for farmers to establish a basis for
     groundwater management and in convincing them to convert to drip irrigation.
    Based on the ICR (para 56-58), Morocco achieved a remarkable success in promoting pressurized irrigation, and
     in facilitating its adoption by smallholders, linked to sustainable groundwater management. Groundwater
     management is now the subject of aquifer management contracts. In the context of the program to spread drip
     irrigation, declarations of groundwater abstraction points and the holding of an authorization for groundwater
     extraction are requirements, and in this context the relevant target was exceeded, providing a basis for
     progressive regulation and sustainability of groundwater extraction.
    An area of 200,000 hectares was converted to drip irrigation during 2008-2013, bringing the nationwide total to
     360,000 hectares by December 2013, mostly through individual reconversion. Infrastructure is now reaching
     completion to convert an additional first tranche of 66,800 hectares in major irrigation perimeters (21,000
     hectares under a Bank-financed project). To strengthen groundwater management for sustainability linked to the
     conversion to pressurized irrigation, farmers need to file for authorization for groundwater abstraction by the
     relevant river basin agency. The next step towards sustainable management is monitoring of groundwater
     abstraction. In order to increase incentives for small farmers to convert to drip irrigation, DPL 2 provided for a
     legal amendment reducing (to zero) small farmer contribution to off-farm irrigation modernization (PA 20), on the
     rationale that the heavy cost of pressurization was not affordable by small farmers.

    Improved performance of irrigation service operators : Not achieved. The target of cumulative number of
     Regional Agriculture and Rural development Offices (ORDAR) created was totally missed, because of lack of buy
     in by stakeholders;
    Consistent with the DPO-1 agreed prior action (PA 9), Government promulgated a tariff adjustments plan
     encompassing six biannual tariff increases over a 2-year period. A first tariff increase took place in September
     2009. However, implementation of the second round of increases failed and the Government commissioned a
     broadly consultative political economy assessment of the overall reform program. The results of this study led the
     Government to consider further reforming the Public Agricultural Development Agency (ORMVAs), consistent
     with the original objective to improve their financial situation and managerial autonomy. An analysis of possible
     reform options recommended restructuring the ORMVAs to refocus them solely on the management of irrigation
     service delivery.
    Government and the Bank therefore agreed to change the previously agreed revised prior action for DPL 2 and
     instead to set the draft laws for the creation of the ORDARs, which includes the creation of autonomous irrigation
     subsidiaries, as the relevant prior action (PA 21). However, the passage of the legislation (PA 21) has not yet
     materialized.

    Improved irrigation infrastructure planning by the Government : Achieved. The percentage target of fully
     budgeted irrigation schemes associated with dams under construction or planned was achieved;
    Prior actions under the DPLs provided for integrated investment planning (PA 10) and for adequate funding for
     viable downstream irrigation investment (PA 22). The underlying aim of this measure was to ensure that a dam is
     built only if downstream infrastructure has been studied and investments programmed. Under the MTEF which
     accompanied the DPL series, MEF allocated a higher budget for irrigation (up 132% 2008-2014), and this
     allowed to bring more than 60,000 ha of new irrigation area under development or planning. The 100%
     achievement of the target means that all dams programmed were agreed upon with the Ministry of Agriculture
     and Maritime Fisheries (MAPM).
    Progress toward improved use and management of irrigation water and the planning of irrigation infrastructure is
     rated as modest. PMV support has been an effective incentive for farmers to establish a basis for groundwater
     management, and in convincing them to convert to drip irrigation. However, there was no buy in by stakeholders
     to improve the performance of irrigation service operators. Prior actions supported by the two DPLs as
     developed under 2.c were seminal to the outcome achieved under this policy area.


5. Efficiency (not applicable to DPLs):


6. Outcome:

     Moderately satisfactory

     The objectives and the design of both DPLs were substantially relevant. The program and specific objectives
     were clearly stated and consistent with the country priorities and embedded in the Bank's strategies for Morocco,
     and the results matrix was well designed. Of the four outcome areas (Section 2c) for agriculture sector that were
     supported by the two DPLs, performance was substantial for the first three, while achievements for the last one
     was modest.

     Key achievements included (i) institutional framework governing fruit and vegetable wholesale markets,
     upgrading of slaughterhouses, and a modern fruit and vegetable wholesale market that is operational, (ii) both
     the share of new projects submitted by professionals in the implementation of the investment program for Pillar II
     projects and the share of small farmers benefitting from Pillar II support increased, (iii) all public agricultural
     research financing and extension advisory services are currently awarded competitively and some of them
     contracted to the private sector, (iv) an effective food safety control system was established, and finally, (v) the
     PMV support was an effective incentive for farmers to establish a basis for groundwater management, and to
     establish a basis for groundwater management and in convincing them to convert to drip irrigation.

     Outcomes were not achieved regarding the contract farming framework, the reform of the agricultural extension
     services and the autonomous irrigation management.

a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

     The ICR accurately assesses the risks to development outcome, which are rephrased below:

     (i) Continued implementation of the reform program may encounter socio-political resistance, originating from
     municipalities and vested marketing interests.

     (ii) There is a risk that levels of public financing to the agriculture sector may not be maintained. As the
     Government has decided to discontinue the use of the DPL instrument, there is no guarantee that public sector
     financing for the agriculture sector would be maintained through the MTEF, and this might be a handicap for the
     completion of the reform agenda launched in the context of the DPL program.

     (iii) There are risks of lack of ownership, sustainability and economic viability of Pillar II projects. Most of the effort
     has been concentrated on physical investment rather than on the development of farmer skills. To manage this
     risk, there is a need to build the technical and commercial follow-up and training. A more bottom-up approach
     could be tested to improve buy in and participation of key stakeholders, as a step to ensure sustainability of
     projects undertaken under the Pillar II.

     (iv) Finally, there is a risk that the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries might be unable to carry out the
     institutional reform program in order to produce the expected results. The ambitious restructuring within the
     Ministry was overwhelming, and the creation of 16 Regional Agricultural Directorates and further restructuring in
     all agricultural services together into an office at the regional level appear to be difficult to bring under effective
     control in the short run. Operationalizing these changes may prove challenging and have some effect on service
     delivery.
   Another risk identified by IEG is that the DPL resources contributed, by providing financial resources similar to a
   fiscal stimulus, to increase public expenditures (in terms of subsidies or otherwise) in favor of vulnerable
   categories or those impacted by the global financial crisis. Those expenditures were, from then onwards, to be
   borne by the Government's current budget. The closure of the DPLs' funding will have a negative effect on the
   fiscal deficit, as it will take time for the Government's budget to adjust to the newly created expenses in the
   annual budget resources.

   In all, while there were tangible achievements on the ground, some of the numerous risks to the DO that were
   identified in the ICR are serious, notably two that are related to financial sustainability (the uncertainty of public
   sector financing for agriculture, and the increased expenditures to assist vulnerable categories) and one related
   to institutional capacity (the operational challenges resulting from the ambitious restructuring of the Ministry of
   Agriculture and Fisheries).

  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : High

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

   The Bank is credited with significant preparatory work before the initiation of the two policy operations. When
   the Government requested the DPL series, analytical underpinnings were readily available and a common
   vision had been established between the Government and the Bank on the implementation of the PMV. The
   DPLs design was built on lessons learned from past experience in the sector and from previous DPLs in
   Morocco, including the vital necessity of strong Government ownership.

   Additional key contribution of the Bank was the development of a platform for dialogue amongst sector
   ministries and stakeholders that had previously held divergent views on domestic market development. The
   PMV was supported by almost all donors active in the agriculture sector in Morocco, and the MAPM reported
   that a total of 15 donors supported PMV financially (Budget support, investment lending, Loans or grants), for
   a cumulative amount of US$1.8 million, of which 47% were on a grant basis.

   Implementation arrangements were carefully selected: (i) the MEF and the Ministry of Agriculture and
   Maritime Fisheries (MAPM) were jointly responsible for implementation; (ii) the MEF supported the DPLs
   preparation, appraisal and implementation, and ensured a considerable increase in resources for the MAPM
   under the MTEF, (iii) the MAPM designed and implemented the program, and acted as the principal partner of
   the Bank. The Strategy and Statistics Department (DSS) was responsible for day to day follow up, monitoring
   and reporting and did an effective job. As detailed under 2.a and 10.a, the project design and M&E
   arrangements were appropriate.

   Risks were well assessed and the proposed mitigation measures were appropriate. Risks were well assessed
   and the proposed mitigation measures were appropriate. With respect to irrigation reforms, however, the
   Bank supported reforms that were more ambitious than originally planned and were not achieved. More
   specifically, although a first tariff increase was implemented in September 2009, the second increase was put
   on hold following the Arab Spring protests; instead, the focus shifted to reforming the Public Agricultural
   Development Agencies (ORMVAs) to improve their financial situation and managerial autonomy, which was a
   more ambitious structural reform, in terms of both substance and timing. In its support to the Government,
   the Bank was not fully cognizant of the complexity of reforming the ORMVAs with its institutional,
   administrative, fiscal and financial implications. The Bank team could have played a key role in facilitating a
   constructive dialogue among key stakeholders (MAPM, MEF, and others) in order to build a common
   perspective as regards to an improved irrigation management system, before moving ahead with the reform.


  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                        Moderately Satisfactory


b. Quality of supervision:


   There was a sustained and close dialogue between the Bank and the Government, and coordination
   meetings were held with other donors involved in the PMV, particularly those financing Pillar II investments.
   Bank supervision was rigorous and continuous throughout the program period. The country team ensured that
   there be complementarity between the DPLs and other Bank operations in the context of the implementation
   of the ongoing CPS. However, while PDs provided sufficient information on the availability of other partner
   donors in supporting the PMV, the ICR did not report on the collaboration that took place on the ground, and
   there was no assessment of their contribution to the outcome achieved in the context of this program. Upon
   request, the Bank team provided additional information on this subject, indicating that (i) about 15 donors,
   including IFC and GEF, supported the PMV financially for a cumulative amount of US$1.6 billion, and (ii) the
   Bank team helped to revive the thematic group on agriculture.

   Due to changing socio-political circumstances, the Government had to suspend the program of tariff
   increases and to reconsider the timing of its PPP objectives. Bank staff and management showed flexibility in
   their willingness to support Government's ambition for this far-reaching institutional reform, which was in line
   with the objectives of the DPL. However, in the context of the second DPL, reform adjustments related to the
   Government's ambitious reform agenda in the irrigation sub-sector worsened the situation. While the series of
   tariffs increases was discontinued, the alternative reform of fundamentally restructuring the Public Agricultural
   Development Agency proved to be cumbersome, due to its institutional, administrative and fiscal implications.


   As indicated in the ICR (para 80), there was scope for the Bank to provide increased supervision to support
   enhanced dialogue with stakeholders outside of Government, namely farmer groups and agribusiness to build
   technical and political support for the reform measures and particularly to pressure for implementation.


  Quality of Supervision Rating :                Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :              Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:


   The reform program supported by the DPL series was a home-grown reform agenda, developed by the
   Government on its own resources. The reform agenda was consistent with Morocco's overall priorities and
   aimed to develop its economic potential in agriculture and to include smallholders in the process of
   market-oriented modernization.

   Two key ministries were central to the design and implementation of the DPLs series: (i) the MEF supported
   DPL preparation, appraisal and implementation, and ensured an increase in resources for the MAPM under
   the MTEF, and (ii) the MAPM designed and implemented the program, and acted as the principal partner of
   the Bank.

   Government agencies worked well together, and Government/Bank cooperation on the reforms was
   instrumental in cementing commitment and inter-agency cooperation which had not previously existed.
   Progress achieved toward outcome was due in large part to the willingness of three ministries (MAPM,
   Interior, Commerce) to cooperate and work better together. However, there were areas whereby
   Government's thrust for reforms was over-ambitious and unrealistic (tariff increases, and reforming regional
   agricultural agencies). In particular, institutional and organizational reforms aimed at improving the financial
   autonomy of the irrigation management needed better intra-governmental coordination, and adequate
   sequencing and pacing.

   Close cooperation between the MEF and the MAPM permitted the linking of the DPLs to the MTEF, led to
   extra financing from the Bank and the donor partners, and helped materialize the reforms and increase their
   impact on the entire agriculture sector.



  Government Performance Rating :                             Moderately Satisfactory
b. Implementing Agency Performance:

    The ICR did not make a clear distinction between the role of the Government, and that of the implementing
    agencies. The Strategy and Statistics Department (DSS) in the MAPM was responsible for day to day follow
    up, monitoring and reporting and appears to have been effective. However, the ICR did not report on the work
    accomplished by the Steering Committee, which was responsible for supporting the inter-ministerial
    coordination of the implementation of the DPL program.

    Commitment amongst Government departments was strong, with high levels of awareness and an informed
    appreciation of the measures and how they were complementary within the overall reform program. The main
    constraint was the change in approach on institutional reform within MAPM itself and between MAPM and
    MEF on the reform of institutional decentralization of the agricultural sector. While the original restructuring of
    Regional Agricultural Directorates toward autonomous agencies was clear, successive restructuring
    proposals and the review of the financial implications of the institutional change led to delays in implementing
    the already agreed restructuring.


  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                      Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                         Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

   The Strategy and Statistics Directorate (DSS) in the MAPM was to be responsible for the overall monitoring and
   evaluation of the program in collaboration with other government stakeholders. In addition, a Steering Committee
   including the representatives of the Government departments and organizations involved in the program had to
   be established at the level of the Ministry of Governance and General Affairs (MAGG) and was to be responsible
   for supporting the inter-ministerial coordination of the implementation of the DPL program.

   The agreed program outcome indicators and targets in respective policy matrix formed the basis for monitoring
   by the Studies and Statistics Directorate (DSS). The results framework was set at the level of the four outcome
   areas of the PDO and intended to measure the results of the specific policy areas supported by the operation.
   M&E was to be largely based on the policy reform actions, results indicators and associated target values
   included in the proposed Policy Matrix and Results Monitoring and Evaluation Framework of both operations. The
   selected monitoring indicators and associated target values focused largely on measuring progress in terms of
   institutional gains achieved under the DPL program, rather than development gains on the ground.

   With this approach, the indicators and targets were generally well chosen to measure results at the level of the
   four component objectives, but a few indicators and their targets were revised at the occasion of the second DPL
   in 2013.


b. M&E Implementation:

   The DSS provided updates on progress towards targets and collated qualitative information from all participating
   departments. At completion, DSS prepared a comprehensive completion report (see Section 7 and Annex 4) and
   communicated to the Bank final data on achievement of targets at the agreed closing date (March 31st, 2014).
   The ICR did not report on the work accomplished by the Steering Committee, which was responsible for
   supporting the inter-ministerial coordination of the implementation of the DPL program.


c. M&E Utilization:

   The ICR did not report explicitly on how M&E information was used to better supervise and implement the
   agriculture reform program. However, in the context of a programmatic series of DPLs, subsequent operations
   are designed on the basis of progress made during previous operations. In this case, the second DPL factored in
   all information on the reform program that was available when the first DPL was completed, and was used to
   adjust the reform agenda, which was supported by the second DPL.


 M&E Quality Rating: Substantial


11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

   Morocco made significant progress in improving the institutional and legal framework for environmental
   protection. A State Secretariat has become a full-fledged environmental administration. Morocco developed a
   comprehensive environmental strategy in 2005 -the National Environmental and Sustainable Development
   Strategy-. In addition, the Government passed Law No. 12/03 in 2003 defining the requirements for
   Environmental Impact Assessments (EIAs) and creating a national committee for the review and oversight of
   EIAs. Furthermore, the Council of Government recently enacted two decrees related to the establishment of the
   national and regional EIA committees as well as a decree for public consultation and disclosure.

   During the DPLs preparation, the Bank team assessed potential environmental consequences (positive or
   negative) derived from the policies and activities supported by the DPL series. Potential negative impacts were
   identified only under component A, specifically on the construction and operation of wholesale markets. Positive
   environmental impacts were identified under all other components. The Project Document clearly underlined that
   the existing mechanism in place in Morocco for the mitigation of the potential impacts linked to the construction
   and operation of wholesale markets were satisfactory to the Bank, and that specific mitigation measures had
   been identified, which allowed minimizing impacts to the extent possible.

   During implementation, appropriate environmental assessment and mitigation measures were implemented for
   activities involving infrastructure development, in accordance with Moroccan regulation. Delays associated with
   the implementation of new wholesale markets for fruits and vegetables only allowed the development of one out
   of the three expected. The limited operations time of the Berkane wholesale market may not have been sufficient
   to gather all the relevant assessment and conclusions. The MAPM is monitoring these aspects carefully, in
   Berkane under operation, as well as in Rabat and Meknes, which are at earlier stages of development.

   Moreover, the Bank supports the Government of Morocco on pollution abatement, finances an investment project
   in support of domestic wastewater collection and treatment in small and medium size cities, and the
   establishment of regulation on industrial depollution.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

   Both Program Documents identified the main challenges of the Morocco public finance management as follows:
   (i) the need for improvement of the budget classification, since it does not yet allow for reliable direct tracking of
   program-related spending being financed under priority programs; (ii) timeliness of annual statements which are
   submitted for external audit 15 months after the end of the fiscal year; (iii) the limited extent of legislative scrutiny
   of external audit reports; and (iv) the frequency and scope of audit rated average as a follow-up of audit
   recommendations. (PD-DPL-1 p.34-35; PD-DPL-2 p. 48-50).

   According to the Loan Agreements, the DPLs' proceeds were to be deposited by the International Bank of
   Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) in a dedicated account opened by the Borrower and acceptable to the
   World Bank at the Central Bank of Morocco to mitigate the fiduciary risk of any possible loss or diversion of the
   loan proceeds from the foreign currency Bank account into which loan proceeds are deposited. The Borrower
   was also to ensure that upon the deposit of loan proceeds into said account, an equivalent amount, in the local
   currency, was to be credited to the treasury current account at the Central Bank. The Borrower was to report to
   the World Bank within 30 days after the loan disbursement on the amount deposited in the foreign currency
   account and credited to the budget management system. The TTL indicated that the above disbursement
   arrangements system worked smoothly.

   The loan agreement has provided that IBRD reserves the right to ask for a transaction audit of the disbursed
   resources under the two DPLs, and that the time period for submission of the audit report is 4 months from the
   date a request for such audit is issued. The ICR did not explain why the audit report was waived, but the country
   team confirmed that the Government budget was comprehensive, unified and subject to centralized treasury
   account.
    In the right direction, the Bank funded two Transparency and Accountability DPLs, during the period 2013-14, in a
    total amount of US$400 million. The objective of these DPLs is to strengthen the transparency and accountability
    in the management of public expenditures as well as to fostering open governance. These DPLs series were
    prepared jointly with the European Union (EU) and the African Development Bank (AfDB), leveraging a further
    US$ 250 million in support of the budget, procurement and open governance reforms.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                 Reason for
                                                                                     Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                    Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Significant                   High               Some of the many risks identified by
                     Outcome:                                                  the country team and IEG have a high
                                                                               degree of severity in terms of
                                                                               backsliding on reforms and sector-wide
                                                                               impacts.
            Bank Performance: Satisfactory                  Moderately         The Bank's approach to supporting the
                                                            Satisfactory       reforming of the irrigation management
                                                                               system needed to be more cautious.
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
              Quality of ICR:                               Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

    IEG supports the three lessons identified in the ICR, has rephrased them below:

    (i) Incentives for for stakeholders : In the case where incentives for the Finance Ministry and the sector ministry
    are aligned, the synergy is powerful. In these circumstances, the Bank can still add considerable value beyond
    just resource transfer by further analytic work to help finalize and operationalize the program and to prepare for
    its implementation;

    (ii) Ownership/Coordination: An additional value of Bank support using a DPL operation is to help create a
    platform for agencies collaboration that otherwise may have divergent agendas. The Bank can also contribute
    to transparent, evidence-based and objective dialogue around thorny issues, including political economy
    constraints to reform implementation.

    (iii) Value added of DPLs and MTEF: The linking of a DPL to a sectoral MTEF aligns incentives for both the
    Finance Ministry and the line ministry, and provides investment resources to accompany and help implement
    reforms that otherwise might not take place or might not yield their intended returns.



14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No
15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


    Quality of analysis and evidence : The ICR was articulate in demonstrating that the series contributed to
    achieving initially-identified outcomes. The exercise consisted in reporting outputs and results from the ground,
    and in interpreting them. The ICR was concise and outcome-centered. It is worth to note that there was a
    congruence between the thrust of the ICR analysis, and a contribution note prepared by the borrower, which is
    annexed to the ICR.

    Internal consistency and consistency with the guidelines : While it reported adequately on the context, the
    design, the implementation and the progress towards outcome for both DPLs, there were omissions related to (i)
    outcome attribution, (ii) fiduciary developments, and (iii) safeguards issues. The Bank's team provided, on
    request, additional information on all three aspects. Regarding the contribution of other donors, considerable
    financial support came from them in support to the sector DPLs. This contribution was substantive and
    multifaceted (additional DPLs, investments and technical assistance projects), and was key to the achievement
    of outcomes, and is still there even after the DPLs closed. Additional information on the fiduciary and the
    safeguards aspects was also substantive and was integrated in the review. In particular, the Bank team's
    decision to not conduct an audit of the disbursement and use of DPLs resources was based on the assumption
    that the Moroccan fiduciary system was deemed satisfactory, and was under further strengthening with the
    support of Bank and donor funding.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
