76--r
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1261 SYR
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Telecommunications Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
ETABLISSEMENT PUBLIC DES TELECOMMUNICATIONS
Dated June 9, 1976


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 9, 1976, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank) and
ETABTISSEMENT PUBLIC DES TELECOMMUNICATIONS (hereinafter called the
Borrower), a state enterprise established and operating under De-
cree No. 18, dated February 15, 1974 and Decree No. 1935, dated
July 10, 1975 of the Syrian Arab Republic.
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project de-
scribed in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by making the Loan as
hereinafter provided;
(B) By the Guarantee Agreement of even date herewith between
the Syrian Arab Republic (hereinafter called the Guarantor),
the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee this Loan as to principal,
interest and other charges; and
(C) The Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth hereinafter;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in thils Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿- 3 -
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or re-
ferred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-
eight million dollars ($28,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of gooes and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the goods and works required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1979 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Bor-ower and the Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
pe-r annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.


﻿Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and one-half per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. The Director-General of the Borrower is desig-
nated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking
any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, financial and engineering practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, ser-
vices and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards inci-
dent to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to
the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any in-
demnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Bor-
rover to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, re-
ports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.


﻿-6-
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project;
(ii) shall, without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (c)
of this Section, enable the Bank's representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of such proceeds and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank all
such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives
to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of the Borrower and any relevant records
and documents.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire, as and when
needed, all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Bank, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to
the Bank that such land and rights in respect of land are avail-
able for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.05. For the purpose of carrying out Part D.3 of the
Project, the Borrower shall, not later than three months from the
Effective Date of this Agreement, or such other date as shall be


﻿I                              -7-
agreed with the Bank, submit to the Bank, for its review, a study
of the various technical alternatives for the construction of the
routes included in said Part D.3 of the Project, with a view to
determining the least cost solution.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall at all times manage its
affairs, maintain its financial position, plan its future expan-
sion and carry on its operations, all in accordance with appro-
priate business, financial and telecommunications practices and
under the supervision of experienced and competent management,
assisted by qualified staff in adequate numbers.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall take all steps neces-
sary to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges
and franchises which are necessary or useful in the conduct of its
business.
(b) The Borrower shall at all times operate and maintain
its plants, equipment and property used in its telecommunications
operations, and from time to time make or cause to be made, all
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, in accordance with sound
engineering and public utility practices.
(c) Except as the Guarantor, the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not sell, lease, transfer or
otherwise dispose of any of its prorerty or assets which shall be
required for the efficient operation of its business and undertak-
ing, including the ProJect.


﻿-9-
Section 4.u. The Borrower shall, not later than December 31,
1976, or such other date as shall be agreed with the Bank, draw up
and discuss with the Bank a program of manpower recruitment and
training of its staff, and thereafter implement that progr.am.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall make arrangements satisfac-
tory to the Bank for the training of its senior staff in account-
ing and corporate finance.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall, not later than July 1, 1976
or such other date as shall be agreed with the Bank, furnish to
the Bank a certified copy of its opening balance sheet.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year, starting
from 1976, audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing princi-
ples consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
any case not later than five months after the end of each such
year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said audi-
tors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements
of the Borrower and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time
to time reasonably recaest.
Section 5.04. The Borrower shall from time to time consult
with the Bank on the adequacy of its write-off policy with respect
to the accounting of its inveitories.


﻿- 11 -
Section 5.05. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt except as otherwise currently reported to the Bank
or stated in writing.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on
any of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally
and ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest
and other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such
lien express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost
to the Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on
any assets of the Borrower as security for any debt, the Borrower
shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfac-
tory to the Bank to secure the payment of the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan; provided, however, that
the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to:
(A) any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for the payment of the purchase price of such
property; or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of bank-
ing transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one
year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.06. The Borraver shall increase its telephone tar-
iffs, as of October 1, 1976 or such other date as shall be agreed
with the Bank, so that the aggregate amount of gross revenues
which the Borrower is expected to earn on account of its telephone
services provided during 1976 exceeds by not less than ten per
cent (10%) the aggregate amount of such revenues which the Bor-
rower is expected to have earned during that year under its tele-
phone tariffs in effect on the date of this Agreement.


﻿-12-
Section 5.07. The Borrower shall set and maintain its tele-
communications tariffs at such levels as shall be required to
guarantee during any fiscal year an annual rate of return of not
less than 11% on the average current net value of the Borrower's
fixed telecommunications assets in operation.
For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the annual rate of return shall be calculated by
using as the denominator the average between the
aggregate current net value of the Borrower's
fixed telecommunications assets in operation at
the beginning and at the end of the fiscal year
for which the calculation is made and as numerator
the operating income of the Borrower for the same
fiscal year;
(ii) the term "current net value of fixed telecommuni-
cations assets in operation" shall mean at any given
date the gross value of such assets, less the amount
of depreciation accumulated to such date, both as
valued or revalued from time to time in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate methods
acceptable to the Bank;
(iii) the term "orerating income" shall mean the difference
between:


﻿-13 -
(A) all operating revenues accruing from the Bor-
rower's telecommunications services; and
(B) all operating and administrative costs relating
to the Borrower's telecommunications services
(including adequate maintenance and taxes, if
any) and provision for depreciation on all
depreciable telecommunications assets, but
excluding interest and other charges on debt
relating thereto; and
(iv) depreciation shall be computed in accordance with
the straight-line method at rates acceptable to the
Bank and the Borrower on the gross value of the
fixed telecommunications assets as shown in the
balance sheet of the Borrower.
Section 5.08. Except as the Guarantor, the Bank and the Bor-
rower may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not incur on account
of its telecommunications services any debt, other than for money
borrowed for financing the Project, unless its net revenues gen-
erated by its telecommunications services for the fiscal year
next preceding such incurrence or for a later twelve-month period
ended prior to such incurrence, whichever amount is greater, shall
be not less than 1.5 times the maximum debt service requirement for
any succeeding fiscal year on all debt, including the debt to be
incurred, on account of said telecommunications services. For the
purposes of this Section:


﻿(a) the term "debt" shall mean any indebtedness of the Bor-
rower maturing by its terms more than one year after the date on
which it is originally incurred;
(b) debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date of
execution and delivery of a contract, loan agreement or other
instrument providing for such debt;
(c) the term "net revenues" shall mean gross revenues from
all sources, adjusted to take account of the Borrower's telecom-
munications tariffs in effect at the time of the incurrence of
debt even though they were not in effect during the fiscal year
or twelve-month period to which such revenues relate, less all
operating and administrative expenses (including adequate main-
tenance and taxes, if any), but before provision covering depre-
ciation and interest and other charges on debt;
(d) the term "debt service requirement" shall mean the
aggregate amount of amortization (including sinking fund payments,
if any), interest and other charges on debt; and
(e) whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be
necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the Guarantor,
debt payable in another currency, such valuation shall be made
on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which
such other currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable
for the purposes of servicing such debt.


﻿4.                                          -15 -
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 7.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof, namely that a change has been made in
the Guarantor's Decree No. 18, 1974, as amended, or the Guarantor's
Decree No. 1935, dated July 10, 1975, as amended, which materially
and adversely affects the carrying out or operation of the Project
by the Borrower.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 8.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely that the event specified in Sec-
tion 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿-16-
ARTICLE VIT
Termination
Section 7.01. The date September 8, 1976, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿1- 1-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ M. J. W. M. Paijmans
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
ETABLISSEMENT PUBLIC DES TELECOMMUNICATIONS
By /s/ Sabah Kabbani
Authorized Representative


﻿-17-
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditionst
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INTBAFRAD                      40098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
64145  (wUI)
For the Borrower:
Etablissement Public des
Tel4communi cations
Damascus
Syrian Arab Republic
Cable address:                Telex:
GENTEL                        11015 SY
Damascus                      Damascus


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expendi-
tures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Cables and acces-          13,500,000         100% of foreign
sories for telephone                         expenditures
network expansion
(2) Microwave and multiplex     2,700,000         100% of foreign
equipment and accesso-                       expenditures
ries for the Damascus-
Aleppo- Lataki a-Raqqa
system under Part D 2
of the Project
(3) Microwave/UHF and           4,800,000         100% of foreign
multiplex equipment                           expenditures
and accessories for
spur routes under
Part D 3 of the Project
(4) Rural network mater-        4,300,000         100% of foreign
ials consisting main-                        expenditures or
ly of poles, wires,                          100% of local
carrier equipment                            expenditures ex-
and accessories                              factory
(5) Unallocated                 2,700,000
TOTAL      28,000,000


﻿- 20 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Guarantor and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Guarantor; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase
or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy
of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of


﻿-21-
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such
Category, to the extent required to meet such estimated shortfall,
proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to another Category
and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other
expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then ap-
plicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
-  procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the
Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project forms part of the Guarantor's 1976-1980 telecom-
munications development plan and consists of the following:
Part A.   Installation of about 75,000 automatic telephone connec-
tions.
Part B.   Installation of about 12,000 manual telephone connections.
Part C.   Connection of about 540 villages to the national tele-
phone network.
Part D.   Expansion of long distance telecommunications facilities    -
including:
1.   Installation of the Damascus-Aleppo-Latakia-Palmyra
coaxial cable system and the Homs-Raqqa-Deir-ez-
Zor-Hassake microwave system.
2.   Replacement of the obsolete Damascus-Alleppo-
Latakia-Raqqa microwave system.
3.   Installation of microwave/UHF systems and multiplex
equipment on spur routes comprising Damascus-Tanf,
Homs-Palmyra via Khenefis, Homs-Tartous, Hama-Banias,
Tartous-Latakia, Jable-Kerdaha, Latakia-Kessa,
Aleppo-Djerablous, Raqqa-Tall Abiad, Hassake-Ras
al Ain, Hassake-Qamashliye, and Deir-ez-Zor-Abou Kemal.


﻿- 23 -
Part E.   Completion of installation of automatic trunk exchanges
with 2,800 line terminations.
Part F.   Installation of about 300 teleprinters for telegraph
and telex services.
Part G.   Expansion of international facilities through the in-
stallation of an earth station working via the Indian
Ocean satellite.
Part H.   Installation of an international telephone switching
center for about 800 line terminations; and
Part I.   Establishment of a new telecommunication training center
in Damascus.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1978.


﻿- 24 -%
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                              (expressed in dollars)*
October 1, 1980                                      425,000
April 1, 1981                                        445,000
October 1, 1981                                      465,000
April 1, 1982                                        485,000
October 1, 1982                                      505,000
April 1, 1983                                         525,000
October 1, 1983                                      550,000
April 1, 1984                                         570,000
October 1, 1984                                      595,000
April 1, 1985                                        620,000
October 1, 1985                                      650,000
April 1, 1986                                        675,000
October 1, 1986                                      705,000
April 1, 1987                                        735,000
October 1, 1987                                      765,000
April 1, 1988                                        795,000
October 1, 1988                                      830,000
April 1, 198,                                        865,000
October 1, 1989                                      905,000
April 1, 1990                                         940,000
October 1, 1990                                      980,000
April 1, 1991                                       1,025,000
October 1, 1991                                    1,065,000
April 1, 1992                                       1,110,000
October 1, 1992                                    1,160,000
April 1, 1993                                       1,210,000
October 1, 1993                                    1,260,000
April 1, 1994                                       1,315,000
October 1, 1994                                    1,370,000
April 1, 1995                                       1,430,000
October 1, 1995                                    1,490,000
April 1, 1996                                       1,535,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 25 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                              1-1/4%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                              2-1/2%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                              4-1/2%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen
years before maturity                        6-3/4%
More than sixteen years but
not more than eighteen
years before maturity                        7-1/2%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                              8-1/2%


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   General Procedures
Contracts for the purchase of materials and equipment shall
be procured in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in Part A of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in August 1975
(hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
B.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the ex-
factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and sim-
ilar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and
(iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expendi-
tures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of their
use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Syria may be granted a margin of pre-
ference in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:


﻿-27-
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be fol-
lcved in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Syria
if the bidder shall have established to the satis-
faction of the Borrower and the Bank that the manu-
facturing cost of such goods includes a value added
in Syria equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory
bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Syria.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.


﻿- 28-
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to.the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this fur-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of cus-
toms duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lo1west, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts for materials and equipment
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and
the specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.


﻿- 29 -
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the
contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its
review, a detailed report, on the evaluation and comparison of the
bids received, together with its recommendations for award and
such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The
Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award would be in-
consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execution
and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for award and
such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The
Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was
not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly in-
form the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


