CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1261 SYR
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
(Telecommunications Project)
between
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 9, 1976


﻿GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 9, 1976, between SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
(hereinafter called the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RE-
CONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and Etablissement Public des T616communications (herein-
after called the Borrower) the Bank has agreed to make to the
Borrower a loan in various currencies equivalent to twenty-eight
million dollars ($28,000,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor
agree to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of
such loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's enter-
ing into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to
guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor
hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not as
surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if
any, on the prepayment of the Loan and the punctual performance
of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth
in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor
specifically undertakes, whenever there is reasonable cause to
believe that the funds available to the Borrower will be inade-
quate to meet the estimated expenditures required for the carry-
ing out of the Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory to
the Bank, promptly to provide the Borrower or cause the Borrower
to be provided with such funds as are needed to meet such
expenditures.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, specific security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public
assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external debt,
which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of the
creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization or
distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the Bank,
equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in creating or
permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provi-
sion to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any constitu-
tional or other legal reason such provision cannot be made with
respect to any lien created on assets of any of its political or
administrative subdi'risions, the Guarantor shall promptly and at
no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets
satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;


﻿-5-
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Guarantor, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or op-
erating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor or any such
subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets
held by any institution performing the functions of a central bank
or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Guarantor.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall take all steps necessary to
ensure that the amounts owed to the Borrower from time to time on
account of telecommunications services rendered to any of the
Guarantor's departments, agencies and instrumentalities shall be
paid to the Borrower promptly when due.
Section 3.03. The Guarantor shall enable the Borrower to re-
tain out of its annual revenues such amounts as shall be necessary
(a) to provide a reasonable working capital; (b) to cover appro-
priate maintenance and renewal of its facilities; and (c) to fi-
nance the investments required for the expansion of its telecom-
munications services.
Section 3.04. The Guarantor shall take all such steps as shall
be required on its part to enable the Borrower to fulfil its obli-
gations under Sections 5.06 and 5.07 of the Loan Agreement.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Minister of Finance of the Guarantor is
designated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Ministry of Finance
Damascus
Syrian Arab Republic
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (wUl)


﻿-7-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in theii respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
By /s/ Sabah Kabbani
Authorized Representative
TNTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ M. J. W. M. Paijmans
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


