Document of
The World Bank
FOR  omcIL USE ONLY
>or 6N? q - y (,
~/4'. .69    ¼ 52   9                     Riet No. P-4108-YU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON THREE PROPOSED LOANS
IN A TOTAL AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$92.5 MILLION
TO
INA-NAFTAPLIN, NAFTA-GAS AND PRIVREDNA BANKA SARAJEVO-UDRUZENA SANKA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
FOR THE
FIRST PETROLEUM SECTOR PROJECT
June 4, 1985
I   j derume  hrna nSdSS  fl   and may be -cd by redp1i at ady Ihe Pefori me Of
tledr odk*d 1a1sa lb_ qam       od  dlwis be dadwi_tm  WO1 Iban  uwhd



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit 1/    Calendar-1984 2/   March 31, 1985
USt1                Dinar 152.822       Dinar 249.984
Dinar 1             UStO.0065           UStO.0040
Dinar 1,000,000     USt6,543.56         US$4,000.00
Exchange Rate Used iL Staff Appraisal Report: UStl = 200
YUGOSLAV FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGETS AND MEASURES
Gwh         =       Gigawatt hours (million kilowatt hours)
MTOE                M Million tons of oil equivalent
1 Tcf         =       1012 Standard cubic feet of gas =
23.3 million tons of oil equivalent
TOE                 Tons of oil equivalent
TWh         =       Terawatt hours (thousand GWh)
ABBREVIATIONS
B-H      =      Bosnia-Herzegovina
BOAL     =      Basic Organization of Associated Labor
EXPL            Work Organization for Oil and Gas Exploration
and Exploitation
PBS      =      Privredna Banka Sarajevo-Udruzena Banka
RASP            Resource Appraisal Simulation Method
RBB      =      Energoinvest R.O. Rafinerja Nafta Bosanski Brod
1/ The dinar has not been maintained within the announced margins since July
12, 1982. Its parity is reviewed frequently to ensure maintenance of
external competitiveness.
2/ Period average.



FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
YUGOSLAVIA
FIRST PETROLEUM SECTOR PROJECT
Loan-and Project Summary
Borrowers:           INA-Naftaplin, Nafta-Gas and Privredna Banka
Sarajevo-Udruzena Banka (PBS). (Each Borrower being a
party to a separate Loan Agreement with the Bank).
Beneficiary:         Under the PBS loan, the beneficiary and implementing
entity would be the Energoinvest Work Organization for
Oil and Gas Exploration and Exploitation (EXPL).
Guarantor:           The Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
Amounts:             A total of 092.5 million equivalent as follows:
INA-Nafiaplin, W55 million; Nafta-Gas, t35 million; and
PBS $2.5 million.
Terms:                Each loan is repayable in 15 years, including three
years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
Project Objectives   The proposed project supports a cross section of the
and Description:     hydrocarbon exploration and production activities in the
Socialist Republics of Croatia and Bosnia-Herzegovina
and in the Socialist Autononous Province of Vojvodina.
Its objective is to assist in the development of
indigenous energy resources, thereby reducing
Yugoslavia' s dependence on im?orted energy. The
project comprises support for a time slice of the gas
exploration programs for INA-Naftaplin, Nafta-Gas and
EXPL through: (i) the expansion of exploration
activities to the more complex and deeper areas that
hold the potential for increasing the country's future
recoverable reserves of hydrocarbons; (ii) the
acceleration of exploration activity in Yugoslavia by
*                               promoting to international petroleum companies
exploration areas that are prospective but are
insufficiently explored due to the inadequate resources
of the local companies; (iii) the str"rgthening of the
technical capabilities of Yugoslav petroleum cepanies
to develop gas reserves under high pressure and
temperature, and containing corrosive gases; and
(iv) the introduction of an underground gas storage
system to reduce problems related to seasonal demand for
gas.
This document has a rstricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be discksed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Risks;                     Possible project risks have been identified and
taken into consideration in the project delays.
The geological risk has been minimized by (i)
previous hydrocarbon exploration which reveals a
high probability of success; (ii) the result of a
recent resource appraisal in the Pannonian Basin
using an advanced computer model; and (iii) earlier
test drilling in the Sava Basin which has clearly
identified a very high probability of success. The
technical risks are minimized by virtue of the past
experience that the two operating companies,
INA-Naftaplin and Nafta-Gas, have had in carrying
out exploration and production programs in severe
environmental conditions.
Project Costs:
Local        Foreign         Total
-(US  millioa)--
INA-Naftaplin Subproiect
Base Cost                           188.5            99.8        288.3
Contingencies                        55.8            27.3         83.1
Subproject Cost                244.3          127.1         371.4
Nafta-Gas Subproject
Base Cost                            63.9            65.3        129.2
Contingencies                        19.8            18.1         37.9
Subproject Cost                 83.7            83.4        167.1
EXPL Subproject
Base Cost                             9.3             2.0         11.3
Contingencies                         2.2             0.5          2.7
Subproject Cost                 11.5             2.5         14.0
Interest During Implementation             -              55.4          55.4
Total Financing Required              339.5           268.4         607.9
Includes $43.3 million in taxes and duties and $19.7 million in indirect
foreign exchange.



- iii-
Financing Plan
Local     Foreign       Total          Z
Internal Sources              339.5        78.1       417.6          71
Export Credits and
Downpaynent Financing         -          97.8        97.8          14
Proposed IBRD Loans             - _92.5                92.5          15
TOTAL FINANCING               339.5       268.4       607.9         100
Estimated Disbursements:
FY86     FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90   FY91
Annual                   4.0     17.0    24.0    28.0    17.5    2.0
Cumulstive               4.0     21.0    45.0    73.0    90.5   92.5
Rate of Return: Not applicable.
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 5492-YU, dated June 3, 1985.



INIERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON PROPOSED LOANS
TO INA-NAFTAPLIN, NAFTA-GAS, AND PRIVREDNA BANKA SARAJEVO-UDRUZENA BANKA
WITH TRE GUARANTEE OF THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
FOR THE FIRST PETROLEUM SECTOR PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on three proposed
loans totalling the equivalent of US092.5 million to INA-Naftaplin (U55 mil-
lion), Nafta-Gas ($35 million), and Privredna Banka Sarajevo-Udruzena Banka
(W2.5 million), with the guarantee of the Socialist Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia, to finance the first petroleum sector project. The loans would
have a term of 15 years, including three years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY l/
2.        A report, Yugoslavia:  Adjustment Policies and Development Per-
spectives (No. 3954-YU), was distributed to the Executive Directors on Novem-
ber 2, 1982. Updating economic missions visited Yugoslavia in the context of
Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) programs and this section reflects their
findings. Basic data on the economy are given in Annex I.
Institutional Setting
3.        The social sector which includes government, public institutions
and enterprises accounts for approximately 85X of Gross Domestic Product
(GDP) and employs over half the total labor force. The private sector con-
sists predominantly of peasant farms and small enterprises. Decision-making
at all levels is governed by the principle of workers' self-management,
involving a unique set of institutions and instruments of economic policy.
The control of workers' collectives over production decisions has been in-
creased by a restructuring of all economic organizations into legally autono-
mous Basic Organizations of Associated Labor (BOALs) which are the stiallest
units producing a marketable output.
4.        In addition to this strengthening of workers' participation at the
microeconomic level, the concept of workers' management has been extended to
encompass macroeconomic decisions. A set of instruments, called Social Com-
pacts and Self-Management Agreements, enables the participation of economic
agents in the formulation of macroeconomic policy, while maintaining decen-
tralized responsibility for policy implementation. These instruments are used
to supplement more conventional monetary and fiscal measures, particularly in
the areas of prices, incomes, and employment.
5.        The 1974 Constitution established a framework for economic and
social planning, designed to reconcile decentralized decision-making with
consistent and coordinated action. The system of planning first seeks to
1/ Part I is substantially unchanged from Part I of the President's Report
for the Bosnia-Herzegovina Forestry Improvement Project (Report
No. P-4068-YU, dated May 9, 1985), which was approved by the Board on
June 4, 1985.



-2-
establish, through a set of social compacts, a national consensus on the
major medium-term goals for the economy. Thereafter, plan formulation is
based on participation of all economic and social units, including government
bodies. Once consistency is achieved, economic units enter into medium-term
agreements on supply, demand and investment intentions. In case agreements
cannot be reached by the prescribed date, state bodies at the relevant level
are permitted to intervene, but only on a temporary basis.
Economic Trends and Development Issues
6.        The economic development of Yugoslavia in the 1960s and 1970s was
impressive, characterized by rapid economic growth and structural
transformation. Between 1960 and 1980, GDP grew at an average annual rate of
5.5% in real terms. The share of investment in GDP has been high throughout
the period, above 30Z in most years. With population growth at about 1X per
annum, real per capita income more than doubled over this period. The past
two decades have also witnessed the growing integration of Yugoslavia into
the world economy. Between 1960 and 1981 merchandise trade grew by around 7Z
per annum in real terms. However, Yugoslavia's export performance to the
industrial market economies showed increasing weakness during the 1970s,
particularly after 1973.
7.        While overall growth performance has been impressive, large
regional disparities persist.  The Republics of Bosnia-Herzegovina,
Macedonia, Montenegro, and the Autonomous Province of Kosovo, are officially
designated as less-developed regions (LDRs). The LDRs account for 37% of
population and 22% of output. The per capita output in these regions account
for only 60X of the national average. The ratio of per capita output between
the most-developed region in the country, Slovenia, and the least-developed,
Kosovo, is about 7 to 1 (1983). These disparities reflect several factors:
notably the greater incidence of low productivity of agriculture in the LDRs,
their higher dependency ratios, and their higher population growth rates.
Since 1965, concessional investment credits have been granted by the more
developed regions (MDRs) to the LDRs through the Federal Fund for the
Accelerated Development of the Less Developed Regions and, together with
supplementary resources for social sector expenditures from the Federal
budget, these resources account for about 10 of the social product of the
LDRs.
8.        Since 1965, employment in the social sector has increased by around
3.1% per annum. Despite this very good record, substantial productivity and
income differentials remain between the modern (mainly social) and the
traditional (predominantly private) agricultural sectors. These
differentials have resulted in high demand for modern sector employment on
the part of the rural labor force. Large numbers of Yugoslavs have sought
temporary employment abroad since the late 1960s. At its peak in 1973, there
were about 1.1 million Yugoslavs working abroad. Since 1973, however, this
trend has been reversed, and returning emigrants have added to the pressure
on the social sector to create new jobs. Unemployment rates have risen



rapidly from about 7X in 1971 to over 12X in 1982. 1/ The incidence of
unemployment is highly regionalized; in 1982 unemployment rates ranged from
2% in Slovenia to 29% in Kosovo.
Effectiveness of Public Policies
9.        Yugoslavia today faces perhaps its most difficult economic
situation since the difficulties which accompanied economic liberalization in
1965: high debt service payments, sluggish domestic output, high level of
inflation, and difficult access to international commercial bank credit. The
severity of Yugoslavia's economic problems reflects structural deficiencies
in the pattern of its development which became increasingly apparent in the
seventies. Yugoslavia's economy until the late 1970s was marked by high
rates of economic growth, impressive increases in savings and investment and
rapid growth in income per capita and employment. This performance, however,
was characterized, on the one hand, by rigidities and distortions in prices
and, on the other hand, by a widespread socialization of losses incurred by
inefficient enterprises. The policy framework allowed the development of
production oriented towards domestic markets, and led to high capital and
energy intensities. Liquidity in the international capital markets allowed
for substantial foreign capital inflows, and the recovery of the OECD
countries from the first oil price increase, to a limited extent, sustained
exports but more importantly allowed a continuation of the inflow of workers'
remittances.
10.       Yugoslavia initially absorbed the second oil price shock through
additional borrowing and managed thereby to cushion its effects. This
resulted in a rapidly increasing foreign debt. With the subsequent increases
in world interest rates and the recession in OECD countries, the servicing of
the debt became a substantially heavier burden. In turn, the events in Latin
America and in Poland created a reluctance in international capital markets
to provide additional funds. As a result, the balance of payments constraint
became critical.
11.       In 1980 Yugoslavia launched a program of adjustments to cope with
the short-term liquidity crisis and to allow the economy to move to a sound
and sustainable growth path. The Long-Term Program of Economic Stabilization
(LTPES) articulated and consolidated the envisaged changes. The thrust of
this program is towards increased domestic resource mobilization and an
efficient economic resource allocation within the context of the basic
objectives of self-management relations in Yugoslavia. The Long-Term
Stabilization Program is conceived and being implemented in two phases: the
first ending in 1985 and the second starting with the 1986-90 Plan. The
first phase, supported in particular by the IMF and IBRD through a standby
1/ These rates are not directly comparable to those in other countries.
They represent the ratio of registered job-seekers (including some
currently employed) to the social sector labor force. The ratio of
registered job-seekers to the total resident labor force was about 9% in
1982.



- 4 -
agreement and SAL I, has largely achieved the short-run stabilization of the
economy with the major exception of inflation, the control of which remains
an important objective of the Government. (para. 16).
12.       A number of measures were taken by the Government over the course
of the last two years to overcome the short-term liquidity problems of the
economy. Restrictive monetary and fiscal policies were used to control the
rise in aggregate demand and to restrict investments in non-commodity or
non-commodity-related producing sectors. Moreover, a more realistic exchange
rate policy was adopted to encourage exports and curb imports. These
policies were successful in converting a large current account deficit in
1979 to a small surplus in 1983 and a more substantial one in 1984
(para. 15). Apart from demand management policies, this performance reflects
a substantial realignment of the real exchange rate in 1983, with a real
depreciation of the dinar of approximately 25% against a basket of currencies
over the course of the year.
13.       During the last two years, in addition to stabilization policies,
steps towards a longer-term reform were taken or have been initiated. A new
price policy is in place since January 1985. It essentially liberalizes
prices. Prices of energy, railways and postal and telecommunication services
remain administered but are regularly adjusted to cat-h-up with opportunity
costs. Significant adjustments have already been made to tariffs in power
and transport and to petroleum and natural gas prices. A major reform of the
whole framework governing foreign economic relations is under consideration,
including measures that would increase the presently limited inter-regional
mobility of foreign exchange earnings. Resolute adjustments in interest
rates were made. Real interest rates on three-month deposits are expected to
become positive by mid-May 1985. Floor real lending rates are to reach
positive levels by 1987 and 1989 for non-priority and priority sectors
respectively. A number of laws have been passed to penalize loss-making and
illiquid enterprises and a reform of the banking system is under
consideration. In the field of investment, nationwide joint development
programs for major sectors (e.g. power) are being formulated for the 1986-90
period. In short, the objective is to ensure that the emergence of a less
binding financial constraint does not lead again to a substantial
misallocation of resources jeopardizing the long-run stabilization program.
Recent Economic Developments
14.       In recent years, Yugoslavia's economic growth has slowed markedly.
Between 1980-82, the economy grew by 1.4% per annum. The rate of growth of
output declined by about 1.3Z in 1983 and a modest recovery is estimated for
1984. The slowdown in growth is partly a result of the controls on domestic
demand, but is also due to shortages of imported inputs. Mining and
manufacturing production has been particularly affected. There have been
marked fluctuations in agricultural output mainly due however to weather
conditions. Fixed investment has also fallen markedly. Whereas fixed
investment increased at an average rate of 9.5% between 1975 and 1979, it
declined by more than 8.8% per year between 1980 and 1984. Despite these
slowdowns, Yugoslavia has continued to create jobs in the social sector at



the cost however of declines in labor productivity. Social sector employment
increased by 2.6% between 1980-83 and is estimated to have grown by 2X in
1984. Employment growth has been most rapid in the LDR, where the incidence
of unemployment is more severe.
15.        As a result of its stabilization efforts, Yugoslavia succeeded in
bringing the current account of its balance of payments from a deficit of
t3.7 billion in 1979 to an estimated surplus of *500 million in 1984. Over
the same period, the current account with the convertible area moved from a
deficit of *3.3 billion to an estimated surplus of *865 million. Import
levels have been cut such that the value of merchandise imports in 1984 was
14% below its 1980 level. Export trends were erratic over the period, both
in the aggregate and between market areas with, however, a strong showing in
exports to the convertible area in 1983 and 1984.
16.       One of the major goals of the Government's stabilization program
has been to reduce the rate of inflation. Despite significant declines in
investment and real domestic demand, however, inflationary pressures have
continued. In 1980 and 1981, inflation acLelerated to 30% and 38Z
respectively. In an effort to bring it under control, the authorities
introduced temporary price ceilings on a wide range of goods in July 1982.
This policy, however, met with only limited success. Retail prices increased
by 30% in 1982, and by over 58% in 1983. As a result, a temporary price
freeze was reimposed at rhe end of 1983. The price freeze was lifted at the
beginning of May 1984 as part of the overall set of measures agreed upon with
the IMF under the Standby Arrangement of 1984. Inflation remained at about
53% in 1984. As part of the price liberalization effort, in January 1985, a
new law on prices went into effect which decontrolled most prices. The
persistence of inflation has been due to a combination of factors. After the
lifting of each price freeze, enterprises have tended to increase prices
sharply, partly in anticipation of future freezes. Severe restrictions on
imports have reduced competition in the domestic markets. In addition, the
efforts of the authorities to restructure the pattern of relative prices to
promote a more efficient resource allocation, stimulate agricultural
production and rationalize energy use have also put upward pressure on the
price level as have the cumulative effects of the substantial depreciation of
the dinar. The Government expects an inflation rate of about 45Z f- 1985,
gradually decreasing to less than 10% by the end of the decade.
17.       Yugoslavia's adjustment efforts have been complicated by adverse
developments in the international capital markets. Increases in prevailing
world interest rates since 1979 helped push interest payments from $0.8
billion in 1979 to *2.0 billion in 1981, and to an estimated *1.9 billion in
1984. 1/ While there is recognition of the magnitude of Yugoslavia's
adjustment efforts, the international commercial banks have tended to adopt a
cautious position toward increasing their exposure. This has partly been due
to adverse developments in other parts of the world and partly to liquidity
1/ This excludes interest on short-term debt.



- 6 -
problems experienced by some Yugoslav banks. However, following the
anticipated conclusion of a third debt restructuring exercise (para.21), the
international commercial banks are expected to slowly return to limited
financial transactions with Yugoslavia, some of which may be in the form of
cofinancing with the Bank.
Medium-Term Prospects
18.       Yugoslavia is now in the process of preparation of the next five
year plan (1986-90). Guidelines have been issued which envisage reforms in a
wide range of areas. Foremost among these are the system of prices, the
fiscal system, the system of foreign exchange allocation, and the financial
system. These reforms support the development strategy outlined under the
Long-Term Program of Economic Stabilization (para. 11). In the area of
prices, the emphasis is on achieving efficiency in resource allocation
through an increased role of markets, the prevention of distortions and the
elimination of monopolistic tendencies. In the area of fiscal policy, a
uniformity of fiscal policy across the country would be sought given that
decisions on most taxes and expenditures rest with the regions. As regards
the foreign exchange allocation system, the intention is to liberalize the
circulation of foreign exchange resources and create conditions for gradually
achieving the convertibility of the dinar. As regards the financial system,
the objective is to increase mobilization and efficient reallocation of
financial resources.  Many of these reforms have already been initiated
(para. 13); others are under consideration.
19.       The macroeconomic framework of the 1986-90 plan is formulated
around 4% growth of output with industrial and agricultural growth rates of
5% and 3Z, respectively. The growth rate of output would be led by an
average annual increase in exports of 5.5% while imports would grow at a
lower rate of 4.5%. The above performance would be accompanied by a 2%
growth in social sector employment mainly in labor intensive activities.
This scenario is b_sed on an average increase in labor productivity between
2% and 3%. If this productivity increase is not achieved, a somewhat lower
growth rate of 3% seems more likely. The authorities expect a reduction of
foreign debt by $3 billion by 1990 and to bring the debt service ratio in
convertible currency to 25% by the end of this decade.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
20.       Before 1980, about three-quarters of the debt contracted by
Yugoslavia was provided in convertible currencies through commercial
sources. The bulk of this was in the form of suppliers' credits, although
financial credits from commercial banks were also of importance. In response
both to unsettled conditions in international capital markets and to the
balance of payments difficulties faced by Yugoslavia, there was a significant
decline in commercial financial credits to Yugoslavia after 1980. Gross
medium- and long-term capital inflows declined sharply from i4.6 billion in
1980 to $2.3 billion in 1982. Total medium- and long-ternm debt repayable in
convertible currency, outstanding and disbursed, is estimated at about Ul8
billion at the end of 1983, while short-term debt stood at about tl.1



- 7 -
billion. During 1982, there was a substantial decline in foreign exchange
reserves, which at the end of the year amounted to tl.7 billion, or roughly
equivalent to one month of imports of goods and services. Taking account of
gross workers' remittances, the debt-service ratio averaged 16% between 1976
and 1981, while ir averaged 19% over the same period for convertiblo currency
loans. In 1983, the estimated aggregate debt service ratio climbed to 27Z,
reflecting tne increase in interest payments on floating rate debt and the
decline in exports. 1/ Similarly, the debt service ratio on convertible
currency debt rose to 40% in the same year.
21.       In light of the depleted reserves position, the thin pipeline of
financial credits, the insufficient stocks of imports, the liquidity problems
encountered by some Yugoslav banks since 1982 and the consequent unwillingness
of commercial lenders to maintain their exposure on a voluntary basis, a major
multipartite financing effort involving certain OECD countries, international
commercial banks, the Bank for International Settlements and the INF was
launched in early 1983 to assist Yugoslavia in maintaining orderly debt
repayment. Agreement was reached on a foreign assistance package amounting
to about i4 billion in gross medium- and long-term commitments and in the
deferment of maturities on short-term debt. A similar exercise on a smaller
scale was concluded for 1984. Moreover, in December 1984, commercial banks
agreed in principle on another round of multi-year rescheduling for 1985. A
Standby Arrangement for 1985 was approved by the IMF on April 29, 1985.
Creditor governments have also agreed to reschedule 90% of maturities falling
due to them or their agencies between January 1985 and May 15, 1986. While
Yugoslavia's liquidity situation may remain difficult in the near-term, both
the aggregate and the convertible currency debt service ratios are expected
to decline somewhat over the next few years. The Government's objective is
to reduce the amount of debt outstanding by the end of the 1980s by between
t2 billion-i3 billion and have a debt service in convertible currency of
around 25%. Given its past debt servicing record, pragmatism, the debt
objectives the Government has set, and demonstrated capacity to implement
firm stabilization policies, Yugoslavia is considered creditworthy for
additional Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA 2/
22.       The proposed loan would be the 88th loan made to Yugoslavia by the
Bank, bringing the total to about $4,368.9 million, net of cancellations.
Approximately 28% (tl,232.5 million) of the total has been for 22 loans for
1/ Debt service does not include amortization and interest payments on
short-term debt.
2/ Part I is substantially unchanged from Part I of the President's Report
for the Bosnia-Herzegovina Forestry Improvement Project (Report
No. P-4068-YU, dated May 9, 1985), which was approved by the Board on
June 4, 1985.



- 8 -
the transport sector: 12 for highways, 8 for railways, and 2 for ports. In
view of the important potential contribution of agriculture to exports and
import substitution and in view of the considerable scope for improved yields
in primary production, Bank lending in recent years, has increasingly focused
on the agriculture sector; 21 loans totalling about $1,218.4 million (28% of
the total) have been made, including the recently approved i35 million loan
for the Bosnia-Herzegovina Forestry Improvement Project. Loans totalling
about i694.2 million (16Z) were made for the energy sector, of which eight
were for power projects; and one loan each for a natural gas and an oil
pipeline. The proposed loan would represent the eleventh loan in that
sector. Twenty-one loans, amounting to about *531.8 million (12% of the
total) have also been made for industry. Other loans made to Yugoslavia
include six for water supply and sewerage; two multipurpose loans; two for
tourism and one each for air pollution control, telecommunications, and
structural adjustment.
23.       Due to a shortage of local funds, Yugoslavia's disbursement
performance deteriorated somewhat in 1981. Following subsequent
implementation reviews of the whole loan portfolio with borrowers, project
execution accelerated. To further expedite the utilization of Bank loan
proceeds as well as to allow for increased Bank financial participation,
disbursement percentages were iacreased under the Bank's Special Action
Program (SAP), for the following ongoing projects: Metohija I Multipurpose
(Loan 1360-YU), Tenth and Eleventh Highway (Loans 1678-YU and 1819-YU
respectively), Montenegro Earthquake Rehabilitation-Port of Bar (Loan
1768-YU), Morava II (Loan 1951-YU), and Serbia Regional development (Loan
2307-YU). In the case of the latter two projects and recently under the
Middle Neretva Hydropower Supplemental Loan (Loan 1561-1-YU), revolving funds
were also established. Yugoslavia's performance now compares favorably with
Bank-wide averages. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and
IFC investments as of March 31, 1985.
24.       The interrelated objectives which the Bank has pursued recently in
its lending to Yugoslavia are to: (i) expand exports and improve the
efficiency of import substitution; (ii) enhance the effectiveness of domestic
investment with a view to increasing production with the more limited
financial resources available; (iii) improve access to capital markets; and
(iv) reduce unemployment, particularly in the LDRs. Not every Bank operation
can address all these objectives nor be entirely oriented towards the LDRs,
but a basic thrust of the Bank's activities in Yugoslavia continues to be
toward development of LDRs. The Bank has concentrated its lending operations
in areas where its institutional and policy coordination impact is expected
to be greatest. Accordingly, a shift to more program, sector, and SAP
operations, including the FY83 Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) (Loan
2326-YU), has occurred to help consolidate and strengthen policy and
institutional changes critical to Yugoslavia's long-term structural
development, while at the same time assisting the Government to overcome its
immediate foreign exchange needs. In addition to SAL, other SAP lending to
Yugoslavia includes a supplemental loan for the Middle Neretva Project (Loan
1561-1-YU) and the FY84 Fertilizer Sector Loan.



- 9 -
25.       Future Bank lending strategy is geared to: (a) concentrate on those
sectors and projects which provide maximum economic benefits; (b) take into
account the current difficult economic situation and the shortage of
resources; and (c) ensure a continued strong policy and institutional impact
where needed. To that end, Bank support is envisaged for projects in the
agriculture, energy/power, and industry sectors.
26.       A persistent foreign resource gap looms as the major impediment to
Yugoslavia's ability to maintain its growth momentum and to address the
critical issues of unemployment and regional disparities. The Bank has
helped attract additional sources of credit through cofinar.zcig arrangements
and the establishment of new banking relationships for Yugoslavia. The Bank
intends to continue its emphasis on increased cofinancing, recognizing,
however, the commercial market constraints that Yugoslavia faces. Until this
problem is overcome, the Bank is likely to remain one of the principal
sources of long-term external capital.
27.       Yugoslavia's debt to the Bank in 1984 amounted to about 9.5Z of its
total debt outstanding. In light of the planned reduction in the total debt
outstanding and the limited access to international capital markets
Yugoslavia is expected to have during the 1980s, the share of debt owed to
the Bank will most likely rise. The extent of the increase will depend on
the speed with which Yugoslavia is able to regain normal access to the
international capital markets. Service on Bank loans as a proportion of
total debt service was 6.6% in 1984 and is projected to rise gradually to
about 9Z by the end of the decade. 1/
28.       IFC started its involvement in Yugoslavia in 1970.  Since then, it
has made 20 investments in the country and, as of March 31, 1985, its
portfolio amounted to t416.4 million gross and $180.9 million net of
participation and repayments. The basic objectives of IFC in Yugoslavia are
to; (a) assist priority subsectors in industry and natural resources
development; (b) encourage foreign investment on a joint venture basis; (c)
foster technological transfers; and (d) mobilize other financial resources in
addition to IFC's own funds.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR AND GAS SUBSECTOR
29.       Overview:  In Yugoslavia, as in all European countries in the past
few decades, hydrocarbons (oil and gas) have rapidly replaced coal in
industry, transport and space heating uses. Thus, while oil accounted for
only 20% of total primary energy consumption in 1965, it accounted for 40% in
1982 while gas, which accounted for only 2% in 1965, accounted for 12% in
1982. In the same time period, coal consumption (including lignite) fell as
a percentage of primary energy from 63% to 43Z. Natural gas is now the third
most important source of primary energy in Yugoslavia, only behind oil and
lignite, and its importance is expected to continue to rise in the coming
1/ Total debt service includes debt service on sh,ort-term debt.



- 10 -
years.  During the same period reliance on imported energy grew rapidly.  The
cost of imported crude oil increased by some hundredfold, as imports rose
from one million tons, costing about *20 million in 1965, to 8.4 million
tons, costing almost $2 billion in 1983, representing about 25X of total
merchandi e imports. In addition, gas imports grew from zero to about 2.9
billion :n in the same period, costing about $450 million.
30.       Energy Resources:  Yugoslavia's indigenous energy resources include
lignite, hydropower, and oil and gas. Shale oil deposits, while extensive,
are not economically exploitable with current technology. Geothermal
reservoirs provide mainly medium temperature water, unsuitable as sources for
power generation. Lignite reserves are estimated at about 13,000 million
tons (2,600 million tons oil equivalent - MTOE), but are generally of such
low quality that they can be developed only as open pit mining operations in
conjunction with mine-mouth power plants. Proven economically recoverable
reserves of hard coal are about 36 million tons (18 MTOE); proven reserves of
brown coal are about 1,300 tons (450 MTOE), of which 30X is suitable for open
pit mining. Economically viable hydropower potential is estimated at about
55 TWh, of which 27 TWh (49%) has already been developed, with another 3.4
TWh (6%) to be developed by 1990. Remaining proven economically recoverable
reserves of hydrocarbons are estimated at about 70 million tons of oil, of
which 55 million tons are in Croatia and the remaining 15 million tons in
Vojvodina, and 3 trillion cubic feet (Tcf) gas (70 MTOE), of which about 2
Tcf are in Croatia and 1 Tcf in Vojvodina.
31.       Energy Consumption;  Per capita energy consumption in Yugoslavia
for 1982, was 1.55 toe, about 30% higher than the average for middle income
developing countries. Total energy consumption was 36 NTOE of primary energy
about 60% of which was produced domestically. This higher level is to be
expected, since the winter climate in Yugoslavia is much harsher than that of
most middle income countries. Since energy prices began to rise in 1975, the
growth of energy consumption has been modest, with an elasticity of demand of
about 1.2. Of the domestic production, 0.2 MTOE (1%) was hard coal, 3.5 MTOE
(17%) was brown coal, 8.6 MTOE (41%) was lignite, 2.3 MTOE (11%) was
hydropower, 4.3 MTOE (21%) crude oil, 1.9 MTOE (9%) natural gas.  Imports
included 9.8 MTOE crude oil and petroleum products, 1.9 MTOE natural gas, and
2.6 MTOE hard coal.
32.       Sector Development Strategy:  In March 1983, the Federal Assembly
adopted an economic program for restructuring the economy following the
balance of payments crisis in 1979. Since the energy sector vas considered
critical to structural adjustment, this program formulated a long-term
strategy for its development. This strategy has two major elements: first,
expanding production from domestic energy resources, particularly lignite,
coal, hydroelectricity and petroleum; and second, improving the efficiency of
energy consumption, distribution and transformation through demand management
measures, mainly reforms in pricing. The Bank has reviewed the Government's
strategy in the report "Constraints and Prospects for Restructuring the
Energy Sector" (Report No. 4797-YU, May 1984) which is expected to be
distributed to the Executive Directors shortly. This report endorses the
Government's strategy and makes specific recommendations for the development



- 11 -
of indigenous energy resources, rationalization of investment programs to
meet national objectives, changing the basis and levels of energy prices and
raising energy efficiency. In addition to furthering the Government's
structural adjustment objectives, the strategy outlined for the energy sector
is, itself, dependent on general policies for structural adjustment,
especially measures aimed at improving financial discipline and the
allocation o; foreign exchange.
33.       Energy Prices:  Domestic prices of petroleum products are, on
average, higher than international prices; solid fuels, electricity, and
domestically produced natural gas prices are, however, below their respective
economic costs.  As part of improved demand management policies, the
authorities are adjusting petroleum prices frequently to compensate for the
depreciation of the dinar. The authorities have agreed to increase the price
of domestic gas that will bring it by stages to the level of imported gas by
January 1, 1987 (see para. 45). The Federal authorities have agreed to raise
the domestic coal and lignite prices to their respective economic costs over
a 4-5 year period and to adjust electricity tariffs annually, so as to reach
the long run marginal cost by December 31, 1987.
34.       Petroleum Resources;  Yugoslavia contains two geological areas
where oil and gas reserves have been established: (i) the Pannonian Basin
(underlying northeastern Yugoslavia), the country's major oil and gas
province with 4.3 million tons of oil and 1.9 MTOE of gas produced in 1984;
and (ii) the Adriatic Basin (offshore areas) where, although there is an
active offshore exploration program, there is as yet no production. In a
third area, the onshore and near shore areas of the Dinaride Mountain system
(running the length of Western Yugoslavia), insufficient exploration has been
carried out due to its complex geology, but numerous oil seeps indicate that
there are good prospects for finding both oil and gas reserves. In the
Adriatic, INA-Naftaplin, the local Croatian company, has been carrying out
exploration ia the shallower areas, while, in the deeper areas, INA-Naftaplin
and Jugopetrol, a local company in Monteuegro, have entered into joint
ventures in four concession areas with foreign consortia comprising of
Chevron/Agip, Texaco/Agip, Agip/Chevron/Hispanoil, and Buttes/Chevron.
35.       During the post WWII period, foreign oil companies showed no
interest in Yugoslavia. International operators focused on low risk areas
with high production potential and low production costs; Yugoslavia fell into
neither category. Early exploration results by the local companies, while
encouraging, had reinforced the view that the Pannonian basin, while having
some gas, had relatively low prospects for oil. Most of the individual
fields were small, and are, therefore, of little interest to the
international companies. Because the oil found was usually associated with
large amounts of gas, the Pannonian basin was soon classified as gas prone,
further downgrading its potential for the international oil industry. By the
early eighties, all of the Pannonian sub-basins were covered with dense
seismic grids and at least 300 exploration wells had been drilled, testing
both deep and shallow prospects. In these mature areas, where the Yugoslav
companies have already themselves financed the risky exploration activities



- 12 -
needed to obtain a full understanding of the geology of the basins, they have
been able to identify prospective plays for their ongoing exploration and
appraisal programs that offer a very low degree of risk.
Role of the Bank
36.       Bank involvement in Yugoslavia's hydrocarbon sector has consisted
of three loans, totalling i146.39 million for oil and gas pipelines. These
loans have been instrumental in helping Yugoslavia introduce large scale
natural gas consumption in Vojvodina, Serbia and Bosnia-Herzegovina through
gas pipeline projects in 1973 (Loan 916-YU) and 1976 (Loan 1264-YU) and in
creating a national oil pipeline (Loan 1173-YU), to transport domestic and
imported crude to inland refineries and neighboring countries. Project
Completion Reports have been prepared for Loans 1264 YU and 1173 YU. IFC put
together a financing parkage for INA-Naftaplin totalling W83 million in 1984
for the development of a gas field in the Drava Basin. IFC's own commitment
amounted to about $29 million equivalent.
37.       Over the last two years, the Bank has been engaged in an extensive
dialogue with the Federal authorities and with the oil companies of Croatia,
Vojvodina, and Bosnia-Herzegovina in order to develop a comprehensive
petroleum sector strategy. In the course of these discussions, it became
apparent that the Bank could play an important role in the sector in the
following areas: (a) resource appraisal and exploration promotion strategy;
(b) technical assistance in project formulation; (c) institution building;
(d) mobilization of financing; and (e) pricing policy. These contributions
are discussed in more detail below.
38.       Resource Appraisal:  During the preparation of this project, the
Bank and the Exploration and Production departments of INA Naftaplin and
Nafta-Gas undertook a series of in-depth reviews of the potential of all
major hydrocarbon basins in Yugoslavia. These reviews enabled the companies
to evaluate the relative merits of the various exploration opportunities
created by the more advanced technology that was to be introduced in the
proposed project. From these reviews a strategy has emerged that would
maximize the chances of discovering and developing new hydrocarbon
resources. This strategy is based on the diversification of risk acrcss a
broad range of plays, and the continuous monitoring of the results with the
help of the Resource Appraisal Simulation Method for petroleum (RASP)
computer models set up during project preparation. The proposed project
constitutes the firsT- critical step in the implementation of that new
strategy. It includes the use of both seismic techniques and drilling
techniques that are currently unavailable in Yugoslavia. It also provides
for technical assistance to train staff in the use of these techniques and in
the evaluation of the results. The borrowers have agreed that, on an annual
basis during project implementation, they would review and reassess with the
Bank their exploration programs and all significant data that might alter
these programs (INA Naftaplin and Nafta-Gas Loan Agreements, Section 3.04).
Thus the Bank will have a continued technical input throughout the project
implementation period, and will review the investment programs of the
implementing agencies annually (INA Naftaplin and Nafta-Gas Loan Agreements,
Section 5.05, RBB/EXPL Project Agreement, Section 2.03).



- 13 -
39.       Exploration Promotion:  Prospects for attracting foreign petroleum
companies to explore in Yugoslavia were reviewed countrywide. Foreign
companies are already active in the offshore Adriatic. Onshore, the
Pannonian Basin offers insufficient scope to attract foreign companies. The
Basin was substantially explored and developed by INA-Naftaplin and Nafta-Gas
during the 1960s and 1970s, when no international oil company was
forthcoming. Furthermore, oil, when found, was in relatively small sized
fields. Nevertheless, the local companies continued to explore, and
continued to find modest volumes of additional reserves in shallower
structures up to 3000 meters. Drilling in the deeper areas led to some
discoveries of natural gas, mostly in overpressured formations with high
temperatures and associated with highly corrosive levels of carbon dioxide
and hydrogen sulfide which were too expensive to develop at that time. The
Pannonian basin is now a mature petroleum area with more than 2,400
exploration and development wells. While it still offers significant
prospects for hydrocarbon resources, it offers little sesoe for foreign
companies, because the main geological risks have alreadv been taken, thus
justifying a high farm-in fee. On the basis of discussions with some major
foreign companies now involved in joint ventures in concessions in the
offshore areas of Yugoslavia, it was concluded that the expected value of
future earnings, under any reasonable profit sharing agreement, would be
inadequate to attract foreign companies, since (i) the geologic prospects
with undeveloped potential are essentially gas prone (with an expectation of
gas to oil discovery ratio varying from 90:10 to 60:40) where there would be
no possibility for exports, and therefore substantial uncertainty about
obtaining foreign exchange to repatriate earnings; (ii) the remaining
prospects are scattered throughout the basin, with little scope for defining
a potentially new contiguous exploration area of sufficiently large scale to
interest the international industry; and (iii) the small size of each
potential field, the detailed seismic work required to define each prospect,
and the complex nature of the development and of the production
infrastructure needed for producing gas in the high temperature, high
corrosive conditions found in much of the deep zone, would require
investments in manpower that would not be warranted by the expected return.
40.       During the review of the onshore areas, however, two prospective
areas were identified with the required characteristics for exploration by
the international industry. They had little previous exploration drilling
and no commercial discoveries, but had good potential. They require high
technology inputs and international experience. These are (i) the Dinaride
coastal and near coastal areas, and (ii) in Bosnia, on the southern flank of
the Pannonian Basin in the transition area towards the Dinaride mountains,
where an exploration program is just beginning. They will be promoted for
joint venture exploration undertakings after a limited data acquisition and
basin interpretation program has been carried out under the proposed
project. This would be Yugoslavia's first onshore joint venture promotion
undertaking.
41.       Technical Assistance in Project Formulation.  In addition to the
significant contribution made in shaping the exploration strategy and
exploration investment program of each of the three enterprises (an input



- 14 -
that will continue during the supervision of the project), Bank staff have
provided substantial technical input into the conceptualization and design of
the gas storage project component, as well as into the strategy for the
efficient development of the Kalinovac gas field project component. Since
the gas storage component would be the first of its kind in Yugoslvia, Bank
staff and Bank consultants worked closely with both companies during the
project identification and appraisal to assist them in evaluating the merits
of the proposals. In the case of the gas storage proposal of Nafta-Gas,
after a detailed review of the production and test data, it was found that
the proposed field had characreristics that made its use for gas storage
questionable. It was therefore agreed that studies and tests would be
carried out under the project with other prospective fields to determine
whether any of them could be suitable candidates. Bank staff will review
these studies with the staff of Nafta-Gas during project supervision. The
review of the reservoir study prepared by INA-Naftaplin indicated that the
Okoli field would perform as required, but that a long-duration liquid
nitrogen injectivity and gas well interference test was needed to determine
the optimum number and location of wells. This test program has been
completed and the results incorporated in the design of the project.
42.       For the Kalinovac gas condensate field, the Bank assisted INA
Naftaplin in reformulating the proposed development project to ensure that
vi) additional seismic data would be acquired to improve the stratigraphic
modelling of the field and optimize the locations for the delineation wells
to be drilled under the project and (ii) the testing period would be extended
to ensure that sufficient data would be available to optimize the program for
the full development of the field. INA-Naftaplin has also agreed to review
the proposed development strategy with the Bank on completion of the testing
period.
43.       Institution Building.  Successive missions have identified a number
of areas where the Bank can play a constructive role in bringing about
improvements in the management and operation of the Yugoslav companies.
While both INA-Naftaplin and Nafta-Gas are technically competent in the
implementation of all areas of their work, they, like many other Yugoslav
enterprises, sometimes fail to fully coordinate the tasks of their various
basic organizations of associated labor that are managerially
self-contained. This project emphasized the need for a multi-departmental
approach that was used during project preparation, and for the setting up of
goal oriented management teams that will be in charge of technical
coordination, budgeting and control activities for each project sub-component.
44.       Financing.  The Bank has played an active role in assisting the
borrowers to package bids for the project equipment and materials so as to
maximize the role of non-Bank financial sources. Export credit and
commercial bank financing are expected to account for about 98 million of
the total 1268 million foreign cost of the project and the Bank has been
active in assisting the borrowers to put together this financing.
45.       Pricing Policy.  At the sectoral level, the project has provided
the opportunity for a fruitful dialogue on gas pricing policies, including
agreement to increase the price of domestic gas by January 1, 1986 to 75% of



- 15 -
the price level of imported gas and by January 1, 1987 to 10OZ of the price
of imported gas (Nafta-Gas Loan Agreement, Section 3.05; INA-Naftaplin Loan
Agreement, Section 3.06; Nafta-Gas and INA Naftaplin Guarantee Agreements
Section 2.02(b)). In addition, by December 31, 1985 the Bank will review
with INA-Naftaplin the terms of reference and by September 30, 1986
INA-Naftaplin will furnish to the Bank for its review a study on the
long-term supply and demand for natural gas in Croatia, including methods for
reducing the effects of seasonal demand variations (INA-Naftaplin Loan
Agreement, Section 3.05).
46.       The Project Entities.  The project has three component parts, which
would be implemented by the three independent petroleum enterprises that have
the right to produce hydrocarbons in each of the two Republics and in the
Province concerned; INA-Naftaplin in Croatia, Nafta-Gas in Vojvodina and the
Energoinvest Work Organization for Oil and Gas Exploration and Exploitation
(EXPL), which has only recently been established within the COAL Energoinvest
Kombinat as a Work Organization in Energoinvest R.O. Rafinerja Nafta Bosanski
Brod (RBB) in Bosnia-Rerzegovina. INA-Naftaplin, headquartered in Zagreb, is
Yugoslavia's largest producer of oil and gas. As of end 1983, INA-Naftaplin
employed 7,700 workers, many of whom have acquired exploration experience
abroad in countries where INA-Naftaplin has joint-venture arrangements in
Bangladesh, Gabon, Jordan, Cyprus, Angola, Burma, Vietnam and Italy. It has
also founded three joint-ventures with foreign companies for exploring the
offshore Adriatic. INA-Naftaplin's drilling capability is good and it has
been able to discover and develop a number of deep gas fields. Its financial
performance has been good and its net income as a percentage of sales is
expected to remain above 20%. Nafta-Gas is the only other producer of oil
and gas in Yugoslavia. As of end 1983, it employed a staff of 4,600. It is
fully competent in conventional drilling and workover activities but has had
problems with deep high temperature wells because it lacks the necessary
equipment and materials and has had to improvise. The project is designed to
eliminate these problems. Financially, the company is highly profitable with
net income in excess of 50% of sales. The financial covenants under the
project are designed to assure that the two companies maintain a strong
financial position so that in the future they would be able to go to the
international markets. They include a current ratio not less than
one-to-one, an operating ratio not greater than 90%, and a ratio of debt to
debt plus equity not greater than 60% (INA Naftaplin and Nafta-Gas Loan
Agreements, Sections 5.02, 5.03 and 5.04).
47.       For the Bosnia-Herzegovina component, the beneficiary and
implementing entity will be the newly formed Energoinvest Work Organization
for Oil and Gas Exploration and Exploitation (EXPL). Its funds are provided
by RBB and other contributing enterprises of the Energoinvest Kombinat group
of industries. EXPL is unable to undertake loan obligations directly because
it has no source of income to repay them. However, it would repay the
resources used if it discovers oil or gas and becomes profitable. RBB would
repay Privredna Bank Sarajevo-Udruzena Banka (PBS), the borrower of Bank
funds, if EXPL earnings were insufficient to repay the loan. EXPL's work
program is largely implemented by local contracting enterprises. Under the



- 16 -
project it would substantially increase the use of international consultants
to maintain quality control and assist in the interpretation of data
collected.
48.       PBS, the conduit for the Bank's loan to RBB/EXPL, is the Associated
Bank for the Republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina. It consists of 22 independent
basic banks, and is a borrower under several previous Bank loans. Both the
profitability and the financial position of PBS are satisfactory. Loan
arrears, which have been an issue over the past few years, remained stable in
1982 and 1983. PBS has agreed to reduce arrears further in accordance with
specific target dates, and would also increase the funds available for loan
write-offs in the Mutual Liability Fund (RBB Loan Agreement, Section 5.02(a)
and (b)).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
49.       The proposed project was prepared by INA-Naftaplin, Nafta-Gas and
EXPL with assistance from the Bank, and was appraised in July, 1984.
Negotiations for the proposed loan were held in Washington from May 15-24,
1985. The Yugoslav delegations were headed by Messrs. B. Kuvezedic (INA
Naftaplin), M. Luburic (Nafta-Gas), and V. Mujicic (RBB/EXPL), and included
representatives of the Federal Government, PBS, EXPL, INA Naftaplin and
Nafta-Gas. A Staff Appraisal Report, entitled "First Petroleum Sector
Project" (No. 5492-YU dated June 3, 1985) is being circulated separately to
the Executive Directors. The main features of the proposed loan and project
are summArized in the Loan and Project Summary and in Annex III. A map of
the project area (IBRD 18826) is attached.
Project Objectives and Description
50.       The project supports a cross section of the hydrocarbon exploration
and production activities in the three Republics of Yugoslavia where active
exploration efforts are currently in progress. Its objective is to improve
the pace of development of indigenous energy resources in order to reduce the
country's dependence on imported energy and thereby alleviate the major
strain on Yugoslavia's balance of payments in recent years. The four major
project elements are: (i) the expansion of exploration activities to the
more complex and deeper plays that hold the potential for increasing the
country's future recoverable reserves of hydrocarbons; (ii) the acceleration
of exploration activity by promoting to international petroleum companies
exploration areas that are prospective but are insufficiently explored due to
the inadequate resources of the local companies; (iii) the strengthening of
the technical capabilities of Yugoslav oil companies to develop gas reserves
under high pressure and temperature, and containing corrosive gases; and (iv)
the introduction of an underground gas storage system to reduce problems
related to seasonal demand for gas.
51.       The proposed project would support a time-slice (1986-1989) of the
gas exploration/development programs of INA-Naftaplin, Nafta-Gas, and EXPL,
consisting of:



- 17 -
A.   INA-Naftaplin-Subproject:  (a) Exploration comprising about 1,200
line km of seismic surveys and the drilling of about 15 deep
exploration wells; (b) Kalinovac Gas Field Appraisal comprising:
(i) the drilling, completion and testing of about eight
appraisal/delineation wells; (ii) the construction of surface
production facilities; (iii) long-term well testing; and (iv) the
preparation of a reservoir study and optimiz-d field development
program; (c) Okoli Underground Gas Storage comprising: (i) the
drilling and completion of about 23 new production and observation
wells; (ii) the repairing of about 10 existing wells; (iii) the
construction of surface facilities; and (iv) the preparation of a
computerized model for gas storage/production operations; (d)
Dinarides Exploration Promotion consisting of; (i) about 1,200 line
km of seismic surveys; (ii) geological, geophysical, and
geochemical studies; and (iii) preparation of an exploration
promotion package; (e) Technical Assistance for (i) the preparation
of the Kalinovac reservoir study and field development program;
(ii) the preparation of the Okoli computerizet operating model and
the detailed engineering of surface facilities; (iii) seismic data
acquisition and processing; (iv) the preparation of the Dinarides
exploration promotion package; (v) drilling fluids engineering for
the deeper sections of the project wells; and Cvi) well testing and
stimulation and special drilling operations; and (f) Training of
INA Naftaplin staff.
B.   Nafta-Gas Subproject:  (a) Exploration comprising about 2,100 line
km of seismic surveys and drilling and completion of about 10 deep
exploration wells; (b) Well Workover and Testing of about 20
previously drilled wells;.(c) Technical Assistance in Ci) seismic
data acquisition and processing; (ii) reservoir engineering,
including underground gas storage studies; (iii) drilling fluids
engineering for the deeper sections of project wells; (iv) well
testing and stimulation and special drilling operations; and (v)
administrative and management techniques for petroleum
companies;and (d) Training of Nafta-Gas staff.
C.   EXPL Subproject:  (a) Geological and Geophysical Data Acquisition
and Interpretation, comprising (i) the acquisition and processing
of about 1,200 line-km of seismic data and the re-processing of
about 300 line-km of old seismic data; (ii) geochemical analysis of
about 300 rock samples; and (iii) the interpretation of the
geological and geophysical data and the compilation of an
exploration promotion package; (b) Exploration Promotion of the
North Bosnia Pannonian Basin to interested international oil
companies for further hydrocarbon exploration through joint-venture
arrangements with EXPL; and (c) Technical Assistance in Ci) seismic
data acquisition, processing and interpretation; and (ii) the
preparation of the exploration promotion package and the conduct of
the promotion exercise.



- 18 -
The Bank has negotiated separate Loan or Project Agreements with each of the
three implementing agencies for their respective subprojects.
52.       Project Costs and Financing-Plan.  The total estimated cost of the
project, including contingencies and interest during implementation, is
1607.9 million, of which about i213 million (35Z) is for imports avd *55.4
for interest during implementation. The cost of the INA Naftaplin component
would be $405.6 million, the Nafta-Gas component $187.4 million and the EXPL
component k14.9 million. The base costs were estimated by INA-Naftaplin,
Nafta-Gas aud EXPL using 1984 prices. A physical contingency of 10 percent
was applied to the base costs. Dollar price contingencies were calculated
assuming annual escalation rates of 5.OZ in 1985, 7.5% in 1986, 8.0% in
1987-90, and 5.0% thereafter.
53.       The proposed Bank loan of $92.5 million would finance about 15Z of
the total project cost and 43Z of the estimated imports. The balance of the
imports would be financed with an estimated $98 million in export credits and
commercial loana, for which appropriate procurement packages have been
identified and a number of preliminary financing offers received. The Bank
has offered to assist INA Naftaplin and Nafta-Gas to obtain financing for
downpayments of 115 million-W20 million from commercial sources for the
downpayments on goods financed through export credits, if the resources are
not available from the companies themselves. The remainder, primarily
interest during implementation, would come from the enterprises' own
resources.  If the Bank's presence were needed to attract commercial
financing for the downpayments, the Bank would consider participating in a B
loan with a participation of up to 20%. As a condition of effectiveness for
the loans to INA Naftaplin and Nafta-Gas, these Borrowers would have to
present to the Bank an acceptable financing plan that would confirm the
specific sources of export credit and other financing for the foreign
exchange costs not covered by the Bank loan, together with evidence of the
repayment guarantees of the Borrowers' respective Associated Bank (INA
Naftaplin and Nafta-Gas Loan Agreements, Section 7.01). Local costs for the
proposed project would be financed by the beneficiaries themselves through
internally generated funds (All Loan Agreements, Section 3.01(a)). Loce' and
foreign cost overruns would also be financed by the beneficiaries from their
own funds (INA Naftaplin and Nafta-Gas TLan Agreements, Section 3.01(b); RBB
Loan Agreement, Recital (D); and RBB/EXPL Project Agreement, Section 2.01(b)).
54.       Project Implementation.  Implementation would be undertaken
independently by each of the three beneficiaries.  For the INA-Naftaplin
Project components, Geofizika (Zagreb), which has had a long and successful
working relationship with INA-Naftaplin, will be responsible for the
acquisition and processing of the geophysical data, with assistance from
international consultants for the planning and parameter definition of the
Dinarides seismic program. Geochemical analyses will be perform d by
international consultants. The wells included in the project will be drilled
and completed by INA-Naftaplin's Drilling and Workover Departments, with the
assistance of international consultants in the areas of drilling fluids
engineering, well testing and stimulation and special drilling operations,
and the assistance of international oil field service contractors in the



- 19 -
areas of mud logging and logging of well sections with high temneratures
and/or where sour gases are encountered. The proposed program to be carried
out by INA-Naftaplin is technically acceptable and represents the most
effective method of implementing the project for the following reasons:
first, because INA-Naftaplin has drilled successfully in Croatia for over
thirty years, and possesses the requisite experience, field infrastructure
and manageme:. capability; and second, because the wells to be drilled under
this project are part of an ongoing drilling operation and represent only a
small part of INA-Naftaplin's overall drilling program. The drilling
location proposals and justifications, including geologic prognosis, detailed
seismic review and drilling and testing programs for all exploration vells to
be financed by the Bank would be submitted to the Bank for review on a no
objection basis, one month before rigs are brought onto the location
(INA-riaftaplin Loan Agreement, Section 3.03). INA-Naftaplin has organized
five interdepartmental project groups, each being responsible for a specific
project component. The staffing of the groups has been reviewed and found
satisfactory. The INA-Naftaplin project components would be implemented over
a period of 56 months, starting late 1985 and finishing June 30, 1990. The
closing date for the INA-Naftaplin loan would be December 31, 1990
(INA-Naftaplin Loan Agreement, Section 2.03).
55.       For the Nafta-Gas project component, seismic data collection,
processing and interpretation will be undertaken by Institute Geofizika
(Belgrade), which is part of the Exploration Department of Nafta-Gas.
Engineering and design will be undertaken by Nafta-Gas staff with the
assistance of foreign consultants acceptable to the Bank, where necessary.
The wells included in the project will be drilled by Nafta-Gas with
assistance from international service companies for logging, drilling fluid
control, cementing and completion of the deep and high temperature wells.
Well locations and drilling programs would be reviewed by the Bank in the
same way as with INA-Naftaplin (Nafta-Gas Loan Agreement, Section 3.03). As
in the case of INA-Naftaplin, this is considered to be the most cost
effective aad best long-term arrangement. A coordinating team consisting of
senior technical and administrative personnel has been formed to provide
overall project management and control. The Nafta-Gas project components
would be implemented over a period of 52 months starting at the end of 1985
and finishing March 31, 1990. The closing date for the Nafta-Gas loan would
be September 30, 1990 (Nafta-Gas Loan Agreement, Section 2.03).
56.       Since EXPL possesses only a small technical staff, it will make use
of the management and administrative services of RBB. Foreign consultants,
acceptable to the Bank, will be used for the control of seismic data
acquisition and for processing and interpretation. Geological work will be
done locally, geochemical work will be done by foreign laboratories, and
seismic data acquisition will be done by the Institute Geofizika (Belgrade)
under the direction of foreign technical consultants. EXPL have agreed to
undertake a promotion exercise seeking joint venture partners, acceptable to
the Bank, for an exploration program in the project areas (RBB/EXPL Project
Agreement, Section 2.04(b)). Before engaging in the promotion exercise, EXPL
has agreed to review with the Bank, by December 31, 1988, the final analysis
of the geological, geochemical and geophysical studies (RBB/EXPL Project



- 20 -
Agreement, Section 2.04(a)).  They have also agreed to provide to the Bank,
on an annual basis, an updated work program, projected annual expenditures,
and an annual plan detailing financial requirements and sources (RBB/EXPL
Project Agreement, Section 2.03). The EXPL project would be implemented over
a period of 48 months starting from mid-1985 and finishing by
December 31, 1989; the loan closing date would be June 30, 1990 (RBB Loan
Agreement, Section 2.03).
57.       Procurement and Disbursement:  Works, goods and services to be
procured under the project total 1552.5 million, of which $83.8 million would
be processed under ICB and $5 million under limited international bidding
(LIB), both of which would be financed from the Bank loan (see Annex IV).
Some 50 bid packages for Bank financing, including oil field services and
equipment, drilling, completion and workover materials, will be procured
through ICB in accordance with Bank guidelines. LIB will be restricted to
goods that are available from very few suppliers and not exceeding $300,000
equivalent per contract. Consultancy and training services costing *11.2
million will be procured in accordance with Bank guidelines. Retroactive
financing of about t50,000 for consultant services for EXPL for seismic data
acquisition and processing is proposed (RBB Loan Agreement, Schedule 1,
Para. 3). There are no qualified local suppliers capable of providing the
goods and services selected for Bank financing. Prior Bank review will be
required of all packages exceeding *250,000, with packages costing less
subject to post review by the Bank. Oil field equipment and materials worth
*211.7 million, although not financed by the Bank, will be procured by the
beneficiaries under their own procurement regulations which have been
reviewed and found to be acceptable to the Bank. Some of the locally
produced goods will be procured from Yugoslav suppliers who are the sole
local source of these goods at an acceptable level of quality. Because of
the importance of the gas compressor for the Okoli underground gas storage
subproject (INA-Naftaplin component), prior to disbursing Bank funds for the
subproject, the Bank will satisfy itself as to the performance guarantees to
be given by the foreign manufacturer, under whose license they will be
manufactured locally, and as to the delivery guarantee of the local
manufacturer (RBB Loan Agreement, Schedule 1). The proposed Bank loan would
finance 100% of foreign expenditures for the items proposed for Bank
financing. Statements of expenditures would be used for contracts for goods
or services valued at less than *25,000, which would represent 5Z of the
contracts. To accelerate disbursements, special accounts for each of the
Borrowers, based on 4 months estimated expenditures, will be established.
Disbursements are expected to be made faster than the standard disbursement
profile for IBRD projects completed in Yugoslavia. This is because the
project would finance a limited time slice of an ongoing sector program.
58.       Environment;  The main sources of pollution are well effluents,
chemicals used in production operations, and drilling fluids. The well
effluents are handled in closed systems to minimize leakage, while after
treatment, water and chemicals are injected into water disposal wells to
prevent fresh water pollution. The design of wells and gas field facilities
will conform to the recommended practices of the American Petroleum
Institute, while the standards of the West German Association of Property



- 21 -
Insurers (VDS) will be followed in the design of Okoli gas storage
facilities. Unusable produced gas will be flar2d to minimize fire and
explosion bazards and all production wells will be equipped with downhole
safety systems to prevent blowouts or oil spills. These precautions are
fully satisfactory.
59.       Project Benefits and Risks:  One of the critical factors in
determining potential economic benefits from exploration projects is the
relationship between the minimum size of discovery that is needed to obtain
an acceptable economic rate of return for the program, and the volume of
reserves that are expected to be discovered with a reasonably high degree of
certainty. The minimum volume of new gas needed to cover these project costs
and still yield an internal rate of return of 12Z for the whole exploration
program is about 0.5 Tcf recoverable over 12 years. The Bank's review of the
geological parameters in the sub-basins where exploration drilling is planned
indicates that there is an excellent chance of proving three to four times
this minimum volume of gas during the course of this program. In addition,
the exploration promotion components would have their own additional economic
benefits which would depend on the success of bringing in foreign capital for
exploration and on the ultimate success of the undertakings. However, since
the companies are, essentially, covering the cost oc the exploration and
appraisal work from their current earned surpluses, they would remain in
strong financial condition even if no additional reserves were identified
through the project. This conservative approach is reflected in the
financial analysis of the enterprises, where the basic assumption was that no
new discoveries would be made during the period under review.
60.       The economic returns for the other project components, including
well-testing, the Kalinovac Gas field and the underground gas storage, are
all high. The well-testing program, which has a cost of about $9 million,
could, if fully successful, confirm the availability of an additional 1.5
million tons of recoverable oil reserves, whose development could increase
production by approximately 180,000 tons per year valued at about k300
million per year. Even if far fewer reserves were confirmed and developed,
however, the testing program would eliminate the need to drill new wells in
the same structures in order to determine whether or not these structures
held recoverable hydrocarbons. At a cost of $3 million to i4 million per
well, the testing program would save t45 million to $60 million in additional
expenditures. The ultimate return from the Kalinovac gas field preliminary
development and testing program would depend on the results of the tests.
The two-year testing program will, however, pay for itself in the first 14
months of operation. The underground gas storage facilities are the minimum
cost solution to the pressing problem of load management and peak shaving in
a gas distribution system characterized by large seasonal variation in demand
and dominated by a few large consumers. At a price of 25% of the basic price
of the gas stored (which is equal to about 3Z of the value of all the gas
used in the system), the internal rate of return to gas storage would be
about 16%.
61.       The project risks have been identified and taken into consideration
in the project design. The geological risk has been minimized by:
(i) previous hydrocarbon exploration which reveals a high probability of



- 22 -
success; (ii) the result of a recent resource appraisal in the Pannonian
Basin using an advanced computer model; and (iii) earlier test drilling in
the Sava Basin which has clearly identified a very high probability of
success. The technical risks are minimized by virtue of the past experience
that the two operating companies, INA-Naftaplin and Nafta-Gas, have had in
carrying out exploration and production programs in severe environmental
conditiona.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.       The Loan Agreements between the Bank and INA-Naftaplin, Nafta Gas,
and Privredna Banka Sarajevo-Udruzena Banka, the Guarantee Agreements between
the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Bank, the Project
Agreement between the Bank and Energoinvest R.O. Rafinerja Nafta Bossaski
Brod and EXPL, and the Report of the Committee, as provided for in Article
III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank, are being
distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
63.       Features of interest of the loan are referred to in the text and
described in Section III of Annex III of this Report. Additional conditions
of effectiveness for the proposed loan are: (i) INA-Naftaplin and Nafta-Gas
to furnish to the Bank a financing plan, satisfactory to the Bank,
identifying the specific sources and amounts of funding required for their
portions of the project (INA-Naftaplin and Nafta-Gas Loan Agreements,
Section 7.01); and (ii) receipt by the Bank of evidence that the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement between PBS and RBB and the Agreement between RBB and EXPL
have been executed (RBB Loan Agreement, Section 7.01). Prior to disbursing
Bank funds for the gas compressor for the Okoli underground gas storage
subproject, the Bank will satisfy itself as to the performance guarantees by
the foreign manufacturer, under whose license they will be manufactured
locally, and as to the delivery guarantee of the lacal manufacturer
(INA-Naftaplin Loan Agreement, Schedule 1).
64.       I am satisfied that the proposed loans would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
65.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
June 4, 1985
Washington, D.C.



- 23 -                                                  ANIf  I
T ABL%E ZA                                     Page  1 of 6
UmIIOAVLA             -WSCcA zm1 CAom  DATA SHAET
YUOSAIAman  sn   izan  WRAhB 
DSTr               (St RECENT mnuzz=) A
UACOIT        HIiDm" 1110118       t_NLtLRY
i9601k    197i1m-t    fib               U
AMA COUAND sq. -)
TOTAL                             255.8      255.8       255.8
ACIWEaLTURAL                      149.2      146.3       142.5
GUP PM CAPIrA CUS)                   350.0      760.0      28M0.0           2345.3               11071.0
ZNK     DSWIO P21_ CAPIT
(KIOGRANS OF OIL EQUIVALENT)      659.0     1139.0      14".O            1122.8                4996.9
POPULATION AMD VITAL STATISTXCS
POPUIATION.MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  1402.0    Z0371.0    22646.0
URAN POPULATION (E OF TOTAL)       27.9       34.8       43.9              46.8                  78.3
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN Eu 2000 (KILL)                            25.4
STATIONARY POPULATION (KILL)                            29.2
POPULATION MinTtrN                                      1.4
POPUIATION DENSlTY
PER SQ. lO.                      71.9       79.6        85.0             82.9                 139.3
PER SQ. Kl. AGRI. LAND          123.3      139.3       158.0            138.9                 519.2
POPULATION AGE STRUCURE (I)
0-14 YRS                        30.5       27.4        24.4             31.6                  22.1
15-64 YRS                        63.2       64.8       66.8              61.1                  66.1
65 AND ABOVE                      6.3        7.8        8.8               7.1                  11.7
POPULATION CRGOWf RATE (Z)
TOTAL                             1.2        1.0        0.9               1.6                   0.8
URlBAN                            3.6        3.2        2.9               3.7                   1.3
CRUDE BIRTN RATE (PER T00US)       23.5       17.8       14.9              23.4                  13.8
CRUME DEATHl RATE (PER TOIUS)       9.9        8.9        8.9               8.8                   9.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             1.4        1.1        1.1               1.6                   0.9
FAMILY PLAUNING
ACEPTORS, ANNUAL (TIIOUS)
USERS (S OF IABRIED HtEI)          ..       59.0       55.0 c              ...
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAITAP
(1969-71-100)                      85-0       93.0       126.0            114.5                 114.1
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (2 OF REQOUIREIEIUTS)  128.0      130.0      144.0             128.6                 132.3
PROTEINS (CGRAS PER DAY)         95.0       9--.O     100.0              89.7                  98.5
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE      29.0       32.0        39.0 /d          34.5                   61.3
CElLO (ACES 1-4) DEATH RATE        10-0        4.6        2.0               5.2                   0.4
SALTS
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)      62.5       67.5       71.1              67.4                  74.9
INFANT HORT. RATE (PER THOUS)      86.0       56.0       34.0              54.2                  10.3
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (EPOP)
TOTAL                              ..       3j.v
URBAN                            42.4 le    62.07; T
RURAL                              ..       12.3 7       ...
ACCESS TO KRETA DTSPOSAL
(2 OF POPUtUAON)
TOTAL
URBAN                              ........
RURAL                              *'
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         1620.0     1000.0      550.0            1065.8                 553.7
POP. PER NURSING PERSON           630.0 Jf   410.0      280.0             764.4                 166.9
Pop. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           200.0      180.0       160.0            326.3                 120.8
URBAN                            90.0 If   160.0      100.0 /c          201.5                 143.1
RURAL                          1060.0 7F  106         180.0 -7r
ADNISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..       17.3       18.2 /a           20.0                  17.8
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             4.0        3.8         3.8 Ic
URZAN                             3.3        3.2        3.3 7;.
RURAL                             4.4        4.3        4.17
AVERE S0. OF PESSOAS/ROW
TOTAL                             1.6        1.4
URBAN                             1.7        1.3
RURAL                             1.5        1.5
ACCESS TO ELECT. (S OF DWELLINhCS)
TOTAL                            54.5       87.9
URBAN                            92.7       98.4
RURAL                            36.1       80.1



-4 -                                                 ANNMu I
TAILS 3A                                        PBe 2 of 6
MOOT               (cmet aEon  WSTInA
i,salk    1970 URECENT  IIDDLE       X
-%Mg=  -XROLLNB1 RATU 
nuIIRTa  TOTAL                   111.0       106.0        99.0              101.1                  101.3
MALE                   113.0      108.0        100.0             103.5                  103.0
pu                     101.0      104.0         91.0             16.7                   102.7
SECOKAXY. TOT.L                               63.0 u3.0                      59.1                  90.3
1.zz                    63.0        8.0         16.0               8.9                   84.6
rDEALE                 53.0        38.0        80.0               50.6                   87.-
vOcATIuOx  (C or sECNo )              ..        2.4         25.4              21.6                   17.9
lunIL-TEAOIXIRATIO
MUNR                              33.0        27.0        24.0              25.1                   20.2
SECONDAIt                         13.0        22.0        18.0               20.5                   15.0
ADULT LUERACT RATE (S)              76.5        83.5        85.0k              75.6                   99.1
PASSENG   CAUSIT0EAND I0             3.0        35.4        84.7 /b           54.7                  367.2
RADIO RECEIPERS/TUUI1D PO          84.9       165.9       207.               164.9                1090.7
TV RZCEIVS/TIOWUSMD t0P              1.4        85.3       192.4              123.8                  451.0
NruSAM (-DILT GEERAL
zmESSr) czacuT.ou
PE S OUOSUD PONOUTION             70.3        85.3       103.0 .             96.3                  331.2
ca AANNUALUATTlANE/CAPTTA            7.1         4.2         3.5 7I             2.9                    3.6
TOTAL LABOR Y0M  (TNUS)           8302.0      8838.0      9602.0 L
:UZ1 (PECn)                       35.0        35.9        36.1               34.5                  36.2
A' SilTURZ (PERCZNT)              63.0        51.0        29.0              40.7                    6.2
IWuSTT (lEUT)                     18.0        23.0        35.0              23.3                   37.7
PAATXCZPATIOM RATI (PEUCENT)
TOTAL                             45.1        43.4        42.4               42.9                   45.7
IALE                              60.0        56.6        54.3               54.7                   59.3
FEDAlS                            30.9        30.6        30.0               31.0                  32.7
EC00HIQC DEPZKDIlCY RAO              0.8         0.8         0.8               0.9                    0.7
X   -
PERCENT OF PRIVATE 13CIK
REGEIVED DT
orGT sX OF rW SH OL'5             £6.4 /k    15.1 /1      13.1 /h
1110135? 20E; OF UIooIS3 0        41.5 W      41.4 -7     38.7                 ..                  43.1
1OIJST 20z oF  OEOS                6.9 7E      6.6 79      6.6                 ..                   5.4
LWEST 4E 0o IsUoLS                19.0 7      18.4                                                  13.7 7  ..  16.4
M         D T   -
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POV1R1T n1304
LEEL  MSS PR CAPITA)
ORRA                                ...
RURAL                               ..
ESTIMAD REIATIVE  01wErt3 INlKE
LEVZE  (us P  CAPITA)
03                                  .....
RURAL                               ..          ..       3530.D
ESTIMATED POP. BEXUI ABSOLUWt
POVRTY INCOE LEVEL (C)
.A                                  ......
R0AL                                ..
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APICALE
N 0 T 9 S
/a  7he grop averags for e.cb indlextor are populatiou-uighted arilte'mtic nemnh. Coverage of councries emg the
tndIecaor. depd oan oalabillty of data ad Is mat uniform.
/b   gale.. otker.lse nooc d,b.a for 19l0 refer to amy year betn_   1959 and 1961; -Dets for 1970- becveen 1969 and
1971; and data for ilost Recent Eeclmte beatum 1980 and 1982.
/c  1976; /d 1977; /a Percent ot occupIed dwullige idtb piped water; /a 1962; aLL 1975; /b 1978; /S 1979; L/ Ieluding
irant   ker. brc d; A  1963; 1 D968.
JUNE. 1984



-25 -AJEI
OCFIIITIQS OF MMA  icliTusPage   3   of   6
he ...  4tic ftas    the de..,-  d-ss tre  .srie  snail, J.adgd the ati eetheritsta ad reteh.,N it tt.td et. he e-ed Chat 55.j -r eat he te.A--taoetp
s. .pei AL ase.. .# gse Ieth  I.U eAdit_d de1iiteitta -a ap. s.d  hy dillesses  sear.1. a esetttiw  the Set.. The S.te  era. eee1thtes-t  inss  t*
*ehjeet -ALCtY (eaten  itt -stgh ta.. OIt ginpeCneramsep -ther  'Ud1t4      Te1 . A-lteeth aftes teeS 115dB. tet*  te Cheee.s    _ ht...e  etteepe  .etttetter.et
tgtilf. S the relneg   namp jet. the e-eeg- ar pepeteL-L  teighted ertaheeti see   F-t efte  tattete  ad shee  es  .5.. .oJAKtt  ei the S t                . te.
erpha-     et, ceta  Wt-ssc.e.  Use. the tesgr   .1 C-.Kri-  -em  the tadeter.t   depetd  -  the .tiSUit1t7 .1 date ted Be see set.. caties ate he
eseete   tee retette  sereee-   te-  Uftattat   ce seethe. The-  re.   mei t-eslet 1s L.Me..eri the rot.  1 e-  taI.ttoe  -  at.  nest. the se-try tee
LEVI Etesetee  sehe)                                                                         L1pl     .m(Ujtt-                 am..te   dcI.ded by seee  AT p-etL.tet
-Total esetet  are  _aPriest  toS  re c W Et."  -ete-t  ti.Iiad%dite.Lr                                       I *    eedta Let  e   atLatrete, keel.
est d Iitd det..                                                                      Peejt.  e trai ft._Pree  - tpIAttete  divided hy meeh ere  prattltls
hat.etre    tte-e.  orlre-ttee  sa  ted rtapersttt er Pes.eteIty                      eeediet  a-detssrs.seseetseee  prett.Ie    --e.  -e
i.e .-P.. pese .. erit aS  iLhtth   isrit .i tt It. iULUe  tinle                            -trte   aI ti-te.-
all. ..d tlgl d.t..                                                                                                            L.L- (t..Ldee  adetretdiidd  r hirrepeeeeeaercihepte  hd
-A"S)r.        eKt cseae  a irstetPrl_a.                                     eetbttt  le pFthtC  Id Print. geetret set eptetilt   heeWtt 5
suiniiiUhres eseenrles sghed- adtr   tab  eit,  (liEs-U hee.);                    reheheLeettA aess. tepitele ar   gtleetepetetj  tl
'W5e tit se  tn0      St. hWr  1-tes  te  rhvsttts. ieehteeeeespet*te  ret-cipetV  _Ctdtel
at  ar  in  lartesdd. tent Soptae                          ..eec   ett sI.t _ee
atCy CeeneeeM PEt CAPITA - Aseet enma   -sesenee .1    etet                                   stesL geett- es  per,-asei emits hr s phytlete test hy s aeial
prteap ear, Cei sadtl~atr. prretese. ctere  gase   hydi. sets..       .eteAet  sette  al*etie  estee) eihe iott-poese  sseedttsd
eed seechegeelettstp   te LMtets  et elL  gIsetfta Per sylat  i.                            pres Ld etiitd en cC   -1s  Inttilee
sue,. as tees date.                                                                       MienMg             W-.es1L%  - meth eate .1-  ad  testaL-       dstae
li~hjiii~dia~d F the eate  AL ted..
nnWnea   cue.           IM Rysytty0toro .d    2Non
date. ~         ~           .1.r                W    O.tA                        Ma ie   eaeeStem                 stseeht)- ee    et    r5rn
ditteme  deeeita                      myeh.or.  e  tfls-t eseeebiatty S Ste.               aSter ae teAts   A hstvde- Ktedses              rse   e  heFteetlode  Be
ea C A-CenI-     o B I tltea:   BU:   destes.thema                                                 Ied tee et-ettete  par-...
p.tfG'W as  -           tei  Weeite   tentittry                          Sateg    epeetisi.  0teelteu  .t-Led. aee.-peatet etrttre  Wd
tarit. ie-  test, -Ad  lath  tile -I-sesAty sthitltete  ee 77.1                         ts-tcIteaI doettse e.%tch eteettity it  twists qsater  a rereasce
pe.the ptretesre i   lerIittia   nit  W.t  he. thre  ie..i                          41 tttOt  tr... sed taro deiteac tespettietre
saa :tSIL-s. ist te lfttt   oer tt Ce ta .. Le aAd peat Emai
Itgoieser  eeeetstt  - it - . it ate eg- as ae-.eitr9 eeeiitr                              Ner   VetAt   tct  ot se tette-   r   mast, sets  es Bests
rehsatcheese  e        L.e"t peld* ball  egeepetril teat14t,                       eereiet tI eII sge et th  ptta'V .-eset -             rereseeeee reater
re..te  iattaty meeted .- epteesee  Sese (set                                        prt...? eteL.c   Lretats;  = 3eett  tettedot=ltdt  std              L 
re -ectaee-ti.  te  eri  r.psiet.th  htnhrts it ear-c                                a   he. edjate  I-a dile-At Wt.Wees 4  prtsep  sttt a
aeqst. to the Sea  nee. she ep atret_ te thee   eat. -ad the                         Caete  t1th -t-nL odette- eeLeA-t e-y ossd IeN p.r-tC
r-th rat Ia are  'the ecateet   peeitleesl ate at satiated  -t the                        sta           pseptt te  ht.1  a the  the erte1t1 othet op.
he..t S  the pV Ctto  eheretrsteti  Al the pepotatB  is she pes                         stee.r.     she     aat  esa   at      epet  etee   edr
tetttB   m t   - Be teb seseeett is.  estsas  arseh te tatta                           p-.dtt ae-ere.  -t.tte1. es tesh.r etetote   -tesretta  tar
i1Msetathst reptesst-    -i..L tercititt ha bea ctH-sd; thee                       eptit.  -L.t? et I) ce IT mt  at e,e; areeoee-taeea
er        -se   teege tPrKels rate use seethe  eeiti.  fthe5.t7                              ctd
the steaelce the      Cetiiy  eet..a  roptoast  itee t eanc                         tsdpestti  -  -Etdepoissetto  e- es.eeds - i ftftitec
.eened,11 it-  it doteE.- or.                                                  ttet-veh-teae  cdar=. ot see 4ecr    L- Ta   tdet-L .   cidie
-   .          Pert-s.Ih.   lftdear I-PIe.   tta loesere-veed,leg..    totele.                                                                      -  Ub. C
Per - nwh. eotrieet te   - sesee  a ahe  ts- sratere  a                                   A Pe.-.-   a   es  St   eit.le   irre                     etr
peptete: Bts  t70.  s BC) dote.                                                     ee    -JASe he. sC    ih   em;tet                  ae.ire~
rastalt- C-ahtt  fotei    es   -                istt  rat.  1 t-Ca  eOd-                    elttoe  tahici-cel
v-ttet  Cr  taeTaeti-ah.- sto   ret   ae.4at                                                esdst  apaSpsti  ertae !:!!pepeWAis P a-iasse--t
petetcsts  itt Bil1-tS. sit10-8. aBl .                                                    natesd rtain, te es-eark  sad It 7-e  ohe estgWeette 41 roS
Cteseetint gae(a4     ee d  -    et It  "I""h peIt-te   Ct ess                              eat as it egat; dat  eteaspe  sep at he-ep-the lee.
lerpsetn-           ie.BN  adI~ 51   Bee, data                                            renit- stetee   itta
trade  -tct  tee far; esteed) - eA_-  deeth  pew ah-sea  41 a- e                          ii ste  (ea  t                            TVesttea    -L- seas.  i..hedete
partteastBit. tIM. ad CUR detee                                                                                                     -d-tpsisptese    oeieetse   aime-d TV sest,eg
ses  tt 1dtt  fte. - A_pAs   t .. 41 deteheere tO         .1it ma I        t          e   os, et AeJe. 7-              ragtetret e4 TV Irm     at In eutt
he "esttpeedCet  r"te  It thW.      reaspeeesesstt                                 atrer t,caPtte  fet shase  et tatt    -                  ab    
-    - lsttttt  rtl       LIeP. itsiee    tt     edste a. tie1. BTWOa                          isetes5    .t -etre  Bneetet esepr. dlied see Ap-rttdt
hilt.    -   -   -        -~~~~~~~~~~     .                   .  ~~~pbettltis  dealt"  PeK-Kt        eadrsgsaty            . IAL tteL teeldord
P=i  tes-saae'.ssifmse      a                                ra  sledb  he.  "ai  it't  wearK aIApt tar tes    fe                                             
races..                                                           titheet alt~~~~~~~~~~-  at,n th  ysee. tstttsIL atejs    d1rierle   La  sa
p-tUS  -Wltd-htiefeM  en prctete _-    e  hd                 eea
thktsd--hert  a   a  te-eesli   -        d ei-.. aiheag  ter-Tst pLpe-ts  Cteheaete) -                                                -tKelaepat   teea. lseiadte  ased
teear.. aeteaptte ese B. neard C. ethe ga gape,                                 lanAs   -ptt,55 at ontdlehteeles  ttedeet. tttee  et-are
pepatAtBAF 41 al op.  teieltta  te arise              tet te-a
tetet e  NMptteet  at(tet. 5fl..t-eB1 -Iadeaepetrecte.                                     - tets  itho   a..-  -  perse at' teta  tate tare
esel  teseeieiLIt Ia           tte    rdect  aldead cMM                                   2 V            - Lca- tea  t. feeele. F-.vte. hatlag ad
teec-d t is   ciceetr ate  atI.     niatk a            pec.e  t Ca-" (..S.               II_&M          L  -     f lets  WI, elstte9e  . ae       tVate  tsttc.tea a
ceRisesad  stre eladed)  itreee pedeeti..cOsv   Is                           ttateltt. ea.  ad   - et peene  ef _ea   slet- trn: tIND. tL
teed etattee ..     es  pta ...ts 1ethsi             1iheh. ii. -ad 1112                  sdlil Ies
dKte                                                                                    vCorsttrttie  ea  C-ev) - tac,  es.c   fesIr - PestistvIpeia5
ears  titslca  S  ot ted pati.                                                      ....t.ttse.   e  taltpr   ate   et Cat aata,a  -ad teats  Uecie i   n-  -tPeveteet
-                Sty~~d. belittle ta-pt.  c-seetta d_otte P.adatie  Uvsrt  ke.                              iNS.  ts, ad tie! Sets  7b-  .re heed a tie p tttela  as
sept-t.. ad  sh          he atark.  eat spplla  -Cbled  -rLet ise. asds..rumbeae  gAp-se  et w   At the peptMIte.  d tap ttte test.  a
qeseiele   a   te ta  preseeA- . ad Saga &I -. Sithtee - qet--dt sattat                                R-In -ee   attI ern.t-             a 
attelt  as teith se.derts   -tL-a.  teareor.                    aightck-.                  a" galLs No PAmatte   ILs.. gad :1.4).
ga    at dlotvtecise  peatet   -ad  tIsetc  it p-rAs lt-  -R
athaesel  ta   tiot-M. 5971 ad am5 dat.                                         urnW  Ni      ei
tsr  sit  sea, a  encse  .m    a  Sa  - eretet  `-e`s e -I    la                tr-net-f "'eee ten  tIed. it  -i sat hle  - 11rtese  hr e&sh- I
-               at atn:.tr c  iEd e          1-p -t  ,pCi E." he deItad-       a -      e                  P-. rtas  M pai. p-as   Is Pe-as. -5 vase  eS P-t   41
jele-n  Ia .51... arIse eastetehd hr GM  prvd  gt   taa -
etl 41f AS sta 41 ststpmC papsed. e -ep 0 Sgasn M6t st
.-d-t  -1-    b-  b     .973 r.-  4? m~& -R.     2SA.-vh~ftS                    ee e ln. epttne    nt   etp_7n tItete  ad
.t adi PMa." -  a ears   let the  -rS   peepas hr  SIrao .C                                  -   h.ieeapaeed teh niaeeta,  Sc.Kz.
11hIrd mets Pats Mppt. i9IhtM. 197 ad BIsm Stamtes   ht sqett states  (tgeat  ster) -  stea   sa  -
erees-st sane  tea asset a1 Vste  - reset. e-PPIF S9 td                                       I      wI ie      oe  eeae              Les    a.   e       et
ta    set  pLate te tre  etds: tit-41. Ston ad ti9l                       eaiceIB~                Set pha atata  a-dead rette re  L. at
Get    p   -)tat  herfertase)-  ea  Ste  pee thtad te                             tat         -its-rnh     lat(0  e   ta-)-                         a rn
o& step e-A pace  tesetm   . C.it ct steep; tei at  Soatepted                             Meet ee----styinheii a-at                              e        P- seem-
eantetdos Srleadten Uttt  slka.  "Me. et70 -5 Set3 dale.                             P-,see tems  th  efe. s-Cy        ete Ie-et La Se-I-& te  the re-e
test eAta Aditl-ec tr higher A-'t .9Itees he tehe sAm.
am  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ctatatd fteaale  tEt-- sheet  P--ceta    tent tera)   t
kit Isae      grt                                             ---A- eg  fe   1   es  lf    AsteEg  ea -ars - Pere-t C  Pept--s  M-aartl a    to li
eEre Cae    Ceed tin hiUsthe  t9w.! ti7  Wlled   f Sot..
knee.4  e. Vro  (et--c 41 eeet-r) - CtmtL. a. aret-1
eas."pITi (ssesee-        re1ereeag    - ested hem                                                                           sae    aleto ad              I-)ac     fteP-vee
.....s..etastdseat   - steBb  tr"" PetaS  Ieet""w . tetiga. -ad                                                                                    P atIIt
-,m'.T itl    perntage 4  at.At  -pwtn  mattetas     he a
ses  At applttt1eds--t                h       at ma  Sh  ammt
t A a fi   -w heseeierd am halts een  a s-Ite es                . 
M. Y  mat -          reteshi  ase   gal  est, SetA the %-ttt
setea"  L. temahsseed U.   eat hes  tin          daretee  sa
tedyI.eteecte otheraa   at
bea   1aereesee   eaels                 se.1 piat  etM ee  tele



- 26 -
I;V=of6
E AVIA - BMW=   D O
1PpAnam: 23.0 ULIlim (ilISIS)
GM w Capit U092.570 (1963)
Awmt                                     acwth~~~~~un1~md Pama (2)
(million US at                                   (mc cumcc PrLnm)
biieaiw                 cam    a,) _              _    _     _    _     _    _     _
1963          1979    1960    1961    1912    19N3    193i  b/ 1965    1      17    191    1969    I
6          On   at ac t/    45.231          4.2    2.3    1.         0.5   -1.3      2.1     2.6     3.0     3.1     3.2     3.2     3.3
Akmitaz                    7.065           5.1     0.0     2.8     7.4   -1.0      1.9     2.0     2.5     2.5     2.6     2.7      2.7
rzdiuy                    22,3f1          5.5      3.2     2.2    -1.1   -1.9      6J      2.8     3.5     3.3     3.2     3.1     3.1
6 vinm                     15,705          3.1   -4.6      0.0     0.7   -0.6   -3.8       3.4     3.0     3.1     3.3    3.4      3.4
omwm_d-                     m s30           3.0     0.6   -1.7       0.5   -0.4   -1.0       0.5     2.1     2.5     3.0    3.3      3.8
Q'amom lwfium.              14,050          U.4   -6.4   -0.5   -1.3   -5.9    -4.7    2.6           4.2     3.6     3.1     3.0     3.0
0ata of mg                  13,095          12.7    10.4    0.5  -11.5   -0.7    10.0    5.3    4.4          4.5     5.0     4.9     4.6
Dt   of QGB                 12,992          18.4   -6.6   -108   -15.3   -5.6        4.8     1.3     3.1     3.9     4.7     5.0     4.8
orce  mtiml1 rmii           14,251          2.D     3.0   -6.0   -0.6   -0.7   -3.9          3.6    4.       4.0     LO      2.3     2.7
GP ddatnr (1962 -ID)           145.2       41.6    54.2   76.0   I0.0  1A5.2   229.3   3U3.3   472.2  GOL8   733.3   54.2  955.8
t--4,   raw                     92.8       19.0    24.6    35.0    50.3    92.8   152.8   203.6   262.9   312.6  356A    31.5   404.9
Sw  of (M at mI t- PriaS (2)                               I 0I A lrnim. (2)
1960    1970 -195    190          1985    1990             1960-70  119650
mma Domestc ftoct f       1O0.O   100.0    100.0   100.0   10.       10.0                5.9      6.5      4.1      LU       3.1
riculbze                  22.5   16.1    13.8    11.1    15.3    15.6                  3.3      2.9      2.0      2.4      2.5
I1nuuy                  .42.2    37.      44.3   40.5    32.5       34.2               6.3      8.3      7.5      LS       3.2
Sezvia                    29.0   38.1    33.1    35.8    32.5       33.7               6.9      4.7      4.9    -0.8       3.2
G =dg                      67.2   72.8    74.3   68.7        67.1    66.5                6.5      6.9      6.3    -0.3       2.6
taa i£zuinmt               36.5    32.3     33.5    31.1     31.7     32.7               4.7      5.5      5.4    -2.9       3.3
a eta OES                  13.9   18.5    20.2    29.7       21.9     25.2              W.2       6.7      5.2      0.6      4.8
311-t G65                  17.5   23.5    28.0    29.5       20.7     24.4               9.8      6.7      5.0    -6.6       3.9
Qra oNcim21 MWV            32.6   29.6      25.6    28.5    32.8    33.7                 5.3      6.2      3.2    -1A        3.2
As 7. of UP
i9      I7      1975    1990    1981      19-3
PUBX FMWK
Tota1revnuas               27.9   33.1    36.8    34.0       32.3     31.8
1a1 aqiajitag              24.1    33.2     37.2    34.6    31.6      31.5
Szrpblt  C) or deficit (-)  3.8   -0.l    -0.4   -0.6    40.7    40.3
1960-70 L970-75  1975-40 1980-65  1965-%9
Oa  -mmlaS
GN pe     ra  Ct)           6.1     6.7      6.0     0.2      3.1
GN pe cq2its puidi zate     5.0     5.8      5.1   -0.7       2.2
Ent                         5.4    4.6       5.6    30.2      7.2
lt elticity                 1.6     1.0      1.2   -6.6       1.3
a/ At  d    rim;c,         tam           at _6tw cost amo wil not aidd u to ttotl dan to e- 21imi of net indiiuet   es. Ibis flg  is we-
eae1tbe with trn CM pwr eia                  usv e    g dre brld Bak  elsedmido1cW.
b/  etm.
16696                                                                                                                  am 1C
I'ay 3. 198



-27 -                                                        A
1! 5 of 6
YlrSN& - EXL mm
l"mtien: 23.0 mllien Ocd1933)
GNP Per Cpita= 12,570 (1983)
i  INS at                                        (at  tmt priem) d/
(1983)        .979      W0   1981   1962    1983    194 e*  1985   W966   1967    198    199    1990
MCMUIL ME
_~di~iaexts                 9,693          1.6   10.9    4.5   -9.4        2.5    8.4    4.7    4.6    4.8    5.2    5.0    4.8
Priy El                    I,829         -O8    10.5  -17.5   -2.3    U.3        8.3    4.6    5.0      5.1    5.3    5.1    4.9
)bmfaxls bl                7,864          2.4   IZA    114    -9.8    0.2    8A          4.6    4.6    4.7    5.2    5.0    4.8
tSrdzaiime  1 t             u.825          18.0  -10.5  -12.3  -14.0   -4.7        4.2    1.3    3.1    3.9    4.7    5.0    4.8
Faod                        520          56.9   -2.7  -15.0  -14.9   -7.1    4.6         14      3.2    3.9    4.7    5.0    4.9
leoml  el                  3,221         10.6   -3.1    -9.4    0.3    5.8    4.0    0.8    3.1    3.9    4.7    5.0    4.8
m.diimq T,d em4wint        3,039         a.7  -21.7  -22.5  -19.2  -24.0    4.2    1IA           3.1    3.9    4.7    5.0    4.8
Odom                       5,045         10.8   -3.8   -73   -18.6    2.4    4.3    1.4    3.1    3.9    4.7    5.0    4.8
1982 - 1I0)
E t p6iamei                    98         72      86      93    100       96      95      92     99     106    113    121    131
act pie iwdmc                 IO          74      89      98    100      1       103     96    102    109    120    130    lbO
1~  of tca  in=a               98.0       97.3   96.6   94.9   100.0   96.0   92.2   96.7   97.0   96.8   94.7   93.5   93.0
rlpaeLtim of t-di_  T1de CX)                                /gc  Jl Iicie  CZ)
(at cwm  Pie)                                          Cut         p2cm)
1960    19 19    1975    1980    1SS5      1990             1960-70  1970-75  1975-E0 1910-85  195-90
~acts                             100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0                  .1      5.7      2.9     2-3    4.9
ftiPy al                          49.6    29.4    19.5    21.5    16.9    17.4                  -      -1.3      4.2    1.3    5.0
tAM&    t1M=                      50.4    70.6    80.5    78.5    83.1    82.6                  -       8.1      23      3.0    4.8
1ts                               100.0   100.0   10.0   100.0   100.0   100.0                   9.0      7.4      4.0   -6.4     4.3
Fad                               9.1      7.2      5.5      7.0     6.5      6.6               -       5.       87      6.7    4.3
5.4     4.8    12.3    23.6    19.6    19.6                   -      8.2      t.7     0.3    4.2
tAdiiz. z1  te*iM=                36.8    33.2    33.9    28.1    28.2    28.1                   -      9.4      1.8  -15.2    4.3
OtbXh                            48.7   5-.8    48.3    41.3    45.6    45.7                     -      6.0      2.6   -4.4      43
Sm  of Tme uxdt              Sze of Tzid wih         Saie  of  a   uai Ccal   af c 
TMautrial O vm ret)          Dse1pbi a   0 ;azie. (co   S,rplm Oil FxoI CZ)         U vtra11 Pl            co (2)
19565   17    18      1m    195   I970    m- 1i8s  1965   1970   1960   1984   1965   197    1960   198
DlR!C=N (IF DUIE
DarTS              40.1   53.3   37.4   36.5   17.4  13.6    8.2    7.8   0.4   0.7   8.1   8.6   42.1   32.4  46.3  47.1
friaz            61.0   70.2     -      -       9.1   8.2    -       -     0.2   0.2    -       -      29.7   21.4   7..0     -
1Na,faCugwf      24.0  41.9   25.0       -      23.8   17.2   18.0    -     0.6   1.0   4.0    -        51.6   39.9   53.0    -
loEt5              55.3  66.1   52.8   44.7   16.0   12.7   6.9   4.8   0.1    0.1   10.2   17.8   28.6   21.1  3D.1  32.7
a/  Sm 0-4
i  Snt 5-S
cI SCI 3; ;ia-   l ubicxas, cml ad eleetriciLy.
d/ Prj.ctad YEW  at caintm  19B2 pric; for historical yems bae yw pricam we h,oe of the ImdiM yMW.
el Fti     .
16696
am IC
My 3, 1985



- 28 -
oT. 6
V[MVYU - -AM aISD,                        011T 86lL M Mi
U Imillimm0)
Eapata:   23.0 ILiat l-1963)
Z Pa Cr:ita.   a2.53  (113)
1979    1960     1961    1962    1963       1864 a/  19615    19116    1967    198       19       10
-  tuof  Wm6   ad                       114526   18,096   19,515   18.352   16,53    17,356   16,66    I,2    2D,0o  22,3n1  24,81   27.n7
of hich.: Mktdadime  f.o.b.               6,794   8,978   10,205   9.923   9,693   10.256  LIl021   12,336   13836   15,587   17.557   19.777
lI:s of god Ad .tm                         18,1V7  -2D0399  20,461   18,976   16,322   16,852   15A9   17,202   18,882   21,313  23,943  26,819
of .didh:  lkdimiae  c.i.f.               14,0.1  15,081   14,52   12,751  11,8Z5   U,993   13,2Z5  14,.'9   16,237  18,568   21,169   23,979
Ourrot bmmt                                  -3,661   -2,29L    -96    -6          212   50          78D   1,002   1,202        998      898      89
CWital im  (miet)                           2,519    2,423    1,184     -38      -266       30    -4        -2       -6       -658     -558     -558
aw   in                                      1,142    -2    -238    1,012          55    -53       -300    -360    -340    -340    -340         -340
ltmtiomn    l dmwg mz   bt                  2,319    2,451   .,669   1,677    1,622   2,156    2.456   2,796    3.136    3,476   3,816    4,156
OfOE dc: Cod (Offial        uatim)           73        78      78       78       78        78      78       78       78       78       78       78
~in       -        iqts                          1.9      1.6      1.7     1.1      1.2      1.5      -1.8     1.8      1.9      1.9      1.8      1.8
2m  di sats. 1X                              3.891   4,596    3,107   2,314    3,710    2,978
Official coorits                            519      676      712      4n       558   1,142
lk1Ci1ateru1                            318      308      218      364      292      745
2.       2B1      218      33D      292      46
fliIa;1                                 201      368      494       18      26       397
.-,eeta cmdikind   m-pirn_t1d             3,372    3,920    2,395    1,843    3,152    1,836
F-t-  debt
-dt ait_Ai    a.d
dimhuad c/                             15,170  19.S1M   19,868   20,016   20,516   20,016
Dabt seLvice il
Total    ie paM                            2,582   3,357   4,008   4,006   4,52        5,1
bro   t                                    m821    1,281    1,967   2,0S.9   1,688   1,854
c tiai                                  1,761    2,076    2.021   1,957   2841.   3,267
ujwt_ X mZempu                               17.8     18.5    20.5    21.8    27.         3.5
k    e imers rate  am mm  CC) el                 7.5    15.0    12.5    14.5    10.9    10.7
I  -   inwity Of 1U  I== (years)                14.9      8.9     11.7     9.6    10.9    10.0
J 1.timta..
I  Xzehui.. grown foeigomeu  of C_tii bi             .
ci IW~Imse d,ort-tm datb.
I Det maime e : cid. am,tuztio  ad itmt m dwt-tm ddt ad                           -dit           by    zimria.
.1  Publi -d phliely    mrnted dbtsa oy.
1669f
tMy 3, 1985



- 29-                                ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA
As of March 31 1985
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS
USk Million
Amount (Less
Loan   Fiscal                                                 - Cancellations
No.    Year      Borrower(s)              Purpose           Bank   Undisbursed
Fifty-two loans fully disbursed                1,880.9       -
916     1973  NAFTAGAS                Gas Pipeline              59.4        2.9
1360    1977  METORIJA                Multipurpose Water        54.0        9.5
1561    1978  Elektroprivreda Bosnia Hydrupower                 73.0        3.3
1561-1  1984  Elektroprivreda Bosnia Mistar Suppl. Loan         61.0       53.6
1621    1979  Privredna Banka         Bosanska Krajina
Sarajevo               Agric/Agroind.           55.0       7.2
1678    1979  Five Road Org.          Highways X               148.0        3.1
1756    1980  Zagrebacka Banka        Croatia Sava Drainage    51.0        14.1
1768    1980  Port of Bar             E'quake Rehab-Bar Port   35.0         5.0
1769    1980  Montenegro Railway Org E'quake Rehab-Railways   14.0           .05
1801    1980  Vojvodjanska Banka      Agric. Credit III         86.0       30.1
1819    1980  Four Road Org.          Highways XI              125.0       24.4
1909    1981  Kosovska Banka
Pristina              Industrial Credit V       50.0      22.6
1910    1981  Privredna Banka
Sarajevo              Industrial Credit V       30.0       2.4
1911    1981  Investiciona Banka
Titograd              Industrial Credit V       20.0       4.4
1912    1981  Stopanska Banka Skopje Industrial Credit V        10.0        0.3
1951    1981  Investbanka             Agr/Agroindustries        87.0       52.1
1977    1981  Pristina Railway Org.  Railways                   34.0       17.2
1993    1981  Kosovska Banka
Pristina             Agric/Agroindustries       90.0      65.7
2039    1982  Stopanska Banka Skopje Agriculture                80.0       56.7
2055    1982  Radna Org. Vodovod      Kosovo Water Supply       23.0        2.4
2132    1982  Privredna Banka
Sarajevo             Industrial Credit VI       33.0      18.4
2133    1982  Stopanska Banka Skopje Industrial Credit VI       33.0       19.9
2136    1982  Privredna Banka
Sarajevo             Agriculture Dev.           23.3      12.4
2161    1982  Privredna Banka         Drainage                  26.1       18.6
Sarajevo
2233    1983  Reg. Work Org. KOMPRED Tuzla Water Supply         19.7       15.8
2306    1983  Kosovska Banka
Pristina             Kosovo Regional Devt.    79.0        73.4



-30 -                               ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
US* Million
Amount (Less
Loan     Fiscal                                                 cancellations)
No.     Year     Borrower(s)              Purpose           Bank   Undisbursed
2307     1983 Udruzena Beogradska
Banka                Serbia Regional Devt.   136.0       124.7
2326     1983 Udruzena Beogradska
Bank                 Structural Adjustment   275.0        31.8
2336     1984 Four Railway Org.       Railways VI              110.0       98.2
2338     1984 Eight Power Org.        Power Transmission III  115.0      113.6
2339     1984 Kosovska Banka
Pristina             Industrial Credit VII    45.0        44.9
2340     1984 Investiciona Banka
Titograd              Industrial Credit VII    25.0       23.6
2410 /1  1984 Vojvodjanska Banka      Fertilizer Sector         90.0       90.0
2467 72  1985 Investiciona Banka      Montenegro Reg'l Devt.   40.0       40.0
Total (less cancellations)                      4116.4 /3
Of which:  Repaid                             920.8
Total Outstanding                               3195.6
Amount Sold                          9.2
Of Which:  Repaid                  9.2
Total now held by the Bank                      3195.6
Total undisbursed                                         1102.4
/l Not yet signed.
/2 Not yet effective.
/3 In addition to the above loans, a i125 million loan for the Visegrad
Hydroelectric Project was approved by the Board on April 30, 1985; and a
t35 million loan for the Bosnia-Herzegovina Forestry Improvement Project
was approved by the Board on June 4, 1985.



- 31 -                             ANNEX-II
Page 3 of 3
B.  STATEMENT-OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1985)
Fiscal                                         Type of        Amount in-USt Min
Year-            Obligor                      Business-      Loan Equity Total
1970   Internat'l Investment Corp.    Investment Corporation   -    2.0    2.0
1970/  Zavodi Crvena Zastava Fiat
1980     S.p.A.                       Automotive Industry      12.4  0.6   13.0
1971/  Tr'-  na Automobilov in
1980     Motoriev Maribor (TAM)
Klockner-Humboldt Deutz A.G. Automotive Industry       9.2  0.9   10.1
1972/  FAP-FAMOS Belgrade/Daimler
1980     Benz A.G.                    Automotive Industry      16.3  0.8   17.1
1972/  Sava Semperit                  Tires                    12.5  2.5   15.0
1978/
1980
1973   Belisce-Bel Tvornica Papira    Pulp and Paper           70.9  -      70.9
1974   Zelezarna Jesenica/ARMCO        Special Steel           10.0  -      10.0
1974   Salonit Anhovo                  Cement Plant            10.0  -     10.0
1975   RMK Zenica                      Steel                   50.0  -      50.0
1977   Frikom RO Industrija Smrnzute
Urane/Unilever               Food/Food Processing      4.0  2.4    6.4
1977   Tvornica Kartona i Ambalaze    Pulp/Paper Products      15.6  2.6   18.2
1978   Soko-Mostar                    Hermetic Compressors      7.0  -       7.0
1980   Investiciona Banka Titograd    Tourism                  21.0  -      21.0
1980   Radoje Dakic                   Machinery                18.7  -      18.7
19BO   Eight Republican/Provincial
Banks                        Small-scale Enterprise  30.2  -      30.2
1982   Igalo                           Physical Medicine Ctr.  14.1  -      14.1
1982   Industrija za automooilski
Delovi I Traktori            Motor Vehicle Accessory 10.6  -      10.6
1983   LBZB                           Development Finance      31.4  -     31.4
1985   ISKRA                          Telecommunications       22.9  -     22.9
1985   Ina-Naftaplin                   Chem. and Petrochem.    37.8        37.8
Total Gross Commitments                                404.6 11.8  416.4
Less: Cancellations, terminations, exchange
adjustments, repayment and sales              230.3  5.2  235.5
Total conmmitments held by IFC                         174.3  6.6  180.9
Total undisbursed held by IFC                           18.3  0.8   19.1



- 32 -                          ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
YUGOSLAVIA
FIRST PETROLEUM SECTOR PROJECT
Supplementary-Project-Data Sheet
Section I:   Timetable of Key Events:
(a)   Time taken to prepare project:        22 months (June 1983 to
April 1985)
(b)   Agencies which prepared project:       IRA-NAFTAPLIN, NAFTA-GAS,
and Refinery Bosauski Brod
(c)   Project first presented to the Bank: July 1982
(d)   First Bank mission to review the
project:-                           June 1983
(e)   Departure of the Bank appraisal
mission:                            July 1984
(f)   Completion of negotiations:           May 1985
(g)   Planned date of effectiveness:        November 1985
Section II:   Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
Conditions of Effectiveness
(a)   INA-Naftaplin and Nafta-Gas to submit to the Bank an acceptable
financing plan which also confirms specific sources of funding
for foreign exchange costs not covered by the Bank loans and
repayment guarantees of their respective associated bank.
(para. 63).
(b)   Receipt by the Bank of evidence that the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement between P3S and RBB, and the Agreement between RBB and
EXPL, have been executed (para. 63).
Condition of Disbursement
Prior to disbursing Bank funds for the gas compressor for the Okoli
underground gas storage subproject, the Bank will satisfy itself as to
the performance guarantees by the foreign manufacturer, under whose
license they will be manufactured locally, and the delivery guarantee
of the local manufacturer (para. 63).



- 33 -                        ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
Others
(a)   On an annual basis, (i) INA-Naftaplin and Nafta-Gas to review
and reassess with the Bank their exploration programs; and
(ii) all three implementing agencies to review with the Bank
their exploration programs (para. 38).
(b)   By December 31, 1985, INA-Naftaplin to review with the Bank
terms of reference for a study on the long-term supply and
demand for natural gas. By September 30, 1986, the study to be
submitted to the Bank for its review (para. 45).
(c)   INA-Naftaplin and Nafta-Gas to increase prices of domestic
natural gas to 75Z of the price of imported gas by January 1,
1986, and to 10OZ by January 1, 1987 (para. 45).
(d) INA-Naftaplin and Nafta-Gas to maintain (i) a current ratio of
at least one-to-one; (ii) an operating ratio not greater than
90%; and a debt/debt plus equity ratio not greater than 60Z
(para. 46).
(e) PBS to (i) take measures to reduce its arrears in accordance
with agreed target dates; and (ii) increase its amount of the
Mutual Liability Fund to 3% of its consolidated loan portfolio
according to an agreed schedule (para. 48).
(f)   Naftaplin and Nafta-Gas to submit to the Bank for its review on
a no-objection basis,-drilling location proposals and
justifications, and drilling and testing programs for
exploration wells to be financed by the Bank (para. 54).
(g)   Following a review by the Bank of the final analysis of the
geological, geochemical and geophysical studies, EXPL to
undertake a promotion exercise acceptable to the Bank seeking
joint venture partners for an exploration program in the project
areas (para. 56).



-34 -                              ANlN%  IV
Procurement
(0 millions)
.   .   .  .   .  .  .   ~.   . . ... .. . .   . .   . . . ...  .   . .   .   .   .  . . . .
Project Element                --Procurement Method---------
ICB  LIB  LCB  Other  MEA.  Total-Cost
Oil field services               12.0  2.6  -       31.5    -         46.1
(12.0) (2.6)  -     -      -        (14.6)
Oil field equipment              64.3  2.4  -    211.7    -          278.4
and materials                   (64.3) (2.4)  -      -      -        (66.7)
Civil works                       -    -    -       18.0    -         18.0
Construction, installation
and testing                       -    -    8.6   -         -          8.6
Drilling, completion and           -    -    -      85.2    -         85.2
workover
Geophysical Surveys               -    -    -    54.7   -             54.7
Engineering, technical
supervision and administration    -    -    -       11.5    -         11.5
Training and technical            -    -    -       11.2    -         11.2
assistance                        -    -    -    (11.2)   -          (11.2)
Duties and Taxes                   -    -    -       -      38.8      38.8
Total                 76.3  5.0  8.6 423.8    38.8    552.5
(76.3) (c.O)      (11.2)            (92.5)
NOTE: Parentheses are used to identify Bank financed items



\  A U S T RI A                                              Y§D M  u G oS L A V I A                                         *us*       *c Y
f.-T0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CD,                                                                        S X.  .   p
,_ IlltE>ltsceBlrles~~~~~~~~~~~~~~H   N                                                                                             -1/ So
w aigL                             3e1^w^      Aw            R Y                                   Ra 0!  MANIA  
*pDODUru %VlUIa   m  1I
-   litNMlMla  .l O Y AP,W tT  sXW  /1?CT W UIII/   );_  A l B A N l A     /       ^',         A               .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
tr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1. .        Ur.*s'U
L ; Rgaofttxiowxt;wuAtt v e . ................... i eseXUe7gsoe sess $ z \ / ~ t \ SRe
r  1 =!llpiui;wmt2$§llJ   ~~~~~ j,XjPlAO-n 1  " e  XJ            - )                  )\            Rt            t-w_\~~~~we
... _'llltl^tlCllLIOUIDRWIlS ................ Iooo0tetm . . \ (, Qf~~~~~NOV
, 4, ,,F,,>R,% : p*aEo"o">ltsm . ) hSt t J~~~~~~~~bY
l'  t l,1, X, Z DO0  =,_ ".SS  .N,C, ;IEE
%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~^ ^E E                   N



