Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16330
PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
FIRST PETROLEUM SECTOR PROJECT
(LOAN 2597-YU)
February 20, 1997
Energy and Environment Division
Central Europe Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit -          1985-1989     Yugoslavian Dinar (YD)
1990-         New Yugoslavian Dinar (NYD)
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
(per US$)
192K    198      1987    18    1282    19299    1991    1992
YD   YD   YD   YD   YD   NYD  NYD  NYD
USS1.00 = 289      379      738     2516    28820   11.3-   34.8*   na
(for above currency units)
*) Note: NYD1.0 = YD10,000 (January 1990)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
ECL             Exploration Consultants Ltd.
EXPL            Energoinvest Work Organization for Oil and Gas Exploration
GECO            Geophysical Company
PBS             Privredna Banka Sarajevo-Udruzena Banka
RBB             Energoinvest Rafhnerija Bosanski Brod
YD              Yugoslav Dinar
NYD             New Yugoslav Dinar
BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA - FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
Vice President                Johannes F. Linn
Director                      Hans J. Apitz
Division Chief/Manager        Henk Busz
Staff Member                  Richard E. Hamilton



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
FIRST PETROLEUM SECTOR PROJECT (LOAN 2597-YU
PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
Table of Contents
Preface ......................................i
Evaluation Summary ......................................ii
PARTLL PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity ......................................1
Background .............. .1
Project Objectives and Description .......................               2
Project Design and Organization ................ .........               3
Project Implementation .....................................             4
Project Results ......................   ...............                 5
Project Sustainability .....................................             6
Bank Performance .....................................                   7
Borrower Performance .....................................               7
Project Relationship .............;                                      7
Consulting Services .....................................                8
Project Outcome .............................. .......                   8
PART 1IL PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Not available
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION, TABLES
A. Project Timetable                                             Table 1
B. Use of Bank Resources                                         Table 2
C. Project Costs and Financing
- Utilization by Categories                                   Table 3
- Detailed Project Costs                                      Table 4
- Project Financing                                           Table 5
|This document has a restricted distribution and mnay be used by recipients only in the perfomTnanoe of their |
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






(i)
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
FIRST PETROLEUM SECTQR PROJECT (LOAN 2597-YU)
PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
PREFACE
This is a Project Completion Note for the components of the First Petroleum Sector
Project in the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia that were located in the
Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. These components were financed separately by Loan
2597-YU, in the amount of US$2.5 million. This loan was approved by the Board on June
27, 1985 and became effective on August 15, 1986. The Borrower was Privredna Banka
Sarajevo-Udruzena Banka (PBS) in Sarajevo.
The total loan amount for the First Petroleum Sector Project, including Loan 2595-YU for
project components in the Republic of Croatia in the amount of US$65.0 million and Loan 2596-
YU for project components in the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina in the amount of US$35.0
million, was US$92.5 million. I
At appraisal, project implementation was scheduled to be completed by December 31,1990.
This was delayed until December 1991 by late effectiveness of the loan, delays in contracting
consultants during the early part of the project and from mid 1991 onwards, hostilities near and
in the project area. Of the loan amount of US$2.5 million a total of US$1,523,481 was canceled.
Loan 2597-YU was closed on June 30, 1992 at which time US$ 976,518 had been disbursed.
This Note (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) was prepared by Mr. Anton Smit
(Consultant) and reviewed by Messrs. Richard Hamilton (Senior Energy Economist, EC2ET),
Hans J. Apitz (Division Chief, EC2ET) and Franz Kaps (Project Advisor, EC2DR). Due to poor
communications with the Borrower, a near complete change of staff and loss of project files there
is no Part II to this ICR, which was to be contributed by the Borrower.
Preparation of this Note was started in July 1996. It is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal
Report, Loan and Guarantee Agreements and Supervision Reports.
IA Project Completion Report was issued for the Croatia component in August 1993. A Project
Completion Note is being issued simultaneously with this Note for the Vojvodina component.






BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
FIRST PETROLEUM SECTOR PROJECT (LOAN 2597-YU)
PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.     The major objective of the First Petroleum Sector Project (see Part I, Section 3) was to
assist Yugoslavia in the development of indigenous energy resources, thereby reducing its
dependence on imported energy. In Bosnia Herzegovina, this objective was to be achieved by
Loan 2597-YU which supported a program to reactivate exploration for hydrocarbon deposits.
2.     On behalf of the Borrower for project components in Bosnia, Privredna Banka Sarajevo-
Udruzena Banka (PBS), implementation was carried out by the Energoinvest Work Organization
for Oil and Gas Exploration and Exploitation (EXPL), an enterprise organized under the auspices
of the Energoinvest Rafmerija Nafta Bosanski Brod. At the start of the project, delays occurred
as the commercial department of the implementing agency had to get acquainted with Bank
procedures for the contracting of consultants. After mid 1991, project components were further
delayed by hostilities between the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Republic of Croatia.
Spreading of these hostilities into the territory of Bosnia Herzegovina resulted in an interruption
of project's implementation by the end of 1992. Bank supervision missions were in the field
from 1987 to 1990, after which direct contacts with the implementing agency became sporadic as
a result of Bank restrictions on travel to the area.
3.     The first part of the project, the collection of further geological and seismic data
followed by a reinterpretation study with the assistance of a qualified international consultant
was achieved in agreement with the project objectives. However, in view of the local political
and military instability, it was not thought that a promotion of the results from this study to the
international oil industry was likely to attract any attention at that time. The aim of such
promotion was to find potential partners for Energoinvest to carry out joint-venture hydrocarbon
exploration in Bosnia. This part of the project objectives was abandoned.
4.     As EXPL at that time had only limited experience with up-to-date exploration
technology it was agreed at appraisal that the major part of the project components in Bosnia
would be carried out with adequate assistance from experienced Yugoslav and foreign
contractors and consultants. This assistance was used by EXPL to the full satisfaction of the
Bank. Training of EXPL staff proceeded in accordance with the agreed training schedule.
5.     Due to the fact that, with one exception, all staff engaged in the implementation of the
project left the company during the period of hostilities and many of the project files were lost or
damaged, the present EXPL organization was unable to contribute to this Note. Communication



with Bosanski Brod proved to be extremely difficult. However valuable data were received from
Exploration Consultants Limited (ECL), the main contractor on this project.
6. It was not possible to rate the project outcome because of the interruption of project
implementation caused by the hostilities and the unavailability of some needed information.



BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
FIRST PETROLEUM SECTOR PROJECT (LOAN 2597-YU)
PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Project Ideatity
Name           : First Petroleum Sector Project
Loan Number   : 2597-YU
RVP Unit       : Europe and Central Asia
Country         Bosnia and Herzegovina
Sector          Energy
Subsector      : Petroleum
2. Background
2.1   During the two decades prior to the appraisal of the project, hydrocarbon (oil and gas)
energy in Yugoslavia progressively replaced the use of coal in the industry, transport and
domestic sectors. During that period coal (mostly lignite) consumption, although its energy value
nearly doubled, fell as a percentage of used primary energy from 63% to 43 %. Percentages of
gas and oil consumption, during that same period, rose from 2% to 12% and from 20% to 40%
respectively. This trend was foreseen to continue in the coming years. As a consequence of the
increased use of hydrocarbon energy, the country was becoming rapidly more dependant on the
import of large quantities of gas and oil. As a combined effect of the increased volume of
imports and the steep increase of international crude oil prices over that period, the country's
costs for imported oil rose from US$20.0 million in 1965, to US$2 billion in 1982. In addition,
in 1983, a volume of 2.9 billion rn3 of gas at a total cost of US$450 million was imported.
2.2   Following a balance of payments crisis in 1979, the Federal Assembly of the Socialist
Republic of Yugoslavia, in March 1983, adopted an economic program for restructuring the
economy. Since the energy sector was considered critical to these structural adjustments, the
commission advising the Government on the economic program formulated a long-term strategy
for its development. This strategy contained two major elements: first, expanding production
from domestic energy resources, such as lignite, coal, hydroelectricity and petroleum; and
second, improving the efficiency of energy consumption, distribution and transformation mainly



2
through reforms in pricing. At appraisal, the Bank reviewed and endorsed the Government's
strategy and made specific recommendations for the development of indigenous energy
resources, rationalization of investment programs, changes to the basis and levels of energy
pricing and energy conservation.
3.    Project Objectives and Description
3.1   The major objective of the project was to support the Government in its strategy of
enhancing domestic petroleum production in two republics and one autonomous province, which
at that time were part of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia: Croatia, Bosnia and
Herzegovina and Vojvodina. This would be done by a project consisting of four major elements;
(i) exploration/appraisal; (ii) exploration promotion; (iii) testing and appraisal of existing
discoveries, and (iv) underground storage of gas to balance winter and summer demand/supply
patterns. The components of the first two major project elements located in the area of the
Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina were covered by Loan 2597-YU.
3.2   Exploration for hydrocarbons in Bosnia and Herzegovina had been carried out since the
start of the century. However these efforts had remained uncoordinated and no overall realistic
appraisal of the hydrocarbon potential of this area based on an integration of all available data
had been made. For this purpose the first of the above project elements aimed at assisting the
implementing agency, the Energoinvest Work Organization for Oil and Gas Exploration (EXPL)
in the systematic collecting and sorting of the existing exploration data. The project would
further support an appraisal study of these data by an experienced foreign geological consultant
company. To enhance the quality of data to be included in the appraisal, Energoinvest would
from its own funds finance the recording of more high quality seismic lines under supervision of
experienced expatriate geophysical consultants. As no advanced processing facilities were
available in Bosnia, it was agreed that computer processing of these newly recorded and of old
data would be done by a competent international geophysical consultant. Rock samples would
also be geochemically analyzed in foreign laboratories.
3.3   The second project element covering the promotion of the results from the appraisal study
to foreign oil companies would also use the assistance of a foreign consultant with large
experience in the preparation of promotional presentations and wide connections in the
international oil industry.
3.4   The components for the sub-project in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as defined between the
borrower and the Bank, were included in Loan 2597-YU for US$2.5 million equivalent. The
main physical components covered by this loan were:
(a) Geological and Geophysical Data Acquisition and Interpretation comprising: (i) the
processing of about 1200 line-km of high resolution seismic data (to be financed by the
Borrower) and the re-processing of about 300 line-km of old seismic data; (ii)



3
geochemical analysis of about 300 rock samples from outcrops and previously drilled
wells and (iii) the interpretation of these data and their compilation into an exploration
promotion package.
(b) Exploration Promotion of the above exploration package to interested international oil
companies for further hydrocarbon exploration through joint-venture arrangements with
EXPL.
(e) Consultancy and Technical Assistance in (i) seismic acquisition, processing and
interpretation; and (ii) preparation of the exploration promotion package and conduct of
promotion exercises.
3.5   As these components were of a purely exploratory nature, no rate of return calculation
was made at appraisal. The Borrower for the Bosnia components was Privredna Banka Sarajevo-
Udruzena Banka (PBS). The total cost of the project in Bosnia was US$14.0 million including
contingencies. Local costs were expected to amount to US$11.5million which were to be borne
by the republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina.. At appraisal the Bank loan to PBS was guaranteed
by the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
4.    Project Design and Organization
4.1   The strategy of the Government of Yugoslavia to increase the domestic production of oil
and gas to reduce the costs of imports, which was weighing heavily on the country's balance of
payments, was fully agreed to. by the Bank. There was also full agreement to include a
reappraisal of the hydrocarbon potential of the North Bosnia region into this project and to seek,
by the presentation of the results from this reappraisal to international oil companies, a possible
joint-venture partner for EXPL for further exploration and possible hydrocarbon production in
the area.
4.2   It was realized at appraisal that EXPL, the hydrocarbon exploration organization for
Bosnia, had only been formed in 1983 and consequently at the start of the project this company
had only limited experience. Nevertheless the Bank agreed to EXPL becoming the implementing
agency for the project on condition that foreign consultants would be employed for quality
control for all data acquisition and processing, for the preparation of a promotion package and
for assistance with the presentation of this package to foreign companies. Training of EXPL staff
on state-of-the-art technology provided by these foreign services was considered a valuable
benefit from the project.



4
S.    Project Implementation
5.1   Due to the time involved in seeking cofinancing and export credit arrangements for Loans
2595-YU and 2596-YU, late compliance with covenants for the pricing of domestic gas in the
Loan and Guarantee Agreements and delays in the ratification of the loan documents by the
Yugoslav Federal Assembly, the loan was late in becoming effective and right at the start
implementation incurred a delay of about one year (Part III, Table 1).
5.2   The responsibility for initiating procurement of project-financed items was with EXPL.
However, as was common practice in Yugoslavia at that time, the actual procurement was
carried out by specialized foreign trade companies, in this case Energokomerc. This trade
company was to prepare the bidding documents, submit these for approval to the Bank and
follow up with the remaining procurement procedures. EXPL, however, maintained full control
of the technical specifications, delivery schedules and the required quality standards. This
arrangement, already more time consuming than a system of direct procurement by EXPL, was
further delayed by the initial inexperience of Energokomerc with Bank procurement guidelines,
in this case especially those for the contracting of consultant services. The consulting companies
finally contracted for this project were GECO (London) for geophysical processing and
Exploration Consultants Ltd (ECL) (UK) for the collection of geological surface samples,
supervision of seismic recording and the preparation of the appraisal study on the hydrocarbon
potential of the North Bosnia region. The contract for geochemical analysis was awarded to
Exlog (UK). With ECL also an agreement had been drafted for assistance in organizing the
promotional presentations.
5.3   The first part of the project, including the compilation and study of exploration data, was
implemented as designed at appraisal and, apart from the above mentioned initial delays, it was
basically completed on schedule. However, due to the start of political unrest, closely followed
by hostilities in the project area, a Bank restriction was imposed on travel to the region and
regular supervision of the project by Bank missions was discontinued from March 1990 onwards
(Part III, Table 2). At that time some 1470 line-km of new seismic data had been recorded by the
Institute Geofizika of Belgrade under close supervision of specialists from ECL. A number of
262 geological samples had been collected and analyzed by Exlog and 16,444 old seismic
recordings had been reprocessed by GECO. At that moment the appraisal report by ECL had
reached a near final stage and it was expected to be completed by the third quarter of 1990.
5.4   The effective implementation of the first part of the project was largely due to the close
assistance by foreign consulting companies and the visits by Bank supervision missions. The
intended training was found to be limited by the low number of EXPL staff with sufficient
exploration background. Another limitation was that supervision missions had virtually no access
to project accounts as these were kept by the main Energoinvest organization in Serajevo and not
at the EXPL implementation office in Bosanski Brod. In the supervision reports there is no



5
mention of any foreign or local cost accounting and in Part III, Table 5 the local costs
contributed to the project by Energoinvest had to be omitted.
5.5   EXPL was reluctant to use the Special Account as provided for in the Loan Agreement.
All disbursements to suppliers and contractors were made directly from Washington at specified
requests from EXPL. At the revised closing date of the loan (30 June 1992), a total of
US$976,518 had been disbursed and the remainder US$1,523,481 was canceled. The funds used
were: US$491,670 for seismic data acquisition and processing (Category 1) and US$484,847 for
consultant services and training (Category 3). There was no disbursement for exploration
promotion (category 2) (Part III, Tables 3 and 4).
5.6   During implementation, it became apparent that to finance the project objectives the total
loan amount would not be needed. Analysis of the reasons for this underspending found that, at
the start of project appraisal in 1983, prices in the exploration sector were extremely high due to
the then prevailing high oil prices (US$35/bbl), causing an extraordinary demand for exploration
services. At the time of project implementation, oil prices had declined considerably and thus
exploration services could be contracted at much lower costs. In 1990, EXPL requested the
Bank's permission to use some of the remaining funds for procurement of computer hardware
and software to start a data bank of exploration data and for the purchase of drilling
consumables. The first request was agreed to and EXPL was asked to provide the Bank with a
proposal and cost estimate. It was decided that the second request would only be considered after
the exploration promotion.
5.7   In 1989, Amoco Exploration Company entered into a three year agreement with
Energoinvest under which Amoco would carry out a feasibility study for further seismic work
over an area of 35000 km . Amoco was reported to have recorded 160 km of seismic line during
the first year of this agreement.
6.    Project Results
6.1   The acquisition of new seismic data by the Institute Geofizika of Belgrade under
supervision of international experts from ECL, resulted in data of high quality. This quality was
further enhanced by the careful processing of the data in the computer centers of GECO
(London). During this processing special care had to be given to compensate for the complex
topography and geology in the North Bosnia region. The geochemical analysis of the old and
also the newly collected rock samples was carried out in the professional manner expected from a
dedicated laboratory like Exlog.
6.2   Data collected during the exploration in the area from the start of the century until 1977
were reanalyzed together with newly collected seismic and geochemical data. The earlier data
consisted mainly of information from the 37 boreholes that had been drilled in the five
sedimentary basins in the region. However, on studying these data, the consultant company ECL



6
concluded that, as expected at appraisal, most of them were non-indicative for the hydrocarbon
prospectivity of the area as many boreholes had been drilled on insufficient and unreliable data.
Only six of the early boreholes had been drilled on structures that are presently recognized as
having oil trapping potential. However, at these locations, the targeted rock formations were
found to have very poor reservoir characteristics, which prevented oil or gas accumulation at a
commercial scale.
6.3   The study by ECL revealed that there were four prospects in North Bosnia that at the
present state of knowledge could be considered worth drilling. The study also found some 45
leads that could mature into drillable prospects if one of the four known prospects were drilled
successfully. Possibly a further collecting of additional seismic data would then be required. The
four ready prospects were estimated to have a joint potential of 300 million barrels (MMBbls) of
oil. In view of the proximity of these prospects to the Bosanski Brod refinery and their location
in a heavily energy importing country, it was considered at that time that these prospects could
be attractive to international companies.
6.4    At this stage of project implementation, contact with EXPL was lost due to the start of
hostilities. According to information from ECL no promotional presentations were staged and
also no disbursement requests for this part of the project have reached the Bank. Verbal reports,
which could not be verified, however, mentioned the drilling by EXPL of three of the four ready
prospects by financing from its own funds. The results from these drillings, if indeed carried out,
have not been made available.
6.5   Foreign training was limited to two staff on interpretation of seismic and one staff on the
interpretation of gravity/magnetic data. One language interpreter was also trained. It was noticed
that EXPL exercised severe constraint on foreign travel of its staff for training purposes. On-the-
job training in Bosnia was achieved by seconding EXPL staff to the visiting experts on seismic
acquisition and on the collecting of samples for geochemical analysis.
7.    Project Sustainability
7.1    At the time this Note was prepared, none of the exploration staff working at EXPL at the
time of project implementation was still present. It was also not known whether the authorities
were considering a resumption of oil and gas exploration in their area. It is considered unlikely
that in the near and probably also medium future results from this project will or can be used.
7.2   It is also unlikely that international companies will be interested in moving into this
region to explore marginal prospects the commercial value of which is compounded with political
uncertainties. A possible presence of landmines will be an additional deterrent against carrying
out any geological fieldwork. There is no information on the progress made by Amoco with its
study; the agreement for this study expired in 1992.



7
8.    Bank Performance
8.1   Bank identification of the project was in August 1983, followed by appraisal from March
1984 until mid 1985. Due to several delays, the Loan and Guarantee Agreements did not become
effective until May 1986 (Part III, Table 1). These delays were only partly caused by the failure
to meet the conditions for effectiveness required by the Bank. The Bank's appraisal missions
were composed of well balanced staff in the economic, financial and technical disciplines.
However, since this project was the first in the energy sector of former Yugoslavia, and since
discussions had to be held with three different oil exploration and production companies as well
as ministries of the central government, the preparation of the project took longer than planned.
8.2   Bank supervision of project implementation by EXPL was at rather long intervals of
about one year. In order to maintain a good dialogue with an implementing agency with limited
experience with international consultants and facing the use of new technology, regular
supervision at six months interval would have been preferable. During the period 1990-1992,
supervision was interrupted because of the hostilities in the country.
9.    Boffower Performance
9.1   Although the project required application of technologies unavailable at the start of the
project, EXPL proved capable of handling project implementation satisfactorily. Consultants
were engaged as agreed at appraisal and these were supplied with the information and operational
assistance to be able to do their work in an optimal way.
9.2   No information on compliance by the Borrower with covenants in Articles II, IV and V
of the Loan Agreement was found in the project files. Regarding the covenants in Article III of
the Loan Agreement on the execution of the project, there have been no indications of non-
compliance by PBS, RBB or EXPL.
10.   Project Relationship
10.1  The relationship between the Bank and the implementing agency EXPL on this project
has been good. There was always a climate of frank discussions between the Bank and EXPL
and decisions on the implementation of the project were made in full mutual agreement.



8
11.   ConsultinLg Services
11.1  Use of consultant services was a major element in the project. Consultants assisted EXPL
with direct technical assistance in exploration disciplines such as seismic data acquisition,
processing and interpretation. The geological evaluation study was nearly entirely done by a
foreign consultant. All these consultants (ECL, GECO and Exlog) provided opportunities for
training of EXPL staff in the field and in their home offices. The consultants performed well and
in accordance with international professional standards, they performed the tasks specified in
their terms of reference on time.
12.   Pr iject Outcome
12.1  It was not possible to rate the project outcome because of the interruption of project
implementation caused by the hostilities and the unavailability of some need information.



9
Table 1
PART III
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
Loan 2597-YU
A: Project Timetable
Planned and Actual Dates of Project Timetable
Planned               Actual
te~m                Date                  Date
Identification                                  7/83
Pre-Appraisal                                   3/84
Decision Memorandum                             8/84
Post-Appraisal                                  10/84
Staff Appraisal Report                          6/85
Loan Negotiation                                4/85
Board Approval                                  6/85
Loan Signature                                  12/85
Loan Effectiveness         3/86                  8/86
Loan Completion           12/89                 12/91
Loan Closing               6/90                  6/92



10
Table 2
PARTIII
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
Loan 2597-YU
B: Use of Bank Resources
Missions
ItDm Dt                               Number of staff    Days in Field
Identification (259617/8-YU)  6/83               3             18
Pre-Appraisal (   ,,   )  3/84                  5              6
Post-Appraisal (  ,,   ) 10/84                  6              11
Supervision (PBS)         9/85                   1             2
Supervision (PBS)         4/86                   1             2
Supervision (PBS)         6/87                   1             2
Supervision (EXPL)        12/87                  1             2
Supervision (EXPL)        2/89                   1             2
Supervision (EXPL)        3/90                  2              2



11
Table 3
PART III
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
Loan 2597-YU
C: Project costs and financing
Utilization by categories (US$ million)
Category                Original              Actual
Allocation            Disbursement
1.  Seismic data acquisition   1.5                  0.491
and analysis
2.  Exploration promotion      0.1                  0.0
3.  Consultant services and    0.6                  0.485
training
4.  Unallocated                0.3                  0.0
5.   Not used/Cancelled                             1.523
Total                     2.5                  2.5



12
Table 4
PART III
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
Loan 2597-YU
C: Project costs and financing
Table: Detailed Project Cost (US$ million)
Appraisal Estimate    Actual Utilization
Local F.E. Total      Local F.E. Total
Geolog. and geoph. surveys   9.21  1.26  10.47     0.00  0.49  0.49
Exploration promotion        0.12  0.10  0.22      0.00  0.00  0.00
Consultant services/techn.assist.  0.00  0.59  0.59  0.00  0.48  0.48
Project base costs           9.33  1.95  11.28     0.00  0.98  0.98
Contingencies: Physical      0.93  0.20  1.13
Price           1.27  0.36  1.63
Total project costs         11.53 2.50  14.03



13
Table S
PART III
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
Loan 2597-YU
C: Project costs and financing
Table: Project Financing (US$ million)
Planned                Actual
Financing              Financing
Local F.E. Total %       Local F.E. Total    %
Own resources       11.50 0.00 11.50 82.14   ----*  0.00  ---*    ---
Export Credits       0.00 0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00    0.00
IBRD Loan            0.00 2.50  2.50 17.86    0.00  0.98  0.98  100.00
Total               11.50 2.50 14.00 100.00   0.00  0.98  0.98  100.00
Note:  (*) Project costs in local currency contributed by the Borrower are at this moment
not available.



I



i



IMAGING
Report No.:         16330
Type:      PCN



