Documet of
The World Bank
FOR OFFcLAL USE ONLY
Reprt No  12452
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CROATIA (FORMERLY YUGOSLAVIA)
FIRST PETROLEUM SECTOR PROJECT
(LOAN 2595-YU)
NOVEMBER 4, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No:        12452
Type: PCR
Energy and Environment Division
Country Department II
Europe'and Central Asia Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by rnpients only in the perfonmance of
their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwie be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRE Y EOUIVALNTS
Currency Unit -1985-1989 Yugoslav Dinar (YD)
1990-1991 New Yugoslav Dinar (NYD)
1992-1992 Croatian Dinar (HRD)
AVERAGE }- ..A ZNGE-RATES
(per US$)
1985  12B6  1987  19288  1282  1990  1991  1922
YD  YD  YD  *1D  YD  NYD NYD HRD
US$1.00 =           289   379   738   2516  28820 11.3* 34.8  270*
(for above currency units)
) Note: NYD1.0 = YD10,000 (January 1990)
HRD1.0 = NYD1.0  (August 1991)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABREVIATIONS
HRD          Hrvatska (Croatian) Dinar
GTP          Gas Treatment Plant
CROATIA - FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
November 4, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ANID TE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion on Croatia
Petroleum Sector Project (Loan 2595-YU)
Attached is the "Project Completion Report on Croatia - Petroleum
Sector Project (Loan 2595-YU)" prepared by the Europe and Central Asia Regional
Office, with Part II provided by the Borrower.
This PCR covers Croatia's share of a larger project approved for
Yugoslavia in 1985 (PCRs on Vojvodina and Bosnia-Herzegovina's components are to
be prepared at a later date). This portion of the project aimed at supporting
a time slice of the exploration, gas field development and gas storage investment
program of Croatia's national oil company, and at promoting exploration by
foreign oil companies. Related institutional strengthening was also included.
The project was completed satisfactorily, albeit with some delays, and achieved
most of its objectives (with the exception of the exploration drilling program,
which had disappointing results). The Bank was particularly successful in its
efforts to facilitate the transfer of advanced technology in this complex sector.
Overall, the project is rated as satisfactory, its institutional
impact as substantial, and its sustainability as likely. The PCR is thorough and
informative.
An audit of this project may be carried out in the future.
Attachmentt
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
RiPUdSLIC OF CROATIA
FIRST PEMROLEUM SECT OR PROlECT lLOAN 2595-YU)
PROJECT COPLEION REPORT
Table of Contents
,Pagg No.
Preface ......................................               i
Evaluation Summary .......................................   i
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity .......................................1
Background .......................................1
Project Objectives and Description .......................,   2
Project Design and Organization ................................  4
Project Implementation .......................................S
Project Results ....................... ...............      6
Ptoject Susinability ......................................  7
Bank Performance ......................... .............     8
Borrower Performance ......................................  8
Project Relationship ......................................  9
Consulting Services ......................................   9
Project Documentation ......................................  9
PTII. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE 10
PART m. STATISTICAL INFORMATION, TABLES
A. Project Timetable                           Table 1           16
B. Use of Bank Resources                       Table 2           17
C. Disbursements                               Table 3           18
D. Implementation Schedule                     Table 4           19
E. Project Costs and Financing
Utilization by Categories                  Table 5          20
Detailed Project Costs                     Table 6          21
Project Financing                          Table 7          22
F. Stats of Covenants                          Table 81a,1b,/c   23
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(i)
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
FIRST PETROLEUM SECTOR PROJECT (LOAN 2595-YU)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
TIis is a Project Completion Report (PCR) for the components of the First Petroleum Sector
Project in the Republic of Croatia, formerly a republic of the Socialist Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia. These components were financed separately by Loan 2595-YU, in the amount of
US$55.0 million. This loan was approved by the Board on June 27, 1985 and became effective on
May 7, 1986.
The total loan amount for the First Petroleum Sector Project, including Loan 2596-YU for
project components in the former Autonomous Province of Vojvodina in the amount of US$35.0
million and Loan 2597-YU for project components in the Republic of isosnia-Herzegovina in the
amount of i'S$2.5 million, was US$92.5 million1.
At appraisal project completion was scheduled for June 30, 1990. This was delayed until
December 1992 by late effectiveness of the loan, delays in procurement during the early part of the
project, the addition of project components and, from mid 1991 onwards, hostilities near the project
area. Loan 2595-YU was closed on December 31, 1992 at which time it was almost fully disbursed.2
This PCR (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and  o) was prepared by project operation
staff of EC2EE, and by the Borrower who prepared Part II.
Preparation of this PCR was started in February 1993 both by the Borrower and the Bank. It
is based, intrjJalia. on the Staff Appraisal Report, Loan and Guarantee Agreements, Supervision
Reports and information &upplied by the Borrower.
' These two loans have also been closed. Project components in Vojvodina
(Loan 2596-YU) and Bosnia-Herzegovina (Loan 2597-YU), will be covered by
separate PCRs when communication with the respective Borrowers has been
restored.
'An amount of US$300,OCO was not disbursed because of problems relating
to blockage of the borrower s special account in the New York branch of a
Serbian bank.



(ii)
REPUBLIC OF CiIOATIA
FIRST PEROLEUM SECTOR PROJECT (LOAN 2595-YU)
PROJE    COMFIdE1=    REPOR
EVALUATION SIMMARY
1.    The major objectve of the project (see Part I, Section 3) was to assist former Yugoslavia in
the development of indigenous energy resources, thereby reducing its dependence on imported energy.
In Croatia this objectve was to be achieved by Loan 2595-YU supporting a time slice of the
exploration, gas field development and gas storage programs of the Borrower, INA Naftaplin.
2.    At the start of the project, some delays in procurement occurred as the commercial
department of the Borrower had to get acquainted with Bank procurement procedures. Application for
export credits to Yugoslavia also proved to be more complex than expected. After mid 1991, some
project componens were delayed by several months due to the hostilities in the region. The
implementing agency, INA Naftaplin, with the aid of the training and technical assistance provided
under the loan, proved to be fully capable of executing the project.
3.    The Kalinovac gas field appraisal, later extended to include appraisal of the Molve field,
succeeded in confirming gas and condensate reserves far in excess of those estimated at appraisal. It is
expected that the extra gas and condensate production resulting from these fields wan be sustained for
at least ten years. As of end 1992, gas fields in the project area were producing about 70% of the
naural gas production in Croatia. The composition of the project was amended in 1987 to include
the construction of a major gas treatment plant made necessary to ensure sufficient capacity to handle
the extra gas shown to be available in the Kalinovac and Molve fields.
4.    As is normal practice in petroleum operations, modifications to the location of exploration
drilling were made as results from earlier wells became available. In general, results from exploration
drilling (in contrast to the gas field appraisal) fell below expectations. All amendments and
modifications to the project were made in full agreement between the Bank and the Borrower.
5.    The Okoli underground gas storage was developed as agreed at appraisal. It is operational and
fully meets, and in future is expected to surpass, its designed capacity. It has shown to greatly reduce
the need for cutbacks in gas delivery during cold winter periods. Promotion of the petroleum
prospectivity of the Dinarides area has, notwithstanding the political unrest there, resulted in the
signing of minutes of understanding with a major international oil company. This agreement covers
the exploration rights for a substantial part of the Dinarides region and future joint development with
INA Naftaplin if a commercial hydrocarbon discovery is made.



(iii)
6.    Consultancy and technical assistance, as included in the project description, were used
adequately by INA Naftaplin in all cases where its in-house expertise could be Improved by
contracting foreign technology. A well balanced training program, lectured by staff from high levei
trait Ang institutiors, assured that INA-Naftaplin's management and staff became fully acquainted with
advanced technical practices commonly used by the international oil industry.
7.    Part II of this report has been prepared by the Borrower. It reflects accurately the scope and
objectives of the project and gives a concise and factual account of its appraisal and implementation.
The report emphasizes correcdy the great value of the technology transfer resulting from using
foreign specialized consultants and frcm working in close cooperation with Bank staff of various
disciplines.



REPUBIQC OF CRQATIlA
FIRST PETROLEUM SECTOR PROJECT (LOAN 2595-YU)
PROJECT-COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity
Name           : First Petroleum Sector Project
Loan Number    : 2595-YU
RVP Unit       : Initially Europe, Middle East and North Africa. Since 1992, Europe and
Central Asia
Country        : Republic of Croatia
Sector         : Energy
Subsector      : Petroleum
2. Baftw3md
2.1 During the two decades prior to the appraisal of the project, hydrocarbon (oil and gas) energy in
Yugoslavia progressively replaced the use of coal in the industry, transport and domestic sectors.
During that period coal (including mostly lignite) consumption, although its energy value nearly
doubled, fell as a percentage of used primary energy from 63% to 43%. Percentages of gas and oil
consumption, during that same period, rose from 2% to 12% and from 20% to 40% respectively.
This trend was foreseen to continue in the coming years. As a consequence of the increased use of
hydrocarbon energy, the country was becoming rapidly more dependent on the import of large
quantities of gas and oil. As a bombined effect of the increased volume of imports and the steep
increase of international crude oil prices over that period, the country's costs for imported oil rose
from US$20.0 million in 1965, to US$2 billion in 1982. In addition, in the year 1983 a volume of
2.9 billion m3 of gas at a total cost of US$450 million was imported.
2.2 Following a balance of payments crisis in 1979, the Federal Assembly of the Republic of
Yugoslavia in March 1983 adopted an economic program for restructuring the economy. Since the
energy sector was considered critical to these structral adjustments, the commission advising the
Government on the economic program, formulated a long-term strategy fok its development. This
strategy contained two major elements: first, expanding production from domestic energy resources,
such as lignite, coal, hydroelectricity and petroleum; and second, improving the efficiency of energy
consumption, distribution and transformation mainly through refoims in pricing. At appraisal, the
Bank reviewed and endorsed the Government's strategy and made specific recommendations for the
development of indigenous energy resources, rationalization of investment programs, changes to the
basis and levels of energy pricing and energy conservation.
2.3 In order to expand the production from domestic energy resources, the Government star-ted a
number of projects, to be completed during the period 1985-1990, covering the lignite,
hydroelectricity and petroleum subsectors. Increased domestic energy production, together with
reforms in energy pricing and other demand management policies, aimed to reduce Yugoslavia's
dependence on imported energy from 43% to about 27% in 1990. However success of this magnitude
depended on the timely completion of a number of production enhancing projects and on the



2
maintenance of the momentum for increasing energy prices. By 1990 the production of solid
hydrocarbons (coal, brown coal and lignite) was planned to increase by 58%, gas by 132% and oil by
37% above their 1982 levels.
3. Project Objectives and Description
3.1 The major objecdve vf the project was to support the Government in its strategy for enhancing
domestic petroleum production in two republics and one autonomous province, which at that time
were part of the Socialist Federal Republic of !'ugoslavia (SFRY): Croatia, Bosnia-Herzegovina and
Vojvodina. This would be done by a project consisting of four major elements; (i)
exploration/appraisal; (ii) exploration promotion; (iii) testing and appraisal of existing discoveries, and
(iv) underground storage of gas to balance winter and summer demand/supply patterns. The
components of the above four major project elements located in the area of the Republic of Croatia
were covered by Loan 2595-YU.
3.2 In Croatia the first project element aimed at assisting the state-owned oil wmpany, INA
Naftaplin, to expand its geological expioration from the only slightly folded shallow layers to deeper
more comnplex layers. The shallow layers had at that tirie been thoroughly explored and were not
thought to contain sufficient remaining undiscovered reserves to make the substantial production
increase, as intended in the Government's energy plan, possible. However the deeper layers, which
were thought to offer better possibilities, had not been successfully mapped due to their more
structural complexity. Such mapping required technology and equipment which was at that time
unavailable in the country.
3.3 The second project element aimed at staring or accelerating exploration in those areas of Croatia
which were thought to have good, but unproven, petroleum potential but where, due to special surface
and/or subsurface conditions, special techniques were needed. These techniques and also the required
vast financial investment for exploration, were beyond the resources of INA Naftaplin. In this
situation it was preferred to promote exploration in these areas to foreign petroleum companies, who
could supply the necessary technology and risk capital, possibly in joint venture with INA Naftaplin.
3.4 The third project element was directed at INA Naftapli:-'s high pressure and high temperatre gas
fields. Production from these field had started on a low scale, but due to the lack of sufficient high
grade equipment a further development of these fields was delayed. The project supported
procurement of sufficient corrosion resistant equipment and materials to enable INA Naftaplin to put
these fields in full scale production.
3.5 The last project element relates to the highly seasonal gas demand in a wountry with cold winters
and where much of the gas is used to provide household heating. As mentioned in para 2.1, overall
demand for gas was rising steadily, necessitating increasingly larger volumes of imports. However,
import contracts were based on a fixed volume per day, resulting in oversupply in summer and
shortages in winter. The oversupply could be balanced by curtailing production from domestic gas
reservoirs in summer, but the shortages in winter resulted in an interruption of deliveries to a number
of factories, which had to cease operation during the shortfalls. INA Naftaplin proposed to use a
depleted gas field for the underground storage of gas, filling the reservoir with the surplus of summer
production and extracting this gas again during winter shortages.



3
3.6 The project components for Croatia, as defined between INA Naftaplin and the Bank, were
included in Loan 2595-YU for the amount of US$55 million equivalent This was expected to be
supplemented by US$62.8 million in export credits and downpayment financing. It consisted in
essence of a time slice of INA Naftaplin's petroleum exploration/development program. The main
physical components covered by this loan were:
(a) ExpIgratign, comprising about 1,200 line-km of seismic s'%.veys and the drilling of about 15
deep (3.000 - 5,000 m) exploration wells.
(b) Kalinovac Gas Field Appraisal, comprising (i) drilling, completion and testing of about eight
appraisal/delineation wells; (ii) construction of surface production facilities; (iii) long term well
testing; and (iv) preparation of a reservoir study and optimized field development program.
(c) Okoli Underground Gas Sturagm, comprisitig (i) drilling and completion of about 23 new
production wells and observation wells; (ii) repair of approximately ten existing wells; (iii)
construction of surface facilities; and (iv) preparation of a computerized operating model for gas
storage/production operations.
(d) Dinarides Exploration Promotion, consisting of (i) about 1,200 line-km of seismic data; (ii)
geological, geophysical and geochemical studies including a complete basin evaluation; (iii)
preparation of an exploration promotion package; and (iv) promoting the area to foreign
petroleum enterprises for joint ventures.
(e) Consultancy and Technical Assistance for (i) preparation of the Kalinovac reservoir study and
field development program; (ii) preparation of the Okoli computerized operating model and the
detailed engineering of surface facilities; (iii) seismic data acquisition and processing; (iv)
preparation of the Dinarides exploration promotion package; (v) drilling fluids engineering for
the deeper section of the project wells; and (vi) well testing and stimulation and special drilling
operations.
(f) Training abroad and also through seminars organized by international consultants in Croatia of
INA Naftaplin's engineers, geologists and geophysicists in gas-condensate field development and
operation, various aspects of underground gas storage, and modern exploration, drilling and well
completion techniques.
3.7 Total foreign costs for the complete project, also including the components in Bosnia
Herzegovina and Vojvodina, were US$268.4 million. Financing for this amount included funds from
internal sources (US$78.1 million), from export financing and downpayment financing (US$97.8
million) and from IBRD loans (US$92.5 million). Total foreign costs related to the components in
Croatia (without interest) were US$127.1 million and local costs US$244.3 million (at the 1985
exchange rate of US$1.0 = Dinar 200) for a total of US$371.4 million (Part m, table 6). As several
of the project components were of a pure exploratory nature, no rate of return calculation for the
whole project was made at appraisal. The Borrower for the Croatia components was INA Naftaplin,
which was founded in 1952 as an organization responsible for petroleum exploration, production and
distribution in Croatia within the overall INA (Kombinat Industrija Nafte) organization. The Bank



4
loan to INA Naftaplin was guaranteed by the SFRY. Tbis guarantee was taken over by the Republic
of Croatia when Croatia became an independent member of the Bank in February 1993.
4.  Eroject D2esign and Organization
4.1 The strategy of the Government to increase the domestic production of oil and gas to reduce the
costs of imports, which was weighing heavily on the country's balance of payments, was fully agreed
by the Bank. There was also full agreement on the way of implementing this strategy by strengthening
the operational capabilities of INA Naftaplin. During project appraisal, a full technical and financial
agreement had been reached on the size and composition of the project, based on the then availablc
data.
4.2 On reaching full agreement on the project size and components, it was realized that a large part
(47 %) of the estimated total project costs would be for the ongoing petroleum exploration. Although
all parties agreed that there was a good potential for discovering new hydrocarbon reserves in the
selected areas that could be economically produced, the high risks always associated with petroleum
exploration were fully understood. During appraisal an evaluation of the potential for remaining
reserves was carried out joindy by staff of INA Naftaplin and exploration specialists of the Bank,
using a statistical method used by major international oil companies. In and around the oil producing
areas of Croatia, the Drava and Sava basins, exploration had reached a mature stage. Here much
information on hydrocarbon deposits had already been gathered, provi"ing parameters which could be
entered into this statistical model. Extrapolation of these parameters to deeper geological formations,
tentatively showed a higher potential for deep seated reserves than originally estimated. At appraisal
full agreement between INA Naftaplin and the Bank was reached on the application of advanced
technologies for the exploration of these deep prospects. However it was realized that reliable
mapping of these deep structures, even with the most modern equipment, would be difficult.
4.3 For exploradon in the Dinarides area no such a-priori analysis by a statistical method could be
made, as here exploration was still in a very early stage. The project objective for this area was to
make a comprehensive study of all data which had been collected by various surveys in the past, and
make the results from this study available to the international exploration companies. At the same
time more seismic data would be recorded to demonstrate the possibilities of modem acquisition
techniques in the area.
4.4 For underground gas storage the project was designed to prepare a depleted gas field for the
injection and withdrawal of gas. On the basis of a comprehensive study the Okoli reservoir was
selected to store 350 million n3, later to be increased to 500 million m3 of mobile gas. Preparation of
the Okoli field would include the drilling of extra wells and the repairing of already existing wells to
withstand the higher pressure of gas in the reservoir. Moreover the project would finance the
construction of the necessary surface facilities and the preparation of a computerized operating model
which would enable INA Naftaplin to optimize storage and production operations at the Okoli
reservoir.
4.5 For the development of the Kalinovac field the project aimed at assisting INA Naftaplin in
handling carbon dioxide and sulphur containing gas and in obtaining the highest possible recovery of
gas and liquids from the fractured underground reservoirs. A reservoir study was suggested by the



5
Bank to optimize the production strategy for the field, including the location and drilling of
production wells and the construction of surface facilities.
4.6 It was agreed that the overall management of the project would be the responsibility 'f NA
Naftaplin's project manager. His task would be the supervision of five project task groups, each of
these being responsible for project components in their departnent. The project manager's task would
also comprise the coordination between these task groups, the organization and coordination of
consultant studies, training, reporting and monitoring progress to the Bank. Most of the
implementation of the project would be by INA Naftaplin staff, benefiting from additional training
and consultant support in using special technologies that had not been applied before in Croatia. Bank
project financing was primarily for the transfer of new technology and for providing INA Naftaplin
with the equipment and goods required for the application of this technology in oil and gas
operations.
5. Project Implementation
5.1 Due to the time involved in seeking cofinancing and export credit arrangements, late compliance
with covenants for the pricing of domestic gas in the Loan and Guarantee Agreements and delays in
the ratification of the loan documents by the Yugoslav Federal Assembly, the loan was late in
becoming effective and right at the start of the implementation, the project incurred a delay of about
one year (Part m, table 4).
5.2 The project was essentially implemented as it had been designed at appraisal. Early in the project
it was agreed to include drilling of appraisal wells and surface development of the Molve field in the
same way as planned for the Kalinovac field. From the results of the reservoir study, carried out
under the project, it was found that no gas would have to be reinjected into the Kalinovac field for
pressure maintenance. Consequently more of the produced gas remained available and in view of the
also higher than expected production from the Molve field, it was realized that the existing gas
treatment facilities would be insufficient to handle the total volume of gas available for marketing. It
was then agreed between the Bank and the Borrower .,o extend loan financing to foreign consultants
studies on the feasibility of a new gas treatment plant (GTP). When the studies confirmed this
concept, it was also agreed to include financing of imported equipment for the plant.
5.3 Results from the drilling of exploration wells were examined together by INA Naftaplin staff and
Bank supervision missions and locations for further drilling were jointly selected as these results
became available.
5.4 INA Naftaplin staff were found to be fully capable of implementing the project, and the tasks of
the project manager, as agreed at appraisal, were well executed. There were initial delays in
procurement, partly because of the packaging of the goods to be purchased and the complex
arrangements for obtaining export credits to Yugoslavia at that time, pauly by INA Naftaplin's
requests for retendering in view of the rapidly falling prices in the oil and gas equipment and goods
secor. Changes by INA Naftaplin of technical specifications in the procurement documents and
unfamiliarity with the Bank's evaluation procedures also caused delays. However these initial
difficulties were rapidly overcome and during the remaining project cycle procurement progressed
very efficiently (Part m, table 4).



6
5.5 Rapid inflation in the country during project implementation complicated accounting of local
costs. The local currency decreased in value against the US$ by a factor of about 10,000 from 1985
to 1989. A New Yugoslav Dinar was used in 1990 and 1991, and it depreciated as well. From 1992
on the Croatian Dinar has been in use. The project cost and financing data (Part III, table 7) show
that export credits remained below the expected amounts. The data on loan utilization (Part iii, table
5) show that funds in the unallocated category have been used in the category materials and equipment
(2). These extra funds were needed for the gas treatment plant, which was later added to the project.
Project funds were fully utilized.
5.6 Due to the unfortunate political unrest and hostilities in the area, a final implementation delay
occurred near the end of the project. Following UN sanctions against the Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro), the Borrower's special project account in the New York branch
of a Serbian bank (Jugobanka) was blocked, delaying by several months payments for essential
construction material for the GTP. In order to obtain delivery and complete the plant, INA Naftaplin
had to pay this material from its own funds. Drilling of the last exploration well was suspended for
several months because of unsafe conditions near the well location. This well has now been
completed.
6. Project Results
6.1 As far as the appraisal of the gas fields at Kalinovac and Molve is concerned, the project
objectives have been very successfully achieved. With the aid of special corrosion resistant tools and
equipment INA Naftaplin has succeeded in drilling and extensively testing appraisal wells and
development wells for these fields. As a result of the testing much better insight into the properties
and configuration of the reservoir rock was obtained. Based on this, reserves at the Kalinovac field
could be recalculated and this resulted in an Increase of 85% of the gas and 117% of the condensate
reserves. At the Molve field recalculations gave increased volumes for both of around 16%. From
these updated reserves it can now be foreseen that gas production from the Kalinovac and Molve
fields can be maintained at high levels until at least the year 2005.
6.2 INA Naftaplin successfully completed the development of the underground gas storage at Okoli.
The storage has been in operation since 1987, when the first injection cycle began. Since then the
working gas volume has been gradually increased to 412 million nin and the peak delivery rate to 3.5
million m3/day, without any apparent leakage from the reservoir. INA Naftaplin intends to increase
these volumes fiurher to 640 million ma and 5-7 million m3/day respectively. The present capacity of
the Okoli storige has practically eliminated all needs for reductions in gas deliveries during cold
winter spells.
6.3 The exploration component, which consisted mainly of the drilling of deep wells to locate new,
as yet undiscovered, reserves has only yielded a partial success. When found that results from
exploration drilling did not match the expectations from the resource study by Bank and INA
Naftaplin staff at appraisal, it was decided to limit drilling to ten wells from the about 15 wells
originally planned. Of these ten wells only two found hydrocarbons in possibly commercial quantities.
The main reasons for the disappointing results are complex tectonics preventing reliable mapping of
the geological layers and the poor quality of the reservoirs at greater depth, which were found unable
to produce economically even if oil or gas bearing. The first reason, complex tectonics, was expected



7
to be overcome by improved seismic mapping using the more advanced instruments procured from
the loan. Major improvements were achieved, but still resolution was not always quite sufficient. The
poor quality of reservoirs could not have been foreseen at the start. While thus the primary objective
of this component, finding commercial hydrocarbons in the deeper layers, has only been partially
reached valuable information of the deep strata has been collected, allowing INA Naftaplin to make a
much more realistic assessment of the country's remaining deep potential and to proceed very
carefully in this realm.
6.4 The support for exploration studies in the Dinarides area resulted in much improvement of the
data available from former studies and succeeded in proving that with modern seismic technology
acceptable structural information can be recorded in the area. A comprehensive study compiled all
data into a report on the petroleum potential of the Dinarides, which was presented to the
international companies. The result is that one major company (Amoco) has entered into an agreement
with INA Naftaplin for exploration over a major part of the Dinarides area. In case of a commercial
discovery resulting from this exploration, this will be developed and produced jointly by INA
Naftaplin and Amoco on a production sharing basis. The unstable political situation in the country has
probably had a negative effect on the interest of international companies; more companies would have
applied for exploration licenses under more stable conditions.
6.5 Training was mostly in the technical disciplines used in exploration and production and connected
with technologies for the major project components such as well testing, porosity analysis, fractured
reservoir performance, well stimulation and mathematical reservoir modelling. The courses and
lectures were given in Croatia for larger groups of staff and overseas for smaller n umbers of
specialists. The training component has supported INA Naftaplin in the efficient and profitable
implementation of the project and the acquired knowledge and skills continue to be used with very
good results in the company.
7. Project Sustainability
7.1 The Bank project on the Kalinovac and Molve gas field has resulted in these fields being fully
developed for production. Moreover the appraisal has found these fields to contain substantially more
hydrocarbons than originally expected and therefore production can be maintained for a longer time.
At present it is expected that production from these fields, and the nearby Stari Gradec field, can be
sustained at a level of some 80% of the total domestic gas production in Croatia until at least the year
2000. Domestic production of high methane gas increased from 1,086 million m' in 1985 to 1,520
million m3 in 1990. Benefitb from this increased domestic production will be the reduction in gas
imports and the connected savings in foreign currencies.
7.2 The Okoli underground gas storage can be operated for a long period depending on the proper
maintenance of this facility. Care will have to be taken not to raise the pressure in the underground
reservoir to a level which could cause leakage of gas to shallower layers. However INA Naftaplin is
fully aware of this limitation and is monitoring the reservoir closely. The Okoli storage will continue
to allow production from the domestic gas fields to be more seasonably balanced and also to offer a
safeguard against temporary interruptions or reductions of foreign supply.



8
7.3 The future benefits from exploration drilling are only partly in increased production as only two
of the wells were found to be commercially productive. However the results from these exploration
wells have shown that deep exploration faces many geological and physical obstacles, and that a very
prudent approach will be required in order to avoid wasting of resources. As a result of the
experience under the project INA Naftaplin has, since 1985, reduced its number of exploration rigs
from fifteen to four and exploration drilling from 70,000 to -^ 000 meters. Moreover the focus of
exploration has returned to areas near the producing fields and to shallower targets which can be
mapped with more confidence. This strategy will, in the Bank's opinion, give better exploration
results and reduce exploration spending in the coming years.
7.4 The present shortage of foreign currency may cause temporary difficulties in obtaining sufficient
spare parts and service for the equipment purchased with the project. INA Naftaplin will try to
overcome this by requesting foreign funds on a priority basis, when these are needed to sustain the
results from the project.
8. Bank Performance
8.1 Bank identification of the project was in August 1983, followed by appraisal from March 1984
until mid 1985. Due to several delays, the loan did not become effective until May 1986 (Part Ilm,
table 1). These delays were only partly caused by the conditions for effectiveness required by the
Bank. The Bank's appraisal missions were composed of well balanced staff in the economic, financial
and technical disciplines. However since this project was the first in the petroleum sector of former
Yugoslavia, and due to the fact that discussions had to be held with three different oil exploration and
production companies in addition to the ministries of the central government, the preparation of the
project took longer than planned. It was gratifying that, early during the discussions, a very good
understanding between the Borrower and the Bank missions was reached, resulting in very open
discussions. Thus the main constraint on INA Naftaplin's operations, mainly being lack of proper
material and to a lesser extend lack of experience with modern technologies, could be readily
recognized and the main project priorities identified. In hindsight the Bank could have been more
cautious in its advice on the deep exploration program, allowing more time at the start for exploration
studies and longer periods of analysis between the wells.
8.2 Bank supervision was not at regular intervals. It was at about six months intervals in the
beginning of the project implementation, but slackened to an interval of over one year during the
period 1987-1990 (Part m, table 2). There were also frequent changes of Bank staff on the
supervision missions during these years. In order to maintain a good dialogue with an implementing
agency facing the use of new technology, regular supervision at six months interval, preferably by the
same staff is appropriate. During the period 1991-June 1992 there were no supervision missions due
to the hostilities in the country.
9. Borrower Performance
9.1 Although the project required application of many technologies unavailable at the start of the
project, INA Naftaplin proved fully capable of handling project implementation. Consultants were
engaged where r.ecessary and these were supplied with adequate information and operational



9
assistance to be able to do their work in an optimal way. INA Naftaplin's project management and
technical staff were at all times of high quality and capacity.
9.2 After an itial period, INA Naftaplin complied with all reporting covenants in the Loan
Agreement. Unaudited financial statements and forecasts have been received regularly, however
audited statements were experienced to be late due to lengthy auditing procedures by the Social
Accountancy Service (SDK). The covenant in the Guarantee Agreement in respect of domestic gas
pricing has never been fully matched, however several substantial price increases have been applied
(Part m, table d). The main difficulty in reaching a parity price for domestic gas has been the high
inflation in the country. Notwithstanding losses in the gas sector, the borrower, by profits made on
sales of liquid petroleum products, maintained a financial status in line or better than covenanted. Due
to the further integration of INA Naftaplin into the INA corporate structure on October 1, 1990,
financial statements after that date do not include provisions for profit taxes and profit allocations and
thus do not provide a complete overview of the company's financial status.
10. Proiect Relationshig
10.1      The relationship between the Bank and INA Naftaplin on this project has been good. This
was also sustained by the high level of professionalism and efficiency of the implementing staff.
There has always been a climate of frank discussions between the Bank and the Borrower and
decisions on the implementation of the project have been in full mutual agreement. Relations with
cofinancing and export credit agencies were difficult at the start of the project because of their
unfamiliarity with conditions in the country.
11. Consulting Services
11.1      The transfer of advanced technology for the use of the modem equipment and goods
purchased from foreign suppliers, constituted a major element of the project. This was achieved
mainly by in-house and overseas courses given by consultants specialized in petroleum sector training.
Consultants also assisted INA Naftaplin with direct technical assistance in exploration disciplines such
as seismic data acquisition, processing and interpretation and with basin evaluation in the Pannonian
and Dinarides areas. In production, consultants assisted in the development of the Okoli underground
storage, well testing and fracturing and the feasibility study on the gas treatment plant. All these
consultants provided opporunities for on-the-job training of INA Naftaplin staff. All consultants
performed well and reached the objectives specified in their terms of reference on time.
12. Project Documentation and Data
12.1      The Loan and Guarantee Agreements for this loan were adequate as a legal basis for the
cooperation between the Governments, INA Naftaplin and the Bank. The appraisal report gave a clear
description of the agreed objectives and composition of the project and provided valuable guidance
during implementation. INA Naftaplin made available all the proper data for the preparation of this
PCR.



10
PART Il: PROJECr REVIEW EROM BORROWER'S PERSPECIYE
A. Description. Obectives and Elements of te Project
Ihe program applied in preparation of the First Petroleum Project.
Loan No. 2596-YU is based on the results of long previous exploration and production of
oil and gas at INA-Naftaplin (Croatia). These results indicated the needs for the
following:
to explore fully those areas of the Pannonian basin in Croatia which have not been
explored in sufficien: detail and whose geological characteristic indicate prospectivity: the
West Drava basin, the East Drava basin and the Sava basin;
-     to complete the development of the Kalinovac gas-condensate field and construct the
production facilities;
-     to construct the underground gas storage with working volume of gas of 350-500 million
& in order to alleviate the discrepancies between seasonal consumption variations and
possibilities of supply;
-     to prepare geological, geophysical and geochemical studies of the Pannonian basin and
the Dinarides with basin evaluation and international promotion, the Dinarides Study to
establish the interest of foreign petroleum companies for joint venture;
-     to agree consultations, training and technical assistance with corresponding companies of
world reputation and acquaint Naftaplin's experts with technological advances, whose
application is imminent in the solution of set tasks.
Descriptions of certain subprojects stemming from the mentioned program are presented in the
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT (SAR - C. Project Description 4.27, Naftaplin Subproject - April
1985).
In view of the fact that in the course of development of the Kalinovac and Molve Gas Fields
subproject, reserves exceeding those expected according to the SAR have been established, which in
turn resulted in insufficient capacities of the exisdng Molve I and II gas treatment plants (GTP),
Naftaplin requested the Bank for an expansion of the project with a new GTP unit Molve m, of 5
million m31day capacity and 8 wells. After approval of the feasibility study about the new
circumstances, the Bank accepted the request on project expansion, but without the increase of the
loan amount. Reallocation of funds within the project and certain alterations of the project were
approved.
After the final revision, the project was to include the following elements (subprojects):



11
1.  E ion
1.1 Driling of 10 additional deep wells located in:
1.1.1     Drava basin - West6 wells
1.1.2     Drava basin - East2 wells
1.1.3     Savabasin2 wells
1.2 Geological-geophysical and geochemical study of:
1.2.1     'he Pannonian basin with reinterpretation of seismic data.
1.2.2     The Dinarides with 200 Im of new seismic profiles and reiterpretation of earlier
recorded seismic lines.
1.2.3     International promotion of the Study on the Dinarides.
2. Development of Seascondensate fields:
2.1 Kalinovac, 10 wells
2.2 Molve East, 8 wells
3.1 Kalinovac Gas Field production facilities
3.2 Molve-East Gas Field production facilities
3.3 OTP Molve m (gas treament plant)
4.  MergMWumdgas
4.1 Drilling of 17 injection/withdrawal wells and 6 monitoring wells.
4.2 Construction of surface facilities; compressor station, dehydration unit, control and automation
system and other ancillary facilities.
5. Foreitn Services
For each of the subprojects listed under 1-4, corresponding consulting, educationa and training
program for our specialists at leading world companies have been anticipated, as well as the
procurement of computer software and state-of-the art equipment for data acquisition and
interpretation. These programs include technical assistance in those fields, which have not been
applied at INA-Naftaplin as yet, at all or insufficiently.
B. ImnLementagon of the Project
The project has been carried out in fill according to the program specified under A. 1-5.



12
However, while the underground gas storage, whose realization commenced at the beginning of
1986, was completed even ahead of SAR schedule (April 1988), the other subprojects were delayed to
a varying extent.
-     Exploration drilling - completed in 1992
-     Promotion of the Dinarides - December 1992
-      ZDevelopment of the Kalinovac field - completed in July 1989
-     Development of the Molve East field - completed in October 1989
-     0GTP Molve 111 - completed in March 1993
-     Consulting, training, technical assistance - end of 1992
Causes of delay in implementation of individual subprojects can be substantiated by the
following:
-     delays in issuing approvals for contracting of cofinancing loans (EXIMBANK)
-     waiting for approval of the National Bank (of former Yugoslavia) to open an account and
keep a deposit for downpayments
-     introduction and practicing of the IBRD procedure for international bidding
-     renewal of certain tenders due to imprecise technical specifications (underground gas
storage, drilling equipment, seismic survey devices)
-     procedure that had to be followed in decision making on the necessity to increase the
capacity of C02, H2S and mercury extraction plant (GTP Mviolve o), selection of its
location, capacity and technology
-     preparation of the international tender for the selection of the engineering company for
the construction of GTP Molve m (Basic Design, engineering, consulting, supervision,
start up)
-     procedure for the selection of the most convenient construction company for G0TP Molve
m
-     delay in the conclusion of contracts with some of the major suppliers of equipment for
GTP Molve m, even after acceptance of tender conditions
-     delay in the submission of technical documentation by The Pritchard Engineering
Company (Overland Park, KS-USA) and some other suppliers of equipment.
In addition to the delays in project implementation caused by these difficulties, outbreak of war
plight and war risks in the course of 1991 and 1992 also contributed to the delay. Imposing of the
embargo and application of economic sanctions on Serbia and Montenegro, i.e. rump Yugoslavia,
when the U.S. government put a freeze on financial transactions of the New York branch office of
"Jugobankal, where INA-Naftaplin had a special account, thereby freezing the assets drawn from the
World Bank and transferred to that account, have fiuter complicated the problem.
In the course of implementation, the detailed Periodical Reports, as well as Final Reports, were
regularly transmitted to the Bank for all parts of the Project (subprojects), as it has been specified in
the Loan Agreement.



13
Project (in all parts) has beein wholly completed in accordance with the Loan Agreement (First
Petroleum Project, IBRD Loan No. 2595-YU) and its Annexes, as well as the alterations and
modifications approved by the Bank in the course of implementation.
C. Adequacy and Accuracy of Factual Information in Part I
This part contains a brief, but comprehensive description of the objectives and scope of the
project, history of preliminary activities undertaken in mutual cooperation of the Bank and Borrower
teams, organization of project management, changes in project scope, results of the project and its
sustainability. The author of the first part has also established that the Borrower, although the project
necessitated the application of numerous new technologies unavailable at INA-Naftaplin at the start of
the project, was fully capable of mastering their application. Consultants have been engaged where
and when needed, while project management and technical staff proved able to cope with the
realization of the project as it was planned.
Comments referring to the realization of the project as a whole or to its parts are favorably
positive, and the Borrower is in complete agreement with such evaluation.
D. Part I. We fully agree with all comments in Tables 8a. b and c.
E. Evaluation of Bank Performance and Lessons Learned
Although the Bank team of experts in charge of the project has experienced changes in the course
of project implementation, and despite the irregularity of the Bank mission visits due to the instability
caused by war in Croatia, those did not effect any worthy of notice disturbances in realization of the
project. Telephone and fax connections have been frequent and we have been able to obtain the
appropriate instructions from the Bank personnel at all times.
They have always maintained a highly professional attitude and been at our service.
We have gained valuable experience in preparation of documents for the project and submitting
of requests for loan to the World Bank, as well as in organization of Project Management and
monitoring of expenses. These experiences will be invaluable during the submission of subsequent
requests for new funding.
Suggestions and recommendations of Bank officials have been precious in every respect.
This especially refers to the warnings on the necessity to rationalize exploration in the Pannonian
basin due to the decrease in oil reserves and the decline in oil production. Drastic reduction of
exploration drilling, but increase of high quality seismic measurements and data processing applying
up-to-date methods as well as the engagement of consultants - sedimentologists for interpretation of
non-conventional geological structures, were also suggested. Attention drawn to the increase of costs
per drilled meter has also been extremely useful.



14
Although those suggestions, due to their complexity, could not be applied in this project in full,
they have been wholly accepted in principle and the new management of INA-Naftaplin will bear
them in mind.
Continual remindings of Bank experts addressed to the federal authorities of former Yugoslavia
that the price of gas from indigenous production must be equal to the price of imported gas and that
the obligations from the Loan Agreement and Guarantee have to be implemented, has a rather positive
result. Although the price of gas from indigenous production constantly lagged behind the price of
imported gas, efforts have been made to carry out the obligations from the Agreement, and the price
of indigenous gas at one time (1990) caught up with the price of imported gas.
F. Assessment of Borrower's Performance and Lessons Learned
As an oil and gas exploration, production and transportation company of long-standing
experience, INA-Naftaplin employs in its ranks a high number of well trained and experienced
professionals of all qualifications, necessary for the implementation of projects of such nature. INA-
Naftaplin usually encounters no difficulties in organization of the necessary number of teams, which
would render the simultaneous construction of several subprojects of the same kind possible, without
undesirable consequences. However, in the work conducted with Bank experts we have adopted
certain suggestions referring to the use of consulting services, training, and education at foreign
companies of high reputation, and they resulted in higher efficiency during project implementation.
This is one of the most valuable lessons learned in the course of project implementation: during
realization of any large project one's knowledge should be reassessed in consultations with world-
renowned specialists to avoid unnecessary mistakes and costly expenses, as well as loss of time,
which all contributes to the increase of investment costs.
We have gained valuable experience in organizing the realization of large projects applying up-
to-date world practices, especially such, which include a number of subprojects realized at the same
time.
G. Assessment of the Success of Bank and Borrower Relationships
Relationships between the Borrower and the Bank professionals ever since the establishment of
the first contacts through to project completion have been more than correct. The Bank officials have
always been ready to help by advice or action, if it was in the interest of the project. In view of the
complex nature of the project, involving very different components, the Bank officials have displayed
not only the high professional and expert level, but have also demonstrated their flexibility, especially
bearing in mind the alterations of the project, which occurred in the course of its realization.
Despite somewhat rarer visits of Bank experts at certain periods due to war, It did not reflect
either on the quality or the progress of project realization, since other means of communication and
consulting have been used.



15
H. Co4inancders Performance Evaluation
The co-financiers have participated in the First Petroleum Project by extending export credits for
the goods needed for the Project, which were manufactured in the relevant country (Exim Bank
Japan, Exim Bank U.S.A., Italian export credit backed up with SACE, and the credit extended by
Elan Holding from Austria for various small items for which we could not have provided export
credits.)
The cooperation with the above mentioned bankers was satisfactory since we have fully complied
with the rules and conditions of the credits. Once we formed the purchase packages through
procurement procedures we were in the position to accept the loan offerings under the, by that time,
prevailing export credit conditions.
We can only assume with high probability that the security of World Bank financing has given us
such confidence, that the smooth conclusion of loan agreements with co-financiers was possible.
m,bWktOR&.DC



16                Table 1
PART IIX
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
Loan 2595-YU
A.   Proiect Timetable
Planned and Actual Dates of Proiect Timetable
Planned           Actual
Item                      aate              pate
Identification                                     7/83
Pre-Appraisal                                      3/8.
Appraisal Mission                                  6/84
Decision Memorandum                                8/84
Post-Appraisal                                    12/84
Staff Appraisal Report                             6/85
Loan Negotiation                                   4/85
Board Approval                                     6/85
Loan Signature                                    10/85
Loan Effectiveness                                 5/86
Loan Completion                 6/90              12/92
Loan Closing                   12/90              12/92



1 7
Table 2
MiT III
CROATIA (PM YUGOSLAVIA)
Loan 2595-YU
B: Use of Bank Resources
Nissions
Item               Date        Number of staff       Daye in Field
Identification           6/83               3                        18
Pre-Appraisal            3/84               S                         6
Appraisal                6/84               6                        18
Post-Appraisal          12/84               6                        11
Supervision              9/85               2                         5
Supervision              4/86               2                         5
Supervision              2/87               5                         6
Supervision              6/87               4                         2
Supervision             12/87               4                         5
Supervision              2/89               4                         4
Supervision              3/90               3                         5
Supervision              6/92               1                         4
Project Completion       2/93               1                         5



18
Table 3
PART III
CROATIA (FM YUGOSLAVIA)
Loan 2595-YU
C. Disbursement of Sank Loan and Cofinancing
(USS million)
A m o u n t D i s b u r s e d
....,... ..    ....................... ........ ...... .
IBRO Fiscal       IBRD       IBRD      IBRD     IBRD    ISRD      Cofinan-   Total
Year and Quarter Estimated Estimated  Actual      Actual  % of          cing  I8RD+
Cumulative         Cumulative Estmated             Cofin
1986     III            0.9       0.9                          0.0
IV           1.5       2.4                           0.0
1987       I            1.5      3.9       2.7       2.7      69.9                2.7
It           2.7       6.5       -         2.7      41.3                2.7
III           2.4       9.0                 2.7      30.1                2.7
IV           3.5       12.5      3.3       6.0      48.1                6.0
1988       1            3.9      16.4      12.9     18.9    115.6                18.9
II           3.3      19.6       4.0      22.9    116.7                22.9
III           3.0      22.6       2.7      25.6    113.3                25.6
IV           4.2      26.8        0.2     25.8      96.4    10.5       36.3
1989       1            3.6     30.3       0.7      26.5      87.4      8.3      45.3
a!           4.2      34.5       1.2      27.7      80.3    10.7       57.2
tII           3.0      37.5       1.1      28.8      76.9      1.1      59.4
IV           5.9      43.4        0.6     29.4      67.7      1.6      61.6
1990       1           3.3      46.7       0.8      30.2      64.7      0.2      62.6
11           3.0      49.6        0.9     31.1      62.6      0.3      63.8
III            1.8     51.4       2.1      33.2      64.6      0.6      66.5
IV           2.4      53.8       4.2      37.4      69.5      2.6      73.3
1991       1            1.2     55.0       5.5      42.9      78.0               78.8
II                    55.0       4.9      47.8      86.9               83.7
III                    55.0       0.6      48.4      88.0               84.3
IV                    55.0       1.7      50.1      91.1               86.0
1992       1                    55.0       -        50.1      91.1               86.0
tI                    55.0       1.5      51.6      93.8               87.5
III                    55.0       2.2      53.8      97.8               89.7
IV                    55.0        0.9     54.7      99.5               90.6
5.0.               5-.-                         ....
55.0               54.7                         35.9      90.6



Table 4
PARTr III
CROATIA (PfM YUOSLAVIA)
Loan 2595-YU
rMHPLEIATIaN SCHEDULE
WAR     *9 b             195    9 t87    t488    t9h      M  49"ORO       4992'
_ AM 1    3aE  414 t2 3 4 1|2|314 1 i 3 |     t2 34    234 HE    12 3 4 *|2 3 4 1 2 3 4
-- -                                   -   -     - - -  1'1-ATT                            s
Planned
Actual                                                  - -        -     -    c -  - -



20
Table 5
PART III
CROATIA (FM YUGOSLAVIA)
Loan 2595-YU
E. Project Costs and Financing
Table: Utilization by Categories
(US$ million)
Category                        Original            Actual
Allocation          Disbursements
1. Field and Exploration               7.60                0.00 (1)
Services
2. Field and Exploration              38.20               46.92
Materials and Equipment
3. Consultants Services                3.20                7.19
and Training
4. Unallocated                         6.00                0.59 (2)
5. Amount Cancelled                                        0.30
TOTAL                  55.00                55-00
Note:
(1) This category has been included in "Consultants Services and
Training"
(2) An amount of US$1.73 million is blocked in the borrower's special
account with the JUGOBANKA (New York), because of UN sanctions
on Yugoslavia (Serbia, Montenegro).
This amount consists of:
Disbursements made by WB to INA Naftaplin   1.14 million
(to be received by INA Naftaplin)
Remaining funds of special account           0.59 million
(to be returned to World Bank)



21
Table 6
PART III
CROATIA (FM YUGOSLAVIA)
(Loan 2595-YU)
E. Project Costs and Financing
Table: Detailed Project Costs
(USS million)
Appraisal Estimate    Actual Utilization
Local   F.E.  Total      Local   F.E.  Total
Exploration                        71.6   59.4  131.0       83.2    5.3   88.6
Kalinovac field appraisal          25.6   24.0   49.5       84.8    4.1   88.8
Okoli underground gas storage      56.8   10.4   67.3       62.8    6.3   69.1
Gas treatment plant (1)                                   77.8   30.5  108.3
Equipment and spare parts (2)                              0.0   45.2   4*.2
Dinarides exploration promotion    8.8    2.5   11.3
Consultancy,techn.assistance (3)   0.1    1.4    1.5
Training (3)                        1.9    2.1    4.0
Duties and taxes                   24.0    0.0   24.0
Project base cost                 188.9   99.8  288.6
Contingencies: Physical            18.5   10.0   28.4
Price               37.0   17.4   54.3
Total Project Cost                244.3  127.1  371.4      308.6   91.4  400.0
Note:
(1) Sub-project added during implementation
(2) Total for all technical sub-projects
(3) Included in exploration



22
Table 7
PART III
CROATIA (FM YUGOSLAVIA)
Loan 2595-YU
Project Cost and Financing
Table   :Project Financing
(USS million)
Planned                       Actual
Financing                     Financing
Local Foreign Total    %      Local Foreign Total       X
Own Resources    244.3    9.3  253.6   68        308.6     1.5  310.1   78
Export Credits      0.0   62.8   62.8   17         0.0    35.9   35.9    9
IBRD loan           0.0   55.0   55.0   15        0.0    54.0   54.0   13
Total             244.3  127.1  371.4  100      308.6    91.4  400.0  100



23
Table 8/a
PART III
CROATIA (FM YUGOSLAVIA)
Loan 2595-YU
F. Status of Loan Covenant
Compliance with Loan Covenants
Section/Covenant                  Activity                           Status of
A. Loan Aoreement                                                    Comoliance
2.02 (b)      The Borrower to maintain in dollars a special      Satisfactory
account In a commercial bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
2.04          The Borrower to pay a commitment charge at a       Satisfactory
rate of three fourth of one percent.
2.05          The Borrower to pay interest on the principal      Satisfactory
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding.
2.07          The Borrower to pay the prlncipal amount of        Satisfactory
the Loan in accordance with the amortization
schedule.
3.01(a)       The Borrower declares its commitment and shall    Satisfactory
carry out the Project with due diligence.
3.01(b)       The Borrover to make available in a timely         Satisfactory
manner the foreign exchange required for the
Project.
3.02          Procurement of goods, works and consultant's       Satisfactory
services to governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4.
3.03          The Borrower to evaluate drilling locations with  Satisfactory
detailed infill seismic and furnish to the Bank
not later than one month before the start data
for the drilling location.
3.04          The Borrover, by November 15 of each year to       Consultations
exchange views with the Bank on the proposed       during super-
exploration program for the next year.             vision missions.
3.05(a)       The Borrower by December 31, 1985 to furnish       Study not fully
to the Bank the TOR for study on gas supply and   implemented.
demand,including methods for reduction demand
variations.



24
Table8/
3.06          The Borrower to raise domestic gas prices to 100% Domestic gas
of imported gas prices by January 1, 1987.         prices have
lagged behind
import prices.
4.01          The Borrower to carry on operations and affairs   Satisfactory
in accordance with industry practices.
4.02          The Borrower to operate and repair in accordance  Satisfactory
with industry practice.
4.03          The Borrower to take out and maintain Insurance   Satisfactory
5.01(a)       The Borrower to maintain records including         Project accounts
project accounts.                                  only maintained
in partial form.
5.01(b),(i)   The Borrower to have accounts, including project  Satisfactory but
and financial statements audited.                  accounts did not cover
project accounts
5.01(b),(ii)  The Borrower to furnish audited data to the Bank  Often provided late.
5.01(c),(i)   The Borrower to maintain records on expenditures  Satisfactory
5.01(c),(ii)  The Borrower to retain until one year after        Pending
closing date all data.
5.01(c),(iii) The Borrower to enable examination of records      Satisfactory
5.02(a)       The Borrower to maintain financial ratio of        Satisfactory
not less than one to one.
5.02(b)       The Borrower to review and report future           Forecasts were
financial ratios.                                  not supplied
consistently.
5.03(a)       The Borrower to maintain a ratio of operating      Satisfactory
expenditure to gross revenue not greater than
90 to 100.
5.03(b)       The Borrower to furnish data on ratio in 5.03(a)  Forecasts were
before 15 March each fiscal year.                  not supplied
consistently.
5.04          The Borrower not to incur debt in excess of        Satisfactory
a ratio against debt plus equity of 60 to 100.
5.05          The Borrower to supply annual and five year        Provided to
investment programs by December 15 each year.      supervision
missions.



25
Table 8/c
B. Guarantee AQreement
2.02(a)       The Guarantor not to take any action to            Guarantees by
interfere with the performance of Borrower.        Govt of former
Fed. Republic
2.02(b)       The Guarantor to support the Borrower in           of Yugoslavla
increasing price of domestic natural gas to        have to be
100% of the price of imported gas.                 considered
questionable.



