Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 22273-IND
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 200.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR THE
EASTERN INDONESIA REGION TRANSPORT
November 12, 2001
Transport Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective used in cost and financing calculations)
Currency Unit = Indonesia Rupiah (Rp.)
Rp 1000 = US$0.11 11
US$1.0 = Rp 9000
FISCAL YEAR
January I -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB            Asian Development Bank                              Kabupaten   Autonotmous Level If Local Govemment (District)
AMDAL          Government Procedures for Environmental Management  KDP          Kecamatan Development Program
ANDAL          Full Environmental Impack Assessment                Kota        Incorporated Municipatily/City - Level 11 Autonomous
Local Government District
APBN           Annual National Development Budget                  KRMTP        Kabupaten Roads Master Training Plan
ARMS           Automated Road Monitoring Surveys                   MAAP         Microcomputer Accident Analysis Program
AWP            Annual Work Program                                 MOC          Ministry of Communications
BAPEDALDA   Provincial Environmental Agency                        MOF          Ministry of Finance
BAPPEDA        Provincial Development Planning Board               MSRI         Ministrv of Settlements and Regional Infrastructure
BAPPENAS       National Development Planning Agency                NPRMTP    National/Provincial Road Master Training Plan
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy                         NPV          Net Present Value
CTC            Core Team Consultants                               PAD          Project Appraisal Document
DG             Directorate General                                 PIP          Project Implementation Plan
DGLC           Directorate General of Land Communications          PIU          Project Implementation Unit
DGRI           Directorate General of Regional Infrastructure      PMU          Project Management Unit
DLLA           Provincial Road Traffic and Transportation Office   PMR          Project Management Report
DPUP           Provincial Public Works Office                      PMM          Project Management Manual
DSC            Design and Supervision Consultants                  PPU          Project Preparation Unit
EIR            Eastem Indonesia Region                             Propenas    National Development Program
EIRTP          Eastern Indonesia Region Transport Project          Puslatjakons Construction Industry Training Center within the
Ministry of Settlements and Regional Infrastructure
EMP            Environmental Management Plan                       RTC          Regional Team Consultants
ERR            Economic Rate of Return                             SEPM         Strategic Expenditure Planning Module
FY             Fiscal Year                                         SK           Ministerial Decree
GDP            Gross Domestic Product                              SOP          Environmental Standard Operating Procedures
GBHN           State Policy Guidelines                             SPM          Payment Remittance Order
Gol            Government of Indonesia                             SRRP         Sumatra Region Roads Project (Loan 4307-IND)
GRDP           Gross Regional Domestic Product                     SURIP        Strategic Urban Roads Infrastructure Project
(Ln 4054-lND)
HS2            Second Highway Sector Inv. Project (Loan 3712-IND)    TA         Technical Assistance
IDR            Indonesia Rupiah                                    TOR          Terms of Reference
IIRMS          Integrated Indonesian Road Management System        TRRL         Traffic & Road Research Laboratory, UK
IRMS           Indonesia Road Management System                    RTSC         Road Traffic Safety Consultant
ISEM           Institutional Strengthening for Environmental       UPL          Environment Monitoring Plan
Management                                         UKL          Site Specific Environmental Mgmt. Plan
JBIC           Japan Bank for International Cooperation            VIP          Village Infrastructure Project (Ln. 3888-IND)
Vice President:    Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Manager/Director:        Mark Baird
Sector Manager/Director:        Jitendra N. Bajpai
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:           Hatim M. Haj



INDONESIA
EASTERN INDONESIA REGION TRANSPORT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                        Page
1. Project development objective                                                        2
2. Key performance indicators                                                           2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project       3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                            3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                    7
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                   9
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                        11
3. Benefits and target population                                                       12
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                        12
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                           15
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies           16
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                                  17
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                     19
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                          19
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                            20
2. Financial                                                                           21
3. Technical                                                                           22
4. Institutional                                                                        22
5. Environmental                                                                       25
6. Social                                                                               27
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                   29
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                      30



2. Critical risks                                                                     31
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     32
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            33
2. Other                                                                              33
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          34
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         34
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          35
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                    42
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         47
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary           48
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary    58
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       59
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     80
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   81
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  82
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            86
Annex 1 1: Summary of Environmental Management Plan and results of Sub-project Screening  88
Annex 12: Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework                             97
Annex 13: Summary of Framework for Treatment of Isolated Vulnerable Peoples             100
Annex 14: Actions to Reduce Chances for Fraud and Corruption in Procurement             114
MAP(S)
IBRD 31368 Indonesia - Eastern Indonesia         IBRD 31373 Bali - EIRTP
Region Transport Project EIRTP:
Road Preservation Program
IBRD 31369 Kalimantan Barat - EIRTP              IBRD 31370 Kalimantan Tengah - EIRTP
IBRD 31375 Nusa Tenggara Timur - EIRTP           IBRD 31376 Sulawesi Utara/Gorontalo -
EIRTP
IBRD 31377 Sulawesi Tengah - EIRTP               IBRD 31378 Sulawesi Selatan - EIRTP
IBRD 31379 Sulawesi Tenggara - EIRTP             IBRD 31382 Papua (Irian Jaya) - EIRTP
IBRD 31372 KalimantanSelatan - EIRTP             IBRD 31374 Nusa Tenggara - EIRTP
IBRD 31381 Maluku Utara - EIRTP                  IBRD 31380 Maluku - EIRTP
IBRD 31371 Kalimantan Timur - EIRTP



INDONESIA
Eastern Indonesia Region Transport
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Region
EASTR
Date: November 12, 2001                           Team Leader: Hatim M. Hajj
Country Manager/Director: Mark Baird              Sector Manager/Director: Jitendra N. Bajpai
Project ID: P040578                               Sector(s): TH - Highways
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financing Data
LXI Loan    [ ] Credit    [ Grant      [ ] Guarantee    [ I Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): $200.0 million
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Variable Spread & Rate Single Currency Loan (VSCL)
Grace period (years): 5                          Years to maturity: 20
Commitment fee: 0.75%                            Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
Financing Plan (US$m):    Source                            Local         Foreign        Total
BORROWER                                                      64.00           0.00         64.00
IBRD                                                          45.51         154.49        200.00
Total:                                                       109.51         154.49        264.00
Borrower: REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF SETTLEMENTS AND REGIONAL INFRASTRUCTURE
Address: Directorate General of Regional Infrastructure
Ji. Pattimura No. 20
Jakarta Selatan, 12110, INDONESIA
Contact Person: Ir. Hisnu Pawenang, Director of Technical Affairs
Tel: +6221 720 0281           Fax: +6221 720 1760            Email: hisu_p(indo.net.id
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FY         2002       2003       2004      2005       2006
Annual   28.00       48.00      54.00      53.00     17.00
Cumulative   28.00      76.00     130.00     183.00    200.00
Project implementation period: December 2001 to December 2005.
Expected effectiveness date: 03/21/2002  Expected closing date:  06/30/2006
OCS PAD F-  F  tt,db 20- b



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
This is the first of two complementary and closely related transport projects whose primary development
objective is to support efforts to stimulate economic growth and improve social welfare in the 15 provinces
and about 130 kabupatens and kotas or districts of the Eastern Indonesia Region (EIR) through improving
access to road transport facilities, reducing road transport costs, and facilitating efficient use of resources.
The first project (EIRTP 1, which is the subject of this project appraisal document) focuses on the
preservation and development of national and other strategic road assets, while the second (EIRTP 2)
would focus on primary roads under provincial, kabupaten, and kota administrations and other regional
transport assets. The specific objectives of the first project are to:
(a)    Improve the condition of National and other strategic arterial roads so as to reduce transport costs
and provide more reliable access between Provincial centers, to regional development and production areas,
and to other key transport facilities;
(b)    Support the effective and sustainable decentralization of planning and management responsibilities
for works on all primary (National, Provincial and Kabupaten) roads to the respective provincial and
kabupaten governments; and
(c)    Improve the use of scarce financial and natural resources through increased efficiency, quality, and
transparency in award of works.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex I)
(a) Key performance indicators for the first objective of the project (1(a) above) include: (i) percent of road
segments on the budgeted program which are recommended by the Indonesian Integrated Road
Management System (IIRMS); and (ii) average condition of national roads and bridges.
(b) The indicators for the second objective of the project (I (b) above) consist of: (i) timeliness of the
preparation of the annual work programs; (ii) activity of the Provincial Environmental Departments
(BAPEDALDA) as measured by the number of provinces where BAPEDALDAs submit reports on
environmental and social issues; and (iii) timeliness of the preparation of and submittal of reports on the
planning, programming, and budgeting procedures technical assistance.
(c) The indicators for the third objective of the project (I (c) above) comprise: (i) quality of engineering
designs as measured by percent of sub-projects which meet the design criteria; (ii) number of independent
technical audits carried out; and (iii) timeliness of the preparation of and submittal of reports on the quality
assurance technical assistance.
-2 -



B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: R2001-O001/IDA/R2001-0003:IFC/R2001-0002    Date of latest CAS discussion: 01/30/2001
The overarching goal of the World Bank Group in Indonesia is to support efforts to reduce poverty and
vulnerability in a more open and decentralized environment. The Country Assistance Strategy focuses on
three broad priority objectives: sustaining economic recovery and promoting broad-based growth; building
national institutions for accountable government; and delivering better public services for the poor. This
project, together with the complementary project focused on provincial and kabupaten roads, will
contribute significantly to the achievement of all three objectives:
(a)    Sustaining Economic Recovery and Promoting Broad-Based Growth. The EIR includes the
poorest and least populated parts of Indonesia. The first project will contribute to efforts to accelerate its
development by improving the condition and all-weather usability of existing national and other strategic
road links, and by their sustainable preservation. It will support recovery and growth in those sectors
dependent on transport, and will stimulate employment and the capacity of the private sector through a
program size of about IDR 0.6 trillion annually (about 0.6% of the Gross Regional Domestic Product,
GRDP). The second project will complement the first by improving and extending road access to
production and remote areas, and by upgrading inter-modal transport connections.
(b)    Building National Institutions for Accountable Government. Roads are vital and expensive public
assets. The project will support and facilitate the effective and sustainable decentralization of
responsibility and resources for their efficient management to local institutions in 15 provinces. These
arrangements will provide for more efficient and transparent use of public funds for roads through better
project selection, improved procurement and financial management arrangements, stricter management of
quality, and more effective competition. In addition, it will also lay the foundation for moving the financing
of road preservation and improvement works to a more commercial and self-sustaining basis through a
fee-for-service approach involving the participation of road users and other stakeholders.
(c)    Delivering Better Public Services for the Poor. Together, the two projects will help improve
access to employment opportunities, health, education and to other social services and facilities, and will
create employment in construction and maintenance activities including labor-intensive works. In addition,
by reducing road transport costs, they will help lower input prices, raise output prices and increase the
competitiveness of local products from the affected areas.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Economic Context. After some 30 years of steady economic growth under an autocratic regime,
Indonesia is now striving to emerge from the severe monetary and economic crisis of 1997-98,
complete its transition to a democratic and just society, improve governance and the rule of law,
implement an ambitious program of decentralization, and accelerate regional development.
The real economy has shown signs of a robust recovery, with GDP growing by 4.8% in 2000.
Consumption and exports were the major contributors to incremental GDP, but the contribution
of gross fixed capital formation was also surprisingly large. Strong export performance was
reflected in an estimated trade surplus of US$21 billion and a current account surplus of US$7
- 3 -



billion, or around 5% of GDP. By contrast, key !Fnancial indicators deteriorated in 2000.
Inflation more than doubled to 9.4% by end of 2000, exceeding the budget assumption and Bank
Indonesia target, and continues to increase. Bank Indonesia has shown determination to rein in
inflation through tight monetary policy, although in the short term rising interest rates are
contributing to the widening budget deficit and to renewed problems in the banking sector.
Another critical problem facing Government is the management of its US$140 billion debt,
interest on which now accounts for around one-third of Government revenues or close to 6% of
GDP. Rising domestic interest rates and a depreciating Rupiah will increase the fiscal burden this
year.
Looking forward, Indonesia's macro economic prospects remain fragile, and market sentiment--as
reflected by an interest risk premium of over 700 basis points over US Treasuries--remains very
negative. The challenges of high government debt and weak banking and corporate sectors are
now being compounded by the slowdown in the global economy and especially the economies of
its two main trading partners (the United States and Japan). This will put pressure on exports and
the balance of payments. Oil prices have declined from the highs they reached in 2000 and are
expected to continue to fall through to 2003. Consequently, it is likely that the State budget will
be severely strained for the coming three to five years.
Regional Development Context. The Eastern Indonesia Region as defined here includes all provinces
other than those on the islands of Sumatra and Java. .It is spread over a vast geographic area, and includes
the three large land masses of Kalimantan, Sulawesi, and Papua, together with the smaller islands of the
Malukus, Nusatenggaras, and Bali. The topography is varied and the environment fragile and under stress.
The region is also economically diverse, with many areas being rich in natural resources, including
minerals, forests, oil and gas, fisheries, and productive agricultural lands for crops and livestock.
Eastern Indonesia includes the poorest, least populated, and least developed par-s of the country. The
average population density is 27 per km or one tenth of that of the Western Region of Java-Sumatra.
Around 75% of the population lives in rural areas and more than half the labor force has no more than
elementary education. While the per capita GRDP of the EIR is relatively high (IDR 2.2 million v. IDR
2.7 million for the Western Region (in 1999), this is dae in large measure to the high GRDP of Kalimantan
(IDR 3.5 million per capita). However, much of the proceeds from the region's production accrues
elsewhere and is consequently not reflected in household income levels.
The economic crisis is estimated to have caused the regional economy to contract by around 8%.
Reflecting its diversity, the impacts of the crisis were quite different in the different parts of the region.
Kalimantan was the worst affected area, with the economy shrinking by close to 19% due to the
compounding factors of forest fires and drought. By contrast, Sulawesi was little affected as the
contractions in some sectors were offset by higher prices for exports from the agricultural and fisheries
sectors
Access. The transport system of Eastern Indonesia has been shaped by its geographic structure,
topographic diversity, natural resource distribution, and low population density. Road networks are sparse
and not fully developed, especially in Kalimantan, Papua and the smaller islands, and many important links
have not yet been improved to all-weather standards. The average density of primary roads is 90 km per
1000 sq km, which is much less than in the Western Region (220 km per 1000 sq km). However, due to its
sparse population, this translates into a much higher level of road infrastructure per capita than in the west
(3.3 km per 1000 population versus 0.9 km), and provision is consequently far more expensive on a per
capita basis. River transport plays an important role in several areas, most notably Kalimantan, while
inter-island and coastal shipping services and ferries are of great importance throughout the region and
- 4 -



particularly in the Malukus and Nusatenggaras. For the most part, the different modes are complementary,
and there is consequently a need for well designed and managed inter-modal facilities and for good
all-weather access roads to serve them.
Uneven growth between areas. The State Policy Guidelines (GBHN) and National Development
Program (Propenas) recognize that past policies have contributed to uneven growth between regions--and
between urban and rural areas--and attach very high priority to accelerating the development of Eastern
Indonesia and other remote and less-developed areas. The special importance now attached to Eastern
Indonesia is also reflected in the appointment of a Junior Minister to coordinate efforts to accelerate its
development.
Regional Development: Decentralization and Institutional Capacity
Laws 22 and 25 of 1999 provide for increased regional autonomy and decentralized fiscal authority,
including through the decentralization of planning and programming for transport sector activities to the
kabupaten and provincial levels. The Government has also embarked on the drafting of a new Road Law to
provide an improved legal framework for the sector that is consistent with the provisions of Laws 22 and
25. The challenge of decentralizing administration and core management functions, including financing,
planning, programming and implementation, to 15 provinces and about 130 districts is enormous,
especially given the generally weak institutional capacity and changing structures at local levels;
The Propenas identifies three main programs for promoting regional development, namely:
-  consolidating regional autonomy, including in particular through capacity building of regional
government apparatus and institutions;
*  accelerating regional development by emphasizing increased competitiveness as the basis of regional
growth and by redressing past policy inequalities, including through a special program for
less-developed regions that gives high priority to infrastructure development;
*  increasing social empowerment, including through programs for empowering poor communities and
increasing social self-reliance.
High priority is given to improving access to production areas, developing human resources, and upgrading
infrastructure in the poorer regions. There is also increased emphasis on promoting the integrated and
holistic development of specific regions to reduce poverty. Providing minimum levels of access to and
reliability of infrastructure services is seen as an essential condition for pro-poor growth.
The previous system of tiered consultations in the preparation of annual development and work programs,
from area to national level, is changing under the new government and decentralization laws.
Resource Allocation and Asset Management. Fiscal constraints have already resulted in a sharp decline
in the amount of State budget resources allocated to the road sector, with the FY 2000 budget being only
around 55% in real annual terms of expenditures in the period up to 1997. Analyses conducted by the
Directorate General of Regional Infrastructure (DGRI) with Bank assistance have shown that road
preservation programs comprising maintenance and rehabilitation should have first priority in budget
allocations.
With decentralization and the transition of central support from sector program-based to (cross-sectoral)
block grant-based funding, central and local govermnents need a rational means for allocating resources
and monitoring performance. A key issue here is the balance to be struck between sectoral efficiency and
regional development objectives. State budget allocations were previously strongly influenced by regional
development objectives, which--seen from the sector perspective-resulted in expenditure programs that
- 5 -



were economically sub-optimal.
The Indonesia Road Management System (IRMS) method for programming and budgeting of National and
Provincial roads has been in use for over 10 years. DGRI has now added to IRMS, with Bank support, the
Strategic Expenditure Planning Module (SEPM) to aid national level sector resource allocation. This tool
enables DGRI to determine efficient needs-based expenditure allocations and expenditure programs
countrywide down to the province- and network (National, Provincial, Kabupaten and Kota /
Municipality)-levels. However, use of this tool still needs to be institutionalized and adapted at the
Provincial level.
At the local government (Kabupaten) level, the method for planning and programming, established under
successive Rural / Kabupaten Roads Projects (RR, RR2, KR3, KREI, KR5), was institutionalized through
a Ministerial Decree (SK 77). Roads in small cities and towns are also included under the Kabupaten
roads system. However, performance in implementing the surveys and progranmming selection is generally
only fair, and the method needs to be further developed into a regular management system for local
authorities, with there also need to be adequate incentives for authorities to base their programs and
budgets on it.
The GBHN for 1999 and the Propenas for 2000-2004 accord high priority to preserving and developing
public infrastructure and facilities as a means of supporting and accelerating economic recovery. Heavy
emphasis is placed on the contribution of infrastructure works to creating direct and indirect employment
opportunities, and on the need for such works to be economically and, where possible, financially viable
and to support regional economic development. The transport development program in turn accords top
priority to rehabilitating and maintaining existing infrastructure, ensuring that this is used optimally, and
improving the enforcement of vehicle loading and traffic safety regulations. High priority is also given to
improving regulatory arrangements, establishing a sound user-pays regime for road infrastructure use, and
attracting increased private participation in transport infrastructure provision so as to reduce the burden on
constrained government budgets.
User Charges. There is at present no sound road-user charging regime in Indonesia. User charges are
currently negative as the administered prices for fuel are far below intemational market levels. The phased
elimination of fuel subsidies is at the center of the ongoing debate on restoring fiscal sustainability, and is a
prerequisite for establishing a meaningful user-pays regime for road infrastructure. The Government is
actively exploring the possibility of establishing a road fund (or funds) so as to place the rehabilitation and
maintenance of the public road network on a more commercial footing.
Road Safety. Poor regulatory performance especially in relation to vehicle regulation and overloading, and
relatively high traffic accident rates are issues. The ongoing Sumatra Region Roads Project (Loan
4307-IND) contains an adequate program for road traffic safety and control of vehicle weights and
dimensions including development and application of a road traffic accident information system,
procurement of an accident analysis system (MAAP from TRRL), vehicle weight dimension enforcement
program, and road link classification. However, the implementation of this component is about two years
behind schedule.
Safeguards. The exercise of safeguard policies for environmental protection, land acquisition and
resettlement, indigenous people, and for financial auditing has been difficult at the national level, and will
become many times more difficult under a decentralized structure.
Efforts to address a number of these sector issues have already been initiated with the assistance of
previous projects financed by the Bank and the Asian Development Bank (ADB).
- 6 -



3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The Project would address the following sector issues:
Access: Kalimantan, central Sulawesi, and the Eastern Islands have numerous areas where transport
infrastructure needs improvement in order to facilitate movement of goods to market, to improve access to
important public and social facilities, and hence to help alleviate poverty. Many areas need bridges or
measures for dealing with flooding or problem soils. At the projected extremely low levels of central
funding, little new arterial road development can be justified by direct benefits (mainly reductions in
transport costs). The project will however include works designed to enable all-weather access on national
and other strategic roads, while the proposed second (and complementary) project will finance equivalent
works on other provincial and kabupaten roads.
The transport needs of the poor are reflected in mobility (means of transport), and access to markets and
employment, education, health and other social services (poorest have longest journey time and cost) This
Project would contribute to direct improvements in these areas only to the extent that they are provided
through improvements to national and other strategic roads.
Regional Development : Decentralization and Institutional capacity: The key issues to be addressed by
the technical assistance and training to be provided under EIRTP 1 include:
*     organizational reform to clarify responsibilities and accountability for planning, asset management,
and quality assurance;
*      equipping local offices with suitable methods and tools for asset management, to assist in
programming, project preparation and project management;
*      improving coordination across local agencies, including on environmental and social impact
monitoring and management (public works, regional development, Bapedal, Bapedelda);
*     training of public works staff to raise professional standards, competences and readiness for
accountability - particularly in areas of environmental management, supervision and quality management.
Regional Development: Participation and Empowerment: In order to strengthen local inputs into
transport planning and infrastructure expenditures, the Project will seek to promote a clearer demarcation
of responsibility for local control of assets and a mechanism for ensuring that sectoral efficiency is
achieved. The voice of road users needs to be developed and mechanisms found for communication with
the public agencies.
Resource Allocation and Asset Management: The condition of local roads in the EIR is generally worse
than arterial roads on a length basis but only slightly worse on the basis of usage - National and Provincial
roads (NP) have 24% in poorlbad condition, Kabupaten roads (K) over 60% and Kota (U) unknown but
presumed about 50%. The resource allocation study shows that the arterial road programs should focus
primarily on periodic maintenance with some upgrading to all-weather status (see Access). New road
development investments are not likely to be economic until the total annual road budget for the EIR
exceeds about IDR 5 trillion (at FY 2000 prices).
The SEPM was developed as a central budgeting tool and will be developed under EIRTP for use in the
provinces alongside IRMS. The project will support the implementation of the IRMS / SEPM system at
the provincial level, and the continued improvement of data quality and availability. The quality of data on
road inventory and condition has recently been upgraded considerably with implementation of automated
road management surveys (ARMS), but these have so far covered only Sulawesi and Kalimantan in the
EIR. The EIRTP will include funding for extension of ARMS to cover all provinces in the EIR. Traffic
data remains very variable in quality.
Under technical assistance included in the proposed project, a road management system appropriate for
- 7 -



local roads in Kabupatens and Kotas, compatible with the national IIRMS, will be developed, demonstrated
in pilot form, and ready for use in the second proposed project (EIRTP 2). For urban roads, an urban road
management system (URMS) suitable for medium to large cities was developed under the Second Highway
Sector Investment Project. (HS2 Project- Loan 3712-IND) and is being tested in six cities under the
Strategic Urban Roads Infrastructure Project (SURIP Project - Loan. 4054-IND).
User Charges. The project will support reform of road finance through pilot testing a road fund in one of
the provinces in Indonesia.
Road safety. The effectiveness of programs/actions being piloted under SRRP should be evaluated before
expanding their application to the EIR. The project will address road safety through identification and
implementation of an accident blackspot program and establishment of an accident blackspot investigation
team in each province in the EIR. It is proposed that the second project will support a comprehensive
program of road safety improvements and control of vehicle weights and dimensions to reduce damage to
roads.
Safeguards: EIRTP I contains mechanisms for providing advisory and implementation support and for
monitoring and enforcing safeguard provisions.
Strategic Choices on Sectoral Scope:
(a)    Selection of Road Network. It was originally envisaged to proceed with a single project that
would encompass works on the National, Provincial, and Kabupaten networks. The decision to split into
two projects was taken at a relatively late stage when it became clear that: arrangements for on lending
loan proceeds for works on the provincial and kabupaten networks could not be put in place quickly;
sections of the national network were deteriorating rapidly and in urgent need of treatment; and assistance
with the decentralization of responsibilities was urgent. Improving access from villages to the primary
networks would involve village roads. However, the scale of the network and the need to have a
community focus to the management of the roads would add considerable complexity to the Project. These
are therefore better addressed under the Kecamatan Development Program (KDP- Loan 35350-IND and
Credit 46270-IND). Urban road assets are poorly inventoried and have received some assistance through
urban projects. However, there is strong need to place the management of these roads on a systematic basis
through a well focused project.
(b)    Geographic Coverage. The Eastern Indonesia Region covers all of Indonesia except Java and
Sumatra. The Gol workshop (held in Bogor during 28-29 April 2000 to discuss the log-frame and project
preparation issues for EIRTP) considered two options for the coverage of road preservation and access
provision: (a) cover all provinces in EIR (15 provinces) but thinly to ensure equity among the provinces, or
(b) cover a limited area of EIR but deeply. The Gol team selected the full coverage, although it increases
the preparation cost of the project and the supervision effort during implementation. In this regard, security
situation in the different areas of the EIR needs to be adequately considered, especially during
implementation.
(c)    Modes of Transport and Infrastructure. The first project is narrowly focused on arterial /
strategic road infrastructure for reasons highlighted above. It is intended that the second project would, in
addition to provincial and kabupaten roads, also cover improvement of regional transport planning and of
interrnodal facilities.
(d)   Road Safety Aspects. Given the financial resource constraint, the delay in implementing ongoing
programs under SRRP, and institutional uncertainties it was agreed that the focus of road safety under the
first project (EIRTP 1) would be on accident blackspots by improving collection and analyses of accident
- 8 -



data, identification of accident black spots, and tbeating the high priority locations with a view to reducing
traffic accidents. Depending on the type of treatment 3 this wvork would be carried out by the public works
units or land transport units of the Ministry of Communications at the provincial and kabupaten levels and
would require coordination with the traffic police. EIRTP 2 would tackle the wider issues of road safety
and make use of the results of similar safety work under the SRRP.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 bor a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Indicative             Bank-      % of
Component                   Sector         Costs      % of    financing    Bank-
__  (US$M)    Total       (US$M)  financing
1. Road Network Preservation      Highways             194.62      67.1    140.00        70.0
including betterment, periodic
maintenance and bridge replacement
2. Accident Blackspots            Highways               1.89        0.7       1.30       0.7
3. Implementation Support including  Institutional      20.74        7.1     20.70       10.4
design and supervision, incremental    Development
operating costs, and related equipment
4.Road Sector Support             Institutional          8.90        3.1      8.90        4.5
Development
Physical Contingencies                                  13.56        4.7     10.22        5.1
Price Contingencies                                     22.29        7.7     16.88        8.4
Tax                               _       __            26.21        9.0      0.00        0.0
Total Project Costs                  288.21       99.3    198.00       99.0
Interest during construction                  0.00        0.0       0.00       0.0
Front-end fee                     2.00        0.7       2.00        1.0
Total Financing Required                    290.21      100.0    200.00      100.0
Civil Works for Road Preservation. This component covers a program of periodic maintenance and
betternent of national and strategic roads as well as replacement of bridges in the Eastern Indonesia Region
during 2001-2003. The program was selected on the basis of: (i) the set of specific sub-projects
programmed by the Directorate General of Regional Infrastructure (DGRI) and included in the FY 2001
budget and (ii) an economic needs-based analysis uising the latest version of the Indonesian Integrated Road
Management System (IIRMS- 2000) and efficient allocation of funds between EIR provinces. The
resulting sub-projects included in the program are all economically justified, but the allocations between
Provinces are constrained by the FY 2001 national budget allocations.
The resulting program consists of the periodic maintenance of about 1000 Km, bettermnent of about 1,250
Km, and about 5800 meters of bridge replacement to be procured in multi-year contracts in three annual
programs in FY 2001-2003 respectively Bridge replacement includes the purchase of about 80 steel
trusses with a total length of about 3900 meters for installation by contractors. Details by province,
program and contract package are available in the Borrowver's Project Implemenitation Plan (PIP) and in the
-9-



Bank's Project Files. In order for a sub-project to be included in the program, it has to satisfy the following
criteria:
a) the sub-project is included in the annual work program produced by IIRMS/SEPM and the Bridge
Management System using up-to-date condition and traffic volume data. Otherwise there must be very
strong justification for inclusion;
b) the sub-project is assigned a high priority by the national govemment and the concerned provincial
government;
c) the sub-project has a projected Economic Rate of Retum (ERR) of at least 15 percent as evidenced
from IIRMS/ SEPM and specific economic analyses for each sub-project using best available cost
estimates preferably based on detailed engineering designs, if available. However, in exceptional
circumstances to be justified on a case by case basis, a lower economic rate of return may be accepted;
d) regional/provincial equity factors are considered to ensure that sub-projects come from all provinces
and not from a few provinces. However, each sub-project needs to have an ERR of at least 15%;
e) appropriate engineering, social and environmental standards and practices that would minimize any
acquisition of land and avoid involuntary resettlement of Project Affected Persons have been considered
in the design of the proposed sub-project;
f) the environmental impact assessment requirements have been completed pursuant to the provisions of
the Environmental Management Plan (Annex I1) which the Bank considers satisfactory;
g) where land acquisition is necessary, a Resettlement Action Plan, satisfactory to the Bank has to be
prepared and furnished to the Bank if more than 200 people have to be resettled. Otherwise, land
acquisition and resettlement have to be carried out in accordance with a land acquisition and
resettlement policy framework (Annex 12) which the Bank considers satisfactory. In such cases,
approval for signing of the contract with the successful contractor will not be given until a progress
report from the PMU confirms that the payment of compensation is substantially complete.
h) where indigenous people are adversely affected, an indigenous people action plan would be developed
and cleared by the Bank (Annex 13) before the signing of the contract with the successful contractor;
and
i) counterpart funding to fully finance the proposed works and activities is available and in amounts
acceptable to the Bank.
Accident Blacksuots. This component consists of the identification of accident blackspot locations,
development of accident mitigation measures for the priority locations, implementation of the mitigation
measures, establishment of blackspot investigations units, monitoring of the accident blackspot program
and related consulting services. The program is expected to consist of the treatment of about 90 accident
blackspots (at least 3 per province).
Implementation SuDiort. This component covers consulting services and a small amount of equipment
required to support implementation of the project as well as provision of funds to meet the incremental
operating costs to be incurred by the Project Management Unit and the Directorate of Technical Affairs in
DGRI. The consulting services consist of those required for the support of: (a) the Project Management
- 10 -



Unit which was established in DGRI in managing the project (referred to as Core Team Consultants-
CTC); (b) the Eastern and Central Directorates of Infrastructure within DGRI to oversee the design and
supervision of the civil works in the provinces (referred to as Regional Team Consultants- RTC); (c) the
provincial agencies (P3JJ) in the design and supervision of the preservation works in each province
(referred to as Design and Supervision Consultants- DSC); and (d) the Directorate General of Land
Communications (DGLC) in the conceptualization, design, implementation, and monitoring of the accident
blackspot program and the development of the terns of reference for the safety component under the
proposed Second Indonesia Region Transport Project (referred to as Road Traffic Safety Consultants-
RTSC). Equipment includes office and telecommunications equipment to facilitate management of project
implementation. The incremental operating costs include staff travel, per diem, communications,
consumables, web page establishment and maintenance, advertisement of bidding, printing an publication
of Project information, rental of meeting facilities, but excluding staff salaries, which expenditures would
not have been incurred absent the project. The terms of reference for the required consulting services as
well as a description of the equipment to be procured are available in the PIP.
Road Sector Sutmort. This component consists of technical assistance and training required to support
the road sector in the Eastem Indonesia Region with emphasis on facilitating the ongoing decentralization
process. These are described in the following paragraphs.
Technical Assistance. This sub-component consists of the following: (a) institutional strengthening which
comprises: (i) strengthening of road management (planning, programming and budgeting procedures) under
decentralized operations, (ii) strengthening quality management for roads in EIR, and (iii) implementation
of a demonstration provincial road fund; (b) extension of the automated road monitoring system (ARMS)
to provinces in EIR as well as to the province of Aceh in Sumatra, not covered under HS2; and (c)
improvement of the bid documents for roads and bridges to include environmental standard operating
procedures (SOP) under ISEM (Institutional Strengthening of Environmental Management) as well as
safety considerations. Draft terms of reference for the three TAs under (a) and for the TA under (c) are
available in the project files and in the PIP. The TOR for the TA under (b) are identical to those used
under the HS2.
Trainine. Training is required for manpower development purposes in the road sector and to support the
decentralization process in particular. EIRTP I includes training to the central, provincial, and Kabupaten
and kota staff involved in the road sector as well as support to the wider construction community through
the training center for the construction industry within MSRI (PUSLATJAKONS). The related draft
TORs for this component are available in the PIP.
- 11 -



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The proposed project furthers the policy framework that underpinned previous Bank-financed road projects
and builds on the achievements made such as improvements in legal framework, decentralization, and work
planning, programming and implementation. Further, the project also considers slippages in the area of
road safety and reversals in the area of road user charges which deteriorated as a result of the economic
crisis and increased fuel subsidy. The main focus of the project is improvement of the planning,
programming and budgeting procedures for transport infrastructure and their implementation in the EIR
within a decentralized framework. The institutions at all levels, especially Kabupaten level, need to be
strengthened and staff trained to support the decentralization process. The proposed project provides for
such training. Moreover, procurement processes have to be tightened and made more transparent and the
available funds have to be better used by improving the planning process and tightening the quality of
designs and construction. The project provides for training in the procurement area and technical
assistance to improve quality assurance. In addition, the project provides for improvements in road funding
by piloting implementation of a road fund in one province in Indonesia. There is an active dialogue with
Gol, under ongoing projects, on road sector policies and improved sector planning, management and
financing. The project provides the vehicle for continuing dialogue on the refinement and implementation
of policies in these areas.
3. Benefits and target population:
The benefits of the project and the impacts on the target population are the following:
(i) Lower freight and passenger transport costs, with resulting benefits in fares, the price of goods,
marketing of products, and the reduction of transport bottlenecks affecting economic development.
This will have direct benefits for the traveling public, agricultural and industrial producers, consumers
while local communities will experience improved access to health and education services.
(ii) Improved transport services in the EIR with significant impact on the poor especially that the EIR has
a higher percentage of the poor than the rest of Indonesia. The project will improve access of the poor
to job opportunities and to social services especially education and health. Better maintained roads
would facilitate distribution of relief services in the event of droughts or major natural disasters.
Further, road construction and maintenance would create job opportunities for the poor.
(iii) Improved physical environment along project roads, and improved attention to environmental and
social impacts of road works. Roadside communities and non-motorized road users are expected to
benefit from improved shoulders, planting, drainage, and accident blackspots.
(iv) More effective management and sustainable maintenance of national and strategic roads, including
better utilization of existing traffic capacity, improved value-for-money of public spending on roads,
and better connectivity of population, and economic and social activities to the road network.
The population which is expected to benefit from the project is estimated at about 22 million.
- 12 -



4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The project falls within the general responsibilities of the National Development Planning Agency
(BAPPENAS), Deputy for Production, Trade and Infrastructure, who will chair a Steering Committee to
oversee the project activities and allow all agencies concerned with the project to be represented at the
policy level. The Directorate General of Regional Infrastructure (DGRI) in the Ministry of Settlements and
Regional Infrastructure (MSRI) will be the executing agency. The Directorate of Technical Affairs
(BINTEK) in the DGRI will be the lead implementing agency for the project. BINTEK has established a
Project Management Unit (PMU) to execute the project and to be responsible for managing all activities of
the project. In the regions, the project will be implemented by the regional agencies (provinces) in
accordance with the Govermnent's regulations on decentralization.
Institutional Arran2ements during Implementation
These are based on a detailed analysis of the roles and responsibilities of each of the agencies involved in
the project and take into consideration the decentralized framework which is still not well developed. Also,
it builds on the experience gained from previous projects, especially the ongoing Sumatra Region Road
Project SRRP (Loan 4307-IND). The institutional arrangements reflect the roles of oversight,
implementation and coordination.
(a) Oversight. In order to steer and monitor the progress of the project, to ensure that it meets national
goals, and to facilitate coordination among ministries/departments as well as among the local governments,
Gol will establish, and thereafter maintain until completion of the Project, a Steering Committee whose
members will comprise: BAPPENAS, Deputy III- Chairman; BAPPENAS, Deputy V (Vice Chairman);
Ministry of Finance (Director General of Budget); Ministry of Home Affairs (Directorate General of
Regional Development- BANGDA), State Ministry for Development of Eastern Indonesia; MSRI
(Directorate General of Regional Infrastructure- KimPrasWil), and Ministry of Communications- MoC
(Directorate General of Land Communications- DGLC).
(b) Coordination. It will be the responsibility of the Steering Committee to facilitate coordination between
provinces, and within and across departments. For day-to-day implementation and coordination of the
project, DGRI has established and will maintain throughout project implementation a Project Management
Unit (PMU). The PMU is chaired by the Director of Technical Affairs in DGRI and is assisted by full
time competent and qualified staff in adequate numbers. The PMU will be supported by a core team of
consultants and two regional team consultants (one for the Central Region and the other for the Eastern
Region) whose terms of reference have been found satisfactory by the Bank and are available in the PIP.
The PMU together with its consultants will determine the annual work program, monitor progress in
project implementation and compliance with Bank safeguard policies, including preparation of annual
programs, procurement, performance indicators, physical achievements and expenditures, and preparation
and submittal to the Bank and Steering Committee of monthly, quarterly and annual progress reports on
overall project implementation.
(c) Implementing Agencies. DGRI is the Lead Implementing Agency for project implementation. It will
be in charge of all components of the project with the exception of accident blackspots component, which
needs to be coordinated with DGLC and the police.
The Directorate of the Central Region Infrastructure within DGRI together with its Regional Team
Consultant will supervise the Proyek Perencanaan dan Pengawasan Jalan dan Jembatan (P3JJ) via the head
of Department of Public Works (DPUP)/ Dinas PrasWil/ Bina Marga in each province and will be
- 13-



responsible for implementing the works in the four provinces of Kalimantan. The Directorate of the
Eastem Region Infrastructure within DGRI together with its Regional Team Consultant will do the same
regarding the remaining 11 provinces in the EIR. DPUP in each of the 15 provinces in the EIR will be
responsible for technical planning, programming, implementation and monitoring of sub-projects located in
the respective province. DPUP will be assisted by Design and Supervision Consultants to prepare the
design of the road and bridge sub-projects included under the project in the respective province as well as to
supervise the construction of those sub-projects. The TOR for those consultants (which are available in the
PIP) have been reviewed by the Bank and found acceptable. The environmental agency in each of the 15
provinces (Bapedalda) will be in charge of environmental oversight of project activities with terns of
reference, staffing and resources including budgets acceptable to the Bank. The Provincial Directorate
General of Land Communications (DLLAJ) together with the Provincial Traffic Police will work together
with the DPUP and the traffic safety consultants on the treatment of accident blackspots. The TOR for the
traffic safety consultants are considered satisfactory and are available in the PIP.
Imnlementation Arrangements
(a) The Proiect ImnIementation Plan (PIP): is a technical working document for use by the PMU in the
management of the project. The PIP would include the implementation schedule, procurement plan,
disbursement schedule, performance indicators and monitoring for the overall project and for individual
sub-projects and activities. The PIP would also indicate all implementation activities to be undertaken in
any GoI fiscal year. This information would provide the framework for the preparation by the
implementing agencies of annual work programs. The PIP is to be revised annually by the PMU and
submitted to the Bank.
(b) Annual Work Proiirams (AWP): will be drawn up by DGRI and the provinces in EIR, based on the
technical framework in the PIP. Through the AWPs, these implementing agencies would commit
themselves to undertake in a given year specific sub-projects and activities of the project, and to achieve
specific targets. The AWP would be tied to the planning and budgeting cycle of Gol and would be
approved by the Bank. It would be the responsibility of the PMU and its consultants to assemble the
AWPs into a single document for presentation to the Annual Review Meetings, and to update the PIP to
reflect the finalized AWPs. The AWP for year 1 (2001) forms a part of the PIP which was submitted to
the Bank by July 31, 2001.
(c) The Annual Review: of the project would provide the opportunity to review implementation progress
and to take actions to address emerging problems. The review would ensure that appropriate provision is
made for counterpart funds in Gol budgets. The review would focus on the following:
* the evaluation of progress for the preceding fiscal year;
* the draft AWPs proposed for the following fiscal year; and
*  performance indicators
(d) Implementation Period: The project is expected to be implemented over a 4 year period, from
December 2001 to December 2005. The loan is expected to close on June 30, 2006.
Financial Management Assessment. An assessment of the financial management capacity and control
environment in the DGRI, MSRI (where the Project Management Unit, PMU, will be attached) and a
sample of the Provincial DPUP Bina Marga (where the Project Implementation Units, PIUs, will be
attached) was carried out by Financial Management Officer, WBOJ. The DGRI and DPUPs have been
executing many of Bank's projects and the staff has an adequate knowledge of the Bank's procedures.
- 14 -



However, there is a need to clarify roles and duties of the management staff and to increase the
coordination between PMU and PIUs, especially for monitoring and evaluation (including reporting for the
Project Management Report, PMR) on the project progress. Attachment 2 of Annex 6 contains the action
plan to be implemented to ensure that a sound financial management system is in place when the loan
becomes effective.
Auditing Arrangements. There are no outstanding audit reports for the Bank's financed projects for
which DGRI is the beneficiary. Audits for the proposed project will be based on annual project accounts
to be prepared on the basis of the quarterly PMRs. Auditors shall audit the DPUP's accounts at provincial
level, who will submit their reports to the Auditors' head office for consolidation. PMU shall prepare the
consolidated project account including the special account and SOE, based on PMR, for audit by the
Auditors head office. The annual audit shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the
end of the fiscal year. The audit will be conducted in accordance with TOR agreed by the Bank (see
Attachment 4 of Annex 6).
Disbursement Arrangements. The PMU and PIUs will be responsible for authorizing expenditures for
their respective components in accordance with the agreed budgets under existing government procedures.
They will submit their payment requests to the relevant MoF Treasury Office (KPKN) which will issue
payment remittance orders (SPM) to Bank Indonesia to credit the payee's accounts and to debit the project
Special Account opened under the name of the DG Budget. The Bank's disbursements would be made to
the Special Account based on the Project Management Report (PMR) to be prepared by the PMU, for the
six months projected expenditures. Attachment 3 of Annex 6 shows the flow of funds for this project.
Retroactive Fiancing. Gol has requested the Bank to agree to retroactive financing of US$ 4.5 million
(2.3 % of loan amount) to reimburse project expenditures since November 1, 2(601 to meet the cost of civil
works (periodic maintenance and bettermnent) and the cost of bridge trusses that would be incurred prior to
loan signing. Subject to DGRI adhering to all Bank requirements in this regard, including those for
procurement, retroactive financing would be perrnitted.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
(a) Phased Program. As originally conceived in April 2000 and as reflected in the Project Concept
Document (September 2000) the Eastern Indonesia Region Transport Project was to consist of preservation
and removal of capacity bottlenecks and development of national, provincial and kabupaten roads;
improvement of river ports and construction of bridges to replace ferries where justified; safety
improvements; improvements of road management (PPBP); strengthening of quality assurance; improving
the procurement process; manpower development in a decentralized environment; strengthening of the
transport industry; and development of multi-modal comprehensive transport plans for select islands in the
Eastern Indonesia Region. The project was accorded an "A" environmental category. However, due to the
ongoing decentralization process, re-organization of the Ministry of Works/ Settlements and Regional
Development and their impact on the speed of decision making, preparation of the project suffered
significant time delays. Further, because of the uncertainties regarding the ability of the provinces and
kabupatens to borrow from the Bank, and due to the deteriorating budget situation and its adverse effect on
road preservation, the Government in February 2001 decided ( and the Bank agreed) to split the project into
two projects. The first (EIRTP 1- the proposed project) would focus on preservation of national and
strategic roads with an environmental category "B" and for which the central government would be
- 15 -



responsible for repayment of the loan. The second project (EIRTP 2), scheduled in FY 2003, would cover
the remaining road classes (provincial, kabupaten, and kota roads), the sub-projects (including national
roads) with environmental category "A", and the rest of the technical assistance not included under EIRTP
1.
The large scope of the work and the continued gap in the national funding, coupled with the need for
progressive adjustrnent of local governments to decentralized operations over an extended period would
support a phased program under an APL. However, it was considered inappropriate to lock in an extended
program of the road sector in one region and lose flexibility for the type, location and size of programs to
be undertaken in the future.
(b) The Region Road Project Model Although the Sumatra Region Roads Project adopted the regional
approach delays in start up , uncertain decentralization, and economic crisis have militated against a
genuine test of the regional approach. However, this concept is considered reasonable and the central
government accords it priority. The two EIRTP projects jointly follow a regional approach. They deal with
each hierarchy of roads at central, provincial , and kabupaten/ kota levels of government, address missing
links and intermodal connections and develop capacity at both provincial and kabupaten levels to
coordinate and undertake integrated planning and environmental management. Thus the EIRTP is an
extension of the region road model (SRRP) to cover land transport and intermodal connections.
(c) Physical andfunctional scope and coordination with other donor efforts. As discussed earlier in
section B.3 of this PAD, the Eastern Indonesia Region would comprise of all of Indonesia except the
islands of Java and Sumatra. The transport sector needs in the EIR are considered too large and EIRTP I
would concentrate on national and strategic roads only. Other road classes including major capacity
expansion and new roads on new right-of way as well as river and inland water transport (with emphasis on
ports and bridges that could replace ferries) and access roads to airports and other major traffic generators
are to be covered under EIRTP 2. Consideration was given to co-financing by other donors (particularly
ADB and JBIC) in the region to enhance overall impact. ADB has prepared a road rehabilitation project
for supplementary support in Sumatra and plans to extend its support to West Java and Kalimantan. It
would thus operate in parallel to IBRD assistance in Southem Sumatra and in Kalimantan.
(d) A Holistic Regional Development Focus. The DGRI requested a holistic approach to development
which would coordinate the development in a number of sectors for a selected region or subregion. The
intent is not only one of area development but more one of incorporating the consideration of community
needs, access improvement, poverty reduction, potential for developing production areas in other sectors
into the planning and implementation of transport infrastructure activities. A multi-sectoral project is
considered to pose high risk, in light of the present low level of institutional capacity and the added
adjustments needed with decentralization, and the more complex supervision requirements. However, such
elements would need to be more narrowly focused on sub-projects and combined with the basic region
project model, which will be more intensively pursued under EIRTP 2.
(e) Combined Road Management and Poverty-targeted Local Infrastructure. With high priority
accorded to poverty reduction and the tight restrictions on borrowing capacity consideration was given to
combining high class road and transport needs with an explicitly targeted poverty component of
community-based local infrastructure program. The VIP/VIP2 and KDP projects in the past have
addressed needs of village infrastructure and other services and hence it could be used as the model.
However, the institutional framework, the scale of works and organization, and the kind of supervision
needed for such community-level activities are quite different from the sector and subnational government
dimensions of a regional project that neither would be served well by combining them in one project.
- 16 -



Therefore, it was concluded that it would be better to implement community-level and sectoral-regional
level projects separately but to share lessons in order to maintain consistency including standards and
practices.
- 17 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project                  (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                  Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
- Development planning, capacity in   Jakarta-Cikampek Highway      S             S
north Java corridor, and investmnent cost Project, Ln. 2049-IND,
recovery.                         1981-90.
- Restoration of main road networks,   Highway Betterment Project,  S            S
central and provincial institutions, and  Ln. 2404-IND, 1984-88
road transport policy.
- Planning and implementation of road  Highway Maintenance and      S            S
investment and maintenance, priority of Betterment Project, Ln.
preservation, and road transport  2717-IND, 1986-90.
regulations.
- Efficiency of road subsector, road    Highway Sector Project, Ln.  S            S
policy, and annual programming.   3133-IND, 1989-95.
- Road policy implementation, annual  Second Highway Sector         S             S
programming, capacity expansion and  Investment Project, Ln.
institutional strengthening.      3712-IND, 1994-00 (ongoing)
- Mobility in 25 Kabupatens, institution Rural roads development    S            U
building at Kabupaten level, and annual Project, Ln. 2083-IND,
programming.                      1982-87.
- Management of district road     Second Rural Roads Project,       S             S
programs, implementation, and     Ln. 2881-1ND, 1987-94.
labor-based technology.
- Access and preservation in 73   Third Kabupaten Roads             S             S
Kabupatens, capacity of all institutions Project, Ln. 3490-IND,
regarding Kabupaten roads.        1992-97.
- Access and preservation in 51   Eastern Indonesia Kabupaten       S             S
Kabupatens, institutional capacity,    Roads, Ln. 3579-IND,
appropriate technology, social and  1993-99.
environmental impacts.
- Access and preservation in 27   Fifth Kabupaten Roads Project,    S             S
Kabupatens, institutional capacity.  Ln. 3732-IND, 1994-99.
- Integrating planning and management Sumatra Region Road Project,  S             S
of transport infrastructure in region,    Ln. 4307-IND, 1998- ongoing
road development and preservation,
resource use and service delivery.
Other development agencies
In southern Sumatra, western Java and ADB proposed Road
possibly Kalimantan, using much of the Rehabilitation (Sector) Project -
same sectoral analytical basis and  2000.
approach as the EIRTP.
- 18 -



Capacity expansion in congested   ADB North Java Transport
corridor.                         Corridor Project (2 years
remaining?)
Capacity expansion on heavily     JICA/JIBC Heavily Loaded
trafficked routes.                Roads Rehabilitation Project
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Sectoral Experience:
The resource mobilization issue is best addressed through cost recovery from road users in an efficient
structure based on road use and damage to the roads, and through managing the funds and the road
authority efficiently by following sound business principles and actively involving the road users. The
Govemment of Indonesia held a seminar on these areas during 1999. The Bank financed in 2000/2001 a
major initiative on applicability of road funds to Indonesia at the various government levels (TAP 41-2).
This will be followed during 2001 and 2002 with a comprehensive awareness campaign to gamer support
for the concept of road funds, and preparation of a detailed action plan for implementation and monitoring
and evaluation a demonstration project in one of the provinces in Indonesia. The proposed project would
include the implementation of this demonstration project.
Experience in Indonesia:
Planning and Programming Methods and Tools - can be decentralized successfully to local levels if a
quality assurance framework is in place for the road and traffic monitoring data, systems are adequately
adapted to local levels, and staff receive ongoing training and review. Substantial training materials have
been prepared for environmental management (under ISEM) and engineering and project management
(under NPRMTP/ KRMTP) which are available to support training programs at local and central levels.
Strengthening Local Capacity - Past experience has shown that technical assistance at Kabupaten and
Provincial levels has limited effectiveness unless accompanied by proper civil service reforms, adequate
training and resources. Adequate staff incentives are necessary to achieve satisfactory productivity and
output from officials, and appropriate means for technical support between Province and Kabupaten need
to be established. The linkages between monitoring, performance and access to central resources are seen
as crucial but are not readily accepted culturally.
The proposed project supports strengthening of local capacity and decentralization of the planning,
programming and budgeting procedures to provinces and kabupatens in the EIR through a training program
targeted towards the provincial and kabupaten staffs and support to the wider construction industry through
Puslatjakons. Further it includes technical assistance to strengthen road management, PPBP (see section
C. I of this PAD), strengthen quality assurance for roads in EIR, and extension of the automated road
monitoring surveys to the rest of the EIR and the province of Aceh in Sumatra. The project will establish a
reporting system on performance indicators and will track the impact of the project in these areas as well as
physical progress in the implementation of the various components of the project.
Sustainability - establishing sustainable mechanisms of maintenance funding is the key factor to sustaining
good management of the primary and local road assets. As indicated above, the project includes a
demonstration project for a road fund in one of the provinces in Indonesia.
- 19 -



Construction Quality - poor quality is fairly prevalent and sharply reduces the life and performance of
works, thus creating an excessive demand on funds. Key actions include - strengthening the accountability
of implementing agencies, the authority of field supervision consultants or engineers to enforce contracts,
the procurement of qualified and experienced contractors and supervising engineers, and the performance
incentives of local staff. The proposed project includes a technical assistance for the strengthening of
quality assurance in the EIR as well as consulting services by private consultants for the design and
supervision of the civil works under the project. Further, the procurement process will be tightened and
made more transparent and training in the procurement area will be provided under the project. The Bank
through its Office in Jakarta and supervision missions from headquarters will pay particular attention to
these areas.
Readiness for Implementation - this became an issue for the Sumatra Region Roads Project (Loan 4307-
IND) when the implementation arrangements for the multiple provinces were slow to take root during the
crisis and organizational changes. The proposed project addresses this issue by: (l) making sure that the
first year annual work program (AWP 2001) is fully identified and the civil works sub-projects are
prepared (engineering designs and bid documents are ready for bidding) and the requests for proposals for
consulting services as well as the specifications and the bid documents for goods are ready for
implementation by negotiations, and (2) although it is easier for the Bank project team to review the AWP
for all provinces in the EIR at the same time, reviews and clearances should be given at the provincial level.
Otherwise, the whole program would be delayed because one of the provinces is behind schedule which
would penalize the efficient provinces.
Safeguard Policies - while the Gol environmental procedures (AMDAL) are generally sound, and specific
screening procedures have been established under the SRRP and the Kabupaten Road Program and
Highway sector projects, the actual implementation of the assessment and screening process and
incorporation of mitigating measures in planning and design are generally uneven and often superficial.
Field work by local consultants tends to report basic data but needs to be strengthened by in-depth
assessment, rejection of sensitive cases, and specifying strong mitigating measures. Local environmental
agencies need to be more actively involved in planning and monitoring of road programs. This project
addresses this issue by a realistic assessment of the capability of the provincial environmental agencies
(Bapedaldas) and providing for their strengthening and active participation in the project. A workshop in
this area was held in Makassar on April 2-4, 2001 and another workshop in the same area would be held in
November/ December 2001. The project provides for training in the environmental and social areas.
Further, the project encompasses technical assistance to improve the bid documents for roads and bridges
by including safety considerations and environmnental standard operating procedures.
Land acquisition actions tend to be started late in the project cycle and are frequently not completed before
the start of a contract. Progress is determined by the local govenmment agency and is not under control of
the project management. Compensation arrangements may involve a variety of in-kind trades and
negotiated payments. Thorough reporting and review procedures are recommended. The project will help
ameliorate such problems by including in a supplemental letter to the loan agreement the requirement that
the framework for land acquisition, resettlement and assistance for affected persons (Annex 12) would be
followed. Also, physical acquisition of the required lands and payment of compensation would have to be
substantially completed before the signing of contracts with the successful contractors.
- 20 -



4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Priority was given by the Minister for Settlements and Regional Infrastructure to the Eastern Indonesia
Region Transport Project and the holistic approach to infrastructure development during her visit to
Washington in April 2000 and during the Bank missions to Indonesia in April and October 2000 as well as
in March and June 2001. The Parliament as well as the Ministry of Finance and Bappenas give priority to
development of the Eastern Indonesia Region. On August 23, 2000 a Junior Minister for the Development
of Eastern Indonesia was appointed, reflecting the high priority now given to developing the eastern region
of Indonesia. Bappenas has played a proactive role in leading strategic expenditure analyses for the sector
and establishing priority for roads program in Propenas 2000. The Directorate General for Regional
Infrastructure has contracted Bridging Advisory Technical Assistance (BATA) consultants for start up of
preparation in July 2000. The consultants substantially completed their assignment in December 2000. At
that time a contract was signed with the main consultants for preparation of EIRTP 1 ( the proposed
project) and the follow-on project (EIRTP 2). The consultants mobilized in January 2001, work is
proceeding well and the services for EIRTP 1 are expected to be completed by end of November 2001 and
for EIRTP 2 in early 2002.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank has had the leading role in institutional support for the sector for two decades, particularly in
three areas: (i) the development of road management and project appraisal processes to the extent these
have become firmly institutionalized, and most recently extended to Strategic Expenditure Planning (SEP)
which has enabled Gol to evaluate the impacts of the alternative levels of expenditure allocations in the
sector over the range of national fiscal scenarios; (ii) three phases of a Policy and Sector Action Plan
setting the basis for road transport regulatory reform and potentially for pricing and resource mobilization
in the sector; and (iii) progression towards decentralized operations begun under the SRRP.
Under the proposed project the above institutional support will be deepened and applied to build a
decentralized road management capacity. The SEPM/ IIRMS will form the rational basis for the selection
of road and bridge sub-projects and the development of the annual work programs. Further, the project
includes technical assistance for strengthening road management (planning , programming and budgeting)
under decentralized operations. In addition, the staff of the provinces and kabupatens/ kotas in the EIR will
be trained under the project to improve their skills in general and support the decentralization process in
particular. Building on past Bank initiatives in road funding, including the recent workshop held in Jakarta
in February 2001 and the follow-up activities planned during 2001 and 2002 to gain more support for the
concept of a road fund and work out the associated necessary legislation and preparation, the proposed
project includes implementation of a demonstration road fund in one of the provinces in Indonesia.
The project helps Indonesia preserve the huge investment it has made in roads in the EIR. This is
especially important at this time of very tight budgets. Moreover, with the implementation of the traffic
safety component, the project is expected to increase safety on the national and strategic roads in the EIR.
Further, implementation of the safeguard provisions contained in the Environmental Management and
Monitoring Plan for EIRTP 1 would lead to improved practices in environmental protection and social
issues.
- 21 -



E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments arc in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit     NPV=US$417 million; ERR = 31.5 % (see Annex 4)
0 Cost effectiveness
0 Other (specify)
A cost-benefit analysis was used to evaluate the program of national and strategic roads and bridges under
the project. It excluded routine maintenance and emergency maintenance since those are considered the
least cost treatments to maintain road accessibility. The quantified benefits included savings in vehicle
operation costs, personal time savings, and accident costs and took into consideration the existing road
conditions including roughness and traffic volumes. However, in the case of bridge replacements, benefits
also took into consideration the length of altemate routes in case of floods and loss of the bridge. Costs
consisted of the capital cost for construction of the treatment and the associated annual maintenance costs.
Under the most likely traffic growth scenario, the net present value (NPV) for the civil works component at
15 % discount rate is IDR 3.75 trillions and the corresponding economic rate of return (ERR) is 31.5%.
Similar analyses for the first batch of 27 sub-projects included under the first year AWP (and for which
cost estimates based on detailed engineering studies and bid documents are available) indicated an ERR of
46%. The rate of return for the various sub-projects ranges from 18% to over 100%. Those rates were
calculated by comparing the most effective treatment with the do-minimum case.
Sensitivity tests were performed to test the impact of rnain changes in costs and benefits on the viability of
the program. If benefits decrease by 20%, the ERR is reduced to 27.4%. But, if the costs increase by 20%
the ERR decreases to 28. 1% , which shows that the program of civil works is slightly more sensitive to
benefits than costs. In the unlikely case of an increase in costs of 20% and a reduction in benefits of 20%,
the ERR is still an acceptable 24.6%. The program is fairly robust to reasonable changes in costs and
benefits. Similar analyses were conducted on the first batch of sub-projects under the first year AWP. In
the unlikely event that the costs increase by 20% and the benefits decrease by 20%, the ERR for periodic
maintenance works in that batch is 35.5% and for betterment works 36.4%. Both ERRs far exceed the
minimum required ERR of 15%.
The methodology and criteria used in the economic evaluation are now well established, and previous
Bank-financed projects have supported the progressive refinement and extension of the IRMS software
suite and improvements in the accuracy of data on road condition and traffic volumes. It is intended that
further improvements in data accuracy will be made under the Project. The economic evaluation represents
the final outcome of a comprehensive program preparation and evaluation process that involves the
identification of links and works for initial screening, the actual screening, and finally the feasibility
evaluation. The program preparation and evaluation process will be repeated each year, and sub-projects
to be included in the AWPs would be selected based on their ERR.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
The total cost of the project is currently estimated at about US$ 290.2 million (including about US$
26.2 million equivalent in taxes). However, with the continuing volatility of the Rupiah exchange
rate, the actual project cost in US dollars would be subject to sizeable change. But, because the
project is programmatic in nature, it can be expanded or contracted to respond to such changes. Of
this amount, US$ 200.0 million (or 75.8 % of the total cost excluding taxes) would be financed by
- 22 -



the Bank and the remaining US$ 64.0 million equivalent (or 24.2% of the total) would be financed
by the Government of Indonesia. This cost-sharing takes account of the expected constraints on the
APBN budget during the project implementation period. The Govermnent share excludes about 10%
in taxes.
Timely availability of counterpart funds has been a problem since the onset of the economic crisis in
1997. The recent sharp depreciation of the Rupiah, coupled with rising domestic interest rates, has
had a major impact on the FY 2001 APBN Budget, particularly as a result of the consequent large
increase in the costs of energy subsidies and debt service. This has necessitated revision of the
Budget, including through a planned substantial reduction in the Rupiah amount allocated for
development spending. The (Government has, however, reaffirmed its commitment to prioritizing use
of Rupiah development budget funds to ensure adequate counterpart funds are available for the
implementation of loan-financed projects. Further, the Government has reconfirmed that the
counterpart funds needed for the FY 2001 Annual Work Program have been made available under
the APBN Budget, and that these allocations will not be affected by the planned reduction in the total
amount of Rupiah component of the Development Budget. Moreover, it has also confirmed that,
within the roads and other infrastructure sectors, preservation of existing assets will take precedence
over capacity expansion works and new construction. While the Government has recognized the
need for tough actions to improve the macro-economic and fiscal situation, including through
accelerated reduction of energy subsidies, it must nonetheless, be concluded that counterpart fund
availability will be a major risk to the timely implementation of the project.
The crisis has served to focus Government's attention on the need to establish a more sustainable
mechanism for financing expenditures on road maintenance and rehabilitation, and more generally, to
manage these activities in a more commercial and efficient manner. An initial study into the possible
application of the "Road Fund" concept has recently been undertaken with Bank-financing, and the
Project will support follow-on work in this area.
Fiscal Impact:
Preservation and, where necessary, rehabilitation of the national road network is deemed a top
priority by Government, and is reflected in the allocation of budget resources. The availability of
loan resources assists in alleviating short-term budget constraints, while the project design should
also help by ensuring that available resources are allocated well and that works are implemented
efficiently and at least cost. The project may also be expected to result in savings to the APBN
budget inasmuch as the consequent improvements in road condition should result in reductions in
fuel consumption and hence in the amount of the Budget subsidy (all automotive vehicle fuels
supplied by Pertamina are still heavily subsidized by Government).
3. Technical:
The project civil works involve restoration of the pavement component of previously constructed
roads and generally pose no significant technical issues. Possible exceptions include sections that
are prone to flooding, or that are in areas with soft soils or poor slope stability. In some areas,
particular care will need to be given to locating sources of suitable and affordable construction
materials. The most challenging of these potential problems will likely be soft soils, including
notably on a small section of the Palangkaraya - Banjarmasin Road in Kalimantan. Trial
- 23 -



embankments have already been constructed along this section under the Bank-financed Highway
Sector 2 Project (Loan 3712-IND) and are currently being monitored to determine the best technical
and economic solutions.
No significant technical problems are foreseen with respect to the "soft' components of the project.
The technical assistance related to the decentralization of planning, programming and budgeting
procedures builds on work started under the Sumatra Region Roads Project, while that relating to
quality control and training builds on similar work started under the Highway Sector 2 Project. The
main challenge envisaged for these components is to secure the full commitment of Provinces and
Kabupatens to their effective and sustainable implementation.
4. Institutional:
Section C.4 of this PAD presents a detailed description of the institutional arrangements for the
project, which are based on the arrangements implemented for SRRP. These have now been tested
in practice, and with appropriate adjustments--are expected to work well for EIRTP. The main
challenge relates in the Project's huge geographic coverage: about 15 provinces and 130 kabupatens
and kotas (the numbers here change as existing regions are split), and numerous islands. Surface
transport between provincial centers is often impractical and direct air travel from one island to
another is often nonexistent or otherwise difficult and time-consuming.
The ongoing decentralization process can also be expected to complicate project implementation. At
this point in time, there is still considerable uncertainty regarding redeployment of qualified and
experienced staff from the center to the provinces and kabupatens, and it is possible that creation of
more new Provinces or further reorganizations in sector Ministries could have adverse short-term
effects on the smooth running of daily tasks. It is also possible that the proposed civil service reform
would impact staff morale and hence project implementation.
4.1 Executing agencies:
Section C.4 of this PAD describes the implementation arrangements for the Project and lists the
agencies that will be responsible for the execution of its components. The lead Ministry, MSRI, was
forned in late 2000 / early 2001 by the amalgamation of the State Ministry of Public Works and the
Ministry of Human Settlements and Regional Development (MSRD). These in tum had come into
being in 1999 as a result of the break-up of the previous Ministry of Public Works (MPW). The
main executing agency, DGRI, likewise has evolved, through the Directorate General of Regional
Infrastructure Development under MSRD, from the Directorate General of Highways (Bina Marga)
under MPW. This two-stage restructuring process created considerable uncertainties for staff, and
has involved major personnel changes at all management levels. These necessarily affected the
implementation of ongoing projects and caused considerable delays in the preparation of EIRTP.
The new DGRI team appears to have settled in quickly, however, and progress on EIRTP
preparation and implementation of other projects has improved dramatically during the last ten
months. While it is conceivable that further reorganizations could occur during the course of the
Project's implementation, MSRI has a sufficient pool of qualified and capable personnel to be able
to cope with further changes provided these are carefully planned and managed.
The Provincial Public Works Units (DPUPs) will play important roles in the Project's
implementation. While their responsibilities have been expanded somewhat by Law 22, they have
generally not undergone the radical restructuring that has transformed their central counterpart
- 24 -



agency. The DPUPs are, however, still engaged in the process of assuming the responsibilities of
Bina Marga's "deconcentrated" Road Betterment Offices (RBOs), and needs for further capacity
building will be provided under the project. Particular attention will be given to the two recently
created Provinces (North Maluku and Gorontalo) whose DPUP's are still being established, and to
any other new Provinces that may be created during the course of the project.
4.2 Project management:
All the implementing agencies mentioned in section C.4 of this PAD are participating in the Sumatra
Region Roads Project and have participated in the Highway Sector 2 or Kabupaten Road Projects and thus
have some experience of Bank projects. The challenge is for these agencies to work together in a
synergistic way, and in particular for local government agencies to take a lead in project implementation.
A Project Management Unit assisted by consultants (core team consultant and two regional team
consultants) at the central level and by design and supervision consultants in each province will be
established and funded under the project to ensure smoother implementation and good quality of
construction. It would be similar to the one under SRRP. The PMU for EIRTP I needs to be more active
and involved than the one under SRRP.
4.3 Procurement issues:
The main problems with the existing Indonesian procurement are: limited capacity to manage procurement,
especially at the kabupaten and province level, limited competition in particular for small and medium
value contracts to those domiciled in the geographical area of the project/sub-project; and limited
accountability for procurement decisions. If managed well, the ongoing decentralization can achieve
substantial efficiency gains because decisions will be taken at a level of government that has better
information and is more accountable to the local public. But, decentralization runs the risk of exacerbating
existing weaknesses in the procurement system and could increase corruption. The Presidential decree for
public procurement (Keppres 18/2000) currently requires the concerned Inspector General to supervise
procurement practices at the sub-national level, but it does not specify who should follow up on the
remedial actions.
The Bank started in March 2000, a country procurement assessment for Indonesia and completed the final
report in February 2001. The report identified weaknesses and made specific recommendations which the
Government has generally accepted. The encouraging aspect is that the senior officials of the participating
ministries (Finance, Bappenas and MSRI which are involved in EIRTP 1) have all endorsed the concept of
good Governance and the eradication of corruption and the combined effort to this end is encouraging. The
increased audits, and the open publication of audit results, and findings along with the corrective action
where anomalies have been found, including disciplining and even termination for serious breeches are also
positive steps towards a risk minimization.
Project procurement will be carried out by the individual participating provinces for the EIRTP 1. All of
the provinces have had prior experience in implementing Bank Procurement Procedures. A procurement
assessment was undertaken by the Bank in July 2001 to determine the capability of these agencies for this
task, which will be focussed on preservation works on national and strategic roads. Generally, the
capability of these agencies is rated satisfactory. However, the risk of error is considered substantial due to
the decentralization process and the endemic nature of corruption in Indonesia in the recent past. To help
reduce the potential problems the following actions will be taken (action plan is shown in Attachment 5 of
Annex 6):
(a) A regional "kick-off' workshop will be held at the beginning of project implementation to confirm the
requirements of the Bank and formally introduce the latest Bank procurement documents and
- 25 -



procedures to be followed;
(b) Training will be given during project implementation to enhance the capability of the personnel within
the provincial departments (and later kabupatens under EIRTP 2 ) on the procurement cycle with
emphasis on the annual work programs, packaging of the works for procurement, and scheduling;
(c) A training program and certification process for all bid and procurement committees has been
proposed , but the details have not yet been finalized and the certification will not be in place at the
start of implementation (but should be completed before start of implementation of the AWP for 2002),
and;
(d) Both the Bank and Gol will pay special attention to procurement during implementation. In the case of
the Bank, the budget for supervision activities (including procurement) should be sufficient, a
Bank-accredited procurement specialist should be assigned to the project and maintained till
completion, and close liaison with the procurement unit at World Bank Office Jakarta should be
maintained.
Anti-Corruption. As noted in the Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR- Report No.
February 2001), corruption and collusive practices (KKN) are wide spread in public procurement
in Indonesia. Whilst the "direct pay off" is rare, the form of corruptive practices varies from
situation to situation. Practices observed on previous Bank projects include: excessively short
bidding periods, obscure advertising, collusion between tenderers in bidding to "arrange" contract
award to a specific contractor, acceptance of below quality work (generally implying an
agreement between the contractor and the inspector ), acceptance of incomplete work by the
client, multiple contract variations, etc.
The proposed project includes the provision of the services of procurement and contract
specialists (within the Core team Consultants and the Regional Team Consultants) to assist the
various procurement and contracts committees in complying with standard Bank procedures
during implementation and to minimize opportunities for such "nefarious activities".
The employees of the agencies involved in project implementation are expected to follow a
published code of ethics. One of the main features is that employees are prohibited from taking
any gifts or gratuities which may affect decision making. However, the codes are not detailed
enough to clarify all situations and answer all questions. Bidders can report bribes in writing to the
supervisor of the respective officials, or depending on the degree of bribery, they could report
directly to P.O. BOX 5000 which is the official mail box of the Vice President for handling public
complaints. However, the complaint database is not properly maintained and follow-up actions are
rarely taken, and no feedback mechanism exists. An independent anti-corruption entity has
recently been established under the Attorney General's Office. In addition, the independent
Ombudsman office was also established. Within the MSRI, the Minister has established an
anti-corruption unit within the Inspectorate General department. However, the work of these
anti-corruption initiatives is often hampered by institutionalized scheming by contractors in all
sectors.
All cases of collusion and other fraudulent and corrupt practices will be reported and investigated
by the Borrower, and reported to the Bank, including remedial actions that will be taken. The
Bank's Department of Institutional Integrity, Investigation Unit (INTIU) will also be advised, and
may investigate cases, as considered necessary. Additionally, an action plan to mitigate the
- 26 -



chances for fraud and corruption has been developed and is under discussion.
4.4 Financial management issues:
Accounting. Financial Reporting and Auditing Arrangements
The Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) 2000 concluded that the control environment in
Indonesia is weak despite a political leadership commitment for improvement. The Bank's Fiduciary
Mission 2000 also concluded that fiduciary environment is weak. Responsibilities are unclear, legislative
and regulatory instruments are often vague and inconsistent. Country Corruption Index (Transparency
Intemational statistic) - 2000 placed Indonesia as the fifth most corrupt country. In addition,
decentralization has started and many of the details of the decentralization process remain undefined.
Attachment 2 of Annex 6 presents the action plan to address the above weaknesses, help ensure that a
sound financial management system exists when the proposed Bank loan to this project becomes effective,
and that disbursement from the loan can be based on properly prepared project management reports.
DGRI/ MSRI is the executing agency for Highway Sector II, SURIP and SRRP projects funded under the
Bank loans 3712-IND, 4054-IND and 4307-IND which have closing dates of December 2001, September
2002 and December 2003 respectively. Audit reports for all three projects for fiscal year 1999/2000 have
been received by the Bank and generally found acceptable.
The following are the financial management risks in the project and how they will be addressed:
1. Risk due to the lack of coordination and understanding on roles and duties of the project management
staff is addressed by: (i) adoption of a Project Management Manual (PMM) organized in a circular
letter which requires the use of Guidelines for record keeping and preparation of financial statements
(Kep. Men. no. 49/KPTS/M/2000), and Guidelines for use of funds from foreign loans and aid (Kep.
Men no. 50/KPTS/M/2000). The PMM covers organizational structure, job descriptions, budgeting,
procurement, project management information system, record management, fixed assets and inventory
management, accounting, reporting, intemal control, monitoring and evaluation mechanisms for the
project management system, and auditing arrangements for the project. The PMM should be followed
by everybody involved in the project; and (ii) training on procurement and financial management as
described in the PMM for the relevant staff within the PMU and PIUs.
2. Risk that the improvement of the Electronic Mail Box System (KPE) into a Project Management
Information System (PMIS) to support PMR preparation is not coordinated properly. This risk is
addressed by: (i) review and improvement of KPE system, covering hardware, software and
development of a manual to support PMR preparation; and (ii) training to the KPE/PMIS team and
relevant staff within PMU and PIUs who will be involved in the preparation of the PMR and inputs to
the PMIS.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
Three types of sub-projects may be financed under EIRTP: periodic road maintenance, bridge
replacement, and betterment (e.g., sealing unpaved roads, upgrading pavement quality, minor widening).
The environmental impacts of periodic maintenance are minimal and can be managed by application of
standard operating procedures (SOP) during construction. Bridge replacement and betterment may have
somewhat more extensive impacts: soil erosion, interference with drainage or stream flow, obstruction of
traffic and increased accident risk. These also can normally be managed by standard operating procedures,
- 27 -



but there may be need for site-specific Environmental Management Plans (EMP) in some cases.
A free-standing EMP has been prepared for the project, using as a model the EMP for Sumatra Region
Roads Project. The model has been modified to take into account the special characteristics of the eastem
islands, the experience with implementation of the EMP for SRRP, outputs from the Institutional
Strengthening for Environmental Management (ISEM) component of the Eastem Indonesia Kabupaten
Roads Project (Loan 3579) and progress made in decentralizing environmental management responsibility
in Indonesia to the provincial and district BAPEDALDA. The EMP has also been made a more
comprehensive safeguards document. In addition to environmental assessment, it contains procedures for
consultation, land acquisition, resettlement, and indigenous peoples. One important outcome of the EIRTP
preparation process was the establishment of an Environmental Subdirectorate in the DGRI. That unit has
supervised and participated in the preparation of the EMP and will monitor its implementation.
Between May 2000 and March 2001, consultations on EIRTP 1 were held with local and provincial
governments in Central and South Kalimantan, Central and South Sulawesi, Papua (Irian Jaya) and West
Nusa Tenggara. Bank safeguards policies were discussed in each of the meetings. A special meeting was
held in Makassar, South Sulawesi, April 2-4, 2001, at which representatives of BAPEDALDA, BAPPEDA
and Public Works Department from all of the Eastern Provinces spent two days discussing Bank and Gol
safeguards policies, the draft EMP, institutional capacity for EMP implementation, and arrangements for
local disclosure and for consultation on environmental and social issues with stakeholders at the sub-project
level during project implementation. A national consultation on the draft EMP with key national NGOs
was conducted on June 26, 2001 in Jakarta. The issues raised at the NGO consultation have been
summarized in an appendix to the revised EMP that was submitted to the Bank on July 16, 2001. The
EMP is being made publicly available in Jakarta and the project area.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
environmental screening procedure
procedure for stakeholder consultation
requirements for acquisition of and compensation for land and other property
policy framework, requirements and procedures for land acquisition, resettlement and treatment of
affected stakeholders
procedures and requirements for treatment of isolated vulnerable (i.e., indigenous) peoples
*     procedures for monitoring sub-project impacts and EMP implementation
institutional issues: BAPEDALDA institutional action plan.
The screening procedure is administered by the Environmental Subdirectorate in DGRI. The procedure is
designed to determine the level of environmental analysis, management and monitoring that is appropriate
for each proposed sub-project. It harmonizes Bank and Gol screening and environmental assessment
requirements. No Category "A" work will be financed under EIRTP, and the screening procedure
therefore has provisions to identify and screen out any sub-projects that would fall into that category. A
more complete summary of the EMP is presented in Annex 11, along with a summary of the results of the
screening of the sub-projects proposed in the Annual Work Programs (AWP).
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: July 16, 2001, but a revised final
version will be furnished to the Bank by
November 20, 2001
- 28 -



The EMP was initially prepared in draft form and revised based on comments from Bank staff and the
Environmental Subdirectorate. The second draft was discussed with provincial and local officials at the
April 24 meeting. Further information on institutional capacity for EMP implementation was collected at
the same meeting. A final draft was furnished on April 25, 2001, reviewed by the Bank, and discussed
with national NGOs on June 26, 2001. The revised EMP was furnished to the Bank on July 16, 2001.
However, due to some changes made since then to the land acquisition and resettlement policy framework a
revised version will be sent to the Bank by November 20, 2001. This version will be sent to the PIC.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment managemient plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
The project is a Category "B" sectoral investment loan. It was discussed with local offices of World Wide
Fund for Nature (WWF) in Papua during a preparation mission. The draft final EA report and the
screening of the AWPs were discussed with national NGOs at a consultation meeting in Jakarta, chaired by
the Minister of KimPrasWil. However, the most meaningful stakeholder consultations on screening will be
those to be conducted in the provinces as individual sub-projects are proposed for implementation. The
objective for such consultations is to involve interested and affected persons and groups from the planning
stage through implementation of sub-projects, consistent with the project's objective of shifting from
centralized to decentralized planning and management of roads. The mechanism for these consultations is
presented in the EMP. Among other features, it calls for each provincial BAPEDALDA to establish a
mechanism for regular consultation with civil society and NGOs -- a stakeholder liaison group, for
example.
The final EMP is being disclosed for public review in DGRI, in the provinces and districts where
sub-projects are being proposed, and in PICs in Bank Headquarters and World Bank Office Jakarta.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environrment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMPP?
GoI project officers will be required to summarize progress and problems in EMP implementation as part
of routine reports. Provincial BAPEDALDA will oversee and report on EMP implementation, and they
will also review and approve any site-specific management and monitoring plans (UKL and UPL) and
check on their implementation. The stakeholder liaison mechanism (see 5.4) will serve as another channel
for feedback on sub-project implementation and impacts. Specific environmental parameters will be
monitored and reported when called for in site-specific monitoring plans. One key indicator of overall
regional commitment to environmental management that will be monitored during supervision is adequacy
of BAPEDALDA operating budget.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The overall objective of EIRTP is to stimulate economic growth in the Eastem Indonesia Region by
improving access, reducing transport costs, and facilitating sustainable development of resources. This
depends on providing more reliable access and reduced transport costs between provincial centers, regional
development and production areas. Pcpulations served by the roads should benefit from lower cost,
reduced travel time, better access to markets for their produce and products, and better access to public
services such as health and educational facilities.
Given that little or no construction of new roads is planned, and that most widening will take place in the
existing right-of- way, the project will not require extensive land acquisition or resettlement. Nevertheless,
- 29 -



experience in other projects in Indonesia indicates that extra attention is needed to ensure that the agreed
compensation for any land or other assets required is fully and promptly paid. To ensure that this occurs,
approval for signing of the contract with the successful contractor for a sub-project will not be given until a
progress report from the PMU confirms that the payment of compensation is substantially complete. In
addition, squatters in the right-of-way who will have to be relocated in cases of widening will be considered
affected people and will be eligible for appropriate assistance and compensation. The loan agreement
stipulates that land acquisition and compensation for affected lands and assets as well as resettlement of
project affected persons will comply with the framework for land acquisition, compensation and
resettlement contained in the EMP and presented in Annex 12. This framework is considered satisfactory
by the Bank.
It is likely that some sub-projects would affect indigenous people (isolated vulnerable people in Gol
terminology) and a screening process has been established to identify where this will or may occur. Every
effort will be made during AWP screening to identify sub-projects where this will or may occur, and the
consultation on EMP and screening results with national NGOs (see 5.4 above) will be used as one source
of information. The sub-project consultations to be conducted during project implementation in the parts of
the region where sub-projects are proposed will be another more certain way of identifying indigenous
people who may be affected. Local NGOs and universities will be part of those consultations. The EMP
includes provisions consistent with OD 4.20 for handling sub-projects affecting indigenous peoples.
Roadside businesses may be temporarily disrupted by betterment or widening. The adverse impacts will be
eased by consultation in advance, notification of key dates for starting and completing work, and assistance
in providing alternative access or temporary locations for affected businesses.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
See 5.1 and 5.4 above. In the event that a Resettlement Action Plan should be required for a sub-project,
the EMP provides that the planning and implementation take place with full involvement of the affected
persons as required in OD 4.30. These provisions are contained in the "Land Acquisition and Resettlement
Policy Framework" that forms Appendix 2 of the EMP (see Annex 12).
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Consultations are discussed in 5.1 and 5.4 above. In the event that a Resettlement Action Plan should be
required for a sub-project, monitoring the welfare of the resettled persons will be conducted by an
independent party, which could be a local NGO or university. In the case of indigenous peoples, local
institutions such as NGOs, religious organizations and universities will be consulted and, where
appropriate, contracted to assist in communication, planning and monitoring outcomes.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
Much of the outcome depends on the nature of the sub-projects selected and the quality of implementation
-- factors that will be main topics of Bank supervision. The arrangements for consultation and civil society
participation in project planning and monitoring described in the EMP will help to ensure the social
development objectives are achieved. The core team consultants and two regional team consultants and
BAPEDALDA will monitor social as well as environmental impacts. The EMP includes recommended
actions to strengthen the capacity of the BAPEDALDA to do so.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in tenrs of social development outcomes?
The sorts of outcomes defined for EIRTP can best be monitored through sampling a representative number
- 30 -



of sub-projects, using a questionnaire survey of users and other stakeholders within the alignment area,
adrninistered by BAPEDALDA. The questionnaires will use the monitoring indictors listed below to
determine the wider impact of the road improvement. The interviews should take place prior to any
construction (for baseline), during construction (optional), and after completion of the work (one month
after completion would be most advantageous). The objective would be to measure direct effects such as
changes in travel time, accessibility, and cost of travel, and related secondary effects such as increased use
of social services or upgrade of vehicles.
*      Access to Education Facilities
Access to Health, Social and Cultural facilities
*      Access to markets for sale of goods and agricultural produce
*      Access to raw materials and agricultural produce, and forestry
*      Access to new produce and services from nearby towns
*      Access to public transport, and improvements in transport quality
*      Changes in access to employment opportunities
Potential for tourism
*     Vehicle ownership pattems (and access to vehicles)
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                     Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)             0 Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                     0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                      0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                        0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                    * Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                     * Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                               0 Yes 0 No
Safe  of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                 0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)     0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*          0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
(i) OP 4.01 (Environmental Assessment). The project includes environmental screening to exclude
sub-projects which would fall into the Bank's Category A and thus require a full EIA (ANDAL) and to
identify those sub-projects that require a site-specific Environmental Management (UKL) and Monitoring
Plan (UPL). Standard Environmental Operating Procedures (similar to a code of good environmental
practice) would be reflected in the bidding documents for all sub-projects (see section E.5 and Annex 11 of
this PAD).
(ii) OP 4.04 (Natural Habitats). The environmental screening and AWP approval processes will ensure
that the project will not be financing components that affect any known natural habitats.
(iii) OP 4.11 (Cultural Property). The environmental screening and AWP approval processes will ensure
that the project will not adversely affect sites having archeological, paleontological, historical, religious or
unique natural values.
(iv) OD 4.20 (Indigenous People). The project would include screening and consultation to identify
- 31 -



sub-projects which should address the issue of isolated vulnerable people. Where needed an Isolated
Vulnerable Peoples Development Plan will be developed and cleared by the Bank, and the most critical
aspects of the Plan will be implemented before signing of the contract with the successful contractor for
such sub-projects, according to the framework incorporated in the EMP and summarized in Annex 13.
(v) OD 4.30 (Involuntary Resettlement). The project will include a screening approach to identify
sub-projects that involve land acquisition and or resettlement of people. For sub-projects which require
little or no land acquisition and resettlement, the process will be carried out in accordance with the land
acquisition/resettlement policy framework adopted for the project, incorporated in the EMP, and presented
in Annex 12. For the remaining sub-projects which involve substantial land acquisition and/or resettlement
of more than 200 people a resettlement action plan which meets the Bank's policy OD 4.30 will be
developed, cleared by the Bank and implemented to the point where payment of compensation is
substantially complete, prior to signing of the contract with the successful contractors for such
sub-projects. Every project affected person must have been compensated and/or provided with a
resettlement site and moving allowance prior to the taking of his/her land and related assets.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainabilitv:
For the works, the sustainability would be determined by the quality achieved and the availability of funds
for maintaining the works after they have been improved. The Project would improve quality through
implementation of the quality assurance framework being prepared under HS 2 (Loan 3712-IN)D) and the
follow-up TA conceming the same subject included under the proposed project, through the training of
public works staff and contractors (both formal and on-the job), and through incentives and controls built
into the contracts.
Timely availability of funds in the proper amounts is essential to ensuring maintenance and sustainability of
the improved works in the future. The project includes a TA for implementation of a road fund in one of
the provinces in Indonesia. Although this could lead to improvements in funding, its results will not be
realized till some years into the future. However, availability of funds has been a problem in the past (and
is expected to continue to be so in the current era of tight budgets) and the risk attached to this aspect is
substantial.
For the planning structures, the sustainability will be strongly influenced by the pace of organizational
change in the region and country - the partnerships established under the Project should be flexible enough
to adapt with the changes, and the focus will be on the product and the process, rather than on the bodies
and organizations.
For other institutional aspects, sustainability will be highly dependent on the level of ownership and buy-in
for the processes and tools at local levels. At Provincial level the sustainability is highly likely. However,
at Kabupaten and Kota level ( which will be heavily involved in EIRTP 2) there are many more degrees of
freedom and the process of assimilation will be slower- targets for sustainability will need to be realistic
and progressive, and will be assessed during preparation.
For sectoral reform, the sustainability would be likely if the Project establishes the appropriate partnerships
and suitable framework. For regulatory reform in transport, present experience indicates that substantial
progress is unlikely, but this could change as the new government matures.
- 32 -



The direct economic benefits deriving from transport savings are very strong and are highly likely to be
sustainable. The element deriving from traffic growth however will be dependent on national and regional
economic growth, which are not under the control of the Project. The indirect benefits to poverty reduction
are expected to be significant and sustainable, and specific efforts would be made to evaluate these under
EIRTP 2.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Sustained commitment from Gol agencies      N         Alignment of project objectives and scope with
to Project development objectives.                    Gol's medium-term plan, and adoption of
programmatic format which is adaptable to
changing resource constraints.
Effective coordination among project        S         Partnership approach adopted during
agencies.                                             preparation and effective project management
arrangements built on lessons from SRRP.
Other transport sector support              M         Coordination with ADB and JIBC on transport
successfully contributes to the                       sector began in 1999 and is continuing. ADB
performance of the sector.                            has shared its report on a Sumatra project, and
may provide parallel investments in Kalimantan.
JIBC may tie support to programs rather than
direct budget.
Road transport industry has sufficient      S         New Road Law and associated road transport
incentive to perform more efficiently.                regulations should provide more effective
framework than before and be more enforceable.
Corruption in procurement of civil works,   M         Government at all levels should stay committed
goods and consulting services is                     to good governance and fighting corruption,
controlled.                                           fraud, and nepotism. Also, GoI intends to
implement anti-corruption action plan shown in
Annex 14 of this PAD.
Trained staff apply skills in the           M         Civil service reforms should be well carried out.
workplace.                                            Management would ensure that training is given
to the appropriate candidates and the promotion
and work assignment of the trainees are closely
related to the training received.
From Components to Outputs
Counterpart resources are available in      M         Government inputs to the national budget
terms of i) general funding for project               process include the Project analysis, and the
implementation; ii) staff for transport               Project's annual program needs will be
planning committees and PMU.                          incorporated in the national budgeting process;
Training will be provided to staff and the core
team and regional team consultants to PMU will
provide needed additional help.
Provincial governments allocate adequate    S         Not a major issue because most roads under
funding for roads from block grants.                  EIRTP I are national roads with the counterpart
funds coming from the central government.
Guidance will be provided through the resource
- 33 -



allocation and asset management tools, however
controls and monitoring arrangements are not
known at this stage.
Land acquisition on time.                        S          Land requirements are low because works are
mainly within existing road reserve. Land has to
be acquired and compensation paid before the
contracts with the successful contractors are
signed.
Procurement schedule not delayed.                S          Programmatic approach allows some flexibility.
Asset management tools will assist project
preparation. Core team and regional teams
consultants include procurement specialists and
provide training in the procurement area.
Adequate management capacity at all              M          Provide effective PMU arrangements to
levels.                                                     facilitate implementation at provincial level.
Competition is maintained in the road            M          Project provisions to improve procurement will
construction industry.                                      be supported by a national program overhauling
procurement practices.
Effective enforcement of road transport          S          Increase participation of road transport industry
policies.                                                   in consultation on policies. Some support from
the ongoing efforts on the national civil service
reform.
Bank and central government resources            S          Effective PMU arrangements, including
for supervision are sufficient.                             automation of monitoring and financial
management as far as possible, to minimize the
requirements for travel and improve the quality
of reporting. High reliance on local ownership
and accountability. Provisions are made in the
proposed loan for EIRTP 1 to cover incremental
operating costs of the PMU and the Directorate
of Technical Affairs in DGRI. Bank to provide
adequate budget for supervision of this project.
Overall Risk Rating                              M          First-year program ready for implementation.
Excludes works with land acquisition.
Decentralization of asset management tools
under HS 2 has begun..
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
Note: In assessing the overall risk rating of the Project, there is an even combination of effects. Several of the
procedures needed to launch and establish the momentum of the Project will be heavily influenced by the present
organization. Despite good implementation records in the past in Public Works, the record in the past few years
has been weak, as the slow start of the Sumatra Region Roads Project has shown. That slowness however does
not appear to be a result of the Project design, but of the individuals in key management positions and the
distraction caused by the crisis of the past four years. In relation to delivering the physical outputs, the risk of
underachieving is low. In implementing the various activities under the Project, the risk is also low to modest.
However, in relation to institutional and sector policy certain of the development objectives could fall short, judging
by the performance over the past few years, and the risk would be substantial. The overall rating above is therefore
weighted slightly more to the physical delivery than to the institutional issues.
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
There could be some controversy over safeguard policies in areas with rich natural resources and isolated
- 34 -



people, such as in Papua. The main danger is in the indirect effects of the road improvements, as they may
facilitate undesirable developments, especially due to the weak institutional capacity of the Bapedaldas
responsible for environmental oversight and compliance. Also, there could be some controversy over the
priority of sealing some earth roads, due to their regional or local importance, but with low traffic volumes
could have a low ERR, especially when compared with preservation works. However, the project focuses
on preservation of existing assets and meets critical needs and should therefore be welcomed by all
concerned. Further, despite the provisions of Annex 14 regarding anti-corruption and the commitment of
the government to good governance and the fight against corruption, some corruption could still occur
during implementation of the project which could result in reputation risk for the Bank.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
1. The Steering Committee has been established in accordance with section C.4 of the PAD dealing with
oversight under institutional arrangements during implementation.
2. The annual work program for fiscal year 2002, acceptable to the Bank, has been finalized.
Board Conditions
1. The Bank receives from the Gol a revised Environmental Management Plan (EMP) which contains the
Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework shown in Annex 12 of the PAD.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Conditions of Negotiations
None
Covenants on Implementation
1. The Borrower shall maintain an inter-agency Steering Committee until completion of the project.
2. MSRI/ DGRI shall maintain a Project Management Unit (PMU) until completion of the project.
3. Furnish to the Bank for its review and comments not later than June 30 in year, commencing in June 30,
2002, and until completion of the project a draft annual work program (AWP) for all components to be
implemented in the following year. This report should include scope of the program, environmental
screening of the proposed works, sub-projects which require land acquisition and resettlement action plans
and isolated vulnerable people development action plan; cost estimate; time-based implementation plan;
financing plan; and budget arrangements. The AWP would be finalized by November 30 in each year
starting in November 30, 2002, taking into account the comments of the Bank thereon.
4. For a sub-project to be included in the AWP it should meet the criteria summarized below:
(a) the proposed works and activities have been included in the relevant annual work program;
(b) the proposed works and activities have a projected minimum economic rate of return of fifteen percent
as calculated in a manner acceptable to the Bank, or such lower economic rate of return as the Bank
may agree in exceptional circumstances
(c) necessary counterpart funding to fully finance the proposed works and activities is available and in
amounts acceptable to the Bank;
(d) appropriate engineering, social and environmental standards and practices that would minimize any
acquisition of land and avoid involuntary resettlement of Project Affected Persons have been considered
- 35 -



in the design of the proposed sub-projects;
(e) for sub-projects involving the involuntary resettlement of Project Affected Persons, (i) a Land
Acquisition and Resettlement Action Plan has been prepared in accordance with the Land Acquisition
and Resettlement Policy Framework and in consultation with said Project Affected Persons, (ii) such
Land Acquisition and Resettlement Action Plan has been approved by the Bank, and (iii) every Project
Affected Person has been compensated and/or has been provided with a resettlement site and moving
allowance prior to the taking of the land and related assets, and such compensation and provision of
resettlement site and moving allowance has been substantially completed prior to the signing of the
contract for the carrying out of such sub-projects, in accordance with the provisions of said Plan;
(f) for sub-projects involving Isolated Vulnerable People, (i) a social impact assessment pursuant to the
guidelines for the treatment of Isolated Vulnerable People has been prepared, including an Isolated
Vulnerable People's Development Plan as required, (ii) such assessment and Plan have been approved
by the Bank, and (iii) the most critical aspects of the Plan have been implemented prior to the signing
of the contract for the carrying out of such sub-projects, and;
(g) for proposed sub-projects, the environmental impact assessment requirements have been completed
pursuant to the provisions of the Environmental Management Plan, including the provisions relating to
cultural property, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank.
Completion of the following studies/ technical assistance
1. Furnish the recommendations of the study on a proposed framework for planning, programming and
budgeting procedures to the Ban for review and comments by July 31, 2005, and thereafter prepare an
action plan taking into account the comments of the Bank on the recommendations of the study, if any.
2. Furnish the recommendations of the study on quality assurance to the Bank for review and comments by
July 31, 2005, and thereafter prepare an action plan taking into account the comments of the bank on the
recommendations of the study, if any.
3. The Borrower shall: (a) select the pilot Province for a demonstration road fund in accordance with
criteria acceptable to the Bank; (b) take all measures required to establish the Road Fund in the pilot
Province by June 30, 2004, and, promptly thereafter, operate the Road Fund in a manner acceptable to the
Bank; and (c) by December 31, 2005, furnish to the Bank a report on the implementation of the Road Fund
including recommendations on the establishment of road funds in other provinces.
4. Complete the automated road monitoring surveys (ARMS) by December 31, 2003 in a manner
acceptable to the Bank.
5. Finalize the enhanced bid documents by December 31, 2003 in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
6. Furnish to the Bank for its review and comments by June 30, 2003 the report on training needs and
organization, and training modules and thereafter finalize such report taking into consideration the
comments of the Bank, if any.
7. Furnish to the Bank for its review and comments by December 31, 2003 the recommendations of the
studies on job descriptions and competences and on development of productivity improvement programs
and the training modules (Puslatjakons); and thereafter, prepare and carry out an action plan taking into
consideration the comments of the Bank on the recommendations, if any.
Monitoring and Reporting
- 36 -



1. As from the second quarter of calendar 2002 DGRI/ PMU prepares and furnishes to the Bank quarterly
project management reports (PMR) not later than May 15, August 15, November 15, and February 15 of
each year. These reports would cover financial management including projected sources and applications
of funds for the six month period following the period covered, physical progress in project
implementation, and procurement under the project and expenditures under contracts financed out of the
proceeds of the loan.
2. DGRI/ PMU furnishes to the Bank a report on the monitoring indicators for the project during the
preceding year by June 30 of each year, conmmencing June 30, 2003. This report shall be reviewed with the
Bank by September 30 in each year, commencing September 30, 2003.
3. DGRI/ PMU shall within six months of the closing date of the Bank loan to the project furnish to the
Bank an implementation completion report in a fornat acceptable to the Bank.
4. DGRI/ PMU shall furnish to the Bank the audited accounts for the project not later than six months
from the end of the fiscal year, that is by June 30 of each year, starting June 30, 2003.
H. Readiness for Implementation
1 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
0 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
Z 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
O 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
The revised Environmental Management Plan, containing the land acquisition and resettlement policy
framework, shown in Annex 12, will be submitted to the Bank by November 20, 2001.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Hatim M. Hajj                     Jiten a N Bajpai                  Mark Baird
Team Leader                 {J    Sector Manager/Director           Country Manager/Dlrector
- 37 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
INDONESIA: Eastern Indonesia Region Transport
Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
1. Sustaining economic recovery  1. Increase in average per    1. CAS and CEM reports.    1. Assumed growth in
and promoting broad-based  capita income in EIR.                                 five-year plan is achieved.
growth.
2. Building national       2. Annual work programs    2. SEPM and IIRMS reports  2. Good management of civil
institutions for accountable   prepared using approved  including traffic and road  service reform.
government.                systematic procedures and in  condition surveys.
accordance with long term
plans and efficiency
objectives.
3. Delivering better public   3. Percent of national and                         3. Process of decentralization
service.                   strategic roads in fair or better                     is well-managed.
condition is increased.
Project Development        Outcome I Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
A. Improvement of National  1. Percent of segments on the 1. Reports on Annual Works  1. Works programming
and strategic roads to reduce  budgeted work program  Programs and runs of       guidelines are used.
transport costs and provide    which are recommended by    SEPM/IRMS.
more reliable access.     IIRMS.
2. Reports on IRMS data.    2. Selection of sub-projects is
2. a) Average condition of                            not influenced by political
National roads.                                       pressures.
b) Average condition of
bridges on National roads.    3. Reports on Automated  3. IRMS data is not
Road Monitoring surveys.    manipulated.
4. Reports of Bank's       4. Security problems do not
supervision missions.      adversely affect
implementation.
B. Decentralized planning    1. Number of provinces   1. Quarterly progress reports  1. Provinces accept the need
and management of roads to   which have submitted a long  and project management  for time schedule discipline as
be operational and         list AWP by the due date each report (PMR).           part of successful
sustainable.               year.                                                 decentralization.
2.Number of provinces where  2. BAPEDALDA reports to  2. Action Plan for
BAPEDALDAs submit          P3JJ.                      Strengthening BAPEDALDA
reports on environmental and                          is functional.
social aspects of AWP.
3. Reports from PPBPTA are 3. Reports on PPBP TA.     3. MSRL staff are
available and agreed                                  sucessfully decentralized to
recommendations are                                   provinces and Kabupatens.
implemented.
- 38 -



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives           Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Output from each           Output Indicators:         Project reports:            (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
The following apply to all
1. Preservation of Roads (See 1.1 Kilometers of betterment 1. Annual work programs;    outputs:
Annex 1-a).                1.2 Kilometers of periodic    Progress reports, PMRs by
maintenance.               DGRI/core team consultants,  Central government and
1.3 Meters of bridges      and; Reports of Bank's     provinces in EIR remain
replaced.                  supervision missions.       committed to the project.
Effective coordination among
project agencies is realized.
2. Accidents blackspots                               2. Same as above for
identified and treated (see  2.1 Number of accident   preservation of roads       Trained staff apply skills in
Annex I-a).                blackspots treated.                                    the workplace.
3. Implementation Support is                          3. Bank clears procurement    Other transport sector
well managed.              3.1 DGRI to hire qualified    process and contracts; Reports projects successfully
core team consultants regional to be submitted by      contribute to the performance
team consultants, and design  consultants; Progress reports  of the sector.
and supervision consultants.  by PMU, and; Reports of
Bank's supervision missions.  Road transport industry has
sufficient incentive to
3.2 DGLC to hire road traffic                          perform.
safety consultants.                                    Corruption during
procurement and
3.3 Equipment is delivered                            implementation is minimal.
and put to use.
4. ROAD SECTOR
SUPPORT                                               The following apply to all
4.1 Numbers trained.       Road Sector Support
4.1 DGRI and provincial staff                          components:
are trained.
Bank clears RFP, evaluation
reports for selection of
4.2. Study reports on job  consultants, and contractors.
4.2 Construction industry is  titles and competencies,
efficiently managed.       productivity and preparation  Inception, progress, interim
of training modules.       and final reports produced.
Progress reports by PMU.
Reports of Bank's supervision
missions.
4.3. Final reports of pertinent
4.3 Planning, programming   TA.                        The following apply
and budgeting procedures                               specifically to TAs 4.3
(PPBP) at provincial and                               through 4.7:
Kabupaten levels improved.
- 39 -



4.4. Final reports of pertinent Reports of consultants on
4.4 Quality Assurance     TA.                       TAs re:
Management.
4.5. Final reports of pertinent a. PPBP
4.5 Demonstration Road    TA.                       b. Quality assurance
Fund.                                              c. Demonstration road fund
4.6. Final report of pertinent d. Enhanced bid documents
TA.                       e. Extension of ARMS
4.6 Enhanced bid documents
to include Environmental and
safety Clauses.           4.7. Completion of surveys
and Final reportof ARMS.
4.7 Extension of Automated
Road Monitoring Surveys
(ARMS)
-40 -



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives |       Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Project Components I      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:        (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                           Outputs)
1. Road Network           $248.1 million            The following reports apply  The following apply to all
Preservation                -$57.1 million      to all project components:   components:
Periodic Maintenance       -$132.6 million
Betterrnent                 -$58.4 million
Bridges Replacement
2. Accident Blackspots    $ 2.4 million             Monthly and quarterly      Counterpart resources are
progress reports.         available in terms of: (i)
general funding for project
Project management reports.  implementation and (ii) staff
for PMU and P3JJ.
Special reports.
Land needed is acquired on
time.
Procurement schedule is not
3. Implem. Support        $26.2 million             Study reports including    delayed.
Core Team Consultants        -$4.8 million        inception, interim and final
Regional Teams Cons.         -$4.4 million        reports; and               Adequate cooperation exists
Design & Spn.                -$14.5 million                                  between DGRI (MSRI),
Accident Blackspot Con        -$1.8 million        Reports of Bank's supervision DGLC (MOC) and police
Equipment                    -$0.2 million        missions.                 regarding road safety
Incremental Cost               -$0.5 million                                   component.
Adequate management
4. Road Sector Support    $11.3 million                                        capacity at all levels.
Planning, Programming &        -$2.9 million
Budget                                                                         Planning: annual work
Quality Assurance              -$2.3 million                                   programs are developed on
Pilot Road Fund                -$0.8 million                                   basis of SEPM/IIRMS and
Improvement of Bid             -$1.0 million                                   little political interference.
Documents
Extension of ARMS              -$1.5 million                                   Bank and Central
Training                       -$2.8 million                                   Government resources for
supervision are sufficient.
-41 -



Annex l-a:   Key Performance Indicators for the Eastern Indonesia Region Transport Project
Pioect Objectives/Outputs      Performance Indicator            Indicator   Baseline          Medium                 Complete      Full
Term                                Impact
___________________________    __________________________      Type       2001      2002     2003         004        2005         2007
m hprovemient of National and   1. Percent of segments on the    Impact     62%       70%      75%         80%        85%           90%
segiec roads to reduce transport   budgeted work program which are
costand provide reliable access.    recommended by IIRMS
2. Network condition
a) Roads: International roughness
index
b) Bridges: Condition Mark     Outcome      1.37      1.32     1.27        1.27       1.16          1.06
3.Deentlized planning and      3. Timeliness of AWP. Number of  Impact     0         2                    13         15            I5
_      t genwmof orods to be    provinces which have submitted a
)pertiomal and sustainable.     long list AWP by 15 August in each
year
. Number of provinces where   Outcome    0           5       9            12         15            15
BAPEDALDAs submit reports on
environment and social aspects of
AWP to PMU
5. Reports from PPBP TA         Outcome                       Ph I Report Ph. 3       Ph 3
_ _ _ __Report  Report
Improved use of scarce ftmincial  6. Quality of Initial Design: Percent  Impact  28%  50%     70%        80/       90%           95%
Id natual resources through     of sub-projects which meet design
li=wcd efficiency, quality and  criteria
roupwenCy of implementation
7. Technical Audits Number carried Outcome    0       15        15         15         10
out
S. Reports from quality assurance    Output                     Ph. 2                 Ph 2
TA are available ______Report                                                         Report
D. Physical Outputs             9. Annual Work Programs
a) Cumulative Kilometers of     Output      0 km      400 km  800 km       1 100 km    1250km
B1etterment
b) Cumulative Kilometers of     Output      0 km      300 km  600 km       800 km     1000km
Periodic Maintenance
c) Cumulative Meters of Bridge  Output    0 m         400 m   2500 m        500 m     5800m
Replacement
d) Cumulative number of treated  Output     0         0        35          65         90
_Accident Blackspots
-42 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
INDONESIA: Eastern Indonesia Region Transport
The project consists of a discrete portion of road preservation in the 15 provinces of the Eastern Indonesia
Region (EIR) covering the years 2001, 2002, and 2003 as well as technical assistance and training to
support the decentralization process to the provinces and improve use of scarce financial and natural
resources through increased efficiency, quality and transparency of implementation and training of staff.
The costs shown besides each project component include contingencies but exclude value added taxes
estimated at 10 percent of the costs.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$227.22 million
This component consists of civil works for periodic maintenance and betterment of national and strategic
roads in the EIR and treatment of accident blackspots. These are described in the following paragraphs.
Roads and Bridges
An indicative three-year program of civil works and a firm first-year program were prepared and agreed
after detailed review and revision of the draft programs. The program was selected on the basis of: (i) the
set of specific sub-projects programmed by the Directorate General of Regional Infrastructure (DGRI) and
included in the FY 2001 budget and (ii) an economic needs-based analysis using the latest version of the
Indonesian Integrated Road Management System (IIRMS- 2000) and efficient allocation of funds between
EIR provinces. The resulting sub-projects included in the program are all economically justified, but the
allocations between Provinces are constrained by the FY 2001 national budget allocations.
The resulting program consists of the periodic maintenance of about 1000 Km, betterment of about 1250
Kim, and about 5800 meters of bridge replacement to be procured in multi-year contracts in three annual
programs in FY 2001-2003 respectively. Bridge replacement will involve purchase of about 80 steel
trusses with a total length of about 3930 meters for installation by contractors. Details by province,
program and contract package are available in the Borrower's Project Implementation Plan (PIP).
The program includes many betterment works on remote links in tbe National network which are in poor
condition, or are as yet unpaved, so the program will contribute especially to improving the connectivity
and access between main centers in the EIR. While traffic on many is presently low, there is substantial
suppressed traffic demand on most of them. A centerpiece will be completion of an untraffickable portion
(missing link) of Palangkaraya-Banjarmarsin in Kalimantan. The periodic maintenance program provides
preventive resurfacing to links which have reached the end of their surfacing life and would deteriorate
rapidly if neglected for much longer. Overall the program reflects good economic and technical priorities,
but generally respects the budget constraints by deferring lower priority works. There is very little road
widening in the program.
Annual Work Program for 2001
The sub-projects selected in the first year annual work program (AWP) 2001 are available in the project
files and the PIP. They comprise about 510 Km of periodic maintenance, about 260 Km of betterment,
and about 270 meters of bridge replacement. The first year program will be implemented in two batches.
The first consists of 19 packages of periodic maintenance with a length of about 510 Km, 7 packages of
betterment with a length of about 80 Km, and one package of bridge replacement with a length of about
- 43 -



266 meters. The detailed engineering designs and bid documents for these packages have been prepared
and cleared by the Bank and procurement process for contracting services has commenced. The Bank has
cleared the engineering design and bid documents for the second batch and bidding is expected to start in
November 2001. This batch consists of 9 betterment packages with a length of about 180 Km.
Accident Blackspots
This component consists of the identification of accident blackspot locations, development of accident
mitigation measures for the priority locations, implementation of the mitigation measures, establishment of
blackspot investigations units, monitoring of the accident blackspot program and related consulting
services. Tentatively, the program would consist of the treatment of about 90 accident blackspots (at least
3 per province). The preliminary designs for the treatment of accident blackspots will be provided to the
Project Management Unit for inclusion in the roadway packages, as appropriate, to be financed under
EIRTP or Government funds.
Project Component 2 - US$24.46 million
Implementation Support
This component covers consulting services and a small amount of equipment required to support
implementation of the project in order to enhance quality and technical efficiency of the works. Also, it
includes provision of funds for incremental operating costs for the Project Management Unit (PMU) and
the Directorate of Technical Affairs in DGRI. These consist of the following:
Core Team Consultants (CTC). This includes the services of a team of consultants to be engaged by the
Directorate General of Technical Affairs of the Directorate General of Regional Infrastructure (DGRI) to
provide technical assistance to support the Project Management Unit (PMU) and DGRI in managing all
components of the project. The terms of reference for the CTC consultants are available in the Project files
and the Borrower's Project Implementation Plan (PIP).
Regional Team Consultants (RTC). This consists of the services of two regional teams (one for the
Eastern Region which includes the four provinces of Kalimantan and one for the Eastem Region which
includes the remaining 11 provinces included under EIRTP) to be engaged by DGRI's two Regional
Directorates which manage the 15 Provincial Works Departments (DPUP) and their functional agencies to
assist in oversight of design and supervision of the civil works funded under the project. The terms of
reference for the RTC consultants are available in the project files and the Borrower's PIP.
The day-to-day management of the project will be carried out by the PMU with the assistance of the CTC
and RTC consultants. Together they will determine the annual work program, monitor progress in project
implementation and compliance with Bank safeguard policies, including preparation of annual programs,
procurement, performance indicators, physical achievements and expenditures, and preparation and
submittal to the Bank and Steering Committee of project management reports as well as monthly, quarterly
and annual progress reports on overall project implementation, and provide oversight of the P3JJ and DSC
consultants in each province.
Design and Supervision Consultant (DSC). This consists of the services of 15 teams (one for each
province under the project) to be engaged by each province in the Eastern Indonesia region (EIR) to provide
technical assistance to provincial government agencies (P3JJ) for design and supervision of civil works
funded under the project. The termns of reference for the DSC consultants are available in the project files
- 44 -



and the Borrower's PIP. However, the services of these consultants are not expected to be available till
around May 2002. Consequently, the designs of the sub-projects in the first year annual work program
were/are being undertaken under the supervision of the consultants for the Eastern Indonesia Region
Transport Planning Analyses Technical Assistance (EIRTP TA) Consultants, financed by PHRD grants.
Designs should take into consideration quality of life improvements, such as roadside improvements
(transport transfer areas, market areas, urban parking area, rest and scenic areas), road safety (blackspot
remedial measures, traffic calming in settlements, safety audit actions), and health and convenience
measures (air quality, emergency services).
To bridge the gap between signing of contracts with the contractors (around December 2001) and the
availability of DSC Consultants, the DGRI/provinces have submitted to the Bank temporary supervision
arrangements which the Bank found satisfactory.
Road Traffic Safety Consultants (RTSC). This comprises the consulting services required to identify
accident blackspots, develop treatments and related conceptual and detailed designs, develop institutional
actions related to the concerned agencies, and prepare the terms of reference for the preparation of the
traffic safety component to be included in the proposed Second Eastern Indonesia Region Transport Project
(EIRTP 2).
The structure of consulting services under EIRTP I was designed to best serve the two projects when fully
operational. The terms of reference for all services apply specifically for EIRTP 1, but mention possible
expansion to serve EIRTP 2, covering provincial, kabupaten, and kota roads in the same provinces, subject
to consultants good performance under EIRTP 1. They do not include implementation arrangements or
staffing for handling the second project.
Equipment. This sub-component includes a small amount of office and communications equipment to
support management of implementation of the project by the Directorate of technical Affairs in DGRI.
Incremental Operating Costs. These costs include staff travel, per diem, communications, consumables,
web page establishment and maintenance, advertisement of bidding, printing an publication of Project
information, rental of meeting facilities, but excluding staff salaries, which expenditures would not have
been incurred absent the project.
Project Component 3 - US$ 10.32 million
Road Sector Support. This component consists of technical assistance and training required to support
the road sector in the Eastern Indonesia Region with emphasis on support of the ongoing decentralization
process. These are described in the following paragraphs.
Technical Assistance. This sub-component consists of the following: (a) institutional strengthening which
comprises: (i) strengthening of road management (planning, programming and budgeting) under
decentralized operations, (ii) strengthening quality management for roads in EIR, and (iii) implementation
of a demonstration provincial road fund, (b) extension of the automated road monitoring system (ARMS) to
provinces in EIR and Aceh Province in Sumatra, not covered under Highway Sector II Project, and (c)
revision of the bid documents for roads and bridges to include environmental standard operating procedures
(SOP) under ISEM (Institutional Strengthening of Environmental Management). Draft terms of reference
for the three TAs under (a) and for the TA under (c) are available in the project files and in the PIP. The
TOR for the TA under (b) are identical to the existing ones under the HS 2. These TAs are discussed in the
following sections.
- 45 -



(a)    Strengthening of Road Management (Planning, Programming and Budgeting) under
Decentralized Operations. The objectives of this TA are:
*      To strengthen central DGRI capability for preparing, allocating and justifying National road
budgets for approval by Parliament, for monitoring performance of the whole road sector, and for
medium-term strategic planning;
*      To establish at the Provincial level, planning programming and budgeting procedures under
decentralized operation, with defined resources and methods and appropriate private sector
participation;
*      To develop a local roads management system appropriate for Kabupatens and Kotas, compatible
with the national and provincial system (IIRMS), ready for adoption and implementation under future
assistance.
(b)    Strengthening Quality Management for Roads in EIR: The key objectives of this TA are:
-      To establish improved quality assurance procedures and organization in EIR Provinces;
*      The quality of civil works in the Project area will be regularly monitored and show improvement;
*      New tools to help improve the management of quality in contract administration, project
management, and asphalt paving would be implemented.
(c)   Implementation of a Demonstration Provincial Road Fund: Following other initiatives to reform
the means of financing and managing the road sector along business principles, this TA would support a
province in Indonesia interested in establishing a Road Fund, to be financed directly from road user charges
to be levied or allocated by the Province, and managed by a cross-section of road users and representatives
of the road sector. The principles, necessary legislation and preparation would have been developed earlier
under services to be performed during 2001 and 2002 in follow-up to the TAP 41-2 funded study on Road
Funds in Indonesia.
TA for Extension of ARMS to Provinces in EIR
ARMS was carried out in all provinces in EIR under the HS2 project with the exception of Maluku, North
Maluku and Papua. It should be extended to those provinces and to the province of Aceh in Sumatra so
that all provinces in Indonesia would be covered by ARMS. This should help in planning, monitoring, and
design of roads and bridges.
TA for Improvement of Bid Documents
Institutional Strengthening of Environmental Management (ISEM) under the Bank-financed Eastern
Indonesia Kabupaten Road Project (Loan 3579-IND) has provided environmental standard operating
procedures (SOPs) for minimizing and mitigating common adverse environmental impacts. Presently those
are reflected in the bid documents for works for roads and bridges through a separate addendum for each
contract. It is considered advantageous that all standard bid documents include this set of environmental
mitigation measure during construction. Also, the bid documents should be updated to reflect recent
advances in the safety area (both during construction and operation of roads). Further, desirable changes
- 46 -



to the specifications based on experience in using the current bid documents should be included in a revised
version of the bid documents. To help ensure that the resulting documents would be formally adopted by
DGRI, it is important that a steering committee with membership from main stakeholders should be
established to provide direction and approve the results of this TA. Membership would include
MSRI/DGRI, contractors (GAPENSI), consultants (INKINDO), association of engineers, Ministry of
Environment, and recognized individual expert(s) from universities or private sector. The TOR for this TA
are available in the project files and the PIP.
Training. Training is required for manpower development purposes in the road sector and to support the
decentralization process in particular. EIRTP 1 includes training to the central, provincial and Kabupaten
staff involved in the road sector as well as support to the wider construction community through
PUSLATJAKONS. The related TOR for this component are available in the PIP.
The objective of this training under DGRI is to strengthen the capability of Provincial, Kabupaten, and
Kota manpower particularly during the current process of decentralization, and where feasible to impact
the wider contracting and consulting community. The first phase is to involve: a short duration study as
described in the next paragraph; implementation of provincial and selected kabupaten and kota training
courses; strengthening of the central and provincial government training units; and Preparation of course
materials.
The short duration study will be carried out by a Consultant assisted by the Bina Marga Human Resource
Development (BMHRD) team to determine:
*      The appropriate central MSRI and provincial DINAS organization structure and institutional
linkages between this organization and related government and non-governmient bodies, to conserve
earlier master plan efforts and sustain over the long term the operation of training material development
and training delivery to provincial and Kabupaten staff, and wider community;
*      Expansion of earlier master plans (Kabupaten road Maintenance Training Plan- KRMTP and
National and Provincial Roads Master Training Plan- NPRMTP) by adoption of technological
advances in training development and delivery; "user pay" systems particularly for training delivered to
the wider community; linkage of short term training to other educational programs for career
development; Recognition and support to training by professional and trade bodies.
*        The road sector training needs of provincial and Kabupaten / Kota staff, and recommend a
master plan to be implemented during the EIRTP 2 which describes the specific training interventions,
numbers to be trained, costs, locations, and implementation schedule.
In order to support the wider construction community through the preparation of appropriate training,
EIRTP 1 requires PUSLATJAKONS to carry out a study on jobs and competences, a study on worker and
team productivity leading to specification of relevant productivity improvement programs. During this
phase preparation of training modules should also be carried out. This will include the updating of 32
existing modules and the development of 13 new modules to support the training of construction workers.
Further, PUSLATJAKONS would investigate and activate an efficient mechanism for copyright and
ownership appropriation of the modules.
-47-



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
INDONESIA: Eastern Indonesia Region Transport
USS million    US$ Million    USS Million
Civil Works
Roads and Bridges
Periodic Maintenance of Roads        17.69          27.09          44.78
Betterment of Roads                  41.09          62.94         104.03
Bridge Replacement Works             13.16          20.16          33.32
Subtotal                             71.94         110.18         182.12
Accident Blackspots                     0.75            1.14           1.89
Total Civil Works                         72.69         111.33         184.01
Goods
Bridge materials (Steel Truss)          0.00           12.50          12.50
Other ! Miscellaneous                   0.18            0.00           0.18
Total materials                            0.18          12.50          12.68
Implementation Support
Central Core Team                       0.94            2.82           3.76
Regional Teams                          0.85            2.59           3.44
Design and Supervision                 11.37            0.00          11.37
Accident Blackspot / Road Safety        0.44            1.01           1.44
Incremental Operating Costs             0.44            0.00           0.44
Total Implementation Support              14.03           6.42          20.45
Road Sector Support
Training
DG Regional infrastructure            0.47           0.73            1.20
Puslatjakons                          0.42           0.59            1.00
Subtotal Training                       0.89            1.31           2.20
Technical Assistance
PPB Procedures                        0.56           1.74           2.30
Quality Management                    0.49           1.31            1.80
Road Fund Pilot                       0.23           0.37            0.60
ARMS Extension                        0.34           0.86            1.20
Bid Document Improvement              0.26           0.54            0.80
Subtotal Technical Assistance            1.88           4.82           6.70
Total Road Sector Support                  2.77           6.13            8.90
Total Baseline Cost                       89.66         136.38         226.04
Physical Contingencies                     5.38           8.18           13.56
Price Contingencies                       14.47           7.93          22.40
Total Project Cost                       109.51         152.49         262.00
Loan Front-End Fee                         0.00           2.00            2.00
Total Financing Required                 109.51         154.49         264.00
The above costs exclude taxes (VAT)
Table A3.2 Project Cost By Category
Category                 Local         Foreign          Total
US$ million    USS Million    USS Million
Civil Works                               88.78         124.66         213.45
Goods                                      0.21          13.77           13.98
Services                                  20.52          14.05           34.57
Total Project Cost                       109.51         152.49          262.00
Loan Front-End Fee                         0.00           2.00            2.00
Total Financing Required                 109.51         154.49          264.00
The above costs exclude taxes (VAT)
- 48 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
INDONESIA: Eastern Indonesia Region Transport
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
The benefits of training and other TA provided under the project are substantial but difficult to quantify or
cost. Hence, the economic analyses were restricted to the civil works included under the project. These
works include: (a) preservation works for roads which consist of periodic maintenance and betterment
(including minor widening) of national roads and strategic roads already identified to become national
roads, primarily due to the creation of new provinces as a result of the ongoing decentralization, (b) bridge
rehabilitation and replacement , and (c) accident blackspots. Benefit cost analyses of components (a) and
(b) were carried out. Costs and benefits were expressed in economic terms and were updated to 2001 to
adjust for the inflation and changes in the exchange rate. However, since the blackspot locations
(component (c)) are not yet defined, it is difficult to determine the specific value of its economic viability at
this stage. The following sections present the economic analyses for preservation works including bridge
replacement.
Road Preservation Works
In general the 'periodic maintenance' program includes resurfacing overlays on existing alignments, and
'betterment' includes reconstruction or sealing of unsealed surfaces. Both periodic maintenance and
betterment may include minor widening without land acquisition. A total of 6% of 260 km of betterment in
AWP 1 includes 2 m widening, I m widening and 0.5 m widening, while 4% of 510 km of periodic
maintenance in AWP 1 includes 1.5 m widening and 1.2 m widening. This work has been included with the
cost of the works, and the benefits of minor widening are included in the analyses.
Economic costs are based on the net-of-tax cost estimates for works (from certified designs wherever
available) plus a percentage for implementation support (design and supervision) derived from the
percentage of estimated support costs to each province's annual works program.
The main and readily quantifiable benefits of preservation and minor capacity expansion works are vehicle
operating cost savings for existing traffic together with savings in personal travel time for road users.
Since commercial freight and passenger transport services in the EIR generally exhibit the same
competitive characteristics observed in most other parts of Indonesia, savings in vehicle operating costs
should be largely passed on to road users and should thus directly influence costs of production and
agricultural price levels. The principal direct beneficiaries will be the local population using the road
networks. The region also contains significant commercial enterprises notably in the forest products and
plantation sectors that stand to benefit from improvements to specific sections of the network.
Prioritization of sub-projects to be financed under the project was undertaken using results generated by
the Strategic Expenditures Planning Module (SEPM) of the Indonesian Integrated Road Management
System (IIRMS) and having regard also to proposals made by the respective provinces. The SEPM model
was run assuming an annual budget constraint on the region's roads progran of IDR 580 billion for the
next 3-4 years. This process resulted in an agreed list of candidate projects for the first year works
program (AWP 1), together with probable programs for the subsequent years of the project.
All sub-projects, both those recommended by SEPM (about 62% of AWP 1) and those proposed by
- 49 -



provinces (388%), were subjected to analysis using the economic review facility within the Inter-urban Road
Management System (IRMS) included in IIRMS. The IRMS analysis provides estimates of the Net Present
Values (NPV) and Economic Internal Rates of Return (EIRR) of works other than routine maintenance
based on data on road condition (roughness and deflection) and traffic. Benefits were calculated using year
2000 vehicle operating costs adjusted to 2001 levels by factoring for subsequent inflation and exchange
rate movements. Routine maintenance is assumed on all roads as the "without" case. Routine maintenance
was also included for the "with" sub-project case. All costs have been estimated at 2001 levels.
Traffic data in the IRMS databases has been known to vary unpredictably between years in the past, so a
check of the validity of new traffic data was made using the time-series trend of available data over several
years. For those sub-projects where the proposed treatment involved sealing of an unsealed segment, traffic
and traffic trends on adjacent links has been used to estimate suppressed traffic on the sub-project.
Adjustment of road user costs for variation of design data from data in the IRMS database was done
manually for each sub-project by direct scaling of road user costs in relation to length and traffic variation,
and pro-rata variation of IRMS-predicted user costs and roughness data (IRI) for ten years of the "without"
case analysis, using IRMS estimates for the "with" sub-project case.
First Year Work Program. Individual benefit-cost analyses have been conducted for each sub-project in
the AWPI program using cost estimates developed on the basis of detailed engineering designs.
The average rate of return expected from periodic maintenance (PM) sub-projects in AWP I is 47%,
compared with 48% for betterment sub-projects. The spread of rates of return is rather wider for PM (18%
- 177%) than for betterment (15% - 154%), however the median is closer to the average in the case of PM
works, as shown in Table 1.
Table 1: Distribution of Economic Rates of Return expected on AWP 1
Grouping of EIRR       Betterment (23 sub-projects)    Periodic Maintenance (26 sub-projects)
Cost (Rp. million)                  Share %Cost (Rp. million)Share %
15% < EIRR < 20%                  30,361                        17%   39,451 20%
20% < EIRR < 30%                  53,211                       29%   23,794 12%
30% < EIRR < 40%                  24,925                        14%   14,217 7%
40% < EIRR < 60%                  38,390                       21%   78,628 40%
60% < EIRR <100%                   9,984                        5%   33,096 17%
100% < EIRR                    26,644                        15%    7,204 4%
Totals                      183,516                      100%  196,390 100%
Summary of Results. The PIP as well as the project files include summaries of the kilometers of
betterment and periodic maintenance by province and year of implementation for 2001-2003. The program
includes about 1,000 Km of periodic maintenance, about 1,250 Km of betterment, and about 200 meters
of bridge rehabilitation and 5,600 meters of bridge replacement. The EIRR for the whole program is
estimated at 31.5%.
A list of sub-projects in the 2001 AWP for each province in the EIR by type of work (periodic
maintenance, betterment, or bridge replacement), effective length to be treated, estimated cost (excluding
contingencies), and NPV and EIRR is included in the PIP and is available in the project files. The 2001
AWP consists of about 510 Km of periodic maintenance, about 260 Km of betterment, and about 270
meters of bridge replacement. The 2001 AWP was divided into two batches. The first batch consists of
- 50 -



26 sub-projects for periodic maintenance grouped into 19 contract packages, 8 sub-projects for betterment
(7 packages), and one package of bridge replacement which includes 6 bridges with a total length of about
266 meters. The engineering designs and bid documents for these sub-projects have been cleared by the
Bank and the procurement of contracting services has started. The engineering cost estimates for these
sub-projects are available. Table 2 shows a summary of these sub-projects together with their NPV and
EIRR. The overall EIRR for this batch is 46%.
The second batch of sub-projects in the 2001 AWP consists of about 9 betterment packages covering 15
sub-projects. The engineering designs for these sub-projects are being prepared and are expected to be
ready for bidding by December 2001. The average EIRR for this batch is 48%, based on detailed
engineering designs which have just been completed. All sub-projects have a rate of return of at least 15%
as shown in Table 3.
Subsequent Year Work Programs. It is not appropriate to attempt equivalent analyses for actual
sub-projects in subsequent annual works programs as, while the identification of candidate links is
reasonably firm, further investigations are needed to better-define the works to be undertaken on them and,
based on this, to refine the cost estimates. Accordingly, the programs for subsequent years have been
analyzed into a number of distinct "sub-project categories" which represent different work types or
viability. From the data available for each link in the program, the average road condition data, traffic level
and costs were determnined for each category of sub-project. The average data for each category is assumed
to be representative of the sub-projects within the category; with each category having its own
"representative sub-link". Nine distinct categories were identified which cover most of the identified
sub-projects, as shown in Table 4.
Table 4: Sub-project categories showing average characteristics for representative sub-projects
Average category parameters.                AADT       AADT    AADT                SDI      Surface    Width    IRI
Max        Min       Ave                       Type
I    Low traffic unsurfaced                       324         22        148              0.0        2        6.0     13.1
2    Med traffic, unsurfaced                      2251        324       774             39.0        2        7.0      16.9
3   Low traffic, low standard surface             309        45        176              99.0       6        5.0      8.5
4   Med traffic, low standard surface             1247       344       635             124.8       6        5.0      11.5
5   Lowtrafflc,hrs/ac                             268         45       181              44.9       1 X   i  5.0     10.9
6   Med traffic, hrs/ac                           1079       341       612              21.3       1        6.0      11.3
7   high traffic, hrsiac widen                   9602        1381      2609             24.9      _i   5.0           4.8
8   high traffic, hrs/ac no widen                10140       1139      3455             20.0       11       7.0      5.6
9   very high traffic widen                      19490      11789     13318             1.3        1        7.0      5.2
Notes
1. Surf type 2 = unsurfaced road; 6  low standard  AADT    SDI means    IRI means
asphalt surface; II = Hot Rolled Sheet or asphalt  means  surface    international
concrete.                                   annual     distress   roughness index
average    index
daily traffic
2. Width is a rounded figure based on the average
for the category.
3. Traffic and IRI adjusted to 2001 levels based on
IRMS data.
Categories 1 and 2 are associated with links with earth or gravel segments. The works treatment for these
groups is assumed to be Bettennent by upgrading to asphalt.
Category 1 has low traffic and using the original IRMS analysis and the defined average traffic level is not
viable. The links in this category were subjected to special analyses to consider the "suppressed traffic".
The suppressed traffic on individual links will be considered on a link by link basis considering the traffic
- 51 -



levels on the corridor which has the constrained link. An examination of the IRMS road deterioration
model shows that for non-surfaced roads (earth and gravel) no deterioration is assumed. Instead, the
roughness is immediately set at some defined minimum level where it is maintained in the "without" case. It
is assumed that this level of roughness is maintained by a regular routine maintenance program. It is
argued that while this assumption might be reasonable for general screening purposes required by the
IIRMS/SEPM analysis, it might not be realistic when considering an individual link analysis.
Based on the above analysis, at the category I average traffic level (148) the NPV@1 5% is estimated at
IDR 714 million /km with an economic rate of return (EIRR) of 35%.
Category 2 is viable across the range of traffic levels. At the category average traffic (774) the
NPV@15% is estimated at IDR 3,094 million /km with an EIRR of 61%.
Categories 3 and 4 are associated with links with low grade asphalt surface subject to rapid deterioration.
Since the surface is already asphalt both periodic works and betterment can be considered.
Category 3 is marginally viable for periodic work at the estimated average traffic (181) the NPV@ 15% is
estimated at IDR 80 million /km with an EIRR of 17%. For betterment work where the structure is
improved and lower roughness (as measured by the international roughness index-IRI) is achieved, the
NPV@ 15% is estimated at IDR 317 million /km with an EIRR of 20%. This analysis is sensitive to the
works cost assumptions.
Category 4 is viable across the range of traffic levels. At the category average traffic (612) the NPV@ 15%
is estimated at IDR 1,112 million /km with an EIRR of 37% for periodic work and the NPV@15% is
estimated at IDR 1,905 million /km. with an EIRR of 53% for betterment work. Again the relative results
are sensitive to the cost assumptions.
Categories 5 and 6 are associated with links with Hot Rolled Sheet or Asphalt concrete where both
periodic or betterment treatments might be considered.
Category 5 is marginally viable for periodic work at the estimated average traffic (176) the NPV@ 15% is
estimated at IDR 407 million /km with an EIRR of 23%. For betterment work where the structure is
improved and lower IRI is achieved, the NPV@.15 % is estimated at IDR 317 million /km with an EIRR of
20%. This relative analysis between periodic and betterment work is sensitive to the works cost
assumptions.
Category 6 is viable across the range of traffic levels. At the category average traffic (635) the NPV@15%
is estimated at IDR 1,541 million /km with an EIRR of 36% for periodic work and the NPV@15% is
estimated at IDR 1,532 million /km with an EIRR of 34% for betternent work. Again, the relative results
are sensitive to the cost assumptions.
Categories 7 to 9 are associated with links with Hot Rolled Sheet or Asphalt concrete and these are
generally highly viable (due to the high traffic levels) for betterment or periodic maintenance depending on
the roughness. Betterment in category 7 is likely to be associated with widening as could some links in
category 9.
Category 7 is very viable for periodic work at the estimated average traffic (2,609) the NPV@ 15% is
estimated at IDR 1,869 million /kn with an EIRR of 36%. For betterment work where the road is widened,
the NPV@ 15% is estimated at IDR 2,147 million /km with an EIRR of 32%. The widening option should
- 52 -



be selected where widening is required. The periodic maintenance option would be used where the segment
is sufficiently wide but roughness requires improvement.
Category 8 is highly viable across the range of traffic levels. At the category average traffic (3455) the
NPV@15% is estimated at IDR 4,894 million /km with an EIRR of 54% for periodic work and the
NPV@15% is estimated at IDR 4,907 million /km with an EIRR of 45%0' for betterment work.
Category 9 is highly viable due to the very high traffic levels. At the category average traffic (13,318) the
NPV@15% is estimated at IDR. 3,921 million /km. with an IRR of 59% for periodic work and the
NPV@15% is estimated at IDR 3,927 million /km with an EIRR of 56% for betterment work.
'Quality of Life' works
A small amount of "quality of life" works has been included in designs for the first year program (0.3% of
total cost), all consisting of urban parking improvements. In only two sub-projects is this work significant
(respectively 8% and 5% of cost on sub-projects with EIRR of 53% and 1 74%), so the potential additional
benefits of "quality of life" works have been disregarded in the analysis in all cases.
Bridge replacement
DGRI has implemented a Bridge Maintenance System (BMS) which, inter alia, provides a sophisticated
tool for assessing the economics of individual bridge investments and for formulating soundly prioritized
bridge investment programs. The BMS determines the benefits from replacement based on comparisons of
"with" and "without" project situations for a range of timing options. The 'with' project costs take account
both of the costs of construction and of additional road user costs (RUC) cause~d by diversion or traffic
congestion caused by the works. The BMS program projects the deterioration of the bridge condition over
time based on its existing condition and traffic levels. As traffic volumes increase, the bridge will
deteriorate more rapidly and while congestion will increase road user costs until the net present value of the
"with" case exceeds that for the "without" case, and signaling that bridge replacement is justified.
Batch 1 of the first year program includes provision for replacing 6 bridges on 1lirk no. 54.090 (Pasang
Kayu - Sulumana), the northernmost road link connecting South Sulawesi to Central Sulawesi. The
bridges are currently single-lane Bailey bridges with wooden decks. Four are short (20 m span or less),
one medium (40 m) and one long (144 m). The new designs include four concrete T-beam bridges (18 or
20 m) and two steel truss bridges (lA40 + 2A55 and IA40), all on concrete stibstructures. Design width is
the standard two lane 7 m + 2 m. Foundation and river investigations have been carried out, and
engineering designs and drawings have been completed. All other bndges on this 49 kilometer link have
been replaced under previous programs including the BankL's Highway Sector II Project (Ln 3712-lND).
The estimated average daily traffic on the link is currently 11 0  vehicles, while the estimated total cost of
the bridge replacements is IDR 14.2 billion.
Conventional economic analysis using the BMS indicates these investments individually would have
negative EIRR if implemented in 2002 as the structures are not near collapse and the traffic is too low to
generate significant congestion costs. However, there are other important issues meriting consideration
that are not reflected in the BMS analysis, including:
1.    The 6 bridges are in remote locations, and theft of the wooden decking- -which was observed
during the Bank mission's visit in March 2001--is a continuing problem that atfects the ieliability of the
entire link. Deck replacement using a more penranent solution is not considered a viable option as the
structures themselves are narrow and intended only to be temporary.
- 53 -



2.     Operators know the link is frequently impassable, and indeed many trucks carry timber planks in
anticipation of problems. This is believed to suppress traffic, which in turn precludes realization of the full
benefits from the past and currently proposed betterment works on this important national link.
3.     The Bailey steel structures, which are generally in good condition and should last many more
years, are part of a pool that is intended for temporary or emergency use. Provision of permanent bridges
on this link would therefore free-up the existing bridges, whose benefits elsewhere should substantially
exceed their residual values as computed by the BMS.
4.     The bridges on link 90 could be considered as part of a set of investments on links 88, 89 and 90
(36.5 km of work on a 157 km corridor), of which the first two links are included in AWP I with an
assumed generation of 83 AADT of suppressed traffic (totaling 193), while part of link 90 itself is
proposed in AWP 2. Although provincial works engineers recommended addition of suppressed traffic of
about 190 (totaling 300 AADT), the lower number of 193 assumed in this analysis is sufficient to generate
a net present value of IDR 14.2 billion of benefits to users on the three road sub-projects, enough to pay for
the bridges and maintain an overall 15% rate of return on the whole set of investments without assuming
any benefits from the 6 bridges per se.
The economic feasibility of Batch 1 of the AWP I program is not very sensitive to the inclusion of the
costs of these 6 bridges, falling only marginally from 46.8% to 45.7%. It is considered here that the
unquantified benefits that would stem from enabling reliable inter-provincial travel along the link should in
practice justify the bridge investmnents. They are accordingly included in the program, but special steps
will be taken to monitor the development of traffic, and particularly end-to-end traffic along the link.
All bridges proposed for funding in AWP 2 and 3 of EIRTP 1 will be justified using BMS or specific
feasibility studies. If a bridge exceeds the length specified in Ministerial Decree No. 17/2000 (20 meters in
urban areas, 60 meters rural) and also falls into an environmentally sensitive area as specified in the
screening criteria in the EMP, it will be excluded from EIRTP I on environmental grounds. This may
occur with the proposed Kapuas II Bridge in Pontianak (West Kalimantan) which will be subject to
feasibility study.
Accident blackspots
No attempt was made to conduct a benefit-cost analysis for the small accident blackspot component,
principally because the specific locations to be included in the program have still to be determined.
Detailed definition of the blackspot component will be carried out in 2002 as part of the road safety TA.
However, based on experience in Indonesia and elsewhere, the rate of return for this component is
confidently expected to be high.
Training and other technical assistance. The benefits of training and other TA to be provided under the
project are expected to be very substantial, but such benefits are not amenable to meaningful quantitative
valuation.
Main Assumptions:
The main assumptions adopted for the economic analyses were discussed in the previous section.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
Three-Year Program. Under the most likely traffic growth scenario and using the "representative link
approach" described earlier in this annex, the net present value (NPV) for the civil works component at 15
- 54 -



% discount rate is IDR 3.75 trillions and the corresponding economic rate of return (EIRR) is 31.5%. The
rate of return for the various sub-projects ranges from 15% to over 100%. Those rates were calculated by
comparing the most effective treatment with the do-minimum case. Sensitivity tests were performed to test
the impact of main changes in costs and benefits on the viability of the program. If benefits decrease by
20%, the EIRR is reduced to 27.4% (Table 5). But, if the costs increase by 20% the EIRR decreases to
28.1%, which shows that the program of civil works is slightly more sensitive to benefits than costs. In the
unlikely case of an increase in costs of 20% and a reduction in benefits of 20%, the EIRR is still an
acceptable 24.6%. The program is fairly robust to reasonable changes in costs and benefits.
- 55 -



Table 5. Sensitivity Analysis for 3-year Program: Varying Agency Costs and Road User Costs
Agencycostsxx           0I8          1.2         1           0.8         1.2
Road User costs   EIRR     NPV
do 15%
IDR m._
1          31.5%    36.5%    28.1%     3,752,282    4,040,039    3,464,530
0.8       _27.4%  __31.5%     24.6%    2,713,073    3,001,827    2,426,318
1.2        35.5`%6   41.6%    31.5%    4,790,496    5,078,250    4,502,741
First Year (2001) AWP. Similar analyses were carried out for the periodic maintenance and betterment
sub-projects included in the first (2001) AWP. Table 6.a summarizes the results for periodic maintenance
works and Table 6.b presents the same for betternent works plus bridge replacement assuming a minimum
return of 15% in the base case.
These tables show the EIRR and NPV @ 15% for a range of assumptions for variation in agency costs
(costs) and road user costs (benefits) ranging from 0.8 to 1.2. The table shows that even at the highest
agency cost assumption (1.2 times) and lowest road user cost assumption (0.8 times) the EIRR still
exceeds 35% for Periodic Maintenance and 36% for Betterment.
Table 6.a. Sensitivity Analysis for Periodic Maintenance Works in AWP 1
Agency costs x     1       0.8       1.2         1           0.8          1.2
Road User costs I EIRR    NPV
I      @~~15%
_IDR5m.
_______ I  47.1%    55.3%    41.6%     1,195,153    1,234,343     1,155,964
O.X ___      40,5%    47.1%   36.1%        916,933     956,123     877,744
1.2        53.7%    63.5%    47.1%      1,473,373    1,512,563     1,434,184
Table 6.b Sensitivity Analysis for Betterment + Bridge Replacement in AWP 1
Agency costs x  |    ]     0.8       1.2         1           0.8          1.2
Road User costs   EIRR    NPV
@,15%
IDR .m.
l         45.5%    54.2%    38.6%        781,448      815,330      591,276
0.8  ___  ___ _    .             _  _  _ _  _    _ _  _ _
0.8        38.6%    45,505    33.9%        591,276      625,15      557,395
1.        __    _                    _.               _  _ __  _ _ _  _ _
52.5%    629%    45.5%        971,619     1,005,501    937,738
- 56 -



Economic Analyses for Second Year and Third Year AWPs. The program preparation and evaluation
process will be repeated each year, and sub-projects to be included in the AWPs would be selected based
on their EIRR. Each project must meet a minimum EIRR criterion of 15% as well as other criteria as
stated in Section C. I of the text of this PAD. It should be pointed out that the sub-projects to be included ii
a given annual work program are sensitive to construction costs and traffic volumes as well as to the
condition of the existing roads and bridges. Economic analyses should be based on up-to-date traffic
volumes, condition data and construction costs. The provincial works units (DPUP) assisted by their
design and supervision consultants (and checked by the regional teams and core team consultants to the
Project Management Unit) must ensure that traffic volume counts are carried out periodically and that the
traffic volumes used in the SEPM/ IIRMS analyses are reasonable. Historical data should be used to
check reasonableness of traffic volumes. Further, the Automated Road Management Surveys (ARMS)
started under the Bank-financed Highway Sector II Project (Loan 3712-IND) and to be completed under
the proposed project should help in improving the condition data for roads and bridges. The EIRR for eact
sub-project must be calculated when the AWP is developed, and when the detailed engineering designs
become available and when a contractor is selected and the construction cost is known. If the EIRR drops
below the 15% threshold, then alternative sub-projects should be selected. Consequently, it is important
that each AWP should include a reasonable number of reserve sub-projects that can be used in case a
sub-project drops out during the design or bidding process.
- 57 -



Table 2. Economic Analyses of Sub-Projects in First Batch of First
Year AWP
DETAILS OF BATCH 1. AWP 1
Province
PACKAGE    PROGRAM                 ink N                  Length       Cost (Rp. 10')   Cost/Km      NPV       EIRR    DESIGN
Link              Lnk  ame                                             (Rp. 10 )    (Rp. 10*)          STATUS
CInlul rmlmntl
EIP- 25      32.011.2    Km65-Asambaru                   6.50   km          6,113.05    940.47       26,696   57%        OK
Eas Kalimantan
EIB - 1     34.025.1    Km 36 - Semol Sepaku            6.00   km          7,657.96   1,276.33       9,256   28%        OK
EIB - 2     34.025.2   Semoi Sepaku - Petlng           12.00   km         11,997.88    999.82       19,711   32%        OK
EIB - 3     34.027.1   Tansh Grogot - Karang Dayu       8.80   km         10,796.40   1,226.86      11,283   26%        OK
Fast Nun. Tannooaro
EIB - 5     44.056.0    Oesapa - Oesao                 16.50   km          9,983.60    605.07      136.394   85%        OK
44.057.0    Oessao - Bokong               10.00   km          6,051.10     605.11       29,409   52%        OK
EIB- 6      44.067.0   Atlmbua - Motaali               11.00   km          6.844.97    622.27       19,489   53%        OK
West Nuss Tanpoara
EIS - 4     42.026.0    Rempung - Labuan Lombok        10.00   km          6,178.70    617.87       51.020   60%        OK
Sub-Total                                  86.80  km          65,623.67     012.17      303,257   48%
Perlodic M
EIP - 1     30.008.0   Sai Pinyuh - Mempawah            9.80   km          3,247.98    331.43       36,720   63%        OK
30.009.1    Mempawah - Sei Dur            25.20   km          8,351.95     331.43       99.181   61%        OK
South Kalimantan
EIP - 3     36.003.1    Marlapura - Simpang Empat       4.00   km          1,912.69    478.17        7,387   78%        OK
36.003.2   Simpang Empat - Ranmau          7,00   km          3,347.21     478.17       11,410   62%       OK
'a"
EIP - 4     409018.0   Semebaung - Gianyar              3,10   km          1,395.02    450.01       78,018   85%        OK
40.019.0    Glanyar - Sidan                3.00   km          1,349.70     449.90       55,848   97%        OK
EIP -5      40.039.0   Sidan - Klungkung                8.70   km          3,914.90    449.99      204,762   90%        OK
EIP - 6     406037.0    Klungkung - Angentelu          12,87   km          5,809.24    451.38      163,225   174%       OK
40.036.0   Angentelu - Padang Bal          2.00   km            902.76    451.39         7,631   59%        OK
West Nu.s Tenoaara
EIP- 7      42.036.0   Raba - Sape                     20.00   km          9,257.02    482.85       49,509   53%        OK
EIP -8      42.032.0    Dompu - Sil                   15.00   km          6,971.80    464.79       60,897   78%        OK
42.034.1   BIma -Talablu                   3.00   km          1,394.47     484.82       11.477   177%       OK
Fast Nusa Tanooara
EIP - 9     44.063.0    Kelfmenanu - Maubesi           22.00   km          7,616.26    346.19       54,003   39%        OK
North Sulawesl
EIP-10       50.046.1    Mallbagu - Mamalia            24.00   km          7,973.94     332.25        7,191   21%        OK
EIP-I1       50.046.2    Mamala - Tuladaa              22.00   km          8,298.85     377.22        5,820   19%        OK
Central Sulawesi
EIP - 12     52.009.2    Kasimbar - Tinombo            44,50   km         11,584.32     260.32       27,818   42%        OK
ESIP -13     52.020.0   Taripa - Tomato                28.00   km         10,020.01     357.86       44,676   42%        OK
EIP - 14     52.035.1   Ta.Hpa - Pape                   6,60   km          2,604.58     394.83       10,854   74%        OK
52.035.2   Pape - Tindalana               28.50   km         11.247.06     394.63       40,677   51%        OK
South Sulawsi
EIP - 15     54.004.1    Makale - Bis Cabdin Luwu see.  23.15   km         8.271.67     357.31       42.217   49%        OK
54.004.2   Sts Cabdin LuWu sel. - Palopo  18.48   km          6,601.21     357,21       20,341   31%        OK
South East Sulawesl
EIP - 16     66.014.0   Kotake - Wolo                  58.70   km         15,504.83     264.14       54.579   40%        OK
EIP - 17     56.001.0   Kendari - Unaaha               25.10   km         11,840.62     471.74       51,375   43%        OK
Maluku
EIP -I1a     60.046.1    Wabielan - Leta               35.00   km         15,819.76     451.99       37,384   24%        OK
Nnrth M LIk
EIP -19      61.036.0   Kao - Podiwang                 31.00   km         10,152.78     327.51        4.844   20%        OK
EIP - 20     62.038.0    Wamena - Tengon               30.00   km         20,999.77     699.99        5,331   18%        OK
Sub-Total                                 510.70  km         196,390.39     384.55    1,195,153   47%
TOTAL         ROADS                         591.50  km         262.014.06     442.97    1.4S8.410   47%
grldas R     f2bw
South Sulawtal
EIBR - 1     54.090.0   S. Rondomayang                150,00   m           6,761.30      45.08                 15%       OK
54.090.0   S. Ballo 1                     18.00   m           1,657.90      92.11          .     15%        OK
54.090.0   S. Tabso                       20.00   m           1,402.10      70.11          .     15%        OK
54.090.0   S. Lania                       18,00   m           1,082.20      60.12          _     15%        OK
54.090.0   S. Slmajo                      20.00   m           1,301.00      65.05                15%        OK
54.090.0   S. Kalobe                      40,00   m           2,019.30      50.48                15%        OK
Tb.TAotL   BRIDGES                          266.00  m           14.223,80     I347            .        15%
TOTAL    Batch 1                      I         _           276,237.486 8            1.498.410  .4ti%
- 58 -



Table 3. Economic Analyses of Sub-Projects in Second Batch of First Year AWP
Province
PACKAGE  PROGRAM            Unk                    Length           Cost         CostUKm        NPV      ERR  DESIGN
UUnkn  ani                                            (Rp. 107)      Rp. 10)     (Rp. 107         STATUS
_ ethwumt
East Nusa Tenaaara
EIB -7    44.010.0  Juncdion - Wobwaru            13.50  km          8,099.89     599.99        20,839  31%     OK
44.011.0   Wohwaru- Liananu             14.00  km          8,399.89      599.99       12,551  28%     OK
NorthSudws
EIB-8    50.036.0   Manado - Tumpaan              17.20  km         10,484.00     609.53       131,296  154%    OK
EIB-9    50.053.0   Wor - Ukupang                 15.97  km         10,020.95      627.33        3,655  19%     OK
EIB -10    50.054.0  Likupang - Air Tembaga       12.00  km         10,175.50      847.96          163  15%      OK
EIB-11    51.044.1  Moingkapub - Bubnbo           12.00  km          10,165.00     847.08          938  16%      OK
Cent SuLAwesI
EIB - 12    52.011.0  Tod Toi - Lingadan          12.30  km          7,576.95      616.01        6,602  23%      OK
EIB- 13    54.052.1   Majene-Tamoclo              16.25  km          9,148.69      563.00       57,171  54%      OK
54.052.2  Tamerodo - Bts Cabdin Majene   7.20  km          4,053.57      563.00       25,697  53%     OK
54.052.3  Bts Cabdin Majene - Mamuju     8.58  km          4,827.69      563.00       12,812  34%     OK
EIB -14    54.088.0  Karosa - Baras               18.40  km         13,014.99      707.34        6,388  21%      OK
54.089.0  Baras - Pasang Kayu            8.15  km          5,764.81      707.34        3,944  23%     OK
EIB - 15    54.011.0  Pakkae - Pangkajene K        0.70  km            466.57      666.53        5,929  105%    OK
54.010.d  Pangkajene K - Barru           6.08  km          4,052.50      667.08       52,877  113%    OK
54.009.0  BarTu - Pare Pare             17.47  km         11.640.93      666.53      137,328  100%    OK
TOTAL       ROADS                        179.79  km         117,891.93     65S72        478-190  48Y
EIBR - 2    60.046.0   Way Tala                  150.00  m            6,741.00      44.94          -    15%      OK
482.08            226,025.09
Sub-Total I3RIDGES                I    150.00  m            6,741.00       44.94             I 15h
I        I 0  t  TOTAL   IBatch 2            1                T      124,32.93             I     478.190  4%
- 59 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
INDONESIA: Eastern Indonesia Region Transport
Years Ending
US Dollars (Million)
IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD
Year 1     Year 2  | Year 3  | Year 4  | Year 5         Year 6     Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs            76.9       72.5        78.3       62.4        0.0        0.0        0.0
Recurrent Costs              8.0         8.5        9.0         9.5       10.0        0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs           84.9       81.0        87.3       71.9       10.0        0.0        0.0
Interest during     0.8        3.8         6.3        9.1       10.9        0.0        0.0
construction
Front-end fee     2.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Total Financing               87.7       84.8        93.6       81.0       20.9        0.0        0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                   53.0        51.0       54.0       43.0         0.0       0.0        0.0
Government                 34.7        33.8       39.6       38.0        20.9       0.0         0.0
Central                34.7        33.8       39.6        38.0       20.9        0.0        0.0
Provincial              0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Co-financiers               0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0       0.0        0.0
User FeeslBeneficiaries     0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                      0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0         0.0
Total Project Financing      87.7       84.8        93.6       81.0       20.9        0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
1. Year I is calendar year 2002, year 2 is calendar year 2003, year 3 is calendar year 2004, year 4 is calendar year
2005, and year 5 is calendar year 2006.
2. The Bank loan is expected to be effective by the end of March 2002, implementation of the project will be
completed by December 31, 2005 ,and the loan closing date is June 30, 2006.
- 60 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
INDONESIA: Eastern Indonesia Region Transport
Procurement
A. PROCUREMENT
Assessment of Agency's Capacity to Implement Project Procuremnent.
Procurement for the EIRTP project will be conducted in all of the 15 participating provinces as well as the
central Government Ministry of Settlements and Regional Infrastructure (MSRI), and Ministry of
Communications (MoC). Separate procurement committees within each participating section of the
Provincial Dinas Public Works (DPUP/P3JJ), and Central Government Directorate General of Regional
Infrastructure (DGRI) within MSRI, and Directorate General of Lanid Communications (DGLC) within
MoC will control and implement all bidding and procurement. Further, separate contract committees in
each area will subsequently be responsible for all contract implemenitation.
A separate Agency Capacity Assessment Report (ACAR) has been prepared for the Implementing Agency,
MSRI, and executing groups of the specific central and provincial DGRI wshich will provide the day-to-day
management. This report, which addressed the procurement capacities of the 52 procurement committees
in the 15 participating provinces as well as the central govenmment segments, is available on file for
reference. A summary of the action plan to enhance the procurement capacity of the project implementing
agencies is depicted in Attachment 5 of this Annex. In addition, a Country Procurement Assessment
Report (CPAR) was prepared for Indonesia early in year 2000 (WB Report No 21 823-IND March 2001).
Its findings are important in relation to the planning for implementation of this project, given the political
climate and early stages of decentralization in Indonesia at this time. The following provides a brief
sumnmary of the proposed procurement details, and both the ACAR anid the CPAR.
The findings of the ACAR indicates that whilst the experience in the central offices in Jakarta of both the
DGRI and DGLC personnel are adequate and the personmel are well experienced and familiar with Bank
documents and procedures, the experience in the provinces will vary considerably. With the present policy
of decentralization, risks will be increased as more responsibilities are devolved to the regions. Fortunately
for this project, with work proposed only for national and strategic roads, the involvement of the regional
authorities will be minimal, and dealings will only be with central government and provincial government
personnel, many of whom have already been associated with previous Bank-funded projects.
As noted, the project will be executed by Central Government personnel based in Jakarta, and managed on
a day to day basis by a central Government Project Management Unit (PMU). A central Core Team of
international and local consultants (CTC) will assist the PMU, together with two Regional Team
Consultants (RTC), one for each of the Central and Eastern regions. Both the CTC and the RTC
consultant services will be procured by procurement cormnittees from the central Government office
procurement personnel of DGRI. Separate procurement teams in each province will be responsible for the
procurement of the Design and Supervision Consultants (DSC - 15 packages proposed) to be engaged in
each of the provinces.
All Road Sector Support and TA consultancies will also be procured by the C(entral Govermnent
procurement personnel of DGRI. This group will also be responsible for the intermational procurement of
the bridge truss components (goods), which will subseqLuently be made a ailable as owner-supplied items to
- 61 -



the successful bridge construction contractors.
The "Accident Black spot" road traffic safety study and the subsequent implementation of recommended
improvement work as a pilot project in as many as 90 intersections which result from the consultant study
will be controlled by the Directorate General of Land Communications (DGLC) within the Ministry of
Communications. The TA Consultancy for the road traffic safety study will be procured by the central
DGLC procurement agency, whilst the necessary implementation work for the trial improvement programs
will be carried out by the provincial DGLC authorities in conjunction with police in each province.
However, where the blackspot improvements fall within the sections of roads being improved under the
project, they will be bid as part of the contract for that road and managed by the provincial DGRI.
All construction works contracts for roads, and bridges will be prepared and bid , with award
recommendations made by the respective DGRI procurement personnel (betterment, periodic maintenance
and bridge construction) based in each of the 15 participating provinces. Each provincial procurement
team will be assisted by the provincial Design and Supervision Consultant team in that province in
finalizing design drawings and contract documents for each of the construction packages for roadworks and
bridge replacement. All procurement management, including bid advertising, bid evaluation, and award
recommendations will come from the separate procurement committees in each province.
Agency Capacity Assessment Report. The ACAR generally indicates that the personnel in the central
government procurement offices of both DGRI and DGLC based in Jakarta are well experienced in the
implementing of Bank procedures. They have had considerable experience on a number of road related
Bank projects over the last decade. Experience in the provinces of the separate P3JJ, and implementation
procurement teams varies from highly competent to almost no experience whatsoever. Again, depending on
the experiences the individual personnel have had in implementing previous contracts under the Bank
Highways Sector loan, some are well experienced, particularly those in the provinces in Kalimantan and
Sulawesi. On the other hand, those in the new provinces of Gorontalo in northern Sulawesi, and in the new
North Maluku province have had little prior experience with Bank procedures and Bank Guidelines for
procurement. The project will focus attention on the procurement teams in these less experienced provinces
to ensure they are assisted and trained in the procedures of the Bank early in the program of
implementation. Similarly, for the road traffic safety program, the procurement capabilities of the
provincial DGLC personnel will be minimal and it is intended that the P3JJ procurement personnel will
assist in the procurement requirements for the pilot project works in each province.
Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR). The main objectives of the CPAR were to diagnose
the Public Procurement System in Indonesia, assess compliance with the Country's procurement laws and
regulations, and to identify reforms necessary to improve the existing system in line with internationally
accepted principles. The report concludes that "From all accounts the public procurement system in
Indonesia does not function well. It is not market driven, has been prone to misuse and abuse, and reduces
value for money for public funds." The CPAR subsequently details a list of priority actions with the most
promise to move the Country towards a reformed procurement process.
It is within this framework of reform that procurement for the Eastern Indonesia Region Transport Project
will be carried out by the individual participating provinces. Almost all of the provinces have had prior
experience in implementing Bank procurement procedures. Most recently this experience has been under
the still active Highway Sector 2 project, Loan 3712 IND, which has been active since 1994 and will
terminate in December 2001. To address the current "autonomy daerah" (decentralization) aspects, the full
ramifications of which have not yet been resolved, the project will be limited in scope to only addressing
road and bridge components of national and strategic importance, the funding for which only the Central
- 62 -



Government will be participating. Loan aspects related to provincial and regional borrowings will not be
included in this loan. They will be addressed in a proposed second loan (EIRTP 2) to commence when the
necessary legal framework has been clarified.
Transparency and Anti-Corruption. Government regulations and existing procurement procedures in
theory generally satisfy the Bank criteria regarding transparency. Public advertising of bids is mandatory.
Adequate time for bid preparation and submission is a requirement. Public opening of bids is standard
procedure. General Conditions of Contract are agreed with the Bank before the commencement of the
project and these are in agreement with Bank Guidelines. Standard Bank acceptable clauses on Bribery,
anti-corruption and conflict of interest are included. However in practice, the situation is not always so
clear-cut. Previous practices of short bidding periods, obscure advertising and collusion of tenderers have
been known to exist, together with acceptance of incomplete work by the client. The inexperience in the
procurement teams in the new and inexperienced provinces, associated with the added responsibilities and
funds availability with decentralization will increase concerns, and opportunities for irregularities.
To address these concerns, a procurement specialist has been included in each of the Regional Consultancy
Teams. In addition, an anti-corruption unit has recently been established within the office of the
Inspectorate General within MSRI. However, it is known that the work of these anti-corruption initiatives
is often hampered by institutional scheming by contractors. A separate Annex (14) has been included in the
PAD to reduce the probability of fraud and corruption in procurement.
Accountability of Procurement Officials. A procurement committee is established in each province at the
start of the Project. This committee under the auspices of the Bid Committee Chairman is responsible for
the entire procurement procedure up to and including award, but not the subsequent implementation of the
contract. Consequently, the independence between bidding and award and subsequent implementation is
ensured. All bidders have the right of appeal during the period of bidding and award and these appeals are
required to be addressed in writing and satisfied before the procurement procedure can be finalized. Final
award must be approved by the Project Manager (Pimpro) for contracts valued below IDR 50 billion ($5
million) and by the Senior Government representative in the province (Bupati or Governor) for contracts
above $5 million.
General Risk Assessment. Overall the general risk assessment as reported in the Agency Procurement
Assessment review was "average". With the recent devolvement of responsibility to the regions with
decentralization, the risk of error, accidental or otherwise, on procurement will increase. The increased
quantum of procurement in the first instance will be an increased workload on people who will not have had
the depth of experience that was previously available in the central Government. The exposure to
"opportunity" will be greater than before for a number of people relatively new to procurement and the risk
of bribery and corruption will be increased. Close supervision from the Bank and senior Government
officials will be required to minimize these "opportunities."
Although the procurement staffing generally involves well-qualified and respected people, the endemic
nature of corruption in the past in Indonesia is hard to eradicate quickly, and there will always be the
possibility of "black sheep". A training program and certification process for all bid and procurement
committees has been proposed but the details have not yet been finalized and the certification will not be in
place at the start of the project.
Perhaps the most encouraging aspect is that the senior officials of the participating ministries (Finance,
Bappenas and MSRI) have all endorsed the concept of Good Governance and the eradication of corruption
and the combined effort to this end is promising. The increased audits, along with the corrective action
- 63 -



where anomalies have been found, including disciplining and even termination for serious breaches are also
positive steps towards a risk minimization.
Procurement Procedures
Procurement procedures will follow Bank Procurement Cycle, complying with all standard Bank
requirements with regard to Annual Work Programs (AWP), packaging of the work for procurement, and
scheduling. Whilst the Indonesian regulations have their own procurement criteria, there has been
agreement with the Government that where there are differing regulations and or procurement principles in
the Indonesian law, the rules of the Lending Authority (in this instance the Bank) will take precedence.
There are features of the Indonesia procurement procedures related to National Competitive Bidding (NCB)
which are unacceptable to the Bank. These relate to registration of bidders, pre-qualification, joint
ventures, preferences, advertising, bid security, bid opening and bid evaluation, and rejection of bids (for a
summary of these issues see Attachment 1 to Annex 14). A supplemental letter to the loan agreement on
NCB procedures has been agreed with the Borrower.
Bidding Documents. SBDs. Throughout the project Bank's Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) and
procurement procedures will be adopted. SBDs specifically for this project have already been reviewed
and approved by the Bank. In addition, to reinforce the requirements at start up, regional "kick-off'
workshops will be held to confirm the requirements and to formally introduce the latest Bank documents
and procedures required to be followed. The documents include the standard Bank requirements for
qualification of bidders, bid security, performance security, and standard price change clauses. Documents
address both ICB and NCB requirements for works and the range of goods and service procurement
procedures as endorsed by the Bank. The Bank has already approved the use of NCB bid documents in the
Bahasa Indonesian language and these approved documents, which have already been used on a number of
road projects financed by the Bank in Indonesia, will be updated to conform with the latest Bank
requirements before being issued for use to all provinces for NCB contracts.
Procurement Methods (Attachment 1 - Table A)
All procurement of Works and Goods will follow the Bank Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans
and IDA Credits of January 1995 revised January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999.
Standard Bidding Documents (including standard prequalification and bid evaluation documents) will be
used for all Bank-financed procurement. Procurement for Consultant Services, and the format for
consultants' contracts will both be in accordance with the "Guidelines for Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers dated January 1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999."
The Bank's Standard Request for Proposals, dated July 1997, revised April 1998 and July 1999; including
Bank's standard Contract forms will be used, as applicable, for consultant selection. A Procurement Plan,
providing a timeline for each stage of the procurement process is included in the PIP, and will be updated
annually by the PMU.
Table A indicates the procurement costs by procurement arrangements.
For civil works: it is expected that ICB procurement procedures will be used for approximately
11 % of the works (by value $22.6 million excluding taxes) whilst the balance, 89 % will be procured using
NCB procedures (by value $190.9 million excluding taxes). Translated into packages of work, four work
package will be procured under ICB procedures, whilst about 145 packages will be procured under NCB.
NCB procedures use mostly ICB documents translated into Indonesian language and advertised locally.
- 64 -



They are acceptable to the Bank insofar as they do not include provision for domestic preference or the use
of the two-envelope system. They have been used successfully on previous Bank loan projects (Highways
Sector 2 and Sumatra Region Roads).
For goods: major bridge sections (steel bridges 40 m and longer) would be procured under ICB
($13.8 million cost) in a single package, and delivered to a store in Surabaya for on-supply to contractors;
whilst smaller items under individual contracts of $50,000 or less up to an aggregate value of $200,000,
would be procured under national shopping. Preference would be given to goods manufactured in
Indonesia.
All consultant services: totaling $34.2 million would be procured in accordance with QCBS
(Quality and Cost Based selection) methods. All TA and Service packages (25 in total) will be valued
above $200,000, as listed in Table A. 1 of this Annex.
Qualification and Packaging
Contractors for civil works will be required to be qualified in accordance with Bank standard procedures.
In addition, they will be registered in accordance with Government of Indonesia (Keppres 18/2000)
contractor registration criteria of "besar" (large) or "sedang" (medium) to be eligible for award for work
for which they are qualified. Whilst Indonesian contractors will already be registered according to their
qualified capacity, intemational contractors who are not registered will also be required to register in
accordance with the appropriate national contractor registration requirements before contract award can be
finalized.
Contracts will be packaged to address the geographical spread of the project across 15 provinces in
Indonesia. Packages of work will generally represent a specific link or road section. Where separate links
are close by, these will be combined to form a single larger package of work.
Prior Review Thresholds (Attachment 1 - Table B)
Table B indicates the thresholds of ICB, and NCB contracts for civil works, and ICB, NCB, and National
Shopping for procurement of goods, as well as prior review thresholds.
For Civil Works: all contracts valued at US$3 million or above will be procured using ICB
procedures (4 No). Contracts valued above US$1.75 million and below US$3 million will be procured
using NCB procedures and subject to prior review by the Bank (21 No). Contracts at or below US$1.75
million in value may be procured using NCB procedures but subject to disbursement against Statement of
Expenditure (SOE). (110 No). In addition, the first betterment package, the first periodic maintenance
package, and the first bridge replacement package to be awarded in each province, regardless of value, will
be prior reviewed by the Bank before award (28 packages for roads and 10 packages for bridges).
For Goods: all contracts for goods procured through ICB will be prior reviewed.
The prior review process would thus cover about 41% (64 packages from about 155) of the total number of
contracts for works and goods.
For Services: the core team consultants, the 2 regional team consultants, all design and
supervision consultants and road sector support consultant packages as well as all Training Consultant
packages will be bid and awarded on a QCBS basis and subject to prior review (26 packages, all above
- 65 -



$100,000 in value).
The total number of packages for all goods, works and services which will be subject to prior review will
number approximately 90 contracts, representing $175 million, or 61 % (by value) of the total value of
contracts financed by the loan.
GoI has agreed to conduct a Project Launch Workshop where all Standard Bidding Documents to be used
under the project would be disseminated to all participants, and to strengthen the quality assurance and
technical audit systems to minimize the risk of misprocurement.
Post Review
Selective "ex-post" reviews will be carried out in about 1 in 10 of all SOE works packages awarded in each
province. The total number of SOE contracts will be about 110 over the 4 years of implementation, and
hence about 2 packages in each province will be subject to random "ex-post" review.
B. DISBURSEMENT
Allocation of Loan Proceeds (Attachment 1 - Table C)
Table C shows the allocation of loan proceeds by Category, and the disbursement percentages for each
category. The estimated disbursements per year and cumulative is shown as part of the Project Financing
Data elsewhere in the document. (in the cover page). Table D shows the estimated disbursements by
quarter. It is based on the assumption that the proposed Bank loan would become effective in March 2002
and would close on June 30, 2006.
Retroactive Financing
GoI has requested the Bank to agree to retroactive financing of US$ 4.5 million (2.3 % of loan amount) to
reimburse project expenditures since November 1, 2001 to meet the cost of civil works ($ 2.0 million for
periodic maintenance and betterment) and the cost of bridge trusses ($ 2.5 million) that would be incurred
prior to loan signing. Subject to DGRI adhering to all Bank requirements in this regard, including those for
procurement, retroactive financing would be approved.
C. FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
Financial Management Assessment. An assessment of the financial management capacity and control
environment in the DGRI, MSRI (where the Project Management Unit (PMU) will be attached) and two
Provincial DPUP Bina Marga (where the Project Implementation Unit (PIUs) will be attached), namely
South Sulawesi and Bali were carried out by Financial Management Officer, WBOJ. The DGRI and
DPUPs have been executing many of Bank's projects and the staff has an adequate knowledge on the
Bank's procedures. Agreement was reached regarding actions to be taken to ensure a sound financial
management system when the loan becomes effective. (See Attachment 2 of this Annex).
The following are the financial management risks to be addressed in the project:
1. Risk due to the lack of coordination and understanding on roles and duties of the project management
staff is addressed by: (i) adoption of a Project Management Manual (PMM) organized in a circular letter
- 66 -



reminding the use of Guidelines for record keeping and financial statements preparation (Kep. Men. no.
49/KPTS/M/2000). The PMM is meant to be followed by everybody involved in the project; and (ii)
training on procurement and financial management as described in PMM for the relevant staff within the
PMU and PIU.
2. Risk that the improvement of KPE (Electronic Mail Box System) into Project Management Information
System (PMIS) to support PMR preparation is not coordinated properly. This risk will be addressed by:
(i) review and improvement of KPE system, covering hardware, software and manual to support PMR
preparation; and (ii) training to the KPE/PMIS team and relevant staff within PMU and PIUs who will be
involved in the preparation of data for PMIS input and PMR preparation.
Financial Management Arrangements
Accounting system and procedures. The DGRI has standardized the accounting system and record
management of its projects, which generally follow the government accounting system. To enable
budgeting and report preparation according to component and expenditure categories efficiently,
harmonization between project component and expenditures category (as per the loan agreement) with the
GoI chart of accounts (Mata Anggaran Keluaran- MAK and Tolok Ukur) is prepared as part of the
Project Management Manual (PMM) to be issued in the form of DGRI's Circular Letter.
Project Management Manual (PMM) The PMM will document the system and procedures to be
followed by PMU, PIUs staff, (including consultants) who will be involved in the project to ensure that the
project has sound financial management practice. The PMM organized in a circular letter reminding the use
of Guidelines for record keeping and financial statements preparation (Kep. Men. no. 49/KPTS/M/2000),
Guidelines for use of funds from foreign loans and aids (Kep. Men no. 50/KPTS/M/2000), and covering
organization structure, job description, budgeting, procurement, project management information system,
record management, fixed assets and inventory management, accounting, reporting, internal control,
monitoring and evaluation mechanism for the project management system and auditing arrangements for
the project. An outline of the circular letter was discussed and the draft of the circular letter was provided
at appraisal and was finalized by negotiations.
Project Management Report (PMR). The PMR format would cover: (i) Financial Management Report,
(ii) Output Monitoring Report, and (iii) Procurement Management Report. The DGRI has confirmed its
agreement to the PMR format during appraisal. All projects within DGRI send their monthly progress
reports on the 4th of the following month, including financial and procurement and physical progress,
electronically through Project Management Information System (PMIS) The project will utilize this
improvement of the existing mechanism of KPE to generate reports for use as part of the proposed
management system as PMIS.
An assessment of the KPE reporting system has been made during project pre-appraisal and it was found
that nearly all the required information for the PMR have already been captured by the KPE system. After
considering further the necessity and usefulness of the reporting system for the project, DGRI decided to
improve (upgrade) the KPE reporting system into an internet based information system namely Project
Management Information System (PMIS). All of KPE features will be duplicated using web-based
interactive database, including the necessary refinements required for PMR purposes.
The following action plan is expected to be ready before the loan effectiveness:
Development of PMIS to produce the PMR.
Adequate hardware and operational supports to ensure that PMIS would function well.
- 67 -



*     Provision of additional fields input in the PMIS to capture the project cash forecast and
procurement progress as required for the PMR.
Project Staffing and Training. DGRI has established PlUs in the provincial DPU Bina Marga to manage
its projects. These PIUs will handle the EIRTP sub-projects. The sub-project managers are appointed on
yearly basis in accordance with the criteria set by the Ministry, which is acceptable to the Bank. The
PMU, which will be responsible for the overall project coordination and management, should be staffed
with qualified persons and in adequate number, including a position responsible for both financial
management and the production of the PMR. The PMU would be assisted by a core team of consultants.
The proposed positions, qualifications and job descriptions of the PMU were provided to the Bank at
appraisal and the PMU staff was appointed on June 15, 2001. The PMU staff and DPUP's PIUs staff
shall be trained on the project's specifics and management including the use of PMIS for the reporting
system. The dissemination and training plan was provided at appraisal and found satisfactory.
Flow of Funds
The DPUP's sub-project managers and the PMU's project manager will be responsible for authorizing
expenditures for their respective components in accordance with the agreed budgets under existing
government procedures. They will submit their payment requests to the relevant MoF Treasury Office
(KPKN) which will issue payment remittance orders (SPM) to Bank Indonesia to the payee's accounts and
to debit the project Special Account. Upon effectiveness, the DG Budget will provide guidelines and
criteria for eligible project expenditures, in accordance with the proposed loan agreement. The flow of
funds diagram is shown in Attachment 3 of this Annex.
PMR-based Disbursement. In order to facilitate disbursements from the loan a Special Account
denominated in US dollars will be opened in Bank Indonesia under the name of the Directorate General of
Budget. The authorized ceiling of this account will be US $28 million, equivalent to about six months
average disbursements. The management of the Special Account would essentially be under the
responsibility of the PMU. Disbursements from the Bank loan would be made to the Special Account based
on the submission of the PMR prepared by the PMU. All documentation for the expenditures as reported
in the PMR would be retained at the relevant PIUs and KPKN offices and shall be made available to
auditors for the annual audit and to the Bank during the supervision missions. The Bank's disbursement
would be for the six months projected expenditures as reported in the PMR.
Auditing Arrangements
DGRI/ MSRI is the executing agency for Highway Sector II and SRRP, projects funded under the Bank
loans 3712-IND and 4307-IND and which have closing dates of December 31, 2001, and December 31,
2003 respectively. Audit reports for both projects for fiscal year 1999/2000 have been received by the
Bank. The audit reports for fiscal year 2000 are due in June 30, 2001 for 4307-IND and September 30,
2001 for 3712-IND and both have been received and found satisfactory.
Timely receipt of the audit reports by the Bank is important. Overdue audit reports will be justification for
the Bank not to extend the closing date of the referenced Loan, or not to proceed with negotiations or Board
presentation of any new Loans (in this case EIRTP) benefiting DGRI or MSRI.
The proposed project audits will be based on annual project accounts prepared based on the quarterly
PMRs. Auditors shall audit the DPUP's accounts at the provincial level, who in turn will submit their
reports to the Auditors' head office for consolidation. PMU shall prepare the consolidated project account
- 68 -



including special account and SOE, based on PMR, for audit by the Auditors head office. The annual
audit reports shall be fumished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of the government fiscal
year. The audit will be conducted in accordance with the Term of Reference for audit as depicted in
Attachment 4 of this Annex and Audit Manual for World Bank financed project (EAP, July 1998). The
auditor will also audit, due process and due diligence the attainment of objectives according to the agreed
performance indicators.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Including Contingency and Escalation
(in US$ million equivalent)
(excluding tax)
Expenditure Category     Procurement Method                              Total Cost
ICB             NCB              Other
1.  WORKS                22.6            190.9            -              213.4
(15.8)          (133.6)                         (149.4)
2.  GOODS                13.8            -                 0.2            14.0
(13.8)                           (0.2)          (14.0)
3.  INCREMENTAL          -                                0.4            0.4
OPERATING COSTS                                       (0.4)          (0.4)
4.  CONSULTANT           -                                 34.2a         34.2
SERVICES AND        -                                 (34.2)         (34.2)
TRAINING
5.  Loan Front- End Fee                                   2.0             2.0
(2.0)         (2.0)
Total                36.4            190.9            36.8           264.0
(29.6)          (133.6)          (36.8)         (200.0)
National shopping
Consul
ting services
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
- 69 -



Annex 6
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Attachment 1 - Table A 1: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Consultant Services
Excluding Contingency and Escalation
(in US$ miUlion equivalent)
(excluding tax VAT)
Consultant Service              Procurement Method       Total Cost $
(CBS   OBS  Other
1. Implementation SuDDort
Central Core Team               3.76                              3.76
Regional Teams (2)                3.44                              3.44
Design and Supervision           11.37                             11.37
Accident Black Spot/Road Safety    1.44                            1.44
2. Road Sector Sunuort
Training
DG Regional Infrastructure       1.20                             1.20
Puslatjakons                     1.00                             1.00
Technical Assistance
Plan Program & Budget Procedures  2.30                            2.30
Quality Management               1.80                             1.80
Road Fund Pilot                  0.60                             0.60
ARMS Extension                   1.20                      1.20
Bid Document Improvement        0.80                              0.80
Totals                          28.91                            28.91
Note: Consultant Services are 100% financed by Bank Funds. Above table does not include $ 0.44
million for incremental operating costs for PMU and the Directorate of Technical Affairs in DGRI.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
- 70 -



Annex 6
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Attachment 1 - Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Procurement     No. of Packages, and
Expenditure        Contract Value          Method       Estimated Total Value
Category         (Threshold)                         Subject to Prior Review
(Value Including Tax and
Contingency)
I  Works
Civil works on      a)  $3 million and over         ICB       Yes        $24.8 million
national strategic                                            4 Pkt
network
b)  $1.75 million to S3        NCB       Yes        $48.3 million
million                              21 Pkts
c)  Under Sl.75 million        NCB       Yes        $34.5million
28 pkts    i' first
betterment and
periodic
maintenance
IO pkts    packet in each
1PkS province
bridge     $14m First
replment.  bridge
replacement
package in
each province
2  Goods
$200,000 and over          ICB       Yes        $15.24 million
I pkt
$50,000 to $200,000        NCB       No
Under $50,000            National    No
Shop'g
3  Services                 All                       QCBS       Yes        $38.3 million
26 pkts
Total value subject to prior review = US$175 million, (90 packages) or 60.8% (by value) of contracts
financed under the loan.
t' For preservation works: bid documents for the first contract in each sub-category (betterment, periodic
maintenance, and bridge replacement), to be prior reviewed by the Bank. Otherwise selective post
review will be carried out on remaining 90 packets approx value $110 million
- 71 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Annex 6
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category                  Amount of the Loan Allocated        % of Expenditures
in US$ Million                to be Financed
1. Civil Works
a) National & Strategic Roads               127.5                         70%
b) Accident Black Spots                       1.3                         70%
2.  Goods                                           12.7
100% of foreign expenditures, 100%
of local expenditures (ex-factory cost)
and 80% of local expenditures for
other items procured locally
3.  Incremental Operating Cost                       0.4                         80%
4.  Consultant's services and financing             29.0                         100%
5.  Fee                                              2.0
6.  Unallocated                                     27.1
Total Cost                                     200.0
- 72 -



Annex 6
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Attachment 1 - Table D: Estimated Disbursements by Quarter
(in US$ million)
Bank Fiscal   Quarter
Year         No. Ending Date         Disbursements   Cumulaltive    Percent of Loan
2002
4 June 30, 2002            28.0           28.0              14
2003          1 September 30, 2002       14.0          42.0
2 December 31, 2002        11.0           53.0
3 March 31, 2003           10.0           63.0
4 June 30, 2003            13.0           76.0              38
2004          l September30,2003         15.0          91.0
2 December 31, 2003        12.0          103.0
3 March 31, 2004           12.0          115.0
4 June 30, 2004            15.0          130.0              65
2005          1 September 30, 2004       15.0          145.0
2 December 31, 2004        12.0          157.0
3 March 31, 2005           11.0          168.0
4 June 30, 2005            15.0          183.0              92
2006          1 September 30, 2005       12.0          195.0
2 December 31, 2005         5.0          200.0              100
Notes: (1) Project Completion Date: December 31, 2005
(2) Loan Closing Date: June 30, 2006
- 73 -



Annex 6
Attachment 2: Action Plan for Financial Management
Eastern Indonesia Region Transport Project
Issues/ Problems                    Remedial Action               Resp. Member  Due Date
A. Project Organization and Staffing
1. Establishment of a Project       Decrees on the establishment of  GOI           Done
organization structure which includes all PMU and PIUs
parties involved in the project and is
acceptable to the Bank
2. Appointment of PMU staff with TOR   Decrees of staff appointment of  GOI        Done
acceptable to the Bank.             PMU and PlUs
B. Circular Letter on Project
Management Manual
* The PMM organized in a circular    Draft of Circular Letter    GOI              Done
letter reminding the use of
Guidelines for record keeping and
financial statements preparation
(Kep. Men. no. 49/KPTS/M/2000),
Guidelines for use of funds from
foreign loans and aids (Kep. Men no.
50/KPTS/M/2000), and covering
organization structure, job
description, budgeting, procurement,
project management information
system, record management, fixed
assets and inventory management,
accounting, reporting, internal
control, monitoring and evaluation
mechanism for the project
management system and auditing
arrangements for the project.
Issuance of Circular Letter  GOI              March 2002
C. Reporting System
Improvement of the existing reporting    *   Review on hardware   GOI              March 2002
system                                  required to ensure the PMR
data transfer timely, and
secured from PIU to PMU
(including back-up
mechanism).
*   Development of an
integrated software that
would help PMU in the
preparation of PMR
*  Development of Reporting
System Manual
- 74 -



Annex 6
Issues/ Problems                    Remedial Action               Resp. Member   Due Date
D. Training                                                                        l                l
1. Dissemination and training plan for the Dissemination and training plan  GOI    Done
relevant staff of PIUs related to the
reporting arrangements (including the use
of reporting system) and coordination
between PMU and PlUs for the life of the
project.
2. Training by which government staff   Project Management Manual   GOI            April 2002
within the PMU and PIU (including   training and dissemination
everybody who will be involved in this
roject) will acquire the necessary skills
to carry out their respective duties as
escribed in the Project Management
ManuaL
E. Auditing
1. Arrangement of the project audit in    Draft audit arrangements and  GOI & WB   Done
accordance with a specific TOR for audit. TOR discussed and agreed
Letter to Auditor (agreed during  GOI          Done
appraisal) confirming the audit
arrangements
- 75 -



Annex 6 - Attachment 3
Eastern Indonesia Road Transport Project
Flow of Funds
National
countersign              appl.for replenishment
| Bank Indonesia|      oban       *|DFBDE   |                   n       *
S    at Account         statement                           statement
Reports
Debit to                                                            Thru
Special Account          Guidelines                          KPE system
Province
payment 
B nk Idnsa              SPM        MOF Treasury              request          Pt
8ranch office  _   <KPKN                  __
- 76 -



Annex 6 - Attachment 4: TERMS OF REFERENCE
Audit of Special Purpose Project Financial Statements
Objectives
The overall objectives of the audit are: (i) to enable the auditor to express a professional opinion on the
project financial statements, the operation of the overall financial management system including internal
controls, and compliance with financing agreements; (ii) to provide project management with timely
infornation on financial aspects of the project to enable follow-up action; and (iii) ) to assess the
achievements of the project objectives as measured by performance indicators.
The audit should cover the entire project, i.e. covering all sources and application of funds by all
implementing agencies. The auditor should visit the various implementation units and other agencies as
considered necessary for the audit.
Scope
The audit will be carried out in accordance with International Standards of Auditing and with the Audit
Manual for World Bank-Financed projects (July 1998). It will include such tests and controls as the
auditor considers necessary under the circumstances. Specific areas of coverage of the audit will include
the following:
(1) An assessment of whether the project financial statements have been prepared in accordance with
consistently applied Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) and give a true and fair view of the
operations of the project during the year and the financial position of the project at the close of the fiscal
year. Any material deviations from GAAP, and the impact of such departures on the project financial
statements as presented would be stated;
(2) An assessment of the adequacy of the project financial management systems, including internal
controls. This would include aspects such as adequacy and effectiveness of accounting, financial and
operational controls, and any needs for revision; level of compliance with established policies, plans and
procedures; reliability of accounting systems, data and financial reports; methods of remedying weak
controls or creating them where there are none; verification of assets and liabilities; and integrity, controls,
security and effectiveness of the operation of the computerized system (if any); and
(3) An assessment of compliance with provisions of financing agreements, especially those relating to
accounting and financial matters. This would inter alia include verification that:
(a) all external funds have been used in accordance with the conditions of the relevant financing
agreements, with due attention to economy and efficiency, and only for the purposes for which the
financing was provided.
(b) counterpart funds have been provided and used in accordance with the relevant financing agreements,
with due attention to economy and efficiency, and only for the purposes for which they were provided;
- 77 -



(c) expenditures charged to the project are. eligible expenditures and have been correctly classified in
accordance with the relevant financing agreement;
(d) works, goods and services financed have been procured in accordance with the relevant financing
agreement;
(e) all necessary supporting documents, records, and accounts have been kept in respect of all project
activities;
(f) clear linkages exist between the accounting records including accounts books and the Project Financial
Statements;
(g) where Special Account has been used, it has been maintained in accordance with the provisions of the
relevant financing agreement;
(h) statement of expenditures (SOE) used as the basis for the submission of withdrawal applications
accurately reflect expenditures and activities on the project; and
(i) project expenditures as reported by the project implementation agencies are reconciled with the amounts
withdrawn from the Special Account and the amounts deposited to the special account are reconciled with
the amounts disbursed from the IBRD Loan.
(4) An assessment on the achievements of the planned results of the project as measured by the
performance indicators as stipulated in the relevant financing agreement.
Project Financial Statements.
Each PIU shall prepare its project accounts. The consolidated project accounts shall be prepared by the
PMU, and should include: (i) Annual Project Expenditures and Financing; and (ii) Cumulative Project
Expenditures and Financing. Sources of funds would show IBRD, other donors, and GOI counterpart
funds separately. Project expenditures would be summarized by main project components, disbursement
categories and by project location (province) both consolidated for the current fiscal year and accumulated
to date. The consolidated project account shall also include Financial Statement of Special Account
covering: (i) deposits and replenishments received from the Bank; (ii) withdrawals from the special
account; and (iii) the remaining balances at the end of the fiscal year.
The auditor should provide an opinion as to the degree of compliance with the Bank's procedures and the
exactitude of the balance of the Special Account at year-end. The auditor should examine the eligibility
and integrity of financial transactions during the period under review and fund balances at the end of the
period, the operation and use of the special account in accordance with the financing agreement, and the
adequacy of intemal financial controls.
Special Account: The auditor must assess a reconciliation report between the project expenditures made
from the special account and the withdrawals from the special account. Reconciliation should also be made
with the amounts paid from the pre-financing account and direct payments (if any). The auditor should
assess a reconciliation report between the amounts deposited to the special account and disbursed by the
Bank to the special account.
Statement of Expenditures: The auditor is also required to audit all SOEs (paid from the special account
- 78 -



Statement of Expenditures: The auditor is also required to audit all SOEs (paid from the special account
and/or other accounts) used as the basis for the submission of withdrawal applications. The auditor should
apply such tests and controls as the auditor considers necessary under the circumstances. These
expenditures should be carefully compared for project eligibility with the relevant financing agreements,
and with reference to the Project Appraisal Document for guidance when considered necessary. Ineligible
expenditures identified as having been included in withdrawal applications and reimbursed by the Bank
should be noted separately by the auditor. The total withdrawals under the SOE procedure should be part
of the overall reconciliation of Bank disbursements described above.
Audit Report
The audit report shall contain the auditor's opinion on the fairness of the project financial statements,
including an opinion on the Special Account and a separate paragraph commenting on the accuracy and
propriety of expenditures withdrawn under the SOE procedures and the extent to which the Bank can rely
on SOEs as a basis for loan disbursement. The report should refer to the auditor's TOR. The auditor
should submit the report to the project executing agency who should then promptly forward one copy of the
audited accounts and report to the Bank. It should be received by the Bank no later than six months after
the end of the project's fiscal year.
Management Letter
In addition to the audit reports, the auditor will prepare a "management letter," in which the auditor will:
(a) give comments and observations on the accounting records, systems, and controls that were examined
during the course of the audit; and identify specific deficiencies and areas of weakness in systems and
controls and make recommendation for their improvement;
(b) give comments on economy, efficiency, and effectiveness in the use of resources;
(c) report on the achievement of the planned results of the project;
(d) report on the degree of compliance of each of the financial covenants on the financing agreement and
give comments, if any, on intemal and external matters affecting such compliance;
(e) communicate matters that have come to attention during the audit which might have a significant
impact on the implementation of the project; and
(f) any other matters that the auditors considers pertinent.
General
The auditor should be given access to all legal documents, correspondence, and any other information
associated with the project and deemed necessary by the auditor. Confirmation should also be obtained of
amounts disbursed and outstanding at the Bank.
The auditor should be familiar with the Bank's Audit Manualfor World Bank Financed Projects which
provides guidance to auditors conducting audits of Bank-financed projects.
The financial management system would include methods and records established to identify, assemble,
analyze, classify, record and report on transactions and to maintain accountability for the related assets and
liabilities.
- 79 -



Annex 6: Attachment 5
Action Plan to Enhance Procurement Capacity
of Project Implementing Agencies
Eastern Indonesia Region Transport Project
Action                                           Responsibility   Estimated
Completion Date
Capacity enhancement by adding capacity
1. (a) Establishment of PMU organization.       MSRI             Done
(b) Appointment of a qualified procurement    MSRI             June 2002
specialist(s) at the regional level.
(c) Appointment of procurement officers at provincial Provincial  May 2002
levels.                                          Dinas/PlU
2. The Borrower will conduct annual procurement review MSRI      TORs agreed by April
for the entire Project according to TOR acceptable to the        2002 review team
Bank.                                                            established July 2002
Review report and agree
on follow-up actions by
December 31 of each
year.
Procurement Training
3. Develop procurement training program          MSRI/RTC        May 2002
4. Procurement training will be provided as part of the   MSRI/RTC  June 2002
project management training.
5. Procurement training will also be provided by Bank   Bank     On-going
staff including project launch workshop and during
supervision.
Enhanced planning and controlling mechanisms
6. (a) Finalize draft procurement Plan.         MSRI/PMU          anuary 31, 2002
(b) Updated procurement plan will be furnished to the MSRI/PMU  November 30, 2002
Bank for each new fiscal year by November 30th for the
following fiscal year starting with FY 2003.
7. Cases of collusion and other fraudulent and corrupt  MSRI      On-going
practices will be reported and investigated by the
Borrower and reported to the Bank, including remedial
actions that will be taken.
- 80 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
INDONESIA: Eastern Indonesia Region Transport
Project Schedule                                   Planned                     Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      26                            21
First Bank mission (identification)             04/12/2000                    04/12/2000
Appraisal mission departure                     03/11/2002                    06/17/2001
Negotiations                                    04/22/2002                    10/30/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    10/31/2001                   03/21/2002
Prepared by:
Directorate General of Regional Infrastructure, Ministry of Settlements and Regional Infrastructure, in
cooperation with the Directorate General of Land Communications, Ministry of Communications.
Preparation assistance:
1. Japanese PHRD grants (PHRD TF 027039, TF 026663, and TF 025515).
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Hatim M. Hajj                     Task Team Leader/ Lead Transport Specialist: road safety, training,
EASTR
William Paterson                  Engineer: Technical, Sector, Road Asset Management, EASTR
David Hawes                       Economist: Economic analysis, transport sector policies, EASTR
Robert Scouller                   Engineer: Technical, procurement, EASTR
Thomas Walton                     Environment: Safeguard policies, EACIF
Isono Sadoko                      Social scientist: Social issues, land acquisition and resettlement,
indigenous people, EACIF
Farida Zaituni                    Environment: Environmental management, EACIF
Yogana Prasta                     Finance: Financial management systems, EACIF
Novira Asra                       Finance: Financial management systems, EACIF
Karin Nordlander                  Legal, LEGEA
Emmanuel James                    Peer Reviewer: Economist, Sector and economic analyses, LCSFT
Antti Talvitie                    Peer Reviewer: Engineer, Sector and technical issues, ECSIN
Glen Morgan                       Peer Reviewer: Environment and safeguard policies, EASES
Robin Carruthers                  Quality Assurance: Economist, economic analyses and sector issues,
EASTR
Jacques Tollie                    Quality Assurance: Engineer, country and sector and technical issues
Claude Salem                      Quality Assurance: Institutional Specialist: Manpower and training
issues, AFT12
Maninder Gill                     Quality Assurance: Social Scientist, Safeguard policies, SDV
- 81 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
INDONESIA: Eastern Indonesia Region Transport
A. Project Implementation Plan
Draft of Project Implementation Plan was received on April 30, 2001. A revised draft was received on
August 6, 2001.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1. Aide memoires from the Bank missions covering the period from November 1999 till July 2001.
2. Agency Procurement Assessment for the Eastern Indonesia Region Transport Project, September 2001.
C. Other
1. Country Procurement Assessment, Report No. 21823-IND, February 10, 2001.
2. Country Financial Accountability Assessment, Report No. 21824-IND, January 29, 2001.
3. Country Assistance Strategy, Report No. 21580, February 8, 2001.
Program Development and Economic Analyses
1. Carl Bro International a/s Consultants, Final Report for Bridging Advisory Technical Assistance for
the Eastern Indonesia Region Transport Project, January 17, 2001, 2 volumes.
2. Pt. Multi Phi Beta Consultants, Final Report for Bridging Advisory Technical Assistance for the
Eastern Indonesia Region Transport Project, January 17, 2001, 2 volumes.
3. Indec and Associates Ltd. in association with PT. Buana Archicon, PT. Hi-Way Indotek Konsultan,
PT. Qualitec Graha, and PT. Amythas Expert and Associate, Economic analyses for the three-year
program of civil works (2001-2003) and detailed economic analyses for the sub-projects in the first-year
annual work program (2001 AWP), September 2001.
Environmental and Social Assessment
1. Indec and Associates Ltd. in association with PT. Buana Archicon, PT. Hi-Way Indotek Konsultan, PT.
Qualitec Graha, and PT. Amythas Expert and Associate, Environmental Management Plan for the Eastern
Indonesia Region Transport Project, July 2001 (revised).
2. Directorate General of Regional Infrastructure, Report on results of the Workshop held at Makassar
during April 2-4, 2001, emphasis on environmental and social issues.
*Including electronic files
- 82 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
INDONESIA: Eastern Indonesia Region Transport
23-Oct-200 1
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                              disbursements'
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                        IBRD         IDA                  GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.         Orig  Frm Rev'd
PD40528       2001 ID-Western Java Environment Management             11.70       5.75                 0.00       0.00      17.63       0.00      0.00
P049539       2001 ID-PROVINCIAL HEALTH II                            63.20      40.00                 0.00       0.00     103.77       0.00      0.00
P068949       2001 LIBRARY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT- LIL                    0.00       4.15                 0.00       0.00       4.22       o.0o      0.00
P073025       2001 ID-SECOND KECAMATAN DEVELOPMENT                   208.90     111.30                  0.00      0.00     321.69       0.00      0.00
P059477       2000 PROJECT                                             0.00      77.40                  0.00      0.00      67.96      -5.00      0.00
P059930       2000 ID-WSSLIC II                                       13.00       5.00                  0.00      0.00      16.03       5.55      0.00
P049545        2000 DECNT. AGRICULTURAUFORESTRY EXTENSION              0.00      38.00                  0.00      0.00      34.85       5.11      0.00
P056074        1999 ID-PROVINCIAL HEALTH I                             5.00       0.00                  0.00      0.00       2.37       2.12      0.00
P056821        1999 ID-MUNICIPAL INNOVATIONS PROJECT                   0.00     100.00                  0.00      0.00      27.95      10.26      0.00
P041895        1999 ID-URBAN POVERTY PROJECT                          47.90      15.93                  0.00      0.00      48.79      21.43      0.00
P064118        1999 ID-SULAWESI BASIC EDUC.                          300.00       0.00                  0.00      0.00     250.00     250.00     100.00
P003967        1999 WATSAL                                            44.70       0.00                  0.00      5.00      27.09      13.35      0.00
P063732        1999 ID-FIFTH HEALTH PROJECT                           31.50       0.00                  0.00     21.50       5.55      27.05      0.93
P040196        1999 CORPORATE RESTRUCTRG                              54.50      20.10                  0.00      0.00      50.93      11.99      0.00
P036049        1999 ID-SUMATRA BASIC EDUCUATION                       21.50       0.00                  0.00      0.00      18.34      16.04      16.04
P036956        1998 ID-EARLY CHILD DEVELOPMENT                        42.50       0.00                  0.00      8.00      18.45      12.45      8.45
P045337        1998 ID-SAFE MOTHERHOOD                               225.00       0.00                  0.00      0.00      99.05      40.43      0.00
P048715        1998 ID-KECAMATAN DEV FUND                             34.50       0.00                  0.00      8.50      15.45      20.97      13.95
P039644        1998 IIDP                                             103.50       0.00                  0.00      3.76      41.34     -28.40      0.00
P040061       1998 ID-W JAVA BASIC EDUCATION                          20.50       0.00                  0.00       5.00     13.76       8.86      0.00
P040062        1998 BENGKULU REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT                      0.00       0.00                  4.10       0.00      1.50       1.52       1.39
P036048        1998 CORAL REEF MGMT REHA                               6.90       0.00                 4.10       0.00       3.14       3.14       3.04
P003993        1998 CORAL REEF MGM REHAB                             234.00       0.00                  0.00     50.00     143.64      48.39       1.34
P042540        1997 SUMATRA REG. ROADS                                28.50       0.00                  0.00       9.00      9.07      13.57      11.27
P003987        1997 ID-IODINE DEF. CONTROL                           104.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00     40.14      31.24       0.00
P049051        1997 ID-CENTRAL INDONESIA SEC. EDU.                    16.40       0.00                  0.00       0.90      9.91       9.63       8.25
P003700        1997 BEPEKA AUDIT MODERNIZATION PROJECT                 0.00       0.00                 24.30      10.25      8.28      17.53       0.66
P040195        1997 SOLAR HOMES SYSTEMS                               71.20       0.00                  0.00       9.89     23.22      12.66       2.86
P036047        1997 ID-QUALITY OF UNDERGRADUATE EDUC (QUE)           110.00       0.00                  0.00     30.06      40.63      40.39       5.48
P036053        1997 IND-BALI URBAN INFRASTRUCTUREPROJECT             155.00       0.00                  0.00     67.22      14.19      81.41     -10.11
P004026       1997 IND-SULAWESI UDP II                               105.00       0.00                  0.00     20.00      75.22      86.22       0.00
P041894        1997 RLWY EFFICIENCY                                   98.00       0.00                  0.00       0.23     24.69       0.42       0.00
P039312        1996 ID-SUMATRASECONDARYEDUCATION                     117.00       0.00                  0.00      60.50      4.06      64.56       4.06
P003978        1996 IND-EASTJAVAUDPII                                 47.00       0.00                  0.00       8.54      6.11      14.66       8.67
P004003        1996 INODL TECHNOLOGY DEV                              60.40       0.00                  0.00      30.00      1.31      31.31       1.31
P004014        1996 ID-SECONDARYSCHOOLTEACHERDEVT                     19.10       0.00                 15.00       3.00     11.35      11.95       0.00
P004021        1996 KERINCI SEBLAT ICDP                              373.00       0.00                  0.00     163,71     17.36     181.07      20.07
P037097       1996 POW. TRANS & DIST II                               99.00       0.00                  0.00       3.63     30.01      19.65       0.00
P004011        1996 ID-E.JAVA SEC.EDUC.                               26.80       0.00                  0.00       3.70      4.22       3.17      -3.14
P003699        1996 SULAWESI AGRI AREA                                 0.00       0.00                 15.00       0.00      8.66       4.71       0.00
P004008        1996 KERINCI SEBLAT ICDP                               27.00       0.00                  0.00       4.90      4.63       6.93      -0.89
P004004        1996 NUSA TENGGARA DEV.                                65.00       0.00                  0.00       6.86      5.79       -0.35     -5.01
P003972        1996 ID-HIGHER EDUC SUP.(DUE)                          63.00       0.00                  0.00      22.89      8.91      31.80       2.45
P003968        1995 AG. RESEARCH II                                  132.50       0.00                  0.00     36.50      42.72      79.22      47.72
P003951        1995 ID-BOOK S READING DEV                            136.00       0.00                  0.00      18,04     13.33      31.37       1.71
P004001        1999 IND-KALIMANTAN UDP                               325.00       0.00                  0.00      69.67     84.34     154.01     104.01
P003988       1995 TELECOM SECTOR MODER                               69.00       0.00                  0.00      1845       2.44      20.89      12.39
P003984        1995 ID-PHRD il                                        80.00       0.00                  0.00      33.90      0.25      34.15      17.65
P039754        1995 LAND ADMINISTRATION                               28.00       0.00                  0.00       3.00      6.12       9.12       6.12
P004010        1994 IND-TAP41-2                                       55.00       0.00                  0.00      19.80      3.98      23.78       3.38
P003945        1994 DAM SAFETY                                       350.00       0.00                  0.00      46.00     28.54      74.54      -5.46
P003954        1994 HIGHWAYSECTORII                                  165.70       0.00                  0.00      41.17      14.81     55.98       6.81
JAVA IRR IMP & W R M
Total:    4395.40      417.63               62.50      843.58     1877.82    1610.84    385.39
- 83 -



INDONESIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
MAY-200 1
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval        Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic
1995               POF                            5.14    1.93    0.00    6.00    5.14    1.93       0.00    6.00
1995               PT ABS Finance                 0.00    1.31     0.00    0.00    0.00    1.31      0.00    0.00
1997               PT AdeS Alfindo                0.00    6.98     0.00    0.00    0.00    6.98      0.00    0.00
1989               PT Agro Muko                   0.00    2.20     0.00    0.00     0.00    2.20     0.00    0.00
1997               PTAlumindo                     15.26    0.00    0.00    14.00    15.26    0.00    0.00   14.00
1989/91/94         PT Astra                       0.00    5.82    0.00      0.00    0.00    5.82     0.00    0.00
1997               PT Astra Graphia               0.00    2.00    0.00      0.00    0.00    2.00     0.00    0.00
1997               PT Astra Otopart               0.00     1.07    0.00     0.00    0.00    1.07     0.00    0.00
1993/96            PT BBL Dharmala               11.35    0.00    0.00   21.40    11.35    0.00      0.00   21.40
1995               PT Bakrie Pipe                 17.14    0.00    9.50     0.00    17.14    0.00    9.50    0.00
1997/00            PT Bank NISP                   5.00    0.00     5.00     0.00    5.00    0.00     4.97    0.00
1997               PT Berlian                     7.91   20.00     0.00   21.95    7.91   16.65      0.00   21.95
1995               PT Bunas Finance               0.17    0.00    0.00      1.20    0.17    0.00     0.00    1.20
1996               PT Dharmala                    5.00    0.00     0.00     9.50    5.00    0.00     0.00    9.50
PT Grahawita                   0o00    0.00    5.00     0.00    0.00    0.00      5.00    0.00
1995               PT Indaci                      0.00    0.00     1.44    0.00    0.00    0.00      1.44    0.00
1991               PT Indo-Rama                   12.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    12.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
PT KIA Keramik                16.51    6.02     0.00    53.49    16.51    6.02    0.00   53.49
1990/91/93/95/99   PT KIA Serpih                 15.00    6.24    0.00   49.50    15.00    6.24      0.00   49.50
1992/94/96         PT Kalimantan                 20.00    15.00    0.00     6.00    15.56   15.00    0.00    4.67
1995               PT Makro                       0.00     1.25    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.79      0.00    0.00
1997               PT Megaplast                   8.75    2.50     0.00     0.00    8.75    2.50     0.00    0.00
1997/00            PTNusantara                    3.18    0.00     0.00    10.38    3.18    0.00     0.00   10.38
1998               PTPAMA                         0.00    0.71     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.71     0.00    0.00
1993               PTPramindo Ikat               25.00    8.18    25.00    54.25   25.00    3.91    25.00   54.25
1994               PT RIMBA                       0.00    0.60     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.60     0.00    0.00
1996               PT Samudera                    0.00    5.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    5.00     0.00    0.00
1991               PT Sayap                       9.17    0.00     0.00    10.00    9.17    0.00     0.00   10.00
1993               PT Sigma                       0.00    3.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    3.00     0.00    0.00
1997               PT Viscose                    22.73    0.00     0.00    27.85   22.73    0.00     0.00   27.85
2001               PT Wings                        7.96    0.00    0.00    10.66    7.96    0.00     0.00   10.66
1992/95            Prudential Asia                0.00    2.24     0.00    0.00     0.00    2.24     0.00    0.00
1997               SEAVI Indonesia                0.00    1.43    0.00      0.00    0.00    1.43     0.00    0.00
1994               Semen Andalas                  0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
1991               Ciluluk Village                0.03     0.00    0.00     0.00    0.03    0.00     0.00    0.00
1980/87            Dianlia                        4.00    0.00      1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
2000               KDLC Bali                       0.00    1.72    0.00     0.00    0.00    1.72      0.00    0.00
2001               LYON-MLF-lbis                   2.01    0.00    0.00    2.01      2.01    0.00     0.00    2.01
1994               Manulife                       0.00    0.32     0.00    0.00     0.00    0.32     0.00    0.00
1991
1988
Total Portfolio:       213.31    95.52    46.94   298.19   204.87   87.44    45.91  296.86
- 84 -



Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                           Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
2001               Sunson                           13.00      0.00      0.00     18.00
2001               PT BLT 11                        12.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:        25.00      0.00      0.00     18.00
- 85 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
INDONESIA: Eastern Indonesia Region Transport
East
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                               Asia &      Low-
Indonesia    Pacific  income        Development dlamond
2000
Population, mid-year (millions)                        210.4      1,853      2,459                  Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                       570       1.060       420
GNI (Atlas method, USS billions)                        119.9     1,964      1,030
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Population (%)                                            1.5        1.1       1.9 
Labor force (%)                                           2.5        1.4       2.4      per    IG primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994-00)                                   capita                        enrollment
Poverty (96 of population below national poverty line)    24
Urban population (% of total population)                  41         35         32
Life expectancy at birth (years)                          66         69         59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                  46         35         77
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                70         13                      Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of population)      76         75         76
illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                      10         14         38
Grossprimarvenrollment (96ofschool-agepopulation)        113        119         96              Indonesia
Male                                                   115        121       102                    Low-incomegroup
Female                                                 110        121        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990       1999       2000
Economic ratios'
GDP (USS billions)                             76.4    114.4      141.3      153.3
Gross domestic investment/GDP                  24.6      30.7       12.2      17.9
Exports of goods and services/GDP              34.9      25.3       35.2      38.5                      Trade
Gross domestic savinqs/GDP                     38.8      32.3       20.2      25.7
Gross national savings/GDP                               28.1       13.1      19.2
Current account balance/GDP                              -2.6        3.3       49        omestic                      Investment
Interest payments/GDP                           1.5       3.0        3.4       4.7      +omes
Total debtlGDP                                 27.4      61.1      106.7      92.5      savings
Total debt service/exports                               33.3       30.5      25.4
Present value of debt/GDP                                         106.0
Present value of debt/exports                                     254.9
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00      1999       2000   2000-04
(average annual growth)
GDP                                   6.1       4.2       0.8        4.8       4.9             - ndonesia
GDP per capita                        4.2       2.5      -0.8        3.1       3.4                    Low-income group
Exports of goods and services         2.9       5.4    -31.6        16.1       4.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990       1999       2000      Growth of investment and GDt (P6
(% of GOP)                                                                              20
Agriculture                                    24.5      19.4       19.5      16.9 9
Industry                                       42.6      39.1       43.7      47.3
Manufacturino                                13.3      20.7       25.9       26.0    -2C            96 e  97\ 
Services                                       32.9      41.5       36.7      35.8      40
Private consumption                            50.4      58.9       73.3      67.3    -60
General government consumption                 10.7       8.8        6.5       7.0                -     GDI        tGDP
Imports of goods and services                  20.6      23.7       27.2      30.7
1980-90  1990-00       1999       2000      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                     3.6       2.1        2.7       1.7    40
Industry                                        6.9       5.8        1.9       5.5    20
Manufacturing                                12.6       6.9        3.8        6.2      o
Services                                        6.9       3.5       -1.0       5.3    -20 .    90   96   97                  00
Private consumption                             5.6       6.5        4.6       3.6    -40
General government consumption                  4.6       0.1        0.7       6.5    -60
Gross domestic investment                       6.7      -0.3      -23.3       8.9                    Exports     0Imports
Imports of goods and services                   1.2       5.5      -40.7      18.2
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 86 -



Indonesia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980    1990      1999      2000     Inflation (%)
Domestic prices                                                                  a
(% change)                                                                      A0                        *
Consumerprices                              17.7     7.8       20.5      3.7    so       /A                    .
Implicit GDP deflator                       28.3     7.7       15.2     11.0    40
Govemment finance                                                               20
(% of GDP, includes cument grants)
Current revenue                               ..    19.3       18.0     20.1            95   96   97   98   99
Current budget balance                        ..    -2.0        2.8      3.6            -    GDPdeflator  -0-CPI
Overall surplusideficit                       ..      ..       -2.4     -1.1
TRADE
1980    1990      1999      2000      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                           ..  26,807    51,242   65,408    75,000
Fuel                                        ..  11,071      9,885   14,386
Estate crops                                ..    840       1,289    1,111     sO          _ 0
Manufactures                                ..  8,508    19,253   22,287
Total imports (cif)                       10,834   21,837    24,003   31,962
Food                                        ..    852       3,237    2,782    25,000
Fuel and energy                             ..   1,937      3,726    6,071
Capital goods                               ..   9,328      5,710    9,212        0
Export price index (1995=100)                 ..      63       131      129            94  95  96  97  98  99  M
Import price index (1995=100)                 ..      87        90       90                 *Exports     *Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                     ..      72       146       143
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1980    1990      1999      2000     Curent account babnce to GDP
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services                 ..  29,295    55,741    70,541     6
Imports of goods and services                 ..  27,511    42,071    55,293
Resource balance                              ..   1,784    13,670    15,248     4
Net income                                    ..  -5,190    -8,997   -8,440      2-
Net current transfers                         ..    418          0      672
Current account balance                       ..  -2,988      4,674    7,480                             98  99   M
Financing items (net)                         ..   5,239    -2,702   -5,140    -2
Changes in net reserves                       ..  -2,251    -1,972   -2,340    *4
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)        ..      ..   27,054   29,394
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUS$)           627.0  1,842.8   7,855.1  8,421.8
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980    1990       1999     2000
(US$ millions)                                                                   ComposItlon of 2000 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      20,938   69,872   150,844  141,802
IBRD                                     1,040    9,542    11,424   11.715                         A: 11,715
IDA                                       566      842       682      714             G: 22,635         8:714
Totaldebtservice                           3,084    9,946    17,900   18,810
IBRD                                      120    1,281      1,584    1,710
IDA                                         5       1,8       29       31                                     D:98,656
Composition of net resource flows                                                             )
Official grants                           109      283         0         0
Official creditors                        806    2,384      3,389    1,700
Private creditors                         807    1,830    -7,021    -7,040        F 5337070
Foreign direct investment                 180    1,093    -2,745   -4,550             '            __
Portfolio equity                            0      312    -1,793   -1,911
World Bank program
Commitments                               734    1,565      1,693      164     A - IBRD                   E - Bilateral
Disbursements                             373      987      1,506    1,110     8- IDA    D- Other multilaleral  F - Private
Pnncipal repayments                        32      562       786      787      C - IMF                    G - Short-term
Net flows                                 341      425       720      324
Interest payments                          93      737       827      955
Net transfers                             248    -312        -107     -631
Development Economics                                                                                             9110/01
- 87 -



Additional
Annex 11
SUMMARY OF ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
AND RESULTS OF SUBPROJECT SCREENING
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN (EMP)
1. Screening
The Environmental Screening of road projects within Kimpraswil to determine whether Amdal or
UKL/UPL is required utilizes Prosedur Penyaringan Amdal and UKL/UPL Proyek Jalan (Prosedur Kerja
No 1.1). This was an output of the Institutional Strengthening in Environmental Management (ISEM)
Project and has been adopted by Kimpraswil (Directorate General of Regional Infrastructure) as the
recommended screening procedure for all road projects. The two-stage screening process consists of:
*      Initial screening to determine whether any environmental examination is required,
*      Second stage screening to determnine the extent of further environmental examination (Andal or
UKL/UPL).
The initial screening aims to utilize existing data and maps already available from the overall project
preparation. Site visits would not normally be necessary. The main data requirements are:
v      Characteristics of pavement treatment (in particular widening of carriageway, sealing of unsealed
roads),
*     Whether there is any acquisition and development outside the present ROW (DMJ),
*     Whether there is any resettlement caused by the road,
e      Whether a sub-project is within or close to any specific designated or sensitive areas
*      Whether a sub-project is within or close to areas with indigenous people
The second stage screening requires a more detailed assessment of the characteristics of the sub-project,
available from existing sub-project preparation data, and a more detailed assessment of the characteristics
of the area through which the road passes. It will be necessary to undertake field studies during this second
stage of the screening of the short listed sub-projects although some of the assessments can be undertaken
as a desk exercise prior to visiting the site.
This screening process will be used to determine whether a project falls within Category A of the World
Bank classification. As a general rule, projects determined in the screening to require ANDAL will be
considered as falling into Category A and will be excluded from EIRTP 1. Projects determined to require
UKL/UPL for less intensive treatment will be considered as falling into Category B and potentially
acceptable for inclusion in EIRTPA. Any exceptions to this rule for A-versus-B decisions can be dealt
with as special cases in consultation between the environmental specialists of Kimpraswil and World Bank.
2. Stakeholder Consultation
ISEM prepared a set of procedures, processes and guidelines connected with stakeholder consultation. They
incorporated the requirements of both the GOI and the World Bank and were accepted by both parties as
- 88 -



the future approach for consultation. The ISEM approach has been refined and simplified to form the basis
of consultation in this EMP. The key features of the consultation process are:
* Consultation with all affected stakeholders will take place during all phases of the road development
process.
* Consultation with all affected stakeholders will include information on all laws and regulations.
* Consultation can include meetings of various types and sizes, house to house surveys, publicity through
handouts, local press and radio, and individual family consultation.
*  All levels of Government will be involved in the consultation process from the Govemor, Province
Level institutions (especially Kimpraswil), Kabupaten institutions and local level institutions.
* Adequate time will be given to the consultation process including time for disputes and objections.
* Consultation will be transparent and stakeholders will be given full information on the project, the
processes, and stakeholder rights.
* NGO's and other stakeholder groups will be involved at all stages of the consultation process through
the coordination of BAPEDALDA.
* Universities close to the project areas will be actively involved in assisting in the consultation process
and providing technical backup where necessary.
3. Land Acquisition And Compensation
As above, ISEM prepared a set of procedures, processes and guidelines connected with land acquisition
and compensation. They incorporated the requirement of both the Gol and the World Bank and were
accepted by both parties as the future approach for consultation. The ISEM approach has been refined and
simplified for this EMP. The key features of land and building, acquisition and compensation will be as
follows:
* All affected stakeholders with legal title will receive compensation for all land and buildings based on
replacement value. The replacement value for land will be determined by the open market value of that
land. The replacement value of buildings will be based on standard building costs obtainable from the
Public Works Department.
* Consultation with all affected stakeholders will take place during all phases of acquisition and
compensation process.
* Consultation with all affected stakeholders will include information on all laws and regulations
conceming valuation and compensation.
* Stakeholders with traditional or other title will be compensated to an agreed and published process.
4. Resettlement
As above, ISEM prepared a set of procedures, processes and guidelines connected with resettlement. They
incorporated the requirement of both the GOI and the World Bank and were accepted by both parties as the
future approach for consultation. The ISEM approach has been refined and simplified to form the basis of
this EMP. It provides that:
* There will be extensive consultation throughout the resettlement process with all affected stakeholders
(and by its very nature land acquisition also).
*  The consultation will include surveys of all affected stakeholders to determine their needs and present
conditions, and monitoring of resettled stakeholders.
* NGO's will be actively involved in all consultation.
- 89 -



* A resettlement action plan (or LARAP) will be prepared where more than 100 households are to be
resettled.
* All affected stakeholders will be given choices in tenns of cash or resettlement.
* Compentation for land, buildings and other assets acquired will be at real replacement cost.
* Host communities will be involved in consultation processes.
The main instrument for conveying the requirements and procedures for land acquisition and resettlement in
EIRTP I is a "Framework" that will be cited in the project legal documents and issued to all project
officers and government agencies implementing components or subprojects of EIRTPI.   Annex 12
presents the Framework, which was modelled on the Governor's Decree used in Sumatra Region Road
Project but modified to be consistent with the language in draft OP 4.12.
5. Isolated Vulnerable Peoples
ISEM prepared a set of procedures, processes and guidelines connected with isolated peoples. They
incorporated the requirements of both the GOI and the World Bank and were accepted by both parties as
the future approach for consultation. The ISEM approach has been refined and simplified for this EMP, in
which it appears as Chapter 7. It provides that:
* There will be extensive consultation with all affected isolated peoples throughout the planning,
feasibility, design and construction process.
l The consultation will include an assessment of how to balance the benefits that will accrue to the
project and of maintaining the special cultural and other characteristics of the isolated peoples.
*  The consultation process will involve close liaison with NGO's particularly where the isolated peoples
do not speak Bahasa Indonesia.
*  In needed an indigenous people action plan would be developed and cleared by the Bank before the bide
documents can be released to the contractors for bidding.
Annex 13 is a summary of the EMP's provisions for isolated vulnerable peoples.
6. Monitoring EMP Implementation And Project Impacts
GOI project officers will be required to summarize progress and problems in EMP implementation as part of
routine reports. Core team consultants will oversee and report on EMP implementation, in tandem with
Provincial BAPEDALDA which will take on increasing responsibility for these functions as their capacity to do so
is strengthened. Provincial BAPEDALDA will also review and approve any site-specific management and
monitoring plans (UKL and UPL) and check on their implementation. The stakeholder liaison mechanism will
serve as another channelfor feedback on subproject implementation and impacts.
The main monitoring indicators would include the following:
*  Budgeting and Timeframe: Has all the activities been undertaken within the agreed timeframe and
within original budget estimates and program?
*  General delivery of resettlement and compensation entitlements: Have all families received a choice in
resettlement and correct compensation and assistance?
*  Consultation processes: Has there been adequate disclosure, adequate public meeting, individual
consultations?
*  Levels of satisfaction: Are all people within the community satisfied with the total planning and design
process?
- 90 -



*  Restoration of living standards and livelihoods: Have all families impacted had their previous standard
of living and incomes restored?
*  Objections and Grievances procedures: Were all families who were aggrieved in any way given
assistance and access to senior officials?
*  Socio Economic impacts of the wider community: What were the longer term and wider impact on the
whole community?
Monitoring should commence at the earliest opportunity and certainly prior to the completion of the project.
In terms of monitoring of impacted families it will be necessary to monitor more than once to enable the
preparation of a longer term view of the situation.
Monitoring will require interviews with involved govemment official and consultants, and with impacted
residents. Standard interview forms or simple questionnaires should be prepared. Physical surveys will also
be necessary to assess standard of replacement land and buildings.
7.    Institutional Arrangements For EMP Implementation, And Recommendations For
Institutional Strengthening
BAPEDALDA at provincial level (with BAPEDALDA at Kabupaten level) is considered to be the most
appropriate institution to be responsible for overseeing and coordinating the EMP and associated activities.
BAPEDALDAs have a range of specific and general responsibilities for environmental management in
various other sectors but to date their responsibilities in connection with road development is very limited.
The conclusion of previous projects, in particular the Sumatra Region Roads Project, is that
BAPEDALDA, with appropriate improvements and enhancements should become involved in
environmental and social aspects of road development.
An initial review was carried to assess the environmental and organizational capacities of all
BAPEDALDAs within the project area. A questionnaire survey was conducted in conjunction with the
EIRTP 1 workshop in Makassar, April 24, 2001, to assess present capacity in BAPEDALDA. Highlights
of the responses include the following. The number of staff in BAPEDALDA range from 9 (Maluku
Utara) to 76 (Kaltim), and graduate staff range from 9 (Maluku Utara) to 44 (Kaltim). All but one of the
BAPEDALDAs have had liaison with NGO's. Prior to the workshop most BAPEDALDAs had little
understanding of roads and their social and environmental implications. All BAPEDALDAs have stated
that they require additional personnel, training and equipment in order to undertake their duties. Only two
BAPEDALDA have staff with experience in road development.
Based on the review of the questionnaire and an assessment of the workshop there is clearly a need for
institutional improvements and enhancements in BAPEDALDAs in order that they can start to perform
some or all of their duties connected with road development and the EMP. An institutional action plan
needs to be prepared which would include all or some of the following activities depending, on the precise
status of each BAPEDALDA:
*  Appropriate staff recruitment, except in the new provinces new recruitment of graduate staff would not
be a priority.
*  Improving staff competency: further workshops will be necessary.
*  Provision of equipment, transport and facilities through improved budgeting: essential to ensure that
trained and qualified staff can be effectively utilized in road development activities
*  Establishment and maintenance of database: important to improve staff effectiveness.
- 91 -



* Defining specific responsibilities of BAPEDALDA for road development EMP: a priority to ensure
appropriate staff understand their roles (this can be part of EIRTP activities).
* Improving liaison with NGO's: Important to ensure the BAPEDALDA can act as a liaison with all
stakeholders.
*  Coordination and communication with other institutions involved in road development: also important
as a means of strengthening coordination role.
The core team consultants and the two regional team consultants will include environmental and social
impact management experts to ensure that safeguards are observed and the EMP is properly implemented
until such time as Provincial BAPEDALDA's develop and demonstrate adequate capacity to take over these
functions.
RESULTS OF SCREENING OF PROPOSED SUB-PROJECTS
2001 Annual Work Program
All sub-projects proposed for the year 2001 AWP have been reviewed. The list contains Periodic
Maintenance, Betterment and Bridge Replacement Sub-Projects. There are no New Construction or
Capacity Expansion sub-projects within year 2001 AWP or in the subsequent 2 years. The screening
review has followed the general principles laid down in Figure 1 (Environmental Impact Assessment:
Screening for Road Projects) of the EMP. This review divided the sub-projects into two groups based on
the treatment type:
1. All sub-projects that do not include any carriageway widening, or any sealing of unsealed roads;
2. All sub-projects that include any length of carriageway widening of sealed roads or sealing of unsealed
roads (i.e. all sub-projects that have the following treatment codes: P5 1, P52, P53, P54 Widening of a
sealed road within the ROW and P6 1, P62 Sealing of unsealed roads).
For all sub-projects in the first group there will be no adverse impacts except during the construction phase.
All work will be carried out within the existing carriageway widths and will not entail development beyond
the existing ROW; therefore no land acquisition is required. The construction impacts will be adequately
covered by the environmental conditions within the SOP; site-specific EMPs (UKL/UPL) will not be
required. For sub-projects in the second group there is some potential for adverse impacts. Nine
sub-projects have been defined in this category out of a total of approximately 50 sub-projects. In addition
there are three sub-projects (2, 6, and 11 in Table 1) that are now provisionally included within year 2001
but were not included within SEPM (Strategic Expenditure Planning Module) which may involve sealing.
The results of a desk review is shown in Table 1 and summarized below.
Carriageway Widening (Sub-projects 1, 5, 7, 8, 9, 10 in Table 1)
The six sub-projects involving widening of the carriageway (not widening of the ROW) are unlikely to
cause significant environmental impact. It is likely that no land acquisition is required, and there will be no
resettlement. The already sealed roads have been in existence for some time, and the impact on the physical
environment is likely to be insignificant if SOP is applied during the construction stage. Site investigation is
now taking place to finally determine whether UKL/UPL is necessary. This will be reported on in late May
2001.
- 92 -



Table 1. Year 2001 AWP Sub Projects: Environmental Screening
Prov_ m    Type          Link        Unk Nae   Physically  CulturaUy Fombry    RuralUrba  Consltation Invesfigation                  LIKAJL            Remarks
Namber                    Sen .ith     Sensitive   Are-                    with           reslts
(As defined              (Ref on       Area        Area                                 Bapedalda                         Rertired (In
in Total                 Provinoe                                                       etc                               accortance with
Programme                M4s)                                                                                             screening
Civd Works                                                                                                                prorod-res)
I Went        Pencfic     009 I N      MempashSi Yes             No          No           Ruial        Yes           No widening inhluded Not rerqired    This rad is adjacent to
Kalaot    Maintenance                DuitlWI)    Adjacenit m                                                       ides;go                             ctadn   and tcial carec ill
Wienog                                 coast                                                                                               be nrnessary in dIe dsip andt
censstuction toensuire minmnal
I_          II                                                             I    _                                                                         nitact on the t envimnment
2 Centrt      Pniodic      Oll 2       Km 65-        No          Yea          Yes        RiLad         No            iavmng(Scaling)of  Not required    See sparate note o  putenial
KaXalmvn  Maintenance                Asni*aui                                                                      garvel rna ivrthin                  indirect inpact nn diegal
(WI)                                                                          nghtofsway                          lgiBng
Sminig                  (The peisce                Trasmiat                                            No widenog idiirhed
location has              ion                                                in d-gn
been changd)
(seciaal Cm)                                                                                           The pecse locoiot
has bei changed
3 East        Bettermtent  025 2 N     Senaoi Sedta.- No         Yea         Yes          Rual         YQ            Pavig (Sefitg) of  Not required    Hdly an
Kaiman                               Pentg (SI)                                                                    grveI road athoi
nght of nigy
Seeing                                             Trarmigrut                                          No  iidesg inchled                   Design ncludesre,ecutand
ion area                                           in desgn                            fill most Is th;n 2 metres
high. Where more tdan 2
nretre sscinl care  dl be
necssary in the design and
consnsicion to enstre mininea
impact ot lhe environment
4 Ea          Beettnrment  027 I N     Tamnh Grogot Ys            Yea         Y           Ritd         Ye            Pavig (Sealhng) of  Not required    See sepatrae note on potential
Kialinri                             - KR Dayu                                                                     gravel red  ithi                     indirect imra/t an ilegal
(S2)                                                                          ngihtofw                             leaging
Seal5ig                                Near        Teemngrat                                           No idoensog o-I.ude
protected   ion area                                           redeign
coastal area
5 Snuth       Peadoic      003 2 N     Mmtap-SP  No              No           No          Riats/       No            Novidennig ocluded Not required
Kslbetin  Mainroae                   Etpa tIW2)                                                                    in design
Wdetdin                                                                    Ulban
65 Nonh       tprncan   053N                -h          i        No           Yea        Roal          No            Ravmg(Senltglof  Nat reqaired    Thls rad isadjacentbo
Stbsia    Selivng                    (W5)                                                                          grovel and eath md                   coaoeoi amd pel care awll
Adjacent tno                                                   No wsidenng nmcluted                 be nrecs3ty in e design and
coast and                                                      in d,4ge                             consbtucton to eaure mmnial
near                                                                                                impact en the envionxment
mtsitoar.o
7|C ral     Betterment  Ol I N        Tolitoli -    Ye          No          Yea        iRial         No             Widening of        Not required
Sub"c"      Widning                  Lingadan (WI) Near Coast                                                      mni"'-   by I
and                                                             =t,t6met ivi sght of
mioum3i                                                        vvsy far 3.5 his
areas
0Swi          PerOindic    004 I N     Naiale - iTS  Ye          No          Y.           Rina         Ye            No. idenig eiaKbd Not req.-red    Mntminou nine
Subirs      Maintenance              CAloitn w                                                                     in design                            Dsign sdi nciude some cut
Wideninig                Selaan (WI)                                                                                                        and fill
We ( )ial care til be neery in
the design and c,.n.stmcdn b.
ensrae mimnial impact en the
r'tiem,neaent
9 s3usi       Benerinent  052 I N                    Ye          No          Ye           Rud          Ye            Novwd ,g ahiled Nat reqoir-d
Sueim       Wktdting                 T             Neddo    3Nwr Ceat^                                             in dengn
I  __      I ____  (W2)               an                     I                                                                            I
Il Soth        Betterment  01l N        Pabe-         No          NNo           o          Rad          YN. widening cdoled Not reqaired
Submsi      WPdknog                  Pangpj-e                                                                      o denpo
(W31
Sealing of Unsealed Roads (Sub-projects 3, 4, 12 in Table 1)
Further examination of the three sub-projects that will include some sealing along part of their route has
been carried out. This examination has included discussion with Provincial BAPEDALDA, BAPPEDA and
Dinas PU/Kimpraswil and a review of 1:250,000 scale maps. All three sub-projects are part of links that
- 93 -



were previously sealed but have deteriorated to such an extent that new sealing is necessary in part of the
aligmnent. All three, two in Kalimantan and one in Irian Jaya, were originally built between 10 and 20
years ago as part of transmigration programs. There will clearly be improvements to access that will have
impacts on the local economy and environment, but it will basically be a reversion to a previous situation.
ANDAL is not necessary for any sub-project in this category. An examination of the design and further
site investigation will determine whether an UKL/UPL is necessary.
Additional Sub-projects (Sub-projects 2,6,11 in Table 1)
Three sub-projects are included within year 2001 but were not included within SEPM. These sub-projects
may include sealing. Further investigation will be necessary to determine whether there are any potential
enviromnental and social implications. ANDAL will not be required for any sub project in this category.
An examination of the design and further site investigation will determine whether an UKL/UPL is
necessary.2002 and 2003 AWP
An identical process to that described above for year 2001 has been undertaken for sub-projects included within
years 2002 and 2003. A total of 30 sub-projects with some widening and sealing along part of the route have been
identified. An initial desk review has been carried out and the conclusions are included in Table 2. In view of the
fact that these sub-projects are not programmed to start until 2002 some review and refinement of these
conclusions will be possible. However on present evidence, ANDAL will not be required for any sub-project. Site
investigation and consideration will be carried out to determine whether an UKL/UPL will be necessary for any
sub-project.
-94 -



Table 2. Year 2002 and 2003 AWP Sub Projects: Environmental Review
I   Province   Type              Link Name  Physically Culturally Forest RuraU  Consultatio Site visit     UKL/UPL
(Ref     on Sensitive  Sensitive  Area  Urban   n with      necessary?    Required
Map)        Area      Area                      Bapedalda
_________      etc
I  West       Betterment        Sei Duri-   No         No          o    Rural   No          More          To be
Kalimantan Widening          Singkawang                                                  investigation  confirmed
(W2)        _necessary
2  Central    Betterment        Br           No        No         No    Rural   No           More          To be
Kalimantan Sealing           Benkel-Km                                                   investigation  confirmed
35.00 (SI)                                                  necessary
3  East        Periodic         Samarinda-S No         No         No    Urban   No           More          To be
Kalimantan Maintenance       p 3 Sambera            Transmigrat                          investigation  confirmed
Widening         (WI)                   ion area                              necessary
4  South       Periodic         Kp Asam    No          No           o    Rural   No          More          To be
Kalimantan Maintenance       Asam-Kintab            Transmigrat                          investigation  confirmed
Widening         (WI)                   ion area     _                        necessary
5  South      Betterment        Sei Kupang- Yes        No         Yes   Rural   No           More          To be
Kalimantan Sealing           Manggakau- (To      be                                      investigation   confirmed
Bts Kaltim   confirmed)                                     necessary
(SI)
6  Bali       Periodic          Angentewlu- Yes        Yes        No    Rural   No           More          To be
Maintenance      Padangbai  Coast                                            investigation   confirmed
Widening         (W I)                                                        necessary
7  West Nusa  Betterment        Rempung-LB Yes         No         No    Rural   No           More          To be
Tenggara   Widening          . Lombok    Protected                                       investigation  confirmed
.________                (W 1)        area nearby                 _necessary
8  West Nusa  Betterment        Kopang-Mas Yes         No         No    Rural   No           More          To be
Tenggara   Widening          bagik       Protected                                       investigation  confirmed
(W2)        area nearby                                     necessary
9  West Nusa  Betterment        Cakranegara- No        No         No      rban   No          More          To be
Tenggara   Widening          Mantang                                                     investigation   confirmed
(W3)                  I                                     necessary
10 East Nusa   Betterment       Oesao-Bokon Yes        Yes        No      ural   No          More          Tobe
Tenggara   Widening          g (WI)      Protected                                        investigation   confirmed
area                                            n ecessary
I iNorth      Special case may Balontio -   Yes        No         Yes    ural   No           More          To be
Sulawesi  include sealing    Tolinggula  Coast/                                          investigation  confirmed
_          I  _              (S I)       Mountain j                                       necessary
12 North      Periodic          Tabulo-Mari Yes        No         Yes    ural   No           More          To be
Sulawesi   Maintenance       a           Coast/                                          investigation  confirmed
Widening         (W2)         Mountain                                        necessary
13 North      Betterment        Atinggola-K  Yes       No         Yes   Rural   No.          More          To be
Sulawesi   Widening          wandang    Coast/                                           investigation  confirmed
l   I      l                 (W3)        Mountain                      _                  necessary
14 North      Periodic          Kawangkoan Yes         NO         Yes   Rural   No           More          To be
Sulawesi   Maintenance       - Worotican Coast!                                          investigation  confirmed
Widening         (S2)         Mountain I                                      necessary
15 Central    Special case may   Siboang -   Yes       No         Yes   Rural   No           More          Tobe
Sulawesi  include sealing    Ogoamas    Coast!                                           investigation  confirmed
i   __     I_(SI)                        Mountain                                         n necessary
16 South      Periodic          BTS Cabdin Yes         Yes        Yes   Rural   No           More          To be
Sulawesi   Maintenance       Luwu                                                         investigation  confirmed
Widening         Selatan-Palo                                                 necessary
_________   ___________  _ l  po   (W 4)  _
17 South     |Periodic          Polewali-Maj Yes       No         Yes   Rural   No           More          To be
Sulawesi  IMaintenance       ene (W5)   Mountain                                         investigation  confirmed
- 95 -



_________  Widening                                                                      n l  l_l_necessary
18 South      Betterment        Maros-Batas No         No          o    Rural   No           More         To be
Sulawesi   Widening          Cabon Bone Coast                                            investigation  confirmed
Bone Barat                                                  necessary
(W6)
19 South      Betterment        Tarumpakae- Yes        No          es   Rural   No          More          To be
Sulawesi   Widening          Batas Luwuk Coast                                           investigation  confirmed
(W7)                                                        necessary
20 South       Betterment       Batas        Yes       No         Yes   Rural   No           More          To be
Sulawesi   Widening          Wajo-Km    Coast                                            investigation  confirmed
325 (W8)                                      n_ ecessary
21 South       Betterment       Pangkajene  No         No         Yes   Rural   No           More          To be
Sulawesi   Widening          S-Anabanua                                                  investigation  confirmed
_ ________  _______________    (W9)                                                      necessary
22 South       Special case may   Topoyo -    Yes      No         Yes    ural   No           More          To be
Sulawesi  include sealing    Karosa (SI) Coast]                                          investigation  confirmed
Mountain                                        necessary
23 South East Special case may   Porehu - Bts Yes      No         Yes   Rural   No           More          To be
Sulawesi  include sealing    Sulsel (SI)  Coast/                                         investigation  confirmed
Mountain                                        necessary
24 Papua (Irian Betterment      Abepura-Ars No         Yes        Yes   Rural   No           More          To be
Jaya)      Sealing           o-Waris (S2)                                                investigation   confirmed
_                                                                                         necessary
25 Papua (Irian Betterment      Klamono-Ay Yes         Yes        Yes    ural   No           More          To be
Jaya)      Sealing           amaru (S3)                                                  investigation   confirmed
__________ .__________                         necessary
26 Papua (Irian Betterment      Maruni-Oran Yes        Yes        Yes   Rural   No           More          To be
Jaya)      Sealing           sbari (S4)                                                   nvestigation   confirmned
_                                                                      _                  necessary
27 Papua (Irian Betterment      Oransbari-Ra Yes       Yes        Yes   Rural   No           More          To be
Jaya)      Sealing           nsiki (S5)                                                  investigation   confirmned
___________   ______ __________   ______ _____   __________necessary              _ _ _ _ _
28 Papua (Irian Betterment      Nabire-Mapi Yes        Yes        Yes Rural   No             More          To be
Jaya)      Sealing           a (S6)                                                      investigation    onfirmed
necessary
29 Papua (Irian Special case may   Yetti- Senggi Yes   Yes        Yes   Rural   No           More          To be
Jaya)      include sealing    - Tangon                                                   investigation   confirmed
(S7)                                                       Inecessary
30 Papua (Irian Special case may   Bupil -  Yes        Yes        Yes   Rural   No           More          To be
Jaya)      include sealing    Muting (S8)                                                investigation   confirmed
___________   _________________  ____________   __________  __________ _    ______  _______  ________   necessaryssary
General Conclusions
No sub-projects within years 2001, 2002 or 2003 will require ANDAL or will fall within Category A of
the Bank's classification. Many sub-projects will not require UKL/UPL either; SOP will suffice for the majority.
- 96 -



Additional
Annex 12
Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework
The following land acquisition and resetlement policy framework was agreed at negotiations and
will be included as a supplemental letter to the loan agreement.
CHAPTER 1- DEFINITIONS
The definitions used in this Policy Framework are:
1.   "Project" means the EIRTP (Eastern Indonesia Regional Transport Project) including all
Project components and its activities as described in this Loan Agreement between the
Republic of Indonesia and the Bank.
2.   "Government" means the Government of the Republic of Indonesia.
3.   "Level I Regional Government" means the Level 1 Regional Government of a province in
the Eastern Region known as a Propinsi.
4.   "Level 2 Regional Government" means the Level 2 Regional Governments in a province in
the Eastern Region known as a Kabupaten/Kota.
5.   "Project Affected Persons" means persons who, on account of the execution of the Project,
had or would have their: (i) standard of living adversely affected; or (ii) right, title, interest
in any house, land (including premises, agricultural and grazing land) or any other physical
asset acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; (iii) access to productive assets
adversely affected, temporarily or pennanently; or (iv) business, occupation, work or place
of residence or habitat adversely affected; and "Project Affected Person" means individually
all those who qualify as Project Affected.
6.   "Physically Displaced Persons" means persons who are forced to move from their previous
location because (i) all or a significant portion (50% or more) of their land or buildings are
affected by the Project; or (ii) less than 50% of their land or buildings are affected by the
Project if the remaining portion is not economically viable or habitable.
7.   "Land acquisition" means an activity by the Project management to obtain land, buildings or
other assets from Project Affected Persons for purposes of the Project against provision of
compensation and assistance.
8.   "Compensation" means the compensation given in exchange for the taking of land and
building, in whole or in part, and all fixed assets on the land and buildings.
9.   "Resettlement" means an effort /activity to relocate the Project Affected Persons into a good
new settlement as mentioned in sub chapter 4.4 so that they can develop a better life.
- 97 -



10.  "Rehabilitation Assistance" means the provision of cash or assets or other forms of support
to enable Project Affected Persons with or without legal rights to the assets taken by the
Project to at least equal or improve their standard of living to the level prior to the project.
CHAPTER 2 - GENERAL PRINCIPLES
I1.   For the development of the Project, land and building may be required. The Project Affected
Persons whose land and building will be taken for the development of the Project will have
their land and building acquired for the public interest.
2.   The Project Affected Persons have the right to receive fair real replacement cost
compensation. Real replacement cost means: (i) for agricultural land, the pre-Project or
pre-displacement, whichever is higher, market value of land of equal productive potential or
use located in the vicinity of the affected land, plus the cost of land preparation to levels
similar to those of affected land, plus the cost of any registration and transfer taxes; (ii) for
land in urban areas, the pre-displacement market value of land of equal size and use, with
similar or improved public infrastructure facilities and services and located in the vicinity of
the affected land, plus the cost of any registration and transfer taxes; and (iii) for houses and
other structures, the market cost of the materials to build a replacement structure, or to
repair a partially affected structure, plus the cost of transporting building materials to the
construction site, plus the cost of any labor and contractors' fees, plus the cost of any
registration and transfer taxes. In determining the replacement cost, depreciation of the asset
and the value of salvage materials are not taken into account, nor the value of benefits to be
derived from the Project deducted from the valuation of an affected asset.
3.   In the event that deliberations have been repeatedly conducted over a long period of time, but
not exceeding I year, to reach a consensus but no consensus has been reached on the form
and amount of compensation, dispute resolution will follow Presidential Decree No.55 of
1993. The Decree stipulates that after failure to reach agreement with the Land Acquisition
Committee, the owner has the right of objection to the Govemor [see clause 20(1)], who may
conduct further negotiations [see clause 20(2)]. If the owner is still not satisfied, the
Govemor must refer the case to the Minister of Home Affairs and Minister of Justice [see
clause 21(1) and (2)], for consideration and referral to the President of the Republic of
Indonesia for a final decision [see clause 21(3) and (4)].
4.   This Policy Framework provides guidelines and a set of procedures for agreeing on a fair
level of compensation to Project Affected Persons to ensure that those affected receive fair
compensation and that no Project Affected Persons are unfairly treated by being given low
compensation, or benefit unfairly by being given compensation that is significantly higher
per square meter than other owners who sell similar nearby land on the free market.
CHAPTER 3 - SOCIAL ECONOMIC SURVEY, INFORMATION
AND CONSULTATION
3.1 Baseline and Social Economic Survev
I1.   As part of the planning and land acquisition process, the Level 2 Regional Government will
- 98 -



conduct a baseline survey and a social-economic survey by using census method, to (i)
determine the number of persons involved, to avoid an influx of persons trying to take
advantage of this Policy Framework, and (ii) collect data about the social economic
condition of the people and the condition of the Project area.
2.   A baseline survey is conducted at the early phase of Project preparation, to identify persons
who live in the Project area and to get information about persons, land and buildings which
might be affected by the Project.
3.   The date of the social-economic survey will be the latest cut-off point to record the persons
in the Project area that will receive compensation, resettlement and removal and
rehabilitation assistance.
4.     The social-economic survey will be conducted after a clear Project design is made
available, to obtain a detailed infornation of the Project Affected Persons and possible
impacts caused by the Project. The social economic survey will cover among others:
(a)  the size, condition, legal status of land and buildings (listed in impact groups of 0-25%,
25-50%, 50-75%, 75-100% affected);
(b)  the number of Project Affected Persons and households;
(c)  the age, gender, education, job, standard of living, and expenditures of the Project Affected
Persons; and
(d)  the number, types, and size of formal and informal businesses; possible positive and negative
impacts on the people, cultural assets and the environment.
5.   The social-economic survey will cover all Project Affected Persons living in the Project area,
and will be the basis for preparing a land acquisition and resettlement action plan.
3.2  Land Acquisition and Resettlement Action Plan (LARAP)
I. Based on the results of the survey described in sub-chapter 3. 1, the Local Government prepares
a comprehensive plan on the taking of assets for purposes of the Project, and the provision of
compensation, resettlement, and rehabilitation assistance for the Project Affected Persons in
accordance with the principles of this Policy Framework.
2. The scope and level of detail of the LARAP will vary with the magnitude and complexity of the
resettlement. The plan will be based on up-to-date and reliable information about: (a) the
proposed resettlement and its impacts on the displaced persons and other adversely affected
groups; and (b) the legal issues involved in resettlement. The following list defines the matters
that should normally be included LARAP and it should be regarded as general guidance in the
preparation of a LARAP. When any matter listed is not relevant to Project circumstances, it
should be noted in the resettlement plan:
(a) General description of the Project and identification of the Project area.
(b) Identification of: (i) the Project component or activities that give rise to resettlement; (ii)
the zone of impact of such component or activities; (iii) the alternatives considered to avoid or
minimize resettlement; and (iv) the mechanisms established to minimize resettlement, to the
extent possible, during Project implementation.
- 99 -



(c) The main objectives of the resettlement program.
(d) The findings of socioeconomic studies to be conducted in the early stages of Project
preparation and with the involvement of potentially displaced people, including the results of
the baseline survey and other studies covering: (i) current occupants of the affected area to
establish a basis for the design of the resettlement program and to exclude subsequent inflows
of people from eligibility for compensation and resettlement assis-tance; (ii) standard
characteristics of displaced households, including a description of production systems, labor
and household organization; baseline information on livelihoods (including, as relevant,
production levels and income derived from both formal and informal economic activities) and
standards of living (including health status) of the displaced population; (iii) the magnitude of
the expected loss - total or partial - of assets, and the extent of displacement, physical or
economic; (iv) information on vulnerable groups or persons, for whom special provisions may
have to be made; and (v) provisions to update information on the displaced people's livelihoods
and standards of living at regular intervals so that the latest information is available at the time
of their displacement.
(e) The findings of an analysis of the legal framework.
(f) The findings of an analysis of the institutional framework.
(g) Definition of displaced persons and criteria for determining their eligibility for
compensation and other resettlement assistance, including relevant cut-off dates.
(h) The methodology to be used in valuing losses to determine their replacement cost; a
description of the proposed types and levels of compensation under local law and such
supplementary measures as are necessary to achieve replacement cost for lost assets.
(i) A description of the packages of compensation and other resettlement measures that will
assist each category of eligible displaced persons to achieve the objectives of the Policy
Framework.
(j) Alternative relocation sites considered and explanation of those selected, covering: (i)
institutional and technical arrangements for identifying and preparing relocation sites, whether
rural or urban, for which a combi-nation of productive potential, locational advantages, and
other factors is at least comparable to the advantages of the old sites; the plan estimates the
time needed to acquire and transfer land and ancillary resources; (ii) any measures necessary to
prevent land speculation or influx of ineligible persons at the selected sites; (iii) procedures for
physical relocation under the Project, in-cluding timetables for site preparation and transfer;
and (iv) legal arrangements for regularizing tenure and transferring titles to resettlers.
(k) Plans to provide, or to finance resettlers' provision of, housing, infrastructure and social
services; plans to ensure comparable services to host populations; any necessary site
develop-ment, engineering, and architectural designs for these facilities.
(1) A description of the boundaries of the relocation area; and assessment of the environmental
impacts of the proposed resettlement and measures to mitigate and manage these impacts
(coordinated as appropri-ate with the environmental assessment of the main investment
requiring the resettlement).
- 100-



(m) Community participation, including (i) a description of the strate-gy for consultation and
participation of resettlers and hosts in the design and implementation of the resettlement
activities; (ii) a summary of the views expressed and how these views were taken into account
in preparing the resettlement plan; (iii) a review of the resettlement alternatives presented and
the choices made by displaced persons regarding options available to them, including choices
related to forms of compensation and resettlement assistance, to relocating as individuals
families or as parts of preexisting communities or kinship groups, to sustaining existing
patterns of group organization, and to retaining access to cultural property; and (iv)
institutionalized arrangements by which displaced people can communicate their concerns to
Project authorities throughout planning and implementation, and measures to ensure that such
groups as isolated vulnerable people, the landless, and women are adequately represented.
(n) Measures to mitigate the impact of resettlement on any host communities.
(o) Grievance procedures.
(p) The organizational framework for imple-menting resettlement, including identification of
agencies responsible for delivery of resettlement measures and provision of services.
(q) An implementation schedule covering all resettlement activities from preparation through
implementation, including target dates for the achievement of expected benefits to resettlers
and hosts and terminating the various forms of assistance.
(r) Costs and budget.
(s) Arrangements for monitoring of resettlement activities by the implementing agency,
supplemented by independent monitors as considered appropriate by the Bank.
3.   There will be regular consultations with all Project Affected Persons, and all other
stakeholders including non-governmental organizations throughout the design and
implementation of the LARAP.
4.   The LARAP described in point I of this sub-chapter is prepared by each PIU and is
thereafter provided to the Bank through PMU for approval. Once Bank approval is obtained,
it is issued as a Decree of the Bupati/Walikota, Head of the Level 2 Region.
5.   Issuance of NOL for contract signing for a Project that requires a LARAP will be
considered by the Bank after receipt of a progress report from PMU that indicates
substantial implementation of the LARAP by the GOI, including acquisition of all land in
critical locations.
3.3 Information Dissemination and Consultation Campaign
I1.   Based on the Decree of the Bupati/Walikota, Head of the Level 2 Region, relating to the
LARAP as described in sub-chapter 3.2 point 2, the Level 2 Region conducts all intensive
information dissemination to the Project Affected Persons to inform them about the plan,
implementation, benefits and impacts of the Project. The Level 2 Regional Government will
strengthen community participation in the preparation of the LARAP.
- 101 -



2.   The LARAP, including all its maps and annexes will be publicly displayed at the Project
office, Kelurahan office, and the office of the Chairman of the Rukun Warga (RW)
(community) during Project preparation and implementation.
3.4  Consultation
1.   Consultation with all Project Affected Persons and all other stakeholders including
non-governmental organizations will be continuous throughout the planning, feasibility and
design process of the LARAP.
2.   During information dissemination there will be consultation and exchange of views to solicit
the opinion and suggestions from the people about the Project, compensation, resettlement,
rehabilitation assistance, efforts to minimize adverse impacts, and the procedures to address
and to solve problems. The host community will also be invited to the consultation. The
consultation will provide valuable inputs to enhance Project design and implementation.
3.5 Non-Governmental Organizations and Community Organizations
In implementing the activities described in sub-chapter 3.1, sub-chapter 3.2 and sub-chapter 3.3,
the Level 2 Regional Government will be assisted by an experienced non-governmental
organization or a similar organization which is experienced in social approach and community
development.
3.6    Tracer Study for Land Acquisition Carried Out Without a Bank Approved LARAP
If land acquisition was conducted during the past two years in the Project Provinces in connection
with national or strategic roads included in the annual work program, without a LARAP approved
by the Bank, a "tracer study" shall be conducted to evaluate whether the land acquisition has been
well implemented without adverse impacts on the Project Affected Persons. If land was acquired
more than 2 years before no tracer study or other study will be necessary.
CHAPTER 4 - LAND ACQUISITION
4.1  Compensation
1.   The Project Affected Persons will receive fair compensation. The compensation of land,
building, and fixed asset will be the real replacement cost as set out in chapter 2, point 2.
The compensation is agreed in a negotiation between the Project Affected Persons and the
Project Management/Land Acquisition Committee.
2.   Compensation for trees, crops and other assets will be based on the replacement value using
existing prices per tree prepared by relevant agencies, taking into account local market
prices.
3.   No Project Affected Persons shall have their land or other assets taken before they have
received fair compensation.
- 102 -



4.   A monitoring and evaluation system for compensation will be introduced to ensure that
Project Affected Persons have received their compensation as described above. The
monitoring will be undertaken by an independent local institution (e.g. a university) and will
be a full survey or sample survey depending on the number of households affected. A report
on the results and recommendations will be published.
4.2   Rehabilitation Assistance
In addition to the compensation for land, building, and fixed assets, the Project Affected Persons
will receive rehabilitation assistance, so that they can develop a better life and adjust themselves to
the new environment.
4.3   Compensation Alternatives
1.   Based on the agreement reached at the negotiation, the Project Affected Persons can choose
to receive cash compensation, resettlement, or other options.
2.   The other options described in point I of this sub-chapter are alternatives, including serviced
sites, land swap, low cost housing, apartments, real-estate housing with Bank Tabungan
Negara (BTN) credit facility, or other schemes organized by the Level 2 Regional
Govermnent.
3.   Among those options, there will be an opportunity of having a resettlement site, where the
Project Affected Persons do not have to pay more than their present routine expenditure as
identified in the social economic survey.
4.   The Project Affected Persons can establish a housing cooperative to develop together their
houses. The Level 2 Regional Government in coordination with relevant agencies will
provide service and assistance.
5.   If the number of the Project Affected Persons is more than 200 persons or 40 households
and in the vicinity of the Project there are no Perumnas, government housing Project, or low
cost housing with BTN credit facility which can be coordinated, the Local Government will
build, if requested by the Project Affected Persons, a special resettlement site as described in
sub-chapter 4.4 point 1.
6.   The Project Affected Persons will not bear the depreciation of their buildings, and charges or
taxes related to the compensation. If there are such charges they will be borne by the Project.
7.   The cost of the new land certificate given to the Project Affected Persons will be covered in
the Project cost.
8.   The Project Affected Persons can take and bring their salvaged building materials to the new
site. They will receive transport allowance to move to the new site.
9.   The Project Affected Persons whose: (i) remaining land and building cannot be used for
housing or workplace; or (ii) the remaining land is less than 60 m2; or (iii) the remaining
agricultural land is less than 50% of its initial size or is not economically viable; or (iv) the
remaining building is less than 21 m2; have the option of being included as Physically
- 103-



Displaced Persons and compensated for the taking of the affected asset.
10.  Project Affected Persons complying with the condition in sub-chapter 4.6 or 4.7 whose
remaining land is less than 60 m2 and remaining building is less than 21 m2, will have an
option to move to a new lot of 60 m2 and building of 21 m2.
11.  Resettlement site, displacement of people, and payment of compensation as described in the
LARAP should be completed before the construction of the respective Project component is
started.
4.4   Resettlement Site
1.   The resettlement site provided for the Project Affected Persons will include infrastructure
and public facilities so that it is good for living and enables the development of a good social
and economic life, including:
(a) road or footpath as necessary;
(b) drainage system;
(c) water supply (if a piped water distribution network is not available, there should be
shallow wells that comply with health standards);
(d) electricity;
(e) health facility, education, work places, religious services, and sport facilities, in
accordance with the size of the new community; and
(f) public transport facility to perform a good life.
2.   The location reserved for resettlement as described in point 1 of this sub-chapter will be
widely publicized so that the general public will be well informed.
3.   The Project Affected Persons will move to the new site after the infrastructure and facilities
at the resettlement site are completed and feasible to live in as confirmed by the Project
supervisor and local community leader.
4.   The Project Affected Persons will be inforrned of the completion of the resettlement site at
least one month before displacement, and they will be invited to survey the new site.
5.   The resettlement site would be available prior to the start-up of works under the relevant
Project component.
4.5   Grouping of Project Affected Persons
Project Affected Persons can be grouped into:
1.    those who have legal land certificate, girik, or adat title;
2.    those who occupy land in a residential, commercial, or industrial zone in the Project area,
but do not hold a certificate or legal title;
3     those who occupy land on the infrastructure or public facility sites such as rivers, roads,
parks, or other public facilities in the Project area, and;
-104-



4.    those who are renters.
4.6  Persons who Have Land Certificate. Girik or Adat Title
1.   Project Affected Persons, who have land certificate, girik, or adat title, will receive
compensation for the land, building, and fixed assets.
2.   The Project Affected Persons described in sub-chapter 4.6, point 1, who are displaced by the
Project, can choose to receive cash compensation or the other options as described in
sub-chapter 4.3.
3.   The lots at the resettlement site will have land title of the same level or higher than they
previously had, and the certificate will be issued within 1 year after displacement of the
Project Affected Persons.
4.   The Project Affected Persons will receive transport allowance to move their belongings.
5.   The Project Affected Persons will also receive assistance and training as provided in Chapter
5 below.
4.7   Persons Who Occupy Land in a Residential. Commercial or Industrial Zone in the Proiect
Area But Do Not Hold a Land Certificate or Legal Documents
1.   Project Affected Persons, who are recorded in the baseline survey and who occupy land in a
residential, commercial, or industrial zone in the Project area, but do not hold a land
certificate, girik, or hak adat, receive compensation of land, building, and fixed asset
according to the length of their stay and the replacement value of the.
2.   Project Affected Persons described in sub-chapter 4.1 point 1, who are recorded in the
baseline survey, can choose to receive cash compensation or the other options as described
in sub-chapter 4.3.
3.   The lots at the new site will have Hak Pakai or a higher land title, and the certificate will be
issued within 1 year after the displacement.
4.   The Project Affected Persons will receive transport allowance to move their belongings.
5.   The Project Affected Persons will also receive assistance and training facilitated from the
Kabupaten/Kota (in association with Bapedalda, Resettlement Assistance Team (RAT) and
the Land Acquisition Team (LAT)) as provided in Chapter 5 below.
4.8 Persons Who Occupy Land on Infrastructure and Public Facility Sites
1.   Project Affected Persons, who are recorded in the social-eonomic survey, who occupy land
on an infrastructure site or public facility will receive compensation for their buildings and
fixed assets and will receive rehabilitation assistance sufficient to achieve the objectives of
this Policy Framework, namely to improve or at least restore the standard of living of such
Project Affected Persons.
2.   The Project Affected Persons described in sub-chapter 4.8, point 1, who are recorded in the
social-economic survey, will be assisted in the displacement and receive a six month rent
calculated on the basis of average rent levels for similar houses within the same area.
3.   The Project Affected Persons described in sub-chapter 4.8, point 1, will be assisted in
- 105 -



finding a rental-house, or a housing site of similar size to the one lost, which can be rented or
rent-purchased through affordable installments.
4.   The Project Affected Persons described in sub-chapter 4.8, point l, will receive transport
allowance to move their belongings.
5.   The Project Affected Persons described in sub-chapter 4.8, point 1, will also receive
assistance and training facilitated from the Kabupaten/Kota (in association with Bapedalada,
Resettlement Assistance Team (RAT) and the Land Acquisition Team (LAT)) as provided in
Chapter 5 below.
4.9 Persons Who Are Renters
I.   Project Affected Persons who are renters, and are recorded in the social-eonomic survey,
will be assisted with an allowance of six month rent calculated on the basis of average rent
levels for similar houses within the same area.
2.   The Project Affected Persons who are renters will also receive assistance and training
facilitated from the Kabupaten/Kota (in association with Bapedalada, Resettlement
Assistance Team (RAT) and the Land Acquisition Team (LAT)) as provided in Chapter 5
below.
CHAPTER 5 - ASSISTANCE
5.1 Types of Assistance
1.   Project Affected Persons whose job, income, or living is disturbed by the Project or are
physically displaced will receive assistance to restore it. The types of assistance will be
defined in the LARAP issued by the Bupati/Walikota.
2.   In implementing the assistance care should be taken to harmonize the newly resettled people
and the host community in the resettlement area through assistance and integration efforts.
3.   The assistance can be linked to existing programs and resources.
4.   Training and assistance can be provided as:
(a) motivation development;
(b) skill and vocational training;
(c) assistance to start and develop small businesses;
(d) small scale credit;
(e) marketing development;
(f) assistance during transition period; and
(g) strengthening of community based organization and services.
5.2 Assistance Schedule and Cost
I.   The assistance will start during the consultation prior to displacement and until one year
after the displacement.
2.   One year after the displacement, an evaluation will be conducted to see whether the Project
- 106 -



Affected Persons have been able to at least restore their standard of living, or whether they
still face serious problems which require further assistance.
3.   If the Project Affected Persons have not been able to overcome the problems, the Local
Governments will provide an extension of the assistance in consultation with the Project
Affected Persons.
4.   The fund for the extended assistance will be reserved from the Project cost or other sources
as defined by the Bupati/Walikota in the LARAP.
CHAPTER 6 - INSTITUTIONS AND FUNDING
6.1  Resettlement and Assistance Team (RAT)
To implement the various activities described above, in addition to the existing Land Acquisition
Team in each Level 2 Region, it is necessary to establish a Resettlement and Assistance Team
(RAT).
6.2  Head. Members, and Tasks of the Resettlement and Assistance Team
1.   The Resettlement and Assistance Team as described in sub-chapter 6.1 will be chaired by
the head of the agency responsible for the respective Works and activities, with members
from other relevant agencies in the Level 2 Region,
2.   The tasks of the Resettlement and Assistance Team described in sub-chapter 6.1 include,
among others:
(a)  to prepare a comprehensive plan for the land acquisition, resettlement and
rehabilitation;
(b)  to provide inputs and assist the Land Acquisition Team of the Level 2 Region in the
land acquisition process;
(c)  to conduct resettlement and active assistance in the field starting from  the
pre-construction until the post construction period; and
(d)  to monitor the progress and address the problems in land acquisition, resettlement
and assistance.
6.3  Consultation and Assistance by Non-Governmental Organizations
1.  In the implementation, especially related to the information, consultation, training and
assistance to the community, the RAT will be assisted by non-governmental organizations
which are experienced and have achieved good results. They should be keen and skilful in
community development and they should be able to integrate various sectoral activities at the
RW (community) level.
2.   Transparency and consultation should be strengthened to solve local problems locally,
quickly, and effectively. Complaints which cannot be solved locally will be processed
through the procedures described in Presidential Decree No. 55 of 1993 and Regulation of
- 107-



the Minister of Agraria No. 1 of 1994.
6.4  Coordination between Bapedalda. Resettlement and Assistance Team (RAT) and Land
Acquisition Team (LAT)
1.   Bapedalda should act as the main coordinator and liaison institution to ensure that all
environmental and social matters connected with Works and activities development are
followed. This would include consultation, land and building acquisition and compensation,
resettlement, and isolated vulnerable peoples. Bapedalda should also be responsible for
liaison with all stakeholders and non-governmental organizations.
2.   Intensive communication and coordination should be developed between Bapedalda, the
Resettlement and Assistance Team (RAT) and the Land Acquisition Team (LAT). A joint
meeting among Bapedalda, the RAT and the LAT will be conducted at least once each
month.
3.   The progress of land acquisition, resettlement, and assisstance will be reported to the Bank
regularly by the Project Management.
4.   The Level 1 Regional Government will be the relevant department and institution that will
monitor and assist the Level 2 Regional Government in the activities described in this Policy
Frarnework.
6.5  Coordination
l.   Reports and funding sources for the implementation information campaign, consultation,
assistance, and resettlement as described in this Policy Framework shall be coordinated with
the Project at Level I and Level 2 Regional Government.
2.   General arrangements will be covered in the Project Implementation Plan. The details of the
cost and funding sources will be covered in the LARAP which will be issued by the
Bupati/Walikota as agreed by the relevant funding sources.
3.   The Project Management Unit will confirm the LARAP and furnish it to the Bank for
approval.
4.   An independent agency or agencies will be retained to periodically carry out external
monitoring and evaluation of the implementation of the LARAPs. Such agency or agencies
will have qualified and experienced staff and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.
- 108-



Additional
Annex 13
SUMMARY OF FRAMEWORK FOR TREATMENT OF ISOLATED VULNERABLE PEOPLES
Where it is determined that a sub-project may have environmental implications (which in the case of
EIRTP will include widening or sealing/paving of an unsealed road) and will pass close to (within 10 km)
or through an isolated vulnerable people's community, a process will be developed to ensure full
consultation, participation and consent of all peoples. The social and economic benefits of the road should
be in harmony with their cultural preferences. This is in accordance with the World Bank's OD 4.20 on
guidelines for indigenous peoples and present GOI recommendations.
The objectives of these guidelines are to:
*     to provide full consultation and participation with isolated vulnerable peoples:;
*     to avoid or minimize potentially adverse effects of such sub-projects.
In order for meaningful consultation and participation to take place, several steps will be put in place.
These are:
information dissemination will be in the local language or languages;
a representative/leader and an NGO representative or a social scientist knowledgeable in isolated
vulnerable peoples' history and tradition will always be present in all discussions with clusters of isolated
vulnerable peoples; and
all meetings will be recorded and shared with the concemed isolated vulnerable people's groups.
If isolated vulnerable peoples are affected, information (i.e., the basic census, socio-economic data and
inventory of affected assets) will be collected. In addition, a social impact assessment (SIA) will be
conducted and will include the collection of the following information:
household ownership of economic and productive assets
annual income from primary and secondary employment opportunities
economic information of community (e.g., brief information on economic and natural resources,
production and livelihood systems, tenure systems)
social information of community (e.g., brief description of kinship, value system, types of social
organization of formal/informal groups, farming groups, etc. especially those that can help groups in
adjusting to potential impacts from an improved road)
potential impact of sub-project on basic social services (e.g.; water supply, health clinics, and
schools)
potential impact of sub-project on the social and economic livelihood.
The SIA will be undertaken by a trained social scientist from the local area, if available.
Information will also be gathered from group meetings, one with a general assembly of isolated vulnerable
peoples in the area and one with isolated women, especially those who live along the zone of influence of
the road link improvement. Discussions will focus on the road link improvements, positive and negative
impacts, and recommendations for project design. If the SIA indicates that the potential impact of the
proposed sub-project will be significantly adverse and/or that the isolated vulnerable people's community
- 109 -



rejects the project, the road link will not be selected for improvement; instead an alternative route will be
proposed.
If the isolated vulnerable people accepts the sub-project and the adverse impacts are minimal, the
description of resettlement measures and the types of development assistance proposed will ensure that the
social and economic benefits proposed will be in harmony with their cultural preferences. The measures
and the assistance will be developed with local elders, community groups, and NGOs. The assistance
should also include institutional strengthening and capacity building of tribal elders, community groups
working on resettlement activities within the sub-projects. If necessary and relevant this can be funded out
of the project.
Community participation and consultation framework and grievance redress mechanisms will be developed
in culturally appropriate ways and familiar to the isolated vulnerable peoples. They will be developed with
the isolated vulnerable peoples and their tribal elders, in close collaboration with local officials. The
Resettlement Implementation Committee will include an isolated vulnerable people's leader representative
from the sub-project area. Wherever possible, staff with isolated vulnerable people's background and
experience will be hired as part of the social impact assessment team as well as the monitoring team.
- 110-



Additional
Annex 14
Actions to Reduce Chances for Fraud and Corruption in Procurement
The Borrower has indicated that the following actions would be carried out under the Project to
reduce the probability of fraud and corruption in procurement under the Project.
A.    Increased transparency to ensure compliance with procurement procedures
1.    Advertisement for procurement opportunities will be made in at least one newspaper that
has nationwide circulation of 150,000 copies or more.
2.    Bid opening records will be promptly sent to the Bank for all prior review cases.
3.     The executing agency will regularly make available to the public information on planned
project budgets, procurement plans and specific tenders, details of tender awards (name of the winners and
prices), and a summary information on contract amendments (this procedure will also be set out in the
Project Management Manual).
B.    Reduction of procurement delays
4.     Requests for extensions of bid validity for eight weeks beyond the original validity will be
provided to the Bank for approval (usually such extension is not acceptable).
5.    Evaluation reports will be furnished to the Bank within six weeks of bid/proposal
submission. Timely and appropriate action will be taken to ensure that any failure to do so is immediately
corrected.
6.    Whenever there is undue delay in the preparation of bidding documents, or in issuing
bidding documents which is an indication of lack of capacity or weak institutional set-up, timely and
appropriate action acceptable to the Bank will be taken to remedy such situation.
C.    Improvement of the monitoring of process and results
7.    The executing agency will develop procedures for the handling of procurement complains
and the publication of sanctions applied to parties found not to be in compliance with applicable rules and
procedures.
8.    The executing agency will (i) develop a framework and procedures to conduct annual
surveys of contractors, suppliers, consultants, NGOs and community groups associated with the Project to
seek their views on their experience in dealing with the Project implementing agencies and make the results
public; and (ii) thereafter carry out such surveys on a pilot basis.
9.    The executing agency will (i) develop a framework and procedures to conduct annual
independent reviews of the procurement process and procurement results (prices obtained, quantity and
quality of delivered goods or works and of services purchased, comparison of prices with prices of similar
- 111 -



items in the market, and end-use checks). For shopping, this review could verify the firms quoting their
independence from each other and their existence as established and regular vendors of the items being
procured; and (ii) thereafter carry out such reviews on a pilot basis.
D.    Increase in the awareness of procedures and accountability
10.    All implementing units will use the agreed formats set out in the Project Management
Manual.
i1.   All Project implementing units will keep appropriate records of the procurement process in
their files by contract, including copies of the advertisements, bidding documents, evaluation reports,
contract awards, and final contract documents.
- 112-



Annex 14 - Attachment 1
Provisions to Make Indonesia's National Competitive Bidding Procedures Acceptable for Bank
Financing
The procedures to be followed for national competitive bidding shall be those in Presidential Decree No.
18/2000 with the following clarifications required for compliance with the provisions of the Guidelines.
These will be included in a supplemental letter to the loan agreement
Registration
(a) Bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered firms.
(b) Where registration is required, bidders (i) shall be allowed a reasonably adequate time to complete the
registration process, and (ii) shall not be denied registration for reasons unrelated to their capability and
resources to successfully perform the contract, which shall be verified through post-qualification.
Pre-qualification
When pre-qualification shall be required for large or complex works (not for simple goods and works): (i)
eligible bidders (both national and foreign) shall not be denied pre-qualification, and (ii) invitations to
pre-qualify for bidding shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated national daily newspaper a
minimum of 30 days prior to the deadline for the submission of pre-qualification applications.
Joint Ventures
A bidder declared the lowest evaluated responsive bidder shall not be required to form a joint venture or to
sub-contract part of work or part of the supply of goods as a condition of award of the contract.
Preferences
(a) No preference of any kind shall be given to national bidders.
(b) Regulations issued by a sectoral ministry, provincial and local regulations, which restrict NCB
procedures to a class of contractors or a class of suppliers shall not be applicable to procurement
procedures under this loan/credit.
Advertising
(a) Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated national daily newspaper allowing
a minimum of 30 days for the preparation and submission of bids and allowing potential bidders to
purchase bidding documents up to 24 hours prior the deadline for the submission of bids.
(b) Bid documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to all who are willing to pay the required
fee.
(c) Bidders domiciled outside the area/district/province of the unit responsible for procurement shall be
allowed to participate regardless of the estimated value of the contract.
(d) Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding. If a registration process is required, a foreign firm
declared the lowest evaluated bidder shall be given an adequate opportunity for registering.
Bid Security
- 113-



Bid security, at the bidder's option, shall be in the form of a letter of credit or bank guarantee from a
reputable bank.
Bid Opening and Bid Evaluation
(a) Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for submission of bids, and if bids are
invited in two envelopes, both envelopes (technical and price) shall be opened at the same time.
(b) Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria declared in the bidding documents
and contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated qualified bidder.
(c) Bidders shall not be eliminated from detailed evaluation on the basis of minor, non-substantial
deviations.
(d) No bidder shall be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with the owner's estimate and budget
ceiling without the Bank's prior concurrence.
Rejection of Bids
(a) All bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited without the Bank's prior concurrence.
(b) When the number of responsive bids is less than three, rebidding shall not be carried out without the
Bank's prior concurrence.
- 114 -



1200.  k     ^ '                                                        INDONESIA
MYIAN '., ,'y P^NAM                                                                                                                     PACIFIC   EASTERN INDONESIA REGION
Andaman   .Z                            --  Rp1;\ ,0                                       . .                 ~                  -   1  O C EA N                             TRANSPORT PROJECT
Sea               -      Gulf of
Thailand                                                                                                                                   ROAD PRESERVATION PROGRAM
Sulu
TtAllD                                                                                                     Sea                                                            is   PROJECT PROVINCES
PRO\INCES
ID.I ACEH         IUAWA BARAT          21KAUMNTAN SELATAN
rSUMATERA UTARA     AWA TENGAH         22XAUMANTAN ThMUR
TBCEICOACSI       ~             .rV                    t    A                                                    s                               _-                   JPJAUMATE  T       D. YGYAKARTA        24G(3RCNYU TARA
Bmida Acch                                     .    A       y'                RUEI                                                                             MAJTERA KARAT     JAWA nU              4OOTL
A  Y  BRUNEI ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f5JAMBI                                                                 IJRAu                 25SULAWESI TNA
e                          -g                                      - S   BRUNEI& ,.                                          o                            NGKUJW          INUSA TENGGARA EARAT    65SULAWESI SELATAN
.  1   \'s   '  *   z  \   /                                                          Z5j6UN MATERASELATAN    ITNUSA TENGGARAMUR  2SULAWESI TNGGARA
t~~~~~~~~~ie&m ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~Celebes                                                 2..                        ELAUKUTTMUTANGAA
>  /   .  B  |          S         2          -<T                   Sea                                    R9 ANGKA BEUTUNG   19KAUMANTAN BARAT    29MALUKt
*  I                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~    ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I$RATEN  JOKAUMANTAN TENGAH  30PAPUA (IRIAN JAYA)
PSsizpb~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Frv deal r ee } 23                                                                               _________________________
2                                                                                    Po,  detailletaee              s1350
5__                           . , S iN  P           /     9       -                            | IBRD 31376                                   A ,   ._
2             32GAP                                                                                                       c *-Id,3risee  /                     135e
awdang                                  For detail see    f ,                                   2J           .1                 i  .- S A  BI T> 0
< w n 4 X ~~- ' '19    Afi~WANTA?1                                                                      28-<  
INIA   3CA                                                                                 w2h- lRg-                                                                                                         q   z
Ar L |rdetaNil                see7 0                                                                  k1a38  -or Araf   Se a
/  X  X  111i               MAINROADS                       |           l[Fordetai       odel,ees>o.                                               imik
2K)    410    600    6~~~~~~~~~~~~~w,o~~~~  Bankr.                              LT~~~~~~~~~~J                                                     (IRi4ONJAYA)  Z~~~~~Abo  Y) 
rZ/m~.bBnAL NID                                                             E E    I  A SeaSELE                       see
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                                                                                                                                                          I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
INDIA N OCEAN                                            Pava Sea
Fo,detail see       6             17ESTTIOR
IBRD 31373   or     SeArafurc  Sea
MAIIN RtOADS
o    SaELETD CIrIES AND TOWNS
o PROVINCE HIEADQUARTERS
9    NATIONAL CAPITAL
_   -  PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                    Gl --
i fi                                             - -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                         o Carpenlaria
A U S T R A L I A
I 1 C5D e Or O{ OK# ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~120  . S






t               r                                }      .                        I                                I                                I~~~~~~~~~I 
109                               l tTO'o                       111 p                           112                             113                             114"
MALAYSIA
lasa                                                                                                                                               C~~~~~a
TKeri. .)  KALIAIMANTAN
nggauV -- Bts erawk   / '    '  ~       . .~ r .-                                     -~c                                                     TIMUR
Enf,                                                    ~~~~~~~~      ~      ~ ~~~~~~Baotngsiba     ba  Kein
Simpang Tigo                   Bal arangon                   Sp N         NK onIm 2K Nanga Era
rancion  Serim6u                                                 Mera~~~~Merka,Er
Baloisebut     Sipiluk     ~       Mrk, ~         pd                       eai
u  gaba  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Nngasemangut
Si6od  Jempo                                              lira  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sejiram  Nangotepuai
Sei Dvrian                                                                     Nngamau                                            ,         KALIMANTAN
* r                                                                                                            Na~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~unga Tebidak                                   EN       A
.*' . / A <- $ ' $                                                                                                                      '           3~ taju /4 Ng.Mahab  \Oangaplebidah  Nanga Serawai
,,., ..... .. ..(. .. .,  Jay                                                                                                                               N A,
r ning ~ ~ ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ge    Menuung 
INDONESIA
Nangasokon                                 EASTERN INDONESIA REGION
TRANSPORT PROJECT
/     % R  ~~Siduk         4Sna
ROAD PRESERVATION PROGRAM
Nong. nlatoyap   j j-                                                  KALIMANTAN BARAT
lie Kudangan
.   -  | Tum6anigh[fl i~.                                 PROJECT:                                 MAIN ROADS
41  -          .         -        .        -ayan   2    }- BETrERMENT OF ROADS                                               SECONDARY ROADS
PERIODIC MAINTENANCE            4     AIRPORTS
2>-<    BRIDGE REPLACEMENT              4      PORTS                                    2-
--- .  >-  BRIDGE REHABIUTATION          0    DISTRICT (KECAMATAN) CAPITALS
0    2D   40   60,  soG  TMDr         - -           .    <\                       /                                                     UNK NUMBER                       (3   REGENCY (KABUPATEN) CAPITALS
- |\ .7 (3 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROVINCE CAPITAL
improvements to roads and bridiges             POIC   AIA
are subjed to annual reviews                    REGENCY (KABUPATEN) BOUNDARIES
O . Sukanaa                                                                                                                                                                    -     -  PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
Grow,                                                                                                                               -   - -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY
or r  ,   . ' ' z  '  ,-  .   -   1 1t0t e        =        /      1 111                          11121 1131 114'






-7o                                          1212                  122'                 123'                  124A                 125
KoU~; Eboq                                                      INDONESIA
EASTERN INDONESIA REGION TRANSPORT PROJECT
,Nu bi            Nitav MumereROAD PRESERVATION PROGRAM
D.o)-ko   H (jj@.-  AabsNUSA  TENGGARA  TIMUR
*    Kelimutuy I MbShi
i~~~~~~~i
Wo6wwu                                                     Ac~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Wlo~Aonarc sand 
Flores   Sea      w~~~~~~~~~~~~~ar       nKoko/
TEI~~GARAQ~~k.~~  Kondo          RieAg NIsandNpnn~k/lJaIln
/    R,cooSnB1o123iMO
EN   /I                                                                                                                    0s6n
Islandnenaksa
t                                                  -~~~~~ES  lv~R.r  6   oIIkORs
-Swnba, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'OIoe  eo, Timtim
rd   ""Kefamen
SctvuSeat
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~q.o
o~~~~~V -wid                                                                                         _______
0       ~~~~~                                                                                              E~~~~~A.~~~~A*oI1~~~CA t0p4
0~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h~6#m
>-<~~~~~~G sf ~~ )*
0itrwd&is
0 , 19w                                     0210                  2                     1230t2                                     1250C,






1190               1200          igoa    12PI a            1220                123'                124'                125'
Aitean
~~~~~mas  landau ~~~~~GORONTALO                                      SULAWESI
5  Meponga                                                 T~~~~LA ENGAH N~~ 
.4-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
`4 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~4                          i
- ~~~~~~~~~~         S = - -         3
I  I  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S SEATN
4,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
0                                                                                                                             N~~~~~~~~






2.   I                                         1                                         14                                        _25       I
121'          SULAWESI    ,.              122                                      123                                       124                                      125
SELATAN  ,                 SULJAWESI                                                                      INDONESIA
EASTERN INDONESIA REGION TRANSPORT PROJECT
ROAD PRESERVATION PROGRAM
Ronta            LondKte   Se                                                      SULAWESI TENGGARA
8dwlil  Pweku   -- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ {   --.,<1 ~ ~     ~        ~      ~       ROEC.
I   JX    ai    ,  R  ',  PROJECT  MAIN ROADS
-   BETTERMENT OF ROADS      ___SEODRRAS
^ / / - ~~~~~~~~~~~~Astrr r;    T-                                                                                                           SECONDARY ROADS
-   PERIODC MAINTENANCE              AROT
I  (   ->  -   An46o \) >-<   BRIDGE REACEMENT                                             AIRPORTS
-inu><   BRIDGE REHABIUTATION     0    DSTRICT (KECAMATAN) CAPITALS
)R  ) UNK RUMBER                REGENCY (KABUTEN) CAPITALS
woIo                                                                                     kwoenis to roa& and bridges           PROVINCE CAPITAL
are subjed to annual reviews.            EGEN
LaI,bs                                                                                   -    -  PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
-# aAerate 4
4.                                   Ken                             Wawoni
Banks    Motol             4     Lopuko           \  Island  I *
iPPomala     Pdiipoli(a +S_ -'Punggaluks    Anj,nn            -
)~~~~~~~T ro                    ii  '<v,t *T vLabuon't                                                       N
~~~~>   X    ~                              '-Lomole
~~. Kosipute            Raha          l    4a
r  o\> Islandr                   &Jtff 1   /l4
-     -      Wakuru_ ,,rf; A
Lak 0  S;;  00 0   \  X    t t                     P0                                     20      40     60
bid                   Matoompono                                                                  K1LO#~~~~~~~Woo
bland
wS 4it ~~~~-  '"                                                                                                                     ''- "' +Bdro 
 -64        121of                                                                               1f               :                    Pi      _iR23                                  1250   6 _






IBRD 31372
INDONESIA
EASTERN INDONESIA REGION                                                                .'
TRANSPORT PROJECT                                                -
ROAD PRESERVATION PROGRAM                                       j
KA , L                              I/
PROJECT:+9  GI^i4k.k$^  ,f/ALIMANTAN
BETTERMENT OF ROADS
PERIODIC MAINTENANCE                                                      TIM  UR                  .'
BRIDGE REPLACEMENT
BRIDGE REHABIUTATION                           Mu*rauya                                                 ,
iO9W   LINK NUMBER
Improvements to roads and bridges                                                                                               2 /
are subject to annual reviews.            *
-    MAIN ROADS
-       SECONDARY ROADS                                                           Mabuu*|
AIRPORTS                                                            an J_ 1u   n. ra      auai
"$ PORTS                                       PsrPns        
   DISTRICT(KECAMATAN) CAPITALS                Pal \               * T          sa . Honga 
(0   REGENCY (KABUPATEN) CAPITALS              .-Paringin                                               .    _           Bts. Koltim
    PROVINCE CAPITAL
z-   REGENCY (KABUPATEN) BOUNDARIES              Amunta\
-  PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                         min
,g!   -,2 _  (  Kaparkia_}  ,   #               GN. Batubesr    ,
KALIMANTAN                       TumbIon6anybanPa;atnMaanga'auf                                                            am         /
TENGAH   iu            P   Neg>>_pPnt.Hama~~           ~       ~~town  ,          Manggo aut         Samponoahnij
TENGAH                                     Nagara
Angkinang
_.   andanga         TeIago1ngsat   f                         D'                    Pudi i
/    )>     M(l;,    M          > Bal[od' Pd. Batung                                                          o
-   J  Ma5gcgri  \~~~~~~~~~~ 2   >toksodO   i'  =                            )  &.~~~~~~61~-' TG. Baty,/
30                                                     Rna         >i                                                 4           -                   3;-
'Aniir             rMfb6ahan,                                                                  Sei Kupon  O
sebelim        Kota Baru
Serapo |    ' l  L  eo                                          ^ $      < L-\             ~          0/ /J   Berongas\     " BaakoB
uk'4 '~Puloustril   }  ''   '     8                               XPagatan                          I      S.buku
h  h   Aatiboti  g   <                                      t~~~~~~~~7t,(,, / }    L      E ;11  i ~~~~~~Is/ond
Island        '
I \   t ,' R S      \ *t          SebambanQt                                           t       Sb
bii   Kintap m     ) < >._                                m     <'.SSebanti
Kint.N                                                                                             2001
NOVEMBER 2001






IBRD 31381
_u   1uj-1l
BE h0... 01,,
:7D  3  z  ?  '  ] ' S "~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NOEME 2 001|






IBRD 31371
INDONESIA                                           1 17'                              1 18' c,10
EASTERN INDONESIA REGION
TRANSPORT PROJECT                                                               o 1 Lumbis ~Along
ROAD PRESERVATION PROGRAM ,                                                       ebuu
Papodi   0Beruwen        0Rmeina
KALIMANTAN TIMUR  <'                                                          osilourn   TcPn   a
Krd   Mesalong0
PROJECT:                                                                                            nuLnga  TBlugn/ 
-     BETTERMENT OF ROADS                          -Ben  'g 
PERIODIC MAINTENANCE                           0Punan
/ Patajra
)-<      BRIDGE REPLACEMENT                      -
>-<       BRIDGE REHABILITATION                                                          L
3~~~          LINK NUMBER                                          3aun                               imig0~
Longkema
Improvements to roads and bridges    1
are subject to annual reviews
Langbuiungan        a
/    Longagung               Napalsu
I   Datadian 
t~~,.      f   oLongnaan
2..
Longura
Lermbusan            Loga
Metulang        0Keueo
.e                             0
Z2~~~  / ~     Longpakangai                 Longbok                                               Batumpar
Tiongpahang                              a                                                                          p  ea
e,              \_UjakkbiangSag
Bts. KatoI,niorba
olakdarat                            Sbl
C.~rngtongkMea                                                      s     Bak
Sp. Damai       enliw
Sp.            o  ~~Tenggarong            *.
1'                                                                          Semocisepaka      Ger~Bts KM
KALIMANTAN                                   Penaj~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
KALIMANTAN    Ma.                                      "~~~~~~Loia
2' 0  10  20  30      40          SEL       ~TuN     qBi
I    I  I  I  I  Batuaji~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
KILOMETERS~ ~~~ra
This n,sp mm poduced cy the  op Desin unit f The Wrld                          Gen
The boundaies, coles, derominrions sndcoy ether nformatio
sharonen thi snap 0 not mply, n the art ofThe W0IdKena
Kru Aay ugetontegLsMAtN fyTeritry oron
ndsobl5 Tac EptN Geo u   onAris  11in
0~~~~~~NOEBR20






t 146' 30W 1                                                                                                   1'445  1  Il515'                    151530O
9 't                                     ~~~~~~INDONESIA
EASTERN INDONESIA REGION TRANSPORT PROJECT                                                                                                      -ftERME OfRAD
G                                                                                                                    O%%fi = 
1<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7                                                                            Ty a nk,
I                        Island~isa
,)   V   ; ~~~~~;  t  Kerobokun  /     __                      T - bbfto D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eluSA                         'ter
ra                         Batukaru~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tlo 
o     R D-S                   :                       '                                                                                                                       Tw ,i;g S  P  +,  >  t ruriNusakia
Pe tatWn             latungal n.,                                                                       .       .         jT
rn   - ~~~~~~~I   I    I I    i   I                                                                                                       a1,e                   a     l 
8      i                                ~~~~~~~~~11Aff4'                      11?OO'll 1155                                                             11530                               g






ilP         INDONESIA  112'                              113                         114
-    MAIN ROADS
SECONDARY ROADS
EASTERN INDONESIA REGION                                                                                                                     4. .o       AIRPONDRTSAD
TRANSPORT PROJECT                                                        ,                                                                 AIRPORTS
ROAD PRESERVATION PROGRAM                                                                                                                   0  DR K               CAPITAPORTS
-0.    KAL'iM ANTAN   TL:J _1AH                                                                                          _                            REGENCY (KABUPATEN) CAPITALS    O
It.                ~~~~~~PROVINCE CAPITAL
PROJECT:                                                                            Tmbangkunyi                                         REGENCY (KABUPATEN) BOUNDARIES
BETTERMENT OF ROADS                                                                                                               -   PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
PERIODIC MAINTENANCEMur  hng
><   BRIDGE REPLACEMENT                                                               5ei                                                  0    10   20   30   40
>-<  BRIDGE REHABIUTATION                                                   Teh Su                               ralhung                           KILOMErERS
() UNK NUMBER                                                                                                      n .  a    ungur               ILMTR
(i)          BlsKrt/;--/-='*                    0 NZnfa      T6g    .RaRuhuntn               n                Lampeon   B.K.tn
Improvements to, roads and bnidgest
are subjed to annual reviews.                 Tum b ng /      i _                       t\
*    Tumbang Taburai            H 7n Turn  S             R hmbaMuarateweh                                         *ALMAT
i / \ > + 2lFboqg ~~Sam b   RoRaambarJ _ ) - . KALIMANTAN 
Pujon        talat                               TIMUR
Bts.Kalbcs~k                                                                                                         sa      adr
*  Kudangognki am                                                                                                   ang
noapa           oPcmg+4     RI. Pulut                                            i L
Km. 65       TnRkgB)n                                        Tainaan
Asan*Baru                            ~~~~~~~~Kr. Bengkirai  0 apnn           Metoi
samt                                     wKALIMANTAN
Utangkol              Pki                 k0lh                                                                                  SELATAN
Suka ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~ ~       ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~                                            ,
Psr-  Kumai                            PulaNpi                 kau       ~~~                         ~        4+
Sam~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:
Kapuas ~ ~ ~ ~ ~






1230                             124A                               125 
INDONESIA                                                                                                           O       ngo
l                                                                      .                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Siau Island
EASTERN  INDONESIA  REGION                               125',300                          -                                       Isl     .,:
TRANSPORT PROJECT                           iskand                                                                          Tohu"nkMl an4Irnd
ROAD PRESERVATION PROGRAM                          Tn                          T dau
SULAWESI UTARA/GORONTALO9
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ -.v   - __-_-go*-C  0o'~ f-o-0;-=     X.                 - ,'1w        F
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
rnor ooy endon.*.t or ,                          n--P(NEB Uikmrnaoiko-Kkst 
z W   2}2 1; ) s WVor L
S                    1220      M






IBRD 31378
119mcnc N                              0   '   t:  111'              <   )  1201    12?
rumana                                                       K
10       /sr                                    INO~~~~~~~~ONESIA
:: p IJ )   EASTERN INDONESNAREION  ANSPORT PROJECT
t _.,                         ROA           ADWRVATION PROGRAM
.AWESI SELATAN
PROJECT:
BETTERMENT OF ROADS
PERIODIC MAINTENANCE
BRIDGE REPLACEMENT          /
87 ;              .J      \       .,      ><  BRIDGE REHABIUTATION L-,    S
U009   NKNUMBER     Xf
87 I<~ -' /           ~                   \    Improvements to roads and bridges
rae subject to annual reviews.
Tidantano    -, 
s t4 S                       f    X                        a:\1:- f '#                            Is Tol
Mamuiu    s
(004~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NVME 2001
Malauwe                           ~~SULAWESI
Enrekang                          ~TENGGARA
ngje*S
121'
0                                                                                                        50pe
Takalala                              Isl~~~~~~~~~and hap
PROWNO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NVEBR20






._  ~     ~~                                                                                                                                                         Wen, IiZ
1300D32                                               13140                      1360                                                                        Ku-Dsu{
t  Jenq1et3                 Bick Island      Nmbg BeJAYAPuRA
tLwr /mbris     sou     msa                                                  Nomr'
Oosom~~~~~~~~~r
o>          I     Woi9eo kkud                                                                            0            Scrirdiwen                               Lereh                           018
biVm,_,                                                                                                              , -     ,      <Kn, 234 00
sa~ island                               Aai Jnt~l~"'bo
O (3 ~~UNK NUMBER                   fi- REGENCY (KABUPATEN) BOUNDARIES.ll_ w
arn an subject to annual nev  r  w      d9e INCER       t BOUND2ARY                                                                                       ------
F                                                                                                                _T~~~~~~~~~ 






IBRD 31374
; ;-0 0  , 3| ,   1
x x~~~~_>
X e o *|l fAi 7 
H XX Ii  1Xl    d-:;0 fiji
tun~~~~~~~~~~~~~~In
04
- L ---f'-            :1s t<tt--    . 1''
NOVEMBER 2001






1270           128            1290            130           131            132            133
MALUKU UTARA
-._.-.-- ---._-                                     Sn  s
-3'                                   ,                  Srai-  -                                                          PAPUA
H.." p_ MO                              -                                  '(IRIAN  JAYA)
Bgur                                  -    TQWa6 !  -1
-40
Buru ldand~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Taea
rifu            M,              T                       \_Huru& T<and  __
- - --- -                           1-                                              ' -  -------  
Ambo  .d                        Islands
EASTERN IND)ONESIA                                0                                            Kai  -         H efy9*e
6ATR0ND)EI REGION TRANSPORT PROJECT                                                                              I   'iMN- owe        oo   o 
ROAD PRESERVATION PROGRAM                                                                                       It \ s ands- *, SIOd   _
- Ma~fl~04TOFfQALUKU                                         wxI  
-t      -      >~~~)<   U~ERMA I~T                                                                                                          70  ..a
W%~~~~~~hIand                                                                            4AWOft7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~stn
u I  _                          Islands
TIMOR    2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



