                                   Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                  Report No:ICR0000000103




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT

                                 (IBRD-46430)

                                     ON A

                 LOAN IN THE AMOUNT OF US$200.00 MILLION

                                   TO THE

                          REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                   FOR THE

             EASTERN INDONESIA REGION TRANSPORT PROJECT

                               December 19,2006




Transport Sector Unit

Sustainable Development Department

EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC REGION

             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS


           (ExchangeRate Effective07/01/2006)

                 Currency Unit =ID Rupiah

               ID Rupiah 1.OO = US$0.0001


                 US$ 1.OO = ID Rupiah 9000

                        Fiscal Year

                  January 1-December 31

         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AADT                 Average Annual Daily Traffic
AMDAL                Environmental Impact Assessment
BAPEDALDA            Provincial Environmental Agency
BAPPEDA              Provincial Development Planning Board
BAPPENAS             National Development Planning Agency
CTC                  Core Team Consultant
DGH                  Directorate General of Highways of MPW
DGLT                 Directorate General of Land Transport
DGRI                 Directorate General of Regional Infrastructure
DSC                  Design and Supervision Consultants
EIRTP 1              Eastern Indonesia Region Transport Project
EIRTP 2              Second Eastern Indonesia Region Transport Project
EMP                  Environmental Management Plan
ERR                  Economic Rate of Return
FY                   Fiscal Year
GO1                  Government of Indonesia
IDR                  Indonesian Rupiah
IIRMS                Integrated Indonesian Road Management System
Kabupaten            Autonomous Level of Local Government
KOta                 Autonomous Level of Local Government
LARAP                Land Acquisition and Resettlement Action Plan
MOF                  Ministry of Finance
MPW                  Ministry of Public Works
MSRI                 Ministry of Settlements and Regional Infrastructure
NPV                  Net Present Value
PIU                  Project Implementation Unit
PMU                  Project Management Unit
RTC                  Regional Team Consultants
TA                   Techcal Assistance



            Vice President: James W. Adarns

          Country Director: Andrew D. Steer

           SectorManager: JitendraN. Bajpai

       Project Team Leader: Sally L. Burningham

                                        Indonesia
                     Eastern Indonesia Region Transport Project



                                      CONTENTS


                                                                        Page No.


1.Basic Information
2. Key Dates
3. Ratings Summary
4. Sector and Theme Codes
5. Bank Staff
6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
7. Key Factors Affecting Implementationand Outcomes
8. Assessment of Outcomes
9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
10.Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
11. Lessons Learned
12.Comments on Issues Raised by BorrowerIImplementing AgenciesIPartners
Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis
Annex 2. Restructuring
Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 4. Outputs by Component
Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis
Annex 6. Bank Lending and ImplementationSupportlSupervisionProcesses
Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Result
Annex 9. StakeholderWorkshop Report and Results
Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR
Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
Annex 12.List of SupportingDocuments

MAPS
1.  IBRD 31368 Overall Program
2.  IBRD 31369 Kalimantan Barat
3.  IBRD 31370 Kalimantan Tengah
4.  IBRD 31371 Kalirnantan Timur
5.  IBRD 31372 Kalimantan Selatan
6.  IBRD 31373 Bali
7.  IBRD 31374 Nusa Tenggara Barat
8.  IBRD 31375 Nusa Tenggara Timur
9.  IBRD 31376 Sulawesi UtaraIGorontalo
10. IBRD31377  Sulawesi Tengah
11. IBRD31378  Sulawesi Barat and Sulawesi Selatan
12. IBRD31379  Sulawesi Tenggara
13. IBRD 31380 Maluku
14. IBRD31381  Maluku Utara
15. IBRD31382  h a n Jaya Barat and Papua (Irian Jaya)
16. IBRD35139  Papua Poverty Map

1. Basic Information
                                                                    Eastern Indonesia
Country:               Indonesia              Project Name:         Region Transport
                                                                    Project

Project ID:            PO40578                LICITF Number(s):     IBRD-46430

ICR Date:              1211912006             ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                    REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:    SIL                    Borrower:
                                                                    INDONESIA

OriginalTotal
                       USD 200.OM             DisbursedAmount:      USD 194.72M
Comrnitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies

Ministry of Public Works
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners


2. Key Dates
                                                                         Revised1Actual
     Process              Date             Process       Original Date
                                                                              Date(s)
Concept Review: 0911312000           Effectiveness:    0312712002       03/27/2002

Appraisal:         0611912001        Restructuring(s'):

Approval:          1211112001        Mid-termReview:
                                     Closing:          0613012006       06/30/2006


3. Ratings Summary
3.1 PerformanceRating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory

Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate

Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory

Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory


3.2 Quality at Entry and Implementation PerformanceIndicators
 Implementation Performance       Indicators     QAG Assessments (if any)       Rating:

Potential Problem Project at any No
                                              Quality at Entry (QEA):         Satisfactory
time (YesINo):
ProblemProject at any time
                                 No           Quality of Supervision(QSA):    None
(YesINo):
DO rating before                 Moderately
Closing/Inactivestatus:          Satisfactory

4. SectorandTheme Codes
                                                            Original          Actual

Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                      5                5

Roads and highways                                                   95                95

                                                        Original Priority Actual Priority

Theme Code (PrimaryISecondary)
Decentralization                                         Secondary        Secondary

Infrastructure services for private sector development   Primary          Primary


5. Bank Staff
                         Positio~~s                          At ICR         At Approval
                                                                         Jemal-ud-din
Vice President:                                        James W. Adams Kassum

Country Director:                                      Andrew D. Steer Mark Baird

Sector Manager:                                        JitendraN. Bajpai JitendraN. Bajpai
                                                        Sally L.
Project Team Leader:                                                     Hatim M. Hajj
                                                       Burningham
                                                        Sally L.
ICR Team Leader:                                       Burningham
                                                        Sally L.
ICR Primary Author:
                                                        Burningham

6. Project Context,Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, takenfrom other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)

6.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country macroeconomic and structural/sector background, rationale
for Bank assistance)


The Project was appraised in June 2001 during a time in which Indonesia, after some 30
years of steady economic growth, was emergng from the severe economic and financial
crisis of 1997-1998 and experiencing transition to democracy and an ambitious program
of decentralization.

The Project was aimed at Eastern Indonesia region, considered as all of Indonesia except
Java and Sumatra and spreading over a vast geographic area including the three largest
islands of Kalimantan, Sulawesi, and Papua, together with the smaller islands of the
Malukus, Nusatenggaras, and Bali. Eastern Indonesia is economically diverse, with many
areas being rich in natural resources, minerals, forests, oil and gas, fisheries, and
productive agricultural lands, and many other areas that include the poorest, least
populated, and least developed parts of the country.

As a result of the economic crisis in 1997-1998it was estimated that the regional
economy of Eastern Indonesia contracted by around 8 percent. The impacts of the crisis
were quite different within Eastern Indonesia. Kalimantan was the worst affected area,
with the economy shnnking by close to 19percent due to other compounding factors like
forest fires and drought. By contrast, Sulawesi was little affected as the contractions in
some sectors were offset by higher prices for exports from the agricultural and fisheries
sectors.

In the late 1990s,the Government of Indonesia (GOI), by enacting Laws 22 and 25,
decided to provide for increased regional autonomy and decentralized fiscal authority,
including the decentralization of planning and programming for transport sector activities
to the kabupaten and provincial levels. Therefore, the challenge of decentralizing
administration and core management functions, including financing, planning,
programming, and implementation to 15provinces and about 130districts was enormous,
especially given the generally weak institutional capacity and changing structures at local
levels.

At appraisal in June 2001, the overarching goal of the World Bank Group in Indonesia
was to support the government's efforts to reduce poverty and vulnerability in a more
open and decentralized environment. The Country Assistance Strategy dated January 4,
2001 (Report No. 21580-IND) focused on three broad priority objectives: sustaining
economic recovery and promoting broad-based growth; building national institutions for
accountable government; and delivering better public services for the poor.

Originally one project, Eastern Indonesia Region Transport Project (EIRTP) was split in
two. This Project EIRTP 1 (Ln 4643, approved December 1l,2001), focused on national

and strategic roads and the second complementary, EIRTP 2 (Ln 4744, approved June 22,
2004), included provincial and kabupaten roads. The Project was designed to contribute to
achieving three Country Assistance Strategy objectives as follows:

    1. Sustaining Economic Recovery and Promoting Broad-Based Growth. EIRTP 1
        included the poorest and least populated parts of Indonesia and intended to
        accelerate their development by improving the condition and all-weather usability
        of existing national and other strategic road links;
    2. Building National Institutions for Accountable Government in the Road
        Sector. EIRTP 1 was to support the effective and sustainable decentralization of
        responsibility and resources to local institutions in 15provinces. These
        arrangements were designed to provide more efficient and transparent use of
        public funds for roads through better project selection, improved procurement and
        financial management arrangements, stricter management of quality, and more
        effective competition; and
    3. Delivering Better Public Services for the Poor. Together, the two projects were to
        help improve access to employment opportunities,health, education, and to other
        social services and facilities, and generate employment in construction and
        maintenance activities including labor-intensive works.

The rationale for World Bank assistance was two-fold: i) to continue the role in
institutional support the Bank had provided to the road sector for the past two decades;
and (i) to support Indonesia in preserving, at a time of tight budgets, the huge investment
it had made in roads in Eastern Indonesia.


6.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)


The Project Development Objectives of the EIRTP 1were to:

    1. improve the condition of National and other strategic arterial roads so as to reduce
        transport costs and provide more reliable access between Provincial centers, to
        regional development and production areas, and to other key transport facilities;
    2. support the effective and sustainable decentralization of planning and
        management responsibilities for works on all primary (National, Provincial and
        Kabupaten) roads to the respective provincial and kabupaten governments; and
    3. improve the use of scarce financial and natural resources through increased
        efficiency, quality, and transparency in award of works.

The Key Indicators for the performance of the EIRTP 1were:

    1. for the first objective: (i) percent of road segments on the budgeted program
        which are recommended by the Indonesian Integrated Road Management System;
        and (ii) average condition of national roads and bridges;
    2. for the second objective: (i) timeliness of the preparation of the annual work
        programs; (ii) activity of the Provincial Environmental Departments
        (BAPEDALDA) as measured by the number of provinces where BAPEDALDAs

        submit reports on environmental and social issues; and (iii) timeliness of the
       preparation of and submittal of reports on the planning, programming, and
       budgeting procedures technical assistance; and
    3. for the third objective: (i) quality of engineering designs as measured by percent
        of sub-projects which meet the design criteria; (ii) number of independent
        technical audits carried out; and (iii) timeliness of the preparation of and submittal
        of reports on the quality assurance technical assistance.



6.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators (as approved by original approving authority), and
reasons/justification


The original Project Development Objectives and Key Indicators were not revised.


6.4 Main Beneficiaries,original and revised
(briefly describe the "primary target group" identijied in the PAD and as captured in the
PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected to benefitfrom the
project)

The total beneficiary population from the Project was estimated at about 22 million
people, distributed among the 15participating provinces. The beneficiaries were expected
to be mainly the population living near the widespread sub-project areas of influence.
These are mostly poor, given the higher percentage of poverty concentration in Eastern
Indonesia, than in the rest of Indonesia. The direct benefits were to include lower freight
and passenger transport costs, lower fares, and improved access to marketing of their
products, as well as access to health and education services for the traveling public,
agricultural and industrial producers, and consumers. The expectedbeneficiaries were not
revised.


6.5 Original Components(as approved)


The US$262 million Project consisted of the following four components:

Component I. Road Network Preservation (US$225.22 million). This component
included a program in Eastern Indonesia of periodic maintenance of about 1,000
kilometers (km),and betterment of about 1,250km of national and strategic roads and
replacement of bridges of about 5,800 meters.

Component 2. Accident Blackspots (US$2.0 million). This component consisted of the
identification of accident blackspot locations, development of accident mitigation
measures for the priority locations, implementation of the mitigation measures, and
establishment of blackspot investigations units, monitoring of the accident blackspot
program and related consulting services. The program planned to include the treatment of
about 90 accident blackspots (at least three per province).

Component 3. Implementation Support (US$24.46million). This component covered
consulting services required for the management of the Project, design and supervision of
the works, and a small amount of equipment required to support implementation of the
project as well as provision of funds to meet the incremental operating costs incurred by
the implementing agency.

Component 4. Road Sector Support ( U S 10.32 million). This component consisted of
technical assistance and training to support the road sector, with emphasis on facilitating
the ongoing decentralization process. The technical assistance sub-component included:

    1. institutional strengthening comprising: (i) strengthening of road management
        (planning, programming and budgeting procedures) under decentralized
        operations; (ii) strengthening quality management for roads in Eastern Indonesia;
        and (iii) implementation of a demonstration provincial road hnd;
    2. extension of the automated road monitoring system to provinces in Eastern
        Indonesia and to Aceh in Sumatra (not covered under the Second Highway Sector
        Project); and
    3. improvement of the bid documents for roads and bridges to include environmental
        standard operating procedures under Institutional Strengtheningof Environmental
        Management as well as safety considerations.

To support the decentralization process, training was provided to the national, provincial,
and Kabupaten and Kota (autonomous levels of local government) staff involved in the
road sector, as well as to the wider construction community through the construction
industry training center within the Ministry of Settlements and Regional Infrastructure.

6.6 Revised Components


A single amendment was made to the Loan Agreement at the Government'srequest. In
this August 11, 2005 amendment, the US$2 million originally allocated to the Accident
Blackspots component was reallocated since the Government decided not to implement
this component. Under the Road Network Preservation component, the target amount of
periodic maintenance was increased from 1,000krn to 1,500km and the length of bridge
replacement reduced from 5,800 m to 4,250 m. The amendment also introduced several
adjustments to the Road Sector Support componentby reducing the scope of the study on
road funds and the study of the improvement of bid documents that was carried out
outside the Project. A facility to finance the operating costs for the technical audits to be
carried out by the Inspectorate General of the Ministry of Public Works (formerly the
Ministry of Settlements and Regional Infrastructure) was introduced.

6.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, andfunding
allocations)


There were no other significant changes.

7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
7.1 Project Preparation,Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy ofparticipatoryprocesses, as applicable)


The Project was well prepared, and the Project objectives and components were based on
the lessons learned from previous Bank financing in the highway sector in
Indonesia. Particularly useful in defining the Project scope and the institutional
arrangements was the experience on the Second Highway Investment Project (Ln 3712,
closed December 31,2001) and the Sumatra Region Roads Project (Ln 4307, closed
December 31,2005). In retrospect, the decision to split a single project into two (EIRTP 1
and EIRTP 2) facilitated the implementation of both projects. The Project objectives were
consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy including in supporting Government of
Indonesia's decentralization.

The EIRTP 1Project was selected for inclusion in the FY02 annual Quality at Entry
Report review by the Bank's Quality Assurance Group (QAG). A specific project
reference was made as an example of good environmental work with QAG indicating a
highly satisfactory operation with an "appropriateEnvironmentalAssessment category
and good Environmental Management Plan, proper implementation and institutional
arrangements, consultation and disclosure".

The Government's clear commitment to the Project's Road Network Preservation
component, and the complementary Implementation Support component, (together
representing about 95 percent of the Project) led to well advanced project preparation
with good quality feasibility studies, engineering designs, and economic
analysis. Appropriate attention was given to the environmental, land acquisition, and
resettlement issues. This allowed efficient start-up and implementation of the Project.

It is clear that there was significantly less commitment to the Project's Accident
Blackspots component and to the Road Sector Support component (together representing
about five percent of the Project). These components and their implementingmechanisms
and responsibilities were not well defined. Risks were identified however insufficient
attention was paid to the details of implementation mechanism to mitigate the risks
although there had been previous experience of Government'sreluctance to focus on key
institutional issues.

The late introduction (at appraisal) of a novel anti-corruption action plan--focused
primarily on procurement issues--was not well implemented or fully absorbed, even
though the anti-corruption action plan itself was not complex.

During Project preparation, there was extensive consultationwith local and provincial
governments and NGOs on the arrangements for local disclosure and consultation on
environmental and social issues with stakeholders. The resulting consultation process was
clearly delineated and provided for consultation at all levels of Government, with NGOs

and with local level institutions. An interesting feature was the inclusion of universities
close to the Project areas to assist the consultation process and provide technical backup
where necessary. Guidelines were also adopted to provide for full consultation and
participation with isolated vulnerable peoples, including specialmeetings with women
within affected areas and with tribal elders.


7.2 Implementation
(including anyproject changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions
taken, as applicable)


The Project was not restructured, was not subject to a formal mid-term review, and was
not classified as a Project at Risk. The overall physical implementation of the Project was
very significant with about 2,820 krn of key roads and bridges improved many of which
were completed well before the Project closing date. These achievements can be
attributed to strong leadership of the Directorate General of Highways (DGH) of the
Ministry of Public Works, the continuity and efficiency of their Directorate of Planning
and its Project Management Unit, and overall good performance of the consulting teams
supporting implementation.

The Implementation Support componentprovided the design and supervision services for
the works through 15 design and supervision consultants firms one based in each of the
participating provinces and two coordinatingregional consultants, one for the central
region, and another for the eastern provinces. Using 15 consultants was intended to
support the decentralization in 15participating provinces but led to a complex structureof
reporting and clearance and there is indication that these 15 consultants did not exercise
sufficient control over the contractors. A simplified structure could have accelerated
response time, and more importantly, could have further developed local human resources
in the road sector. A revised structure of only three regional consultants is being used in
the follow up on EIRTP 2. It is too early in implementation to see whether this will lead
to improvements.

On the other hand, the Accidents Blackspots component was not implemented and the
Road Sector Support component suffered from frequent delays chiefly due to differences
of opinion between the World Bank and the Government of Indonesia on the selection of
the studies and hiring of consultants. As a result, most of the recommendations of the
studies were not implemented due to low Government ownership.

7.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementationand Utilization


The monitoring and evaluation scheme was rather complex (see Annex 1) and there is
little incentive on the part of the implementing agencies to collect this type of data since it
is not part of their normal monitoring. The DGH does regularly collect traffic count and
road roughness data, the key measures for road sector economic analysis, and is in the
process of enhancing its capacity for doing so. The monitoring of implementation
progress and physical output was well managed.

7.4 Safeguardand Fiduciary Compliance
focusing on issuesand their resolution, as applicable)

Safeguards. The safeguards policies on Environmental Assessment, Natural Habitats,
Cultural Property, Indigenous Peoples and Involuntary Resettlement were expected to
apply to the Project. An "Environmental Management Plan", a "Land Acquisition and
Resettlement Policy Framework", and a "Framework for Treatment of Isolated
Vulnerable Peoples" were agreed upon for the Project. There were no significant
deviations or waivers from the Bank's safeguards polices and procedures.

The Directorate General of Highways (DGH) has an established Environmental and
Social Unit which was developed with support fiom previous Bank operations. The unit
covers both environmental and social issues. The safeguards policies and procedures had
also been largely harmonized between the Government's and the Bank's policies. This
unit played an active and successful role under this EIRTP Project and the Bank team
received active cooperation fiom them. The safeguards policies were well implemented.

The screening process designed for the Project worked well and is an example of
effective implementation of safeguards, even though only the first year work program
was fixed at appraisal. It seems that the road sections selected for the Project included
only those with limited safeguards impact and works types with limited impact, namely
betterment and maintenance of existing roads and existing alignments.

The Environmental Assessment policy (OP. 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01) was effectively
implemented. EIRTP 1 was classified as Category "B". The sub-projects that required an
environmental impact assessment (AMDAL) were considered as falling into Category
"A" and were excluded fiom EIRTP 1. Sub-projects determined to require an
environmental monitoring plan (UPL) or a site specific environmental management plan
(UKL) were considered as Category B and were included. Any exceptions to this rule for
"A"-versus-"Bt'decisions were treated as special cases in consultation between the
environmental specialists of DGH and the World Bank. This policy was applied in two
linked sub-projects in Bali, namely EIB-65 Tohpati-Kusamba and EIBR-23 Tukad Unda
Bridge. The corresponding Environmental and Social Impact Assessments were prepared
and accepted by the Bank, and the sub-projects were completed with fiequent monitoring
by DGH and World Bank staff. The majority of sub-projects screened fell under a
category of "standard operating procedures" whereby it was determined that there would
only be impacts as a result of the construction process and these would be dealt with
through the works contracts technical specifications and supervision consultants. There is
some concern that this was less effective with the contractors not adhering sufficientlyto
the requirement and the supervision consultants not adequately enforcing contractor
adherence. Discussions are underway in the Ministry to enhance this aspect.

Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04) and Cultural Property (OPN 11.03).The
Bank's safeguards policies on Natural Habitats and Cultural Property were not mentioned
specifically in the Environmental Management Plan, but both were covered under
Government Regulation No. 27 of 1993,requiring environmental study of sub-projects

affecting nature conservation or cultural heritage areas. Neither policy was found to be
applicable to sub-projects chosen for implementation.

Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20). Eastern Indonesia certainly has a significant number of
indigenous people especially in Papua. However, the selection of national roads included
a screening process that excluded any sub-project with potential negative impact on
indigenous people. As a result, sub-projects financed by EIRTP 1did not involve or affect
indigenous people.

Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30). There were five sub-projects which involved land
acquisition and resettlement with the impact limited to 19households. Abbreviated Land
Acquisition and Resettlement Action Plans were produced and the resettlement
satisfactorily implemented.

Fiduciary. Given concerns about the governance environment in Indonesia at the time of
the appraisal of the Project, the Bank team agreed on an anti-corruption action plan for
the Project. These were early stages of developing such specific plans. The key part of the
plan in the Project was a provision for technical audits to be undertaken by the
Inspectorate General (IG) of Ministry of Public Works, the unit tasked with governance
responsibilities in the Ministry. As of Project closing the IG had not yet delivered any
such audits. There was an ongoing series of administrative reasons provided to the Bank
for this situation and even the requested Loan amendment of August 2005 to allow for the
IG's receipt of incremental operating costs still did not resolve the situation.

An investigation by the Bank's Department of Institutional Integrity (INT) into corruption
claims on works contracts in the Sumatra Region Roads Project (the Bank subsequently
declared misprocurement on 17April, 2006 on 32 works contracts totaling about IDR
55,895,151,473 (about US$6 million equivalent)) picked up the case of the EIB-22
contract on this EIRTP Project. As a result, the contract went through several rounds of
bidding before being awarded.

During another INT investigation, started in February 2005, this time into the preparation
consultancy contract for the Strategic Roads Infrastructure Project (approved by the
Board July 7,2006) the Bank found evidence that the same consulting company had been
required to make illicit payments in respect of two consulting contracts financed under
EIRTP 1. Consequently, the Bank informed Government of Indonesia on June 27,2006
of a finding of corruption under these two contracts and cancelled an undisbursed amount
of US$1,097,998 and requested a refund of US$2,039,915 that had already been
disbursed under these contracts.

As a result of these INT findings concerning projects implemented by the Ministry of
Public Works, the Bank agreed with the Government of Indonesia on an enhanced Anti-
Corruption Action Plan (ACAP) for EIRTP 2 including more civil society oversight, and
during implementation has agreed on mitigation measures and rebidding for works
contracts under the ongoing EIRTP 2 and on an enhanced ACAP for the new Strategic
Roads Infrastructure Project (Ln 4834).

7.5 Post-completion OperationlNextPhase
(including transition arrangement topost-completion operation of investmentsfinanced by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements,sustaining reforms and institutional
capacity, and nextphase/follow-up operation, ifapplicable)


Most of the periodic maintenance and betterment works carried out on roads and bridges
that were part of the first and second annual work programs have been in service for over
one year and some since 2003. The constructiondefects liability period has concluded,
and works are reportedly performing adequately. Their maintenance has been appropriate
and the medium and long-term maintenance plans prioritize the resources required for
proper continued maintenance with Ministry of Public Works maintaining its national
road network in about 80 percent good and fair condition. The provincially located road
staff have developed expertise on road asset management, thus increasing the prospects of
sustainability.The ongoing Second Eastern Indonesia Region Transport Project (EIRTP
2) approved in June 2004 has, among its main objectives, support to the investment needs
of all levels of road and continued strengthening of provincial and local institutional
capacity. Therefore, the Government of Indonesia and the Bank will use EIRTP 2 to
continue to monitor proper operation and maintenance of the assets financed by EIRTP 1.


8. Assessment of Outcomes
8.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)


The Government's decentralization efforts in the road sector that were supported initially
under EIRTP 1, and later with EIRTP 2, have now shown some signs of progress, and
even though there are significant shortcomings,the Government is committed to continue
with this initiative. There has also been progress in the government's anti-corruption
agenda that remains a central piece in establishing a competitivebidding environment in
the road sector.

Transport demand has been growing faster than GDP growth during the last decade and
the traffic levels have increased, making the road sector a key element for improving
passenger and freight transportation. Therefore, the objectives, design and
implementationof EIRTP 1remain highly relevant in the current context and
complementsvery well the Bank's assistance strategy focused on reducing critical
bottlenecks in the national roads, and on providing a more competitive and transparent
bidding environment.

The latest Country Assistance Strategy (Report No. 27108-IND) discussed by the
Executive Directors on November 25,2003 (and the update of September 5,2006, Report
No. 36856-IND)proposed to assist Indonesia to overcome the low rate of investment and
to improve the public service environment to reduce poverty. EIRTP 1remains fully
consistent with the Country Assistance Strategypriorities as it directly fosters a
competitive private sector and supports Indonesia's infrastructure investment.

8.2 Achievement of Project DevelopmentObjectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 4)


EIRTP 1 substantially achieved its Project Development Objective to stimulate economic
growth and improve social welfare in the 15participating provinces in Eastern Indonesia
through improving access to road transport facilities, reducing road transport costs, and
facilitating efficient use of resources. Therefore, the overall achievement of the Project
development is rated satisfactory. The three specific objectives of EIRTP 1were
achieved and are rated as follows:

    1. The achievement of the first objective, namely to improve the condition of
        National and other strategic arterial roads, is rated highly satisfactory.The
        condition of about 2,820 km of National and other strategic roads was improved;
        thereby reducing transport costs in the Project areas of influence. In addition, with
        the replacement of 4,466 meters of bridges, the Project beneficiaries have
        improved access to provincial centers, production areas, and other transport
        facilities. The failure of Government to implement the Accident Blackspots
        component is disappointing given the Government'sexpressed wish to address the
        road safety problem in Indonesia.



             Work Type             Appraisal           Formally         Actual
                               I   Estimate            Revised *
                Periodic            1,000km            1,500km          1,111km     1
        1     Maintenance      I                  I                 1               1
        t
               Betterment           1,250km            1,250km          1,705km
                Bridges             5,800 m            4,250 m          4,466 m
               Blackspots               90                 0               0
        1        Total         /   2.258 km       1    2.754 km     1  2.820 km     I
         * Revised in Loan Amendment of August 11,2005

        The achievement of the second objective, namely to support the effective and
        sustainable decentralization of planning and management responsibilities, is rated
        satisfactory. An effective and sustainable decentralization of planning and
        management responsibilities for works on national roads has been a valuable
        experience in the 15participating provincial governments with the
        implementation of EIRTP 1.There is much work to be done in this area, as there
         are indications that the management of the national roads will be recentralized at
        the national level. However, this experienceprovides the foundation for further

        decentralizing responsibilities to provincial, Kabupaten and Kota government
        levels, which is expected to be implemented in EIRTP 2.
    3. The achievement of the third objective, namely to improve the use of scarce
         financial and natural resources, is rated moderatelyunsatisfactory.Increased
         efficiency, quality, and transparency in award of works have been only partially
         achieved. Some technical assistance activities were not completed, such as the
         technical audits or the establishment of a Road Fund and a Road Board. However,
         the final outcome on the treatment of allegations of bribery and other anti-
         corruption actions as part of the Project has been generallypositive and is worth
        highlighting.

8.3 Efficiency
(NetPresent Value/EconomicRate of Return, cost effectiveness,e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons;and Financial Rate of Return)


The overall ex-post Economic Rate of Return (ERR) for the Project including all road and
bridge investments and design, supervision and project management costs is estimated at
about 40 percent. The Net Present Value (NPV) is estimated at about IDR 5,916 billion
(US$623 million equivalent). These results exceed those projected at appraisal namely
ERR of 31.5percent and NPV of about US417 million.

The ERR of the periodic maintenance sub-projects is estimated at about 70 percent with a
unit cost of about US$45,285/km equivalent and for the betterment sub-projects is
estimated at about 50 percent with a unit cost of about US$85,596/km equivalent. The
traffic levels recorded in the Indonesian Integrated Road Management System (IIRMS)
2003 database show an increase of almost 60 percent over the traffic in the 2000 database
(used at appraisal) on the Project links, further increasing the returns.

These are national roads and typically have high traffic - sufficient tojustify the
investments. Further the approach of using road preservation - periodic maintenance and
betterment - has been shown to be a cost effective investment with a high rate of return.

A limited number of sub-projects were not selected on the basis of optimum investments
decision-making as generated by the IIRMS but were subject to political decisions such
as the road linking the two parts of Timor-Leste which now is shown to have little traffic
and a resulting low economic rate of return.




8.4 Justificationof Overall Outcome Rating
(combiningrelevance,achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Satisfactory

First and most importantly, EIRTP 1remains highly relevant in the current context. It has
played a key role in supporting the Government's effortsto effectively decentralize, and it
has provided the foundation to further increase the responsibilities of the provincial
governments in the road sector.

Second, given the complexity and great number of limitations during the Project
implementation period, such as the differences in capacity of the participating provinces
and geographical coverage, the significant achievement in terms of physical outputs is
worth highlighting. In addition, delivering most of the sub-projects within budget and
completing them within schedule, were features absent in similar Bank-financed projects
in Indonesia.

Third, the ex-post ERR and NPV are higher than the appraisal estimates. The delays on
starting some of the road works and completing them reduced the economicbenefits, but
this reduction was largely offset by the additional benefits generatedby increased traffic
volumes.

Finally, there were only very few shortcomings, such as the failure to implement the
treatment of accident blackspots, or technical audits that were not implemented. These,
while important to the overall long term development of the sector, however represented
about 5 percent of the projects investments.

8.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
($any, where notpreviously covered or to amplzfi discussion above)

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development


Eastern Indonesia, home to 46 million people or about 20 percent of Indonesia's total
population of 220 million people (2005) is the poorest, least populated, and least
developed part of the country. About 75 percent of the population in Eastern Indonesia
lives in rural areas, with an average population density of 35 per sq km, about one ninth
of that of the western region (Java and Sumatra, which is 294 per sq km). There are great
variations among provinces, as well as at district levels. Some provinces experience
poverty rates as low as 16.9percent (Bali) and others as high as 38.7 percent (Papua).

At Project appraisal, road networks were sparse and not well connected, especially in
Kalimantan, Papua and the smaller islands where many important links had not yet been
improved to all-weather standards. The average density (per 1,000sq km) of primary
roads was 90 km per 1,000 sq km, comparedto 220 km per 1,000sq km for western
region. Due to low population, this amounts to higher per capita spending on roads for
this region.

The table below presents the change in poverty levels and the distribution of EIRTP 1
investments by province. This is not intended to imply any causal link between the
Project and the overall development of the region. However, EIRTP 1 is one of several
investment Projects in Eastern Indonesiathat contributed to poverty reduction to

overcome the severe crisis that Indonesia underwent in the late 1990s.The overall level
of economic growth in Indonesia is also likely the strongest driver of poverty reduction.




 Gorontalo             835,044         872,000     32.9%      29.0%       -3.9%       67%   97   $4,879,529

 Maluku              1,205,539       1,172,000     55.8%       32.1%     -23.7%       39%   311 $26,024,973

 North                 785,059        780,000      44.3%       12.4%     -31.9%       42%   126  $8,073,975
 Maluku
 North              2,012,098        2,142,000     11.5%        8.9%      -2.6%       71%   267 $16,225,414
 Sulawesi
 Papua              2,220,934        2,518,000     52.5%       38.7%     -13.8%       18%   274 $36,827,795

 South              2,985,240        3,240,000     14.8%        7.2%      -7.6%       57%   77   $4,472,093
 Kalimantan
 South               8,059,627       8,494,000     18.8%       14.9%      -3.9%       55%   344 $26,564,056
 Sulawesi
 Southeast           1,821,284       2,086,000     28.5%       21.9%      -6.6%       43%   127  $7,949,008
 Sulawesi
 West Irian                            800,000                 38.7%                  21%    17  $2,736,779
-Jaya           -------
 West               4,034,198        4,394,000     27.4%       13.9%     -13.5%       33%
 Kalimantan
 West Nusa          4,009,261        4,356,000     33.4%       25.4%      -8.0%       77%   156  $9,632,295
 Tenggara

 1. Source: http://www.bps.go.idisector/population~tables.shtml
 2, Investment amounts obtained from Annex 4 "EIRTP I List of Works Contract Packages"


The poverty rates for Indonesia decreased from 23.6 percent in 2000 to 16.7percent in
2004 and those of Eastern Indonesia decreased from 26.7 percent to 18.2percent during
the same period. As a result, the disparity between Eastern Indonesia and the rest of
Indonesia also decreased, and the gap was reduced by half. The allocation of the EIRTP 1
investments followed the poverty rate variations within the region. The provinces with
higher concentrations of poor people also received higher investments. Papua, the poorest
province, received the largest share of investment, and now has 18percent of villages
with paved roads (Please see map IBRD 35139which shows poverty distribution and
sub-project locations in Papua). Moreover, this approach has been applied in EIRTP 2
where the allocation of project funds is closely linked to the poverty level of each

kabupaten. A total of about 2,820 km of national roads were improved in EIRTP 1.The
latest statistics indicate that about 55 percent of villages have paved roads for Indonesia
and about 48 percent of villages in the Eastern Indonesia region have paved roads. While
about 73 percent in Indonesia have access to asphalt roads, only 64 percent in Eastern
Indonesia have access.

The Project was not designed with gender targeting or specific social development
objectives.

In terms of social development, among the many key road links developed, the Project
financed the vital road link in the Indonesia section between the enclave of Oecussi and
the rest of Timor-Leste. This road was the subject of discussion between the Presidents of
the two countries. As an important land link between Oecussi and Timor-Leste, the road
will not only give an impetus to the movement of goods and services but will also help
families that, at present, find thejourney difficult to make. Observations at the border
post indicate that at present traffic between the two border crossings has not quite
increased, as visas are still required to transit through Indonesia, whereas no visa is
required on the ferry service that links both parts of Timor-Leste. However, the portion of
the road that links Atambua to the eastern border crossing shows increased traffic and
activity.


(b) Institutional Changelstrengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)


The Project had a substantial impact on the development of institutional capacity for
implementation particularly at the provincial level.

The Implementation Support and Road Sector Support componentsundertaken under
EIRTP 1 and complemented in EIRTP 2 provide a good basis for the implementation of
key institutional reforms needed in Eastern Indonesian provinces. The final outcome was
the improved quality of human resources in the road sector.

The environmental, quality control, and anti-corruption measures implementedunder the
Project were not only instrumental for the implementation of EIRTP 1,but also for the
preparation of EIRTP 2, for the identification of other Bank financed projects like the
Strategic Roads Infrastructure Project; and for projects in the province that used other
financing sources. The introduction of an anti-corruption action plan, application of more
transparentmethodologies for contracting civil works, equipment and consultants were
found useful at the provincial level. These procedures have been internalized and are
being applied in other projects.


(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative,if any)


EIRTP 1piloted several mechanisms and procedures that were later refined and
successfully implemented in other projects. This was not only the case of the anti-
corruption action plans and technical audits but also, the disbursementprocedures and

consultant arrangements. This unintended outcome took place during a period of
aggressive decentralization that required testing new concepts and schemes to adapt to the
constantly changing environment and institutional setting.


8.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or StakeholderWorkshops
(optionalfor Core ICR, requiredfor ILI, details in annexes)


Not applicable.


9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

The risk that the development outcome of the Project will not be realized is rated as
moderate for the following reasons:

     1. the quality of the works carried out is satisfactory and with routine and periodic
         maintenance should meet their life expectancy;
     2. the increased transport demand, and higher than expected traffic volumes, are
         forecast to continue;
     3. the social and economic benefits in terms of reduced transport costs and improved
         accessibility for Eastern Indonesian communitieshave already been achieved and
         should continue to increase; and
     4. the importance and priority givenby the Government and the 15participating
         provincial governments to the assets financed in the Project, combined with the
         political commitment to fiuther decentralization are forecasted to offset the
         potential issue of scarcity of resources for preserving the roads and bridges
         improved with the loan proceeds.

The Ministry of Public Works maintains the national road network at about 80 percent in
good and fair condition and there is evidence that routine maintenance activities have
been initiated to preserve the Project assets. It is however, necessary to consolidate and
continue supporting the institutional strengthening of the road agencies at the provincial
level to enhance the sustainabilityprospects of the Project development outcome. It is
also very important to sustain the efforts to combat corruption in the road sector to
continue moving towards more transparent procurement processes at all government
levels.

10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)
10.1 Bank
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e.,per$ormance through lendingphase)
Rating: Satisfactory

The performance of the Bank during identification, preparation and appraisal is rated
Satisfactorywith preparation taking a little over a year from concept approval to Board

approval. The Bank assigned a qualified team with an appropriate skill mix that delivered
a well-designed Project. Based on the previous Bank experience in the highway sector in
Indonesia, the economic, environmental and social aspects were properly appraised and
the main risks identified correctly. The task team ensured that the Project objectives were
consistent with the Government and Bank strategies and that the Project met the readiness
criteria and allowed a prompt project implementation.An area which is considered
unsatisfactory is the Road Sector Support component where implementation arrangements
and terms of reference were not well defined.


(b) Quality of Supervision
(includingof fiduciary and safeguardspolicies)
Rating: Satisfactory

The quality of Bank supervision is rated Satisfactory. The Project maintained consistency,
with one Task Team Leader through project preparation, appraisal and substantialpart of
the implementation (a period of about five years) and the second, supervisingfor the final
four months to closing and leading the Project evaluation. The task management transition
process was performed smoothly and the Bank's policies and procedures were applied
consistently.

The fiduciary policies required intensive supervision with the Bank prior reviewing a total
of 64 contracts (35 of the 152works contracts, all 6 goods contracts and all 23 consulting
services contracts) which accounted for more than half of the investment (or about
US$142 million equivalent prior reviewed). The Bank maintained a lead transport
specialist as Task Team Leader and placed a high-level international consultant in the
Jakarta office, as well as a locally recruited operations officer, resulting in high cost to the
Bank with supervision cost reaching US$140,000 in FY03, well above the Bank average
of US$92,000 in that year. This made a significant contribution to the quality of the
designs and is considered a key part of the success of the physical components. The
allegations of corruption were pro-actively handled by the Bank team.

The supervision of the safeguardspolicies worked well and the Bank's safeguards team
actively monitored screening of the sub-projects and the resulting resettlement and the
two Category A sub-projects. One area where there is some concern is on supervision of
the sub-projects during implementation after the instruments of LARAP or AMDAL had
been cleared by the Bank particularly on the majority of sub-projectswhere
environmental mitigation of construction impacts was required.

The supervision of the Road Sector Support component is consideredless satisfactory.
More attention could have been paid to more active engagement and dialogue with the
Government on the policy implications of some of the studies.


(c) Justificationof Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The overall Bank performance is rated Satisfactory and is considered to have contributed
to the success of the Project in particular the quality of the physical aspects. The Bank
staff could have provided more timely attention to the Client requests while adhering to
agreed procedures and maintaining good control of the Project and monitoring quality
although this was made difficult by an ongoing problem with the quality of
documentation sent to the Bank. New procedures have been put in place by the Bank team
in 2006 and all requests are now responded to in a timely manner.

10.2Borrower

(a) GovernmentPerformance
Rating: Satisfactory

Ministry of Finance, Bappenas, Ministry of Public Works (MPW); Ministry of
Cornrnunications/Transport--DirectorateGeneral of Land Communications

The performance of the Ministry of Finance in timely release of funds and provision of
counterpart funds is considered satisfactory. Bappenas could have played a stronger role
in promoting institutional reforms in the sector together with the Ministry of Public
Works. The performance of the Ministry of Communications/Transportis considered
unsatisfactory with regard to the Accident Blackspots component.


(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Implementing
               Performance
Agency
               The performance of the Directorate General of Highways (DGH) through
               its Directorate of Planning and its Project Management Unit is rated
               Satisfactory. Despite serious challengesposed by the design and the
               technical complexity of the Project, the overall support during the
               implementation was extraordinary resulting in good physical
               implementation with most road and bridge components completed well
               before the closing date. DGH had a strong leadership and consistently
               maintained its commitment to the Project. DGH was very responsive in
               taking corrective implementation measures, dealt effectively with some
Ministry of
               very complex environmental,resettlement, and corruption issues, and
Public Works
               complied with the high level of standards set by the Bank's policies.

               The performance of the national and the 15participating provincial
               governments during the preparation and implementation stage was
               Satisfactory. The staff and local counterpart team assigned to the Project
               were very committed and the set of procurement activities performed prior
               to loan effectivenesshad a positive impact in accelerating the Project
               implementation. The participating provincial governments demonstrated a
               strong commitment to Project implementation as reflected in their

                forthright support to all Project components with the timely provision of
                fbnds required and compliance with loan covenants. Some local
                governments, for example in the case of Bali where there were two
                Category A sub-projects, took a very positive and proactive approach to the
                safeguards issues which were in many cases fairly new to them.

                As highlighted before, the performance of the agencies in the
                implementation of both the Accident Blackspots component and the Road
                Sector Support component is consideredunsatisfactory.


(c) Justificationof Rating for Overall BorrowerPerformance
Rating: Satisfactory

The overall Borrower performance is rated Satisfactory given that 95 percent of the
Project was successfblly implemented.

11. Lessons Learned
(bothproject-spec@ and of wide general application)


    1. Designing andphasing projects to respond topolitical and technical realities
        leads to better implementationprogress. Taking a pragmatic decision to split
        EIRTP into two phaseslprojects was the right decision. This allowed one project,
        EIRTP 1,to support implementation on national roads where the institutional
        environment was well established, and allowed the second project, EIRTP 2, to
        reflect the subsequent decisions on decentralizationmodalities and on-lending
        arrangements to local governments. Having kept them in one project would have
        delayed all the investments.
    2. Implementing activities with multi-agency responsibility needs clear agreement on
        responsibilities and very explicit implementing arrangements, without which road
        safety activities remain a challenge. Even in this Project case, where the road
        safety component namely, Accident Blackspots improvement, was a purely
        "physical" component, which one would expect could be implemented fairly
        easily, proved to be difficult to implement due to the institutional barriers and
        various lines of responsibilities.
    3. Working with governments to bring about institutional changes is a challenge and
        is likely tofail unless there is clear Government commitment and there is
        involvementfrom all Government ministries notjust the implementing ministry.
        The difficulty is that there are clearly needs for institutional reform in many cases.
        In this case even purely technical reforms within the control of the implementing
        ministry such as improvement of their technical specificationsfor bidding
        documents did not proceed. Bank staff need to be much more involved in
        providing advice and engaging with governments as studies on institutional issues
        progress.
    4. Empowering independent consultants is necessary ifthey are to carry out their
        responsibilitiesfor supervision of the technical aspect of works. In this case the
        independent supervision consultants were to "assist"the provincial staff in

       supervisingthe works and were not assigned responsibility as Engineer in the
       contract due to the Ministries requirements in this regard. This does not work well
       and is not cost effective.



12. Comments on Issues Raised by BorrowerIImplementingAgenciesIPartners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies


With regard to the Government's comments on the technical audits, it was the Bank
team's expectation that DGH would ensure that technical audits would be carried out on
the Project and under their own budget. Whether these would be done by the Inspectorate
General or other was not an issue, although it was DGH that then assigned these to
Inspectorate General. It seems that it may be better in future to have these technical audits
carried out directly under an independent consulting service as is normally done in
projects.

With regard to the comments on the corruption findings, it is the preference of the Bank
to have the investigationjointly carried out by the relevant Government authorities and
the Bank and this has been done in other cases. In this case the Bank team did try to take
this route however there was less proactive follow up on Government side and the Bank
needed to proceed to ensure follow up on compliance with its fiduciary responsibilities.


(b) Cofinanciers


There were no cofinanciers.


(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g.NGOs/private sector/civilsociety)



There were no other partners or stakeholders directly involved.

Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The Project Development Objectives of the EIRTP 1were to:

    1. improve the condition of National and other strategic arterial roads so as to reduce
       transport costs and provide more reliable access between Provincial centers, to
       regional development and production areas, and to other key transport facilities;
    2. support the effective and sustainable decentralization of planning and
       management responsibilities for works on all primary (National, Provincial and
       Kabupaten) roads to the respective provincial and kabupaten governments; and
    3. improve the use of scarce financial and natural resources through increased
       efficiency, quality, and transparency in award of works.

The Key Indicators for the performance of the EIRTP 1 were:

    1. for the first objective: (i) percent of road segments on the budgeted program
       which are recommended by the Indonesian Integrated Road Management System;
       and (ii) average condition of national roads and bridges;
    2. for the second objective: (i) timeliness of the preparation of the annual work
       programs; (ii) activity of the Provincial Environmental Departments
       (BAPEDALDA) as measured by the number of provinces where BAPEDALDAs
       submit reports on environmental and social issues; and (iii) timeliness of the
       preparation of and submittal of reports on the planning, programming, and
       budgeting procedures technical assistance; and
    3. for the third objective: (i) quality of engineering designs as measured by percent
       of sub-projects which meet the design criteria; (ii) number of independent
       technical audits carried out; and (iii) timeliness of the preparation of and submittal
       of reports on the quality assurance technical assistance.



RevisedProject Development Objectives(as approved by original approving authority)

The original Project Development Objectives and Key Indicators were not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)


                                       Original Target                      -1ctual Value
                                                           Forrnally
                                        Values (from                         Achieved at
  Indicator       Baseline Value                             Rebiscd
                                          approval                          Complctiol~or
                                                         Target \'slues
                                         docnnlents)                        'Target Years


              Improvement of national and strategic roads to reduce road transport costs and
Indicator
            : providereliable roadaccess.

Value           This PDO is tracked
(quantitative orusing indicator 1a.
Qualitative)    and Ib., below.
Date achieved 1111212001
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Decentralized planning and management of roads to be operational and
Indicator 2 : sustainable.

Value           Tbs PDO is tracked
(quantitative orusing indicators 2-4,
Qualitative)    below.
Date achieved 1111212001
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Improve use of scarce financial and natural resources through increased
Indicator : efficiency, quality and transparency of implementation.
Value           This PDO is tracked
(quantitative orusing indicators 5-7,
Qualitative)    below.
Date achieved 1111212001
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)


                                  Original Target         Formally       Actual Value Achieved
                  Baseline
  Indicator                         Values (from       Revised Target       at Completion or
                               approval documents)          Values            Target Years
                1a. Percent of segments on the budgeted road program which are recommended
Indicator
             : by IIRMS lb.Network condition(nationaland strategicroads)

Value
(quantitative la: 62% lb:
                               la: 85% 1B: 1.16      85%                 74%
or              1.37
Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/12/2001       12/3112005             1213112005         1213112005
Comments        The "budgeted work program" consists of the dominant type of work under
(incl. %        IIRMS segmenting and programming rules. Thus segments "recommendedby
achievement) IIRMS" are not necessarily the highest priority works.
                Timeliness of annual work program: number of project provinces which have
Indicator 2 :
                submitted a long list Annual Work Program.
Value
(quantitative
                0              15                     15                 Not Applicable
or
Qualitative)

Date achieved 11/12/2001     1213112005              1213112005         1213112005
Comments     This indicator was determined to be not applicable because the process that took
(incl. %     place had no real deadline (AWP were not annual) and the dates of submittal were
achievement) not monitored.
             Number of provinces where BAPEDALDAs submit reports on environment and
Indicator : social aspects of AWP to PMU.
Value
(quantitative
              0              15                      15                 11
or
Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/12/2001     1213112005              1213112005         12/06/2006
              Level of reporting by BAPEDALDA reflects more lack of legal requirement of
Comments
             BAPEDALDA to report to PMU than lack of participation in monitoring.
       %
              Responsibility for implementation of environmental mitigation and management
achievement)
              is wlprovincial works agencies.
Indicator 4 : Reports from Planning, Programming, Budgeting Procedures TA
Value
(quantitative
              0             Phase 2 report           Phase 3 report     Achieved
or
Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/12/2001     1213112005               1213112005        1213112005
Comments      After a slow start, the March 2005 mission reviewed the status and agreed to a
(incl. %      revised focus and staff changes; then management produced an acceptable
achievement) product in all areas on schedule in June 2006.
Indicator 5 : Quality of Initial Design: Percent of sub-projects which meet design criteria
Value
(quantitative
              28%           90%                      90%                81%
or
Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/12/2001     1213112005               1213112005        1213112005
Comments      The project set out to improve the quality of design by forbidding Simplified
(incl. %      Design with its minimal use of survey data. It was found that the bad habits of
achievement) Simplified Design were hard for some design consultants to forget.
Indicator 6 : Technical Audits Number carried out
Value
(quantitative
              0              10                       10                0
or
Qualitative)
Date achieved 1111212001     1213112005               1213112005        1213112005
Comments
(incl. %      The technical audits were not completed.
achievement)
Indicator 7 : Reports from quality assurance TA are available
Value
(quantitative
              0             Phase 2 report           Phase 2 report     Not achieved
or
Qualitative)

Date achieved 11/12/2001   1213112005              1213112005       1213112005
Comments
(incl. %     This goal was not achievedbecause the technical audits were not completed.
achievement)
Indicator8 : CumulativeKilometers of Betterment
Value
(quantitative
             Okm           1250km                  1250km           1765
or
Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/12/2001    1213112005             1213112005       1213112005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator9 : Cumulative Kilometers of Periodic Maintenance
Value
(quantitative
              okm

Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/1212001    12131/2005             1213It2005       1213112005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 10 :c) CumulativeMeters of Bridge Replacement
Value
(quantitative
              okm
or
Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/12/2001    1213112005             1213112005       1213112005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 11 :Cumulativenumber of treated Accident Blackspots
Value
(quantitative
              0             90                     90               0
or
Qualitative)
Date achieved 1111212001    12131/2005             1213112005       06130/2006
Comments      As noted in the PAD, the safety componentawaited piloting under SRRP (4307-
(incl. %      IND),includingdevelopmentof mechanisms.Theaccidentblackspot sub-
achievement) componentwas not carried out.
Indicator 12 :Network condition: (a) Roads: InternationalRoughness Index:
Value
(quantitative
              7.0           6.5                    6.5               6.0
or
Qualitative)
Date achieved 11112/2001    1213112005             1213112005        1213112005
Comments      Overall road network condition improved over the Project life, but the indicator

(incl. %      included all roads. The sub-indicators for percentage of national roads in good,
achievement) fair, poor and bad condition show the opposite trend.
Indicator 13 :National roads in good condition
Value
(quantitative
              61%           65%                      65%                50%
or
Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/12/2001     1213112005              1213112005         1213112005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 14 :National roads in fair condition
Value
(quantitative
              33%            35%
or
Qualitative)
Date achieved 1111212001     1213112005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 15:National roads in poor condition
Value
(quantitative
              4%             0%
or
Qualitative)
Date achieved 1111212001     1213112005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 16 :National roads in bad condition
Value
(quantitative
              1%             0%
or
Qualitative)
Date achleved 1111212001     1213112005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 17 :Network condition: (b) Bridge: condition mark
Value
(quantitative
               1.37          1.16                     1.16              1.32
or
Qualitative)
Date achieved 1111212001     1213112005               1213112005        1213112005
Comments      Condition marks are measured on a scale of 0 = Excellent to 5 = Collapsed.
(incl. %      Average conditions deteriorated, but the number of bridges in the inventory
achievement) increased by 29% over the period (12% by length).

Annex 2. Restructuring(if any)

                               Not Applicable

Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)


                              Appraisal Estimate ActuaV1,atest EstimatePercentage of
         Components
                                  (usn AI)              (usn M)         Appraisal

1.ROAD NETWORK
                                        194.80
PRESERVATION
2. ACCIDENT BLACKSPOTS                     1.89
3.IMPLEMENTATION
SUPPORT
4.ROAD SECTOR SUPPORT                      8.90                   8.27
PHYSICAL
CONTINGENCIES
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                       22.40
TAX                                        0.00
          Total Baseline Cost           262.00
Physical Contingencies                     0.00
Price Contingencies                        0.00
           Total Project Costs          262.00
Front-end fee PPF                          0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                         2.00

    Total Financing Required            264.00                 262.14



(b) Financing


                                              Appraisal    ActilaVLatest  Percentage
        Source of Funds           T'pe         Estimate    Estimate (USD of l\ppraisal
                                Cofinancing    (usnR  I )        M)
  Borrower
  INTERNATIONALBANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTIONAND
DEVELOPMENT

(c) Disbursement Profile

                        -Original----Form Revised--Adual

Annex 4. Outputs by Component

The US$262 million Project achieved the following outputs:

                         Actual Project costs by component (US$)

             Project Component        Actual       Government    IBRD IBRDLoan
         I                          I           I                Loan




                             Costs  I                         I        I
         1
          Road Sector Support
               Consultants'services 1  6,749,817  1         0   1100%   1 6,749,817
                                    I             I             I       I
                            Goods (    1,520,295  1            1 100%   1  1,520,295


                                                                                     I
          Sub-total                  260,136,300    67,414,223           192,722,077

          Front end fee (1%)           2,000,000                 100%     2,000,000
          pppp




          Total                      262,136,300    67,414,223


Component 1: Road Network Preservation (US$225.22 million, PAD; US$232.0
million, ICR)

This component included a program, in Eastern Indonesia, of periodic maintenance of
about 1,000kilometers (km) and betterment of about 1,250km of national and strategic
roads and replacement of bridges of about 5,800 meters. The "other strategic" roads were
provincial roads considered to have a strategic importance and such roads comprised
about seven percent of the road length improved under the Project. The sub-projectswere
grouped into three annual works programs (AWP). The first AWP began in October 2001
and the last AWP began in October 2005.

A firm first-year annual work program and an indicative three-year work program of
civil works was agreed upon at appraisal. Each finalized work program was subsequently
reviewed by the Bank. A large number of the sub-projects initially selected in the three-
year work program were eventually constructed. The program was selected on the basis
of (i) the set of specific sub-projects programmed by the Directorate General of
Regional Infrastructure (DGRI) and included in the FY 2001 budget and (ii) an economic

needs-based analysis using the data in the current version of the Indonesian Integrated
Road Management System (IIRMS-2000). The sub-projects included in the program
were all economicallyjustified. The allocationsbetween provinces were set by national
budget allocations.

The condition of about 2,820 km of national and other strategic roads was improved and
4,466 meters of bridges improved. Bridge replacement involved purchase of 77 steel
trusses with a total length of 3,926 meters worth US$7.65 million for installationby civil
works contractors.

                                Appraisal Estimate vs Actual

                 Appraisal    Revised                  Cost           Costslkm        CostJkm

1  Work type      estimate    estimate*    Actual   (US$ million)     (IDRIkm)        (US$/km)
  Periodic
  maintenance     1,000 km     1,500 km    1,111 km        50.33      430,209,917       45,285
 1Betterment    1 1.250 km   1 1,250 km  1 1.705km I      145.96    1 813,157,528 /     85,596




  Total         ( 2,256 km  1 2,754 km   1 2,820 kmI     224.15   1   754,820,255    1  79,455
* Revised in Loan Amendment of August 11,2005

The average cost of periodic maintenance was about US$45,285 equivalent per km and
the average cost of betterment was about US$85,596 equivalentper km. Costs varied due
to geographic region as well as due to the complexity of some works for example the
EIB-22 contract is effectively an elevated causeway construction, and the EIB-54
contract is a difficult steep road in Papua linking FakFak to Kokas.

The periodic maintenance program covered preventive resurfacing of links which had
reached the end of their surfacing life and would have deteriorated rapidly if neglected
for much longer. There was very little road widening in the program. The betterment
program covered works on remote links in the national network which were in poor
condition, or unpaved, with the result that the program contributed to improved
connectivity and access between main centers in Eastern Indonesia. While traffic on
many was low, there was assumed to be substantial suppressed traffic demand on most of
the roads.

The works were executed through 152 civil works contracts, 120of the 130road
contracts (2,601 km or 92 percent of the program length) and 18of the 22 bridge
contracts (3,648 m or 80percent of the program length) had been completed by project
closing date, June 30,2006. The remaining cost to completion of these contracts will be
met by Government budget.

The detail of the works programs is given in final table in this annex where "EIP"
indicates a periodic maintenance contract, "EIB" a betterment contract and "EIBR" a
bridge contract.

Various site visits by Bank staff indicate the quality of works to have been good and the
subsequent required routine maintenance to be in place. The Ministry of Public Works
maintains the national road network in 80 percent good and fair condition.



      Extract from World Bank site visit report to Wamena, Kabupaten Jayawijaya,
                        and Jayapura, Papua, September 17-20,2006

    Wamena-Tengon EIP-20 is a sub-project covering 30 km along a national road that
    connects Wamena and Jayapura. A site visit included field inspection of the first 4 km
    of the sub-project, from Wamena to Tengon. The contract amount of this package was
    IDR 25,173,285,010 (about US$2.80 million equivalent) with the construction period
    of 720 days and was completed in November 2003. The road is still in a good shape
    and well maintained. No major damage was found and maintenance operation was
    found to be satisfactory.

    Jayapura-SentaniEIP-40 is a sub-project along the same national road mentioned
    above. This sub-project is along the section of roadway that connects Sentani airport,
    located west of Jayapura, to the city center. The contract amount was IDR
    14,208,655,539.00 (about US$1.58 million equivalent) with the construction period of
    390 days and was completed in December 2003. The road has heavy traffic since it
    passes the city of Sentani, satellite city of Jayapura, where government offices,
    commercial areas, housing estate and university are located. The traffic is quite busy,
    estimated to be in the range of 8,000 to 10,000 vehicles per day. Main activity of the
    package was overlaying of 7 m width surface with asphalt concrete. Quality of the
    works is very good, no cracks or potholes were found. With the exception of a limited
    amount of traffic signs installed in a hilly part of the package, road accessories such as
    marlung, side ditches, guardrails and drainage were properly installed and are still in a
    good shape. Maintenance operation was also found to be satisfactory.

    The one aspect of maintenance which appears to be an issue is the maintenance of the
    road marhngs. Responsibility is apparently transferred to the Ministry of Transport
    after construction is completed by Ministry of Public Works. Site visits indicate that
    the marlungs are not well maintained. Given the significant benefit of road marlungs
    towards traffic safety this is a serious concern.




Component 2: Accident Blackspots (US$2.0 million, PAD; US$O million, ICR)

This component was intended to consist of the identification of accident blackspot
locations, development of accident mitigation measures for the priority locations,
implementation of the mitigation measures, and establishment of the blackspots
investigationsunits, monitoring of the impact of the accident blackspots program and
related consulting services. The program was planned to include the treatment of about
90 accident blackspots (at least 3 per province). The works for the treatment of accident
blackspots were not identified before appraisal, while preliminary designs were to be
provided for inclusion in the roadway packages, as appropriate, to be financed under
EIRTP or Government funds. Government did not implement the Accident Blackspots

component and the allocation of financing for the component was reallocated in the Loan
Amendment of August 1I, 2005.

Component 3: Implementation Support (US$24.46 million, PAD; US$20.0 million,
ICR)

This component covered consulting services required for the management of the Project,
design and supervision of the works, and a small amount of equipment required to
support implementation of the Project as well as provision of funds to meet the
incremental operating costs incurred by the implementing agency. The consulting
services included support to:
(a)  the Project Management Unit which was established in DGRI to manage the
     Project (referred to as Core Team Consultants);
(b)  the Eastern and Central Directorates of Infrastructurewithin DGRI to oversee the
     design and supervision of the civil works in the provinces (referred to as Regional
     Team Consultants);
(c)  the provincial agencies in the design and supervision of the preservation works in
     each province (referred to as Design and Supervision Consultants); and
(d)  the Directorate General of Land Communicationsin the conceptualization, design,
     implementation, and monitoring of the accident black spot program and the
     development of the terms of reference for the safety component under the proposed
     Second Indonesia Region Transport Project (referred to as Road Traffic Safety
     Consultants).

Equipment included office and telecommunications equipment to facilitate management
of project implementation. The incremental operating costs included staff travel, per
diem, communications, consumables, web page establishment and maintenance,
advertising of bidding, publishing project information, and renting meeting facilities, but
excluded staff salaries.

     Core Team Consultant (CTC) (about US$4.11 million equivalent). A firm of
     consultants was engaged by DGH to provide management support to DGH, the
     Directorate of Planning and their Project Management Unit (PMU) in managing all
     components of the Project. The CTC was employed for four years (June 2002 to
     June 2006). Their team was enlarged for two years (January 2003 to December
     2004) to assist DGH to prepare the EIRTP 2 Project. CTC monitored progress in
     project implementation and compliancewith Bank safeguardpolicies, including
     environmental screening of annual programs, procurement, performance indicators,
     physical achievements and expenditures, and preparation and submittal to the
     Steering Committee and the Bank of project management reports as well as
     monthly reports project implementation, quarterly Project Management reports on
     financial status. CTC assisted DGH to conduct training in road safety audit and
     environmental aspects related to application of the safeguardsto the Project. The
     road safety audit training was combined with an accident blackspots investigation
     of one road, replacing a provision for Overseas Study in the consultant's contract.

(ii) Regional Team Consultants (RTCs) (about US$3.79 million equivalent). This
      consisted of two regional teams through two consulting contracts: one for the
      Central Region, mobilized in May 2002, which included the four provinces of
      Kalimantan; and one for the Eastern Region, mobilized in July 2002, which
      included the remaining 11provinces. The RTCs were engaged by DGH's two
      Regional Directorates which also managed the 15Provincial Works Departments
      and their functional agencies to assist in oversight of design and supervision of the
      civil works funded under the Project. As part of their oversight, the RTCs kept
      detailed records of financial data which was then assembled into Project
      Management Reports by CTC. RTCs also evaluated designs prepared for EIRTP 2
      first year works by the regional governments or their consultants.

(iii) Design and Supervision Consultants (DSCs) (about US$11.32 million equivalent)
      15consulting firms (one for each province under the Project) were engaged by each
      province in the Eastern Indonesia region to provide technical assistance to
      provincial government agencies for design and supervision of civil works funded
      under the Project. The services of these consultants were not available before
      October 2002 (Central Sulawesi)up to October 2003 (North Maluku).
      Consequently, the designs of the sub-projects in the first year annual work program
      were undertaken under the supervision of the consultants for the Eastern Indonesia
      Region Transport Planning Analysis Technical Assistance (EIRTPA TA)
      Consultants. To bridge the gap between signing of contracts with the contractors
      and the availability of DSC Consultants,the provinces provided temporary
      supervision for an average of 104days per package.

(iv) The total cost of RTCs and DSCs of approximately US$15.11 million equivalent
      represents about seven percent of the cost of the civil works designed and
      supervised (about US$224.0 million equivalent worth of works). Of the 15
      consulting firms in the provinces, 13were domestic firms and 2 were international
      firms. These 15 contracts include costs for Interim Supervisionof the follow on
      EIRTP 2 contracts, so overestimates the cost as a percentage of the EIRTP 1works.

(v)   Road Traffic Safety Consultants (RTSC) This service was intended to support the
      Accident Blackspots component. This consultancy was not procured because the
      pilot study under Sumatra Regional Roads Project was still under way and there
      was not sufficient time before the EIRTP 1 Loan Closing Date to complete the
      services. These services were to be included in the Second Eastern Indonesia
      Region Transport Project, but they were finally not part of EIRTP 2.

(vi) Equipment (about US$O.157million equivalent)A small amount of office and
      communications equipment was procured to support management of
      implementation of the Project by DGH.

(vii) Incremental Operating Costsfor DGH-PMU (about US$0.52 million equivalent)
      These costs included DGH staff travel, per diem, communications, consumables,
      advertisementof bidding, printing and publication of Project information, rental of
      meeting facilities, but excluded staff salaries, which expenditures would not have
      been incurred absent the Project. This provision greatly lightened the burden of
      prefinancing on implementation support consultants, who had borne such costs
      under previous projects.

   ImplementationSupport: Design and SupervisionConsultants'services(US$)




* US$ equivalent indicates the amount disbursedunder the IBRD loan & excludes VAT which is paid by
Government
** % indicates cost of services as % of the civil works designed and supervised


Component4: Road Sector Support (US$10.32 million, PAD; US$8.3 million,ICR)

This component consisted of technical assistance and training to support the road sector,
with emphasis on facilitating the ongoing decentralization process. The technical
assistance sub-component included:
(a)   institutional strengthening comprising: (i) strengthening of road management
      (planning,programming and budgeting procedures) under decentralized operations;

     (ii) strengthening quality management for roads in Eastern Indonesia; and
     (iii) implementation of a demonstration provincial road fund;
(b)  extension of the automated road monitoring system to provinces in Eastern
     Indonesia and to Aceh in Sumatra (not covered under the Second Highway Sector
     Project); and
(c)  improvement of the bid documents for roads and bridges to include environmental
     standard operating procedures under Institutional Strengthening of Environmental
     Management as well as safety considerations.


To support the decentralization process, training was provided to the central, provincial,
and Kabupaten and Kota staff involved in the road sector, as well as to the wider
construction community through the construction industry training center,
PUSLATJAKONS within the Ministry of Settlements and Regional Infrastructure.

This institutional strengthening sub-component comprised the following activities:


(i)   Strengthening of Road Management (Planning, Programming and Budgeting -
     PPBP) under Decentralized Operations (about US$3.45 million equivalent): This
     activity was intended to: 1) strengthen central DGH capability for preparing,
     allocating andjustifying National road budgets for approval by Parliament, for
     monitoring performance of the whole road sector, and for medium-term strategic
     planning; 2) establish at the Provincial level, planning programming and budgeting
     procedures under decentralized operation, with defined resources, methodologies
     and appropriate private sector participation; and 3) develop a local roads
     management system appropriate for Kabupaten and Kota, compatible with the
     national and provincial system (IIRMS), ready for adoption and implementation
     under future assistance. Within the three areas the Terms of Reference mentioned
     many specific requirements, including improvements to the Indonesian Integrated
     Road Management System (IIRMS), evaluation of contract management system
     and project management system concepts for possible integration with the planning
     systems, and institutional aspects. Mobilized on August 22,2003, it took time for
     the consultant to come to grips with the whole task. The March 2005 mission
     reviewed the status and agreed a revised focus and staff changes, and management
     effort then produced an acceptable product in all areas on schedule in June 2006.


(ii) Strengthening Quality Managementfor Roads in Eastern Indonesia (Technical
     Audits--about US$O.018 million equivalent): This activity was intended to: 1)
     establish improved quality assurance procedures and organization in Eastern
     Indonesia provinces; 2) improve monitoring of the quality of civil works in the
     Project area; and 3) provide new tools to help improve the management of quality
     in contract and project management, and asphalt paving. The Terms of Reference
     dated October 30,2001 detailed these themes, but DGH considered that there was
     overlap between the services and works supervision. In late 2003 the Bank
     proposed to apply the services to assist the Inspectorate General in technical and
     financial audits for sustainability of the Project and to address the audit targets, and

     technical proposals under ICB were obtained by October 2004. Two contracts were
     prepared, one for technical audit and one for financial audit. It was agreed that the
     consultants would assist the Inspectorate General who was considered an
     independent auditor, and for sustainability after the Project. After sorting out the
     mechanism for the Inspectorate General to be funded (incremental operating costs,
     see below), the audits were budgeted in 2006. It was then realized that the
     consultants appointed for audit of financial aspects were not familiar with
     engineering cost investigationsbut were accountants, so their contract was not
     signed. The technical audit started in April 2006 and about 50 percent of the audit
     was completed by June 2006, the remainder proposed to be funded under EIRTP 2
     as the audits by the Inspectorate General are scheduledto continue later in 2006.


(iii)Implementation of a Demonstration Provincial Road Fund. Establishment of a
     Road Board and Road Fund (about US$O.803 million equivalent): This activity
     was intended to establish a Road Fund, to be financed directly from road user
     charges to be levied or allocatedby Provinces, and managed by a Road Board
     including a cross-section of road users and representatives of the road sector. The
     principles, draft legislation and other preparations were identified under services
     performed during 2001 and 2002 in the TAP 41-2 funded study on Road Funds in
     Indonesia. The consultant mobilized in January 2004 and met resistance from
     Ministry of Finance and Ministry of Home Affairs to the concept of earmarking of
     fuel taxes or other revenues for road maintenance. It was concluded that a "road
     fund" as previously envisaged could not be set up under GOI's budget principles
     which strictly separate revenue from expenditure.The Terms of Reference were
     revised to address performance and governancereform of road maintenance,
     covering planning, programming, budgeting, accounting, auditing, training and
     implementation, and a Phase I report was issued in May 2005 under the title of
     Road Performance and Maintenance Financing Study. Because DGH considered it
     overlapped with PPBP, recommendationswere not implemented.


(iv) Extension of automated road monitoring system (ARMS) (later: TRAMS and
     Traffic Counting Equipment--about US$1.52million equivalent): ARMS was
     carried out in 2000-2001 in all provinces in EIR with the exception of Maluku,
     North Maluku and Papua. It was intended to extend it to those provinces and to the
     province of Aceh in Sumatra,to help in planning, monitoring, and design of roads
     and bridges. A Terms of Reference was prepared in January 2002 for Extended
     Road Monitoring Services as the fully automated ARMS approach was considered
     by DGH to be too expensive and inflexible. The task was to develop a hybrid
     approach with the current manual surveys and Krn posts which were the reference
     for planning and construction, and to revise survey manuals. In October 2002 DGH
     proposed to expand the scope to include an Automated Traffic Monitoring System.
     The title was revised to Traffic and Road Asset Monitoring System (TRAMS). Bids
     were received in January 2004 but a contract was not awarded after an extended
     period of evaluation and review of evaluation criteriabetween DGH and the Bank.
     In parallel, Traffic Counting equipment was specified and tendered in July 2004,
     and four contracts were let when it was accepted by the Bank that the equipment

     would be properly managed, two in September2005 and two in March 2006. This
     equipment had not been identified separately at appraisal but will be an important
     asset in improvement of planning quality.


(v)  Improvement of Bid Documents: It was intended that bid documents for works for
     roads and bridges should include environmental standard operating procedures
     (SOPs) for minimizing and mitigating common adverse environmental impacts, as
     well as recent advances in the safety area (both during construction and operation
     of roads), and in the specifications. Rather than award a separate contract, DGH
     included the tasks in CTC servicesto take advantage of environmental and contract
     management expertise. The outcome was application of the SOPs by RTCs and
     DSCs under EIRTP 1,including their review by Bapedalda, and preparation of a
     new set of standard bid documents by DGH by October 2004, and are being applied
     in EIRTP 2. There remain concerns that the bidding documents specifications are
     still not adequate and work is continuingunder EIRTP 2 CTC to try to improve
     these.

                   Road Sector Support: Consultants' services (US$)


                                    Description                        US$ equivalent*
          I

            1 Road Planning,Programming,and Budgeting (PPBP)                 3,445,550

            2   ConstructionServicesTechnical Audit                             18,159

            3   Establishmentof Road Board and Road Fund                       802,636

            4   DGRI Training                                                1,394,671

            5  1ConstructionIndustryTraining                                 1,088,802
               I
               ITOTAL                                                        6,749,817
*US$ equivalentindicates the amount disbursed under the IBRD loan & excludesVAT which is paid by
Government


Training and Incremental Operating Costs. EIRTP 1included training to the central,
provincial and Kabupaten staff involved in the road sector (called DGRI Training) as
well as support to the wider construction community through PUSLATJAKONS (the
Construction Industry Training Centre), as well as incremental operating costs for
carrying out technical audits.


(i)  DGRI Training (about US $1.39 million equivalent). This TA was intended to
     strengthen the capability of Provincial, Kabupaten, and Kota manpower particularly
     for decentralization. It included a short study on organization structure and
     institutional 1inkages.fortraining management, expansion of earlier master plans
     (Kabupaten Road Master Training Plan- KRMTP and National and Provincial
     Roads Master Training Plan- NPRMTP) by adoption of technological advances in
     training development and delivery; identification of training needs of provincial
     and Kabupaten 1Kota staff, and a plan to be implemented during the EIRTP 2 for
     the specific training interventions, numbers to be trained, costs, locations, and
     implementation schedule. Mobilized in October 2003, implementation was
     completedby April 2005, and was extended to December 2005 (Lump Sum basis,

      not Time-Based) to prepare materials and to run courses in project management (6
      courses each of 3 days for 25 people).


(ii)  Construction Industry Training (about US$].09 million equivalent). In order to
      support the wider construction community through the preparation of appropriate
      training, EIRTP 1required the Construction Industry Training Center in the
      Ministry of Public Works to carry out a study onjobs and competences, a study on
      worker and team productivity leading to specification of relevant productivity
      improvement programs, and preparation of training modules for construction
      workers, including the updating of 32 existing modules and the development of 13
      new modules. Mobilized in January 2003, the contract was completed in May 2004.

(iii) Incremental Operating Costsfor Technical Audits: As a consequence of the
      decision mentioned in the previous section to involve the Inspectorate General in
      technical audit of EIRTP 1works and services, the Loan was amended in August
      2005 in part to include this item. The travel and other costs (not salaries) for the
      additional activities were financed.

   8     BALI         EIP-4      SIDAN                         21-Nov-Ol        212,822      6.100       34.889

  9      BALI         EIP-5      SIDAN - KLUNGKUNG             21-Nov-Ol        303.993       8.700      34,942

  10     BALl         EIP-6      KLUNGKUNG - ANGENTELU         24-Nov-01        507.856      14.870      34.153
 -------Sub-total                                                             9,813,734     129,375      75,855
                                                                         ,
       CENTRAL
                                 BR'          - K". 35
  11  KALIMANTAN     EIB-22                                    17-May-05      6,436.934      4,020     1.601.227
       CENTRAL
1                                K"' 65 -
  12  KALIMANTAN     EIB-23                                    30-Jan-04      3.384.274      38.300       88.362
       CENTRAL                   K"' 65 -
- 13  KALIMANTAN     EIP-2B                                    27-Oct-01        626,316       6.500       96.356

       CENTRAL                   KASONGAN - KM. 65

  14                             (PUNDU)-
      KALIMANTAN    -----
                      EIP-22                                   24-Mar-03       1.201.053     26.000      46.194

        Sub-total                                                             11,648,576     74,820


       CENTRAL                            - LINGADAN
  1.5  SULAWESI       EIB-12                                   10-Apr-02        827.097      12.300       67.244
       CENTRAL                   OGOAMAS - OGOTUA -
  16   SULAWESI      EIB-37      MALALA                        08-Dec-03       1.451.351     40,500       35.836
       CENTRAL
                                 SIBOANG - OGOAMAS
  17   SULAWESl      EIB-38                                    18-Dec-03       1.435.121     26.450       54.258
       CENTRAL                   MALALA - SILONDOU - TOLI                                                       '
  18   SULAWESI      EIB-39      TOLI                           01-Jul-03      1,639,487     29.800       55.016
       CENTRAL                   LEOK - BUOL
  19   SULAWESI      ElB-40                                    10-Dec-03      2,257,751      35,760       63,136
       CENTRAL                   BUOL -
  20   SULAWESI      EIB-60                                    19-Aug-04       1.630.513     25.000       65.221
     , CENTRAL      , EIBR-  , JEMBATAN PAKETI (8




                                ITOMATA - BETELEME -         I             I            I           i            I

I    I CENTRAL     I         I _ _ -__....__...
                                              1A          I    04-Dec-03 (      695.783  1   20.000  1    34.789
     I  Sub-total  I                                                       1  17,957,946  1 356,609 1    50,358

      EAST NUSA             OESAPA - OESAO -
  34  TENGGARA      EIB-5                               20-Nov-01     1.783.363    26.500       67.297
      EAST NUSA             ATAMBUA -
  35  TENGGARA      519-6                                               687.614    11,000       62.510
                                       - WOLOWARU  -




      EAST NUSA             LAKAFEHAN - KELITING -

                                                        16-Aug-04     7.012.240    30.400      230,666
                                                      P
      EAST NUSA             MALWATAR - LABUHAN
  41  TENGGARA      EIB-67  BAJO                         17-Jun-05
      EAST NUSA
                            AEGELA-GAKo
. 42  TENGGARA      E1B68                                17-Jun-05    1.389.272    13.000

      EASTNUSA              MAUBESI - NESAM -

  43  TENGGARA      EIB-69  ATAMBUA - MOTOAIN            17-Jun-05    1,009,857     7.600      132.876
      EAST NUSA
----                        JEMBATAN WAE BOB0 cs
  44  TENGGARA      EIBR-5                              23-Dec-02       916,657       170    5.392.099
      EAST NUSA
                            JEMBATAN WATUNESO I11cs
  45  TENGGARA     EIBR-6                               23-Dec-02       604.102        80    7.551.278
      EAST NUSA
                            JEMBATAN NIAWULA I cs
  46  TENGGARA     EIBR-7                               23-Dec-02       382,974        52    7.364.877
      EAST NUSA
                            KEFAMENANU - MAUBESI
  47  TENGGARA      EIP-9                               11-Aug-01       845.369    22.000
      EAST NUSA             BTS. SEKSI MANGGARAI -
  48  TENGGARA      EIP-26  KM.210                       11-Jun-02      679.843    15.000       45,323

                                                        25-Nov-02       699.931    15.000       46.662
      EAST NUSA             BATUPUTIH - SOE - NIKIKI
  50  TENGGARA      EIP-28                              25-Nov-02     1.408.748    30,000       46.958
      EAST NUSA
                            LIANUNU -
. 51  TENGGARA      EIP-51                               17-Jun-05      757.789     8.500       89.152
    I
t      Sub-total  I                                               (  25,879,151 ( 274,642  1   94,229     1
    I            I         I                          I           I            I          I             I
                            MOLINGKAPUTO -
. 52  GORONTALO    EIB-11   BULONTIO                    23-Apr-02       931.325    12.000       77.610
  53  GORONTALO    EIB-36   BULONTIO - TOLINGGULA       29-Nov-02       777,401    16.000      48.588

                            MOLINGKAPUTO - BATAS
                            EIB-11- ATINGGOLA -
                            KWANDANG
 54   GORONTALO    EIB-59                               10-May-04     1.618.481   31.000        52.209
 55   GORONTALO     E1p-31  MARISA - LEMITO             17-Sep-03       684.289    15.000      45.619
 56   GORONTALO     EIP-32  1SlMU- PAGUYAMAN            29-Nov-02       868.033   23.200       37,415
       Sub-total                                                     4,879,529    97,200       50,201

 Annex 4. EIRTP 1 List of Works Contract Packages                                                    Page 3 of 6
                       Package                                   Date of       Contract
         Province         No.               Package Name         Contract      Value US$        meters     USDlkm
     I                I          I                           I                              I          I
   57   MALUKU          E I B - ~ ~ SALEMAN   - BESI WAHAI
                                                    -            12-May-03       4,960,097      70,020        70.838

   58   MALlJKU         ~ 1 ~ - 4 6SAUMLAKI     - ARUIDAS        04-Dec-02        1.910.514     50,000        38.210
                                    WAHAI - PASAHARI -
   59   MALUKU          EIB-62      KOBISONTA                  1 18-Aug-04       3,452.710      45.270        76.269

   60   MALUKU          E I B - ~ ~ NAMLEA - MARLOSO             18-Mat-04        1.354.350      19.180       70.613

   61   MALUKU          ~ 1 ~ 7 1   PASAHARI - KOBISONTA         15-Jun-05       2,902.255      23.700       122.458

   62   MALUKU          ~18-72      BESI - WAHAI                 19-Ocl-05       2.029.199       11,600      174.931

   63   MALUKU          EIB77       SAUMLAKI - ARUIDAS           09-Nov-05        1.609.592      13.000      123.815

   64   MALUKU          EIBR-2      WAlTALA                      28-Jan-02         760.053          150    5.067.020
                                    WAY SAPALEWAcs
1  65   MALUKU          EIBR-9                                   24-Sep-02        1,336.329         380    3.516.654
                        'IBR-
                                    WAY HATAE I1cs
   66   MALUKU            10                                     25-Sep-02        1.682.774         370    4.548.037

   67   MALUKU          EIP-18      WAISELAN - LATU              28-Jan-02        1.729.925      35.000       49.426
                                    DURIANPATAH - LAHA -

   68   MALUKU          EIP-38      PASS0 - TULEHU               25-Nov-02        2,297,175     42,500        54.051

         Sub-total                                                              26,024,973      311,170       83,636

 -
         NORTH          EIBR-       JEMBATAN PAKET I(6
   69   MALUKU            18        BRIDGES)                     25-May-04        1,359,359         385    3.530.802

         NORTH                      SP. DODINGA - AKELAMO -
                                    PAYAHE
   70   MALUKU          ~ 1 ~ - 4 7                              16-Dec-02        2.333370       36.030       64.776
         NORTH                      BOBONEIGO - EKOR -
 ' 71   MALUKU          EIB48       SUBAIM                       16-Dec-02        2.386.166 (    36.000       66.282
         NORTH
                                    KAO - PODIWANG
   72   MALUKU          ElP-19                                   30-Nov-01        1.051.577      31.000       33.922
         NORTH                      TOBELO - GALELA
   73   MALUKU          EIP-39                                   21-Nov-02          943.003      22.500       41.91 1

         Sub-total                                                                8,073,975     125,915


         NORTH
 -------                            MANADO - TUMPAAN
   74   SULAWESI        EIB-8                                    15-Apt-02        1.185.841      17.200       68.944
         NORTH
                                          - LIKUPANG
   75   SULAWESl        EIB9                                     15-Apr-02          942.746      15,970       59.032
         NORTH                      LIKUPANG - AIR TEMBAGA
   76   SULAWESI        EIBIO                                    15-Apt-02          904,509      12.000       75.376
         NORTH                      DOLODUO - MOLlBAGU
   77   SULAWESI        EIB-33                                   02-Dec-02          932,036      15.000       62,136

         NORTH                      KAIRAGI - AIRMADIDI;
                                    KAIRAG1
   78   SULAWESl        EIB34                                    02-Dec-02        1,022.516      13.600       75.185
         NORTH                      KAUDITAN - AIR TEMBAGA
   79   SULAWESI        EIB-35                                   10-Dec-02        1.889.105      16.000      118.069
         NORTH
                                    WORI - LIKUPANG

         NORTH




   83   SULAWESI          13        BRIDGES)                     16-Sep-04          748.791         200    3,743.954
         NORTH                      MOLIBAGU - MAMALIA
 8  4   SULAWESI        EIP-10                                   20-Dec-01          729.028      10.900       66.883
         NORTH                      MAMALIA - TALUDAA
   85   SULAWESl        EIp-11                                   20-D~c-01          732.852      22.000       33.31 1
         NORTH                      KAWANGKOAN -
   86 1 SULAWESl      I EIP-29    1 WOROTICAN                  I 12-Feb-02 I        681.796   1  15.000  1    45.453

         NORTH                      MANADO - TOMOHON:

   87                               MAN
        SULAWESl        E1P-30                - WOR1             02-Dec-02        1,905.496      37.700       50.544
         NORTH                      BIONTONG - ATlNGGOLA
   88   SULAWESl        E1P-48                                   29-Oct-04          842.179      25.135       33.506
         NORTH                      WOROTICAN - POlGAR -
   89   SULAWESl        ElP-49      KAIYA                        16-Sep-04        1.007.843      30,000       33,595
     I   Sub-total    I                                                      1  16,225,414    1 266,805 1     60,814  1

Annex 4. EIRTP




                       1          1
                                   POMAKO 11
100       PAPUA                                               15-Oct-02      1,377.203          170    8,101,192
    1                  1 EIBR-  I JEMBATANPAKETl(3          I            I            I            I
101       PAPUA           19       BRIDGES)                   25-Jun-04      1.297.766          130    9.982.814
                         EIBR-     JEMBATAN PAKET 11(2
102       PAPUA           20       BRIDGES)                   08-Sep-04      3.190.004          280    11,392,871
                         EIBR-     JEMBATAN PAKET 111(3




    (     Sub-total    I                                                 1  36,827,795   1  273,999  1   134,409
    I                  I        I                          I             I            I             I
    I                  I          I                         I            I               I          I
          SOUTH                I   SEI DANGU dan SE1
109     KALIMANTAN      EIBR-4     TATAKAN                    25-Mar-03        292,187           40    7.304.678
          SOUTH
                                   SEI ANGKINANG
110     KALIMANTAN         12                                 14-Apr-03        293.537           60    4.892.277

          SOUTH                    MARTAPURA - SP.EMPAT; SP
                                         -
111     KALIMANTAN       EIP-3                                 12-Jul-01       486,499       11,000       44.227
          SOUTH
                                   KP'            - KINTAB
112     KALIMANTAN       EIP-23                               12-Jun-03        726.287       19.950       36.405
          SOUTH
                                   HAMBAWANG -
113     KALIMANTAN      EIP-42B                               24-Dec-03      1,212.321       19.150       63.307
                                   LG. ANGGANG -
       1  SOUTH        I          IMARTAPURA; SP EMPAT -    I            I                1          I            1
114     KALIMANTAN       EIP-46    RANTAU                                                                 54.935
    I     Sub-total    I                                                    4,472,093   1   76,800   1    58,230

 Annex 4. EIRTP 1 List of Works Contract Packages                                                           Page 5 of 6
                              Package                                 Date of        Contract
             Province           No.            Package Name           Contract       Value US$       1 meters    USDlkm
1        1   .,.,"...
             Q ~ T I T U I              IMAJENE - TAMERODO - BCD  I                1              I            1          I
1----
  115       SULAWESI          EIB-13     MAJENEMAMUJU                                  2.093.726       32.030      65.368
1            SOUTH                       KAROSA - BARAS -

  116       SULAWESI          EIB-I4     pASANGKAyU                   27-Mar-02        2.150.674       26.550      81.005

             SOUTH          1            PAKAE - PANGKAJENE K -
  117       SULAWESI          EIB-15     BARRU                        02-Apt-02         1.837.986      24,250      75.793
                         I               MAROS - BCD. BONE BARAT:
i        I   SOUTH          I           IBCD. MAROS BARAT - U.      I           I                    1         I
  118       SULAWESl          EIB-41     LAMURU                       29-Nov-02        2,490.931       32.000      77.842
             SOUTH
                                         U'         - WATAMPONE
  119       SULAWESI          EIB-42                                  2 1-Feb-03        1.136.139       16.850     67.427

             SOlJTH                      BARAKANG - TOPOYO -
  120       SULAWESI          EIB-43     KAROSA                       29-Nov-02         1.726.027       27.000     63.927

!                                        TARUMPAKAE - BTS.LUWUK.
                                         BTS. WAJO - KM.325:
             SOUTH
                                         PANGKAJENE S - ANABANUA
  I21       SULAWESI          LIB-44                                  26-Mar-03         3.815.279       48.000     79.485
             SOUTH
                                         KAROSA-
  122       SULAWESI          EIB-61                                  30-Dec-04           688.407       15.000     45,894

I        I                               MAROS - BCD. BONE BARAT;
                                         U. LAMURU - WATAMPONE:
             SOUTH                       BCD. MAROS - U. LAMURU
1                           1
             SOUTH
  ;:;    1                               MAROS - BCD. BONE BARAT

             SOUTH                       BCD. MAROS - U. LAMURU:
            SULAWESI          EIB-76     WATAMPONE
                                               - -


             SOUTH                       S. RONDOMAYANG. CS
            SULAWESI          EIBR-I
 1        1                 1
             SOUTH             EIBR-     JEMBATAN PAKET 11(7

  127       SULAWESl             17      BRIDGES)
 I        I                 I
             SOUTH                       MAKALE - BCD. LUWU
            SULAWESI           EIP-15    SELATAN - PALOPO
                                                 - -


             SOUTH                       MAKALE - ENREKANG
            SULAWESI           EIP-35
 1        1  SOUTH          1            PASANGKAYU - SURUMANA
  130       SULAWESI           ElP-36

             SOUTH                       POLEWALI - MAJENE
  131       SULAWESI           EIP-37
 1        1                  1
             SOUTH                       WATAMPONE - PEL. BAJOE
  132       SULAWESI           LIP-44
          I  Sub-total       I
 I        I                  I

 I          SOUTHEAST                    RATE RATE - KOLAKA
  I33       SULAWESI           ElB-16                                 26-Mar-03         4.576.612       54,000      84.752

 '          SOUTHEAST                    S. RANTEANGM. S. LEMBO.
                                                                      02-Dec-02           604.744          190   3.182.862

            SOUTHEAST                    KOLAKA - WOLO
  135       SULAWESI           EIP-16                                 10-Dec-01         1.497.497       48,700      30.749

            SOUTHEAST                    KENDARI - UNAAHA
  136       SULAWESI           EIP-17                                 10-Dec-01         1.270.155       24.260      52.356
             Sub-total                                                                  7,949,008      127,150      62,517


            WEST 1RIA.N        EIB-      FAKFAK - K O ~ S
  137         JAYA              54A                                    18-Oct-04        1.698.259        7.750     219.130

            WEST IRlAN                   SORONG - KLAMONO
  138         JAYA             EIB-74                                  04-Jul-05        1.038.521       10.000     103,852
             Sub-total                                                                  2,736,779       17,750

 Annex 4. EIRTP 1 List of Works Contract Packages                                         Page 6 of 6
                                                                                                        I


                   Package                            Date of       Contract
       Province     No.            Package Name      Contract       Value US%        meters     USDlkm
I
        WEST               SEI DURI - SMGKAWANG
 139 KALIMANTAN    EIB-20                            24-Mar-03         1.135.043      15.430      73.561

                           PONTIANAK - TAYAN


        WEST               MEMPAWAH - SEI DURI: SEI
 141 KALIMANTAN     EIP-1  PENYUH - MEMPAWAH         0 I-Nov-01         978,463      35.000

        WEST               KM. 65 - ASAM BARU
1
---- EIP-O2B
 142 KALIMANTAN                                    ---6.500              626,316

        WEST               SIDAS - TANJUNG
 143 KALIMANTAN    EIP-21                            28-Nov-02           812.775      19.800

        WEST               TANJUNG - SANGGAU
 144 KALIMANTAN    EIP-45                            21-Apr-04           874.312      19.430

       Sub-total                                                       8,385,150     121,435


      WEST NUSA            REMPUNG - LB. LOMBOK
 145  TENGGARA      EIB-4                            22-Nov-01           635.614      11.300      56.249

      WEST NUSA            KOPANG - MASBAGIK
 146  TENGGARA     ElB-27                            15-Nov-02         1.082,015      15.160      71.373

      WEST NUSA            CAKRANEGARA - MANTANG
 147  TENGGARA     EIB-28                            15-Nov-02         1.703.504      22.680      75,110

      WEST NUSA            SUMBAWA BESAR - SP.

 148  TENGGARA     E1B-29  NEGARA                    05-Nov-02         1.400.020      19.430      72.055

      WEST NUSA            CAKRANEGARA - MANTANG
 149  TENGGARA     ElB-66                              18-Jul-05         704.016       5.380

      WEST NUSA            RABA - SAPE (LB. BAJO)
 150  TENGGARA      EIP-7                            10-Nov-01           862.818      20.000

      WEST NUSA            DOMPU - SlLA; BIMA -
 151  TENGGARA      EIP-8  TALABIU                   05-Dec-01           825.203      18.000

      WEST NUSA            BANGGO - DOMPU; TALABIU
 152  TENGGARA     EIP-24  - SILA;                   06-Nov-02           980.737      16.920      57.963

      WEST NUSA            TALIWANG - SP. NEGARA
 -------08-Nov-02
 153  TENGGARA     EIP-25                                                675,086      15,230      44.326

      WEST NUSA            PAL. IV - KM. 70
 154  TENGGARA     EIP-50                              15-Jul-05         763.282      12.000

       Sub-total                                                       9,632,295     156,100

    I Total Works I                                               1 222,922,339   12,821,120  1   79,019  1

Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the
analysis)

1. Overview
At the time of project completion, the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and Net Present
Value (NPV) for the Project overall were re-estimated following closely as possible the
methodology used at the time of Project appraisal, which was based on the approach
embodied in the Economic Review Module (ERM) which is part of the Indonesian
Integrated Road Management System (IIRMS). The IIRMSIERM model utilizes standard
methods of comparing the "with" and "without"project cases, based on various input
data related to traffic, user costs, and investments costs.

The output from the Economic Review Module (ERM) provides information on the Net
Present Values (NPV) of any works other than routine maintenance based on estimates of
the road condition, traffic and defined treatments. Routine maintenance is assumed on all
roads as the 'without' case and is assigned a zero NPV. The lifetime of betterment works
is assumed to be 10years, and 5 years for periodic maintenance. IIRMS assumes that
economic costs are 0.85 of the financial costs. The supervision costs were not included in
the sub-project analyses but were included in the overall project analysis, as described
below. The costs of technical assistance and other activities were included as separate
cash flows to derive the total cash flow on which the overall economic analysis is carried
out.

The ex-post ERR and NPV for the project overall were calculated to be 41 percent
and US$623 million, respectively, exceedingthe estimates made at the time of
appraisal of 31.5 percent and US$417 million.The main factor influencing the
increased ERR and NPV at completion were higher levels of traffic growth on the project
roads than estimated at appraisal (around 15-20% higher) and lower than expected unit
costs for civil works (around 10-15%lower).

Two types of works were supported under the project, betterment and periodic
maintenance. Thus, a separate calculation was made at completion of the ERR and unit
costs for each type. The re-estimated ERR for all periodic maintenance sub-projects was
calculated to be 70 percent with a unit cost of about US$45,285/km equivalent For
betterment works, the ERR was re-estimated to be 51 percent with unit costs of about
US$85,596/km equivalent. The ERR for both types of works are higher than estimated at
appraisal, while the unit costs on average were lower.

1.1. General overview of sub-projects
At the time of appraisal, the sub-projects to be included in the first year work program, as
well as indicative lists of sub-projects for the second and third year work programs, were
prepared based on the Strategic Expenditures Planning Module (SEPM) of the IIRMS.
The appraisal analysis which took place in 2001 identified the most urgent needs and
took account of the proposals made by the provinces. At Pre-appraisal the Bank and
Government agreed on a list of sub-projects, 62 percent of which were in the optimum
IIRMSISEPM program defined at a budget constraint of IDR 580 Billion for National

roads in Eastern Indonesia. The defined works (periodic or betterment) included about
two thirds of the selected sub-projects on the IIRMSISEPM list of most needy projects.

Due to the programmatic nature of the project, at the time of appraisal only an indicative
list of sub-projects to be financed under the project under the second and third years
works programs had been identified. At completion, an analysis was made of the actual
sub-projectsimplemented against the indicative list prepared at appraisal. This analysis
found that the size of the civil works program actually implemented was larger than that
prepared at appraisal by some 20% in terms of length (km) and 10%higher in numbers.
It was also found that around 20% of the sub-projects originally envisioned at appraisal
were never implemented in favor of others selected based on a subsequent annual
screening/programmingprocess which including an analysis of their likely economic
returns.

The results of the above adjustments to the annual work programs for the second and
third year was found to have had an overall positive impact on the ERR and NPV at
completion, as the revised work programs typically included sub-projects with higher
rates of return. At completion, only three sub-projects (out of 128 implemented) had an
ex-post ERR below 12%,representing less than one percent of the total road investment
length (85 km out of 2,763 km).

1.2. Project Benefits
At project appraisal, the main benefits of the project were expected to be (i) lower freight
and passenger transport costs, and the reduction of transport bottlenecks; (ii) improved
access to health and education services for communities (iii) improved transport services
in Eastern Indonesia with significant impact on the poor; (iv) improved physical
environment along project roads, and improved attention to environmental and social
impacts of road works; (v) improved shoulders, planting, drainage, and accident
blackspots; and (iv) more effective management and sustainable maintenance of national
and strategic roads, including better utilization of existing traffic capacity, improved
value-for-money of public spending on roads, and better connectivity of population, and
economic and social activities to the road network.

At project completion, no formal social assessment or community impact analysis was
done, so most of the expected project benefits envisioned at appraisal could not be
assessed. However, an informal interview process was undertaken as part of the ICR
preparation in order to partially assess the social and economic impacts of the Project.
The results of the interview process are presented in Annex 8.

An economic analysis, which measures the net economic benefit and net present value of
Project investments, was undertaken for the road and bridge works carried out under the
Project. The results are presented below.

The benefits from the quality of life improvements and those from the institutional
strengthening were not considered.

2. Approach for economic appraisal


2.1. General Assumptions

All of the sub-projects were on the National road network or on strategic roads identified
to be upgraded to national roads as part of the 5-year investmentplan of the Ministry of
Public Works. The economic assumptionsmade at appraisal were based on the IIRMS
model as it was in operation in 2001 at the time of project preparation.

2.2. Works Definition
There were three types of investments considered as possible option under the project: (i)
Betterment, defined as minor widening, pavement and drainage improvement, addition of
shoulders, etc.; (ii) Periodic maintenance, defined as pavement overlays and
strengtheningmeasure applied within the existing road right of way; and (iii) bridge
replacement or upgrading.

2.3. Pre-Project Condition and Status

2.3.1.Roughness andRoad Geometry
Road roughness values used for the economic analysis are taken from the IIRMS using
2000 data for appraisal and 2003 data (the latest available in the system) for post-
appraisal analysis. Where the sub-project was implemented after 2003 and the recorded
IRI was higher than in 2000, the higher figures were used. IRI was estimated taking
account of the survey year and the link sectionsbeing implemented.


2.3.2. Traffic data
The IIRMS database shows considerable variation for traffic on individual links. An
analysis of reported traffic levels on links implemented under EIRTP 1 shows an average
increase of around 60 percent from 2000 to 2003. Observations on a field visit to
Maluku and Manokwari (Irian Jaya Barat) suggest that traffic has significantly increased
since 2000 when Indonesia was still affected by the financial crisis. For the analysis
performed for purposes of this report, the 2000 IIRMS data were used as the base case.

2.3.3. Assessment of Project Category
The sub-projects were allocated to project categoriesbased on the 2000 traffic levels and
road geometry. Designs often incorporated several types of work and the resulting
'composite'project was sometimes difficult to classify--oftenincluding betterment and
upgrading along the same road section. AADT and road width are the main criteria for
classifying sub-projects into groups and unit cost was also used to help define widening
projects.

2.3.4. Category ERM analysis
One link from each category was subjected to an ERM analysis assuming a low IRI of
6.0 and high IRI of 10.0to obtain cash flow data for these assumptions at the average
traffic level for the category. It was assumed that the relationship is linear for roughness,
but within the ranges defined by the category the error is small. Also the roughness
progression is not influencedby traffic level within the category limits. Agency costs

were adjusted by the length of road and investment costs scaled to reflect the actual costs
at implementation discounted back to 2001 prices.

2.4. The Bridge Works program, the Accident Blackspot component and the design
and supervision costs.

        All bridge sub-projects were analyzed prior to implementation using the Bridge
        Management System (BMS). This analysis required detailed information
        concerning the bridge condition, its location and alternative routes. As this data
        was not available at project completion, no re-evaluation was done.
        The Accident Blackspot component was not implemented and not part of the
        analysis.
        Design and supervision costs have been excluded from the sub-project analyses
        so the actual costs of design and supervision have been estimated for inclusion in
        the overall Project analysis.

2.5. Overall Project Appraisal
Having determined the component cash flows, the cash flows for each year have been
aggregated discounting costs to constant 2001 prices. The Net cash flow has been
determined for all components and this has been used to estimate the overall project
Economic Rate of Return and Net Present Value.

3. Works Category and Sub-project Analysis

3.1. First Annual Work Program
The appraisal was based on the sub-projects defined for the first Annual Work Program
(AWP). The analysis was based on the defined categories and the resultant cash flows
adjusted to give the same ERR as defined in the PAD (base case). The changes in costs at
design and revised traffic data were then applied to the same models to assess the
magnitude of changes resulting from the revised data. Table 1 shows the results of this
comparative analysis.

Table 1 ComparativeAnalysis of Appraisal assumptions,actual implementationcosts and
post project AADT. (Cost Million IDR/km)
                        PAD      PAD    PAD                        Post       Post
 Project   Province                               Imp     Imp
                        cost/km  AADT   ERR       cost/km ERR      AADT       ERR
           East
 EIB-O a
      '
           Kalimantan   1276     405    28%       1010    48%      477        56%
           East
 E1B-02a
           Kalimantan   1000     370    32%       789     44%      455        46%

 EIB-03a   Ebantm
                        1227     310    26%       1043    42%      757        83%

 EIB-05.   2N:z         605      2175   53%       574     55%      13974      293%
           East Nusa
 E1B-06a
           Tenggam      562      752    60%       594     57%      3018       195%
           East
 EIB-07a
           Tenggam      596      549    29%       943     21%      1130       34%
           North
 E1B-08a
           ~u~awesi     610      10905  155%      607     155%     11375      155%
           North
 E1B-09a
           ~ulawesi     627      148    19%       519     23%      407        56%

                                                                                    ~
                         Cost/km AADT    ERR      cost/km   ERR    AADT
                                                 I
           North
     Oa
            ~ulawesi     848     465     16%      661       15%    465       19%
 EIB-1la   Gorontalo     847     300     16%       678      20%    757       39%

 EIB-12,   ~EE:~~
                         585     752     23%       585      23%    2480      50%
            South
            ~ulawesi     563     543     32%      542       33%    944       50%
            South
 E1B-14a
           ~ulawesi      709     168     22%      674       33%    420       50%




   The table shows that generally unit costs were reduced after detailed design and that
   this reduction increased the assessed Economic Rate of Return (ERR).
    200315 traffic data shows considerable increases of about 60 percent in traffic level
   between 2000 and 2003. If these levels are discounted back to pre-project time (2000)
    the resulting ERR is again significantlyincreased on average by about 50 percent
    over appraisal.
   These significant increases in recorded traffic raise questions about the validity of the
    data or the traffic growth rate assumptions.The traffic levels recorded in the 2005
    database are similar on average to those in 2003 but individual link data often varies
    significantly,both up and down. Given the significant differences in ERR due to
    traffic, all comparisons have been made with both 2000 and 2003 traffic assumptions.



3.2. Post Project Analysis (2003 data)
As is expected, increasing the traffic levels significantly increases the Economic Rate of
Return (ERR). If the 2003 data for traffic adjusted back to 2001 year is used the ERR of
periodic maintenance sub-projectsrises from 37 percent to 94 percent and the ERR for
betterment sub-projectsrises from 47 percent to 71percent. It is noticeable that some of
the changes in traffic between levels at 2000, and in 2003 and 2005 are negative. Some
sub-projects which were viable using 2000 traffic data are found to be non-viable using
lower traffic levels at 2003.

4. Analysis of Road Network Preservationcomponent

4.1. Executed Sub-projects

4.1. Executed Sub-projects
The sub-projects in each year are shown in Table 2 together with the resulting estimated
costs at 2001 constant prices, and average statistics relating to the work. The first and
second AWP had higher returns because they had been selected on the basis of higher
viability. It is noticeable that the higher returns are associated with higher average traffic
levels.

                                      Table 2. Analysisby Work Type




Note: This table is for a sample of 128sub-projects out of a total of 152sub-projects


The rate of return on all sub-projects (excluding supervision and design) is estimated at
about 43 percent.

4.1.1. Periodic maintenance sub-projects
The average c o s t h was IDR 3 2 7 M i l h (about US$36,300h equivalent),the ERR
was 37 percent.

4.1.2. Betterment Sub-projects
The average cost/kmwas IDR 5 5 6 M i l k (about US$61,800km equivalent), the ERR
was 43 percent.

4.2. Distributionof Economic Rates of Return
Table 3 shows the distribution of ERR for all sub-projects when considering2000 data
and 2003 data together with the numbers of sub-projects and estimated total costs of
works in each band.

                           Table 3. Distribution of sub-projectsby ERR band
                        All Projects (2001 traffic data)               All Projects (2003 traffic data)

     ERR            No.       Cost      Length      Costlkm        No.      Cost      Length      Costlkm
1  Range           Proj      Rp.M        (km)        (Rp.M)        Proj     Rp.M        (km)      (Rp.M)     1

The table shows that if 2003 traffic data is assumed the number of sub-projects below 12
percent increased despite the generally higher traffic levels. This is because some traffic
levels associated with viable sub-projects fell in the 2003 data.



4.3. Distribution of sub-projects by Province
The sub-projects were analyzed by Province to examine the specific characteristics of the
sub-projects implemented.



4.3.1. Periodic maintenance sub-projects
The breakdown by Province for periodic maintenance sub-projects is shown in Table 6.
The highest returns were found in West Kalimantan (Kalbar) and Bali where periodic
maintenance was done on high traffic roads (2000 data) and South Sulawesi (Sulsel). If
2003 traffic levels are assumed, only Irian Jaya, Maluku and NTB have low returns from
maintenance. This reflects the generally lower traffic levels in these provinces.

          Table 6. Sumrnarvof ~eriodicmaintenance sub-~roiectsbv Province.
                            <    A                          L   d

      lhalysisbyPrownceMaintenancz                     1  2000 data    1   2003 data




4.3.2. Betterment sub-projects
The breakdown by province for betterment sub-projects is shown in Table 7. The highest
returns were found in West Nusa Tenggara (NTB) and Bali where traffic levels were
above AADT 3000. The provinces with average IRI greater than 10 are associated with
category 1,2 and 3 sub-projects which have generally lower returns but higher roughness
on unpaved or low standard roads. If 2003 adjusted traffic levels are assumed all returns
are significantly increased. This demonstrates the importance of having reliable data if
IIRMS or any other pavement modeling program (HDM-4). Small changes in the
assumptions relating to traffic can have significant effects on viability. Similarly small
changes in the average roughness assumed can greatly influence viability.

                Table 7. Summary of Betterment sub-projectsby Province.




4.4. Evaluationof Sub-Projectswith low ERR
Table 8 demonstrates the key characteristics of sub-projects identified with low ERR.
Care must be taken in analyzing individual sub-projects because pre-project conditions
and traffic were not measured data but were estimated from IIRMS data. Actual
conditions may have been different. The analysis is however useful to determine what
characteristicsmake sub-projects less viable.

        Tal~ l8.
              e Project characteristicsof sub-projects.(2000 datatop - 2003 data bottol




The top part of the table shows sub-projects found to have low ERR using 2000 data. It
can be seen that all have low traffic and relatively high costs compared with the average
for the type of work. The table includes the traffic data for the analysis assumptions in
the main table and that for the alternative year in the right-most column. This shows
typical increases from 2000 to 2003 for individual sub-projects.The bottom part shows
sub-projects found to be viable using 2000 data but which have low ERR using 2003
traffic assumptions. In all cases the traffic is significantly lower in 2003 and this
emphasizes the importance of reliable data on traffic and roughness.

5. Bridges



No new bridge analysis was undertaken due to the lack of sufficient data concerningthe
pre-construction situation to use the Bridge Management System (BMS). The analyses
carried out under the EIRTP 1Project are used to estimate returns from bridges. Table 9
shows a summary of Bridge analyses carried out for the preliminary evaluation of AWP2
and preparation studies for AWP3.




The results suggest that most bridges are viable even when traffic levels are low. It is
considered that the very high values of ERR are questionablebut without information on
the pre-project assumptions no revisions can be made. To allow bridges to be assessed in
the analysis an average ERR range from 20 to 100percent will be assumed. A
representative cash flow has been derived to allow the assumed rate to be tested.



6. Basic Analysis for Whole Project

6.1. Cash Flows

        Annual Cash Flows have been identified for all components considering the
        separate Annual Work Programs as described below.
       All cash flows are derived as constant 2001 economic costs. IIRMS assumes an
        economic cost equivalent to 0.85 of the financial cost.
       The constant 2001 values were obtained by discounting actual implementation
        costs by factors depending on the year of work based on inflation data.

6.1.1. Road Improvement
The costs of construction are costs at 2001 constant economic costs excluding
supervision costs. The factors used to discount actual costs back to 2001 prices are based
on annual inflation statistics for construction as reported by BPS (National Statistical
Agency).

6.1.2. Bridge Works
       Assumed Cost/ benefit Net Cash Flow stream.
       A representative cash flow has been derived to allow the assumed ERR rate to be
       tested based on a unit cost.
        Actual implementation costs are scaled by the same discount factors defined in
        Table 11and these are used to define the cash flow using the representative cash
        flow stream.
        An average Economic Rate of Return of 20 percent is assumed for the base case.


6.1.3. Design, Supervision and Management Costs
The costs of design, Supervision, Regional Teams and Project Management have been
included in the analysis. The cost of the Core Team Consultant has not been included in
the base case. The resources allocated to these components in the Project are summarized
in Table 10.The equivalent Indonesia Rupiah values at 2001 prices is estimated to be
about IDR 191billion based on an exchange rate of IDR 10,00O/US$.Since all road
benefits are derived from Road User Costs and largely relate to Vehicle Operating Costs,
all benefits reflect the estimation of costs at the 2001 exchange rate.

                          Tablem                             n Costs
                                 Gomponent            US$m.
                                 Desianlsus           11.37
                                 Reuionteam            3.44
                                 proiect Man           0.78
                                 Total Sua            15.59
                                 Phvsicalcord          1.56




The supervision costs are mostly disbursed under a contract system which assumes a
constant annual cost. To discount the expenditures back to 2001 prices a cost factor was
applied.




6.2. Base Case Analysis

The base case analysis assumes the 2001 estimated traffic levels and the average bridge
return is estimated at 20 percent. Table 11 shows a summary of the main cash flows for
the first 5 years of the Project during the implementation period. The table shows the
investment costs during the four Annual Works Programs relating to Roads, Bridges and
Supervision. The total investment costs are also shown. The total benefit streams are
shown by AWP year for Roads and Bridges separately. TheNet Cash Flow from which
the Project Economic Rate of Return (ERR), Net Present Value (NPV) and Benefit Cost
ratio are derived is also shown.

                Table 11 Summary of cash flows during implementation period.




6.3. Sensitivity Analysis
Table 12 summarizes the result of sensitivity tests.

                            Table 12.Results of Sensitivity tests.




6.3.1. Traffic Assumptions
       If the traffic level is increased the road user benefits rise proportionally. Some
       changes in the deterioration might be expected with high traffic roads which
       would reduce the increases but this effect would not be significant.

        It can be seen that changing the traffic raises the ERR to 46.8 percent at 20
        percent higher levels and to 52.9 percent at 40 percent increase in level. The latter
        corresponds to the estimated 2003 traffic data adjusted for growth from 2000.
        A drop in the assumed traffic level by 25 percent reduced the ERR to 34.3
        percent.
        The return is highly sensitive to traffic assumptions.

6.3.2. Bridge Assumptions
        The base case assumes bridge average rates of return of only 20 percent. If the
        returns for bridges are raised to 40 and 60 percent, the ERR correspondingly
        increases to 42.2 percent and 43.8 percent respectively.
        If bridges are left out of the analysis the return rises slightly over the base case to
        42.4 percent. This is because the base case assumes a rate less than the overall
        ERR.
        The bridge component has only a marginal affect since it has a relatively small
        value compared to the road investment costs.

6.3.3. Supervision Assumptions
        The financial costs of the supervision are fixed but the assumptions about
        deflation can be tested.
        If no deflation and exchange rate fluctuation is assumed then the ERR increases
        marginally.
        If the supervision is not included in the analysis the ERR rises to 44.7 percent.
        If the core team is included in the analysis as part of supervision, the ERR drops
        marginally to 40 percent. The ERR is relatively insensitive to supervision costs.

6.3.4. Caveats
There are several caveats to keep in mind with respect to both the economic analysis at
appraisal and at completion. First, while an effort was made during project preparation to
ensure the quality of the data in the IIRMS as part of preparation efforts (in particular, to
update the user costs input data), the robustness the data at project completion was
subject to only a partial review and the quality of both the road condition and traffic data
in the IIRMS system has been an on-going concern of both the Bank and Government.
Secondly, in order to estimate the ERR for particular sub-projects, the IIRMSIERM
model must project road condition at both the time of investment (if the data is not
current) and in the "without-project"case for 10or 5 years forward. The results of the
ERR calculation are thus highly sensitive to both the accuracy of the input data and the
ability of the ERM to project future road condition. As with all predictive models,
concerns have been raised as to the accuracy of the ERM model and further
improvements and regular updating of the input data of the IIRMS is needed to ensure its
accuracy.

Annex 6. Bank Lending and ImplementationSupportISupervisionProcesses

(a) Task Team members


        Names                  Title               Unit

Lending
                      Financial Management
Novira Kusdarti Asra Specialist              EAPCO        Financial Management

Robin C. Carruthers    Consultant                         Quality Assurance

                       Sector Manager, Social
Maninder S. Gill       Develop               ECSSD        Quality Assurance

                       Lead Transport
Hatim M. Hajj                                EASTR        Task Team Leader
                       Specialist

David Michael Hawes Consultant               EASTR        Economist

Karin I. Nordlander    Consultant            LEGEA        Legal

                       Lead Infrastructure
William D. 0 . PatersonSpecialist            EASTR        Engineer

Yogana Prasta          Sr DisbursementOff.   EACIF        Disbursements

Isono Sadoko           E T Consultant        EASRD        Social Safeguards

Claude Isaac Salem     Sr Projects Officer   WBIVP        Quality Assurance

Robert Scouller        Consultant            EASPR        Road Engineer

Jacques M. Tollie      Consultant            EASTR        Quality Assurance

Thomas E. Walton       Consultant             AFTSl       Environment

Farida Zaituni         Operations Analyst     EASEN       Environment

Supervision/ICR
                       Financial Management
Novira Kusdarti Asra Specialist               EAPCO       Financial Management

                                                          Road Management
ChristopherR. Bennett Sr Transport. Spec.     EASTR
                                                          Systems

Steven Charles         Senior Social
                                              EASSD       Governance
Burgess                Development Spec
Sally L. Burningham    Sr Transport. Spec.    EASTR       Task Team Leader

IndiraDharmapatni      Sr Operations Off.     EASUR       Social Safeguards

Alain M. Dube          Sr Transport. Spec.    EASTR       Transport Engineer

Mesra Eza              E T Consultant         EASTR       Road Engineer

                       Lead Transport                     Task Team Leader-to
Hatim M. Hajj                                 EASTR
                       Specialist                         2/06

Jerry A. Lebo          Sr Transport. Spec.    EASTR       Economics

Angus Mackay           Consultant             EASEN        Environment

 Sulistiowati
                       Urban Specialist       EASSD        Social Safeguards
Nainggolan
                       Lead Procurement
Imad Saleh                                    EAPCO        Procurement
                       Specialist
 Robert Scouller       Consultant             EASPR        Road Engineer-to 1/06

(b) Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
      Datc ISR                                                     Actual Disbursements
 No.                                                 IP
      Archived                                                          (USD M)
1     06/27/2002   Satisfactory             Satisfactory                          15.50
2     1111512002   Satisfactory             Satisfactory                          35.14
3     06/30/2003   Satisfactory             Satisfactory                          51.86
4     1211212003   Satisfactory             Satisfactory                          78.14
5     04/20/2004   Satisfactory             Satisfactory                         115.75
6     11/05/2004   Satisfactory             Satisfactory                         128.52
7     0611312005   Satisfactory             Satisfactory                         149.70
8     03/21/2006   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory               168.81
(c) Staff Time and Cost
                                               Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

            Stage of Project C>,clc                                  US11 'I'housands
                                                No. of staff weeks (including travel and
                                                                     consultant costs)

Lending
                    FY97
                    FY98
                    FY99
                    FYOO
                    FYOl
                    FY02
                    FY03
                    FY04
                    FY05
                    FY06
                    FY07
                                       Total:

SupervisionIICR
                    FY97
                    FY98
                    FY99
                    FYOO
                    FYO1
                    FY02
                    FY03
                    FY04
                    FY05
                    FY06
                    FY07
                                       Total:



                                           59

Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and BorrowerPerformance


        Bank                   Ratings        Borrower             Ratings

Ensuring QualitY at    Satisfactory      Government:       Satisfactory
Entry:
                                         Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                       Satisfactory
                                         AgencyIAgencies:

OverallBank                              OverallBorrower   Satisfactory
                        Satisfactory
Performance:                             Performance:

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)



The EIRTP 1project did not include any formal beneficiary survey. During preparation
of this Completion Report, Bank staff conducted informal interviews during a site visit to
Nusa Tenggara Timur (NTT) and Bali provinces in November 2006. These
visits/interviews were conducted as part of a Transport Sector mission. As detailed in
Annex 4, the Bank has financed several sub-projects in these provinces. The sub-project
roads in NTT connect the two of the province's biggest districts, while those in Bali are
critical freight links for freight transportation. Generally the social and economic impacts
are:

        Better accessfor commodity distribution. Sub-projectroads connect three big
        seaports within a 50 krn radius in NTT; Tenau Seaport in Kupang, Wini Seaport
        in Kefamenau, and Atapupu Seaport in Atambua. On a recent site visit, several
        trucks were observed ferrying commodities along sub-project roads.
        Linking communities,families and countries. EIRTP 1 sub-project roads in NTT
        also connect Dili, the capital city of Timor Leste to Oecussi district, and the
        western part of Timor Leste. Goods traded between the two countries (Indonesia
         and Timor Leste) are distributed via project roads. Border police report that the
        number of people passing the border from Dili to Atambua has increased to
         around 100persons per day.
        Reducing travel time and cost of travel/vehicle maintenance. Bapak David, driver
        of a rental car travels frequently between Kupang and Atambua, a distance of
        about 300 km. Due to the sub-projects,his travel time has been more than halved
         as he can now travel over 60 km/hrinstead of 30 kmlhr, and is also able to save
         about 5 liters of petrol per trip. He also enjoys reduced maintenance costs as his
        tires do not wear out as quickly as before.
        Increasing access and mobility options. A small restaurant owner mentioned that
        before road improvements, well-off people preferred to travel by air between
        Kupang and Atambua, however the service is offered only twice a week. Now
         that the road has been improved, people have a choice to travel by road between
        Kupang and Atambua. Indeed, road travel is the choice of many in the local
         communities as it offers one the flexibility of traveling as frequently as one would
         like, and offers access to the less affluent.
        Providingjob opportunities. The EIRTP 1 sub-projectshave enabled local people
        to generate income as the sub-projectshave utilized local labor. Around 300 local
        people were employed for one sub-project and earned about IDR 30,00O/day
        (approximately US$3.30/day), which is the minimum wage. In addition, one
         contractor also employed another 30 local staff at his base camp, where he also
        provided them with free housing and food.
        Small/micro business development. Along the sub-project roads it was observed
        that several kiosks have emerged. In addition, the increased number of cars,
        trucks and motorcycles means an increased demand for maintenance services.
        This has provided an opportunity for the development of micro business

       enterprises--individuals sell consumables while others have opened repair shops
       along sub-project roads.

The improvement of the road has not been followedby the enhancement of other public
services and infrastructure. Along the road it is easy to find houses without electricity, for
example in Maubesi village or in villages along Kefamenau to Soe. This might be
because people lack income to pay for the cost of electricity or could be due to the
inexistence of electricity service in those areas.

The benefit of the road improvement is also not enjoyed by all people in NTT. Some of
them prefer to walk although the distance is far, including students. Although the cost of
public transportation is fairly inexpensive at IDR 1,000(about US$O.10) for students or
IDR 2,000 (about US$0.20) for others, many can still not afford it due to lack of income.
The Bupati of Kefamenau mentioned that he has invited private investors to work out a
cooperative program to provide public transportation along the Atambua--Motoainroad.




Specific examples highlighting benefits of the road sub-proiects:
EIB 69 and EIB 6Atambua       - Motoain, NTT

       A few traders were interviewed at the Motoain border post. They transport foam
       by bemo for export to Dili, Timor Leste. These traders use the local road so the
       impact of the sub-projects on national roads has been negligible for this group.
       Their travel costs and travel time remain the same. It costs them IDR 100,000
        (about US$11.10) to reserve a bemo for their travel and goods transport. Though
       the condition of the local road (Atambua-Motoain)is much worse than the newly
       upgraded EIRTP 1 connection, the traders prefer this route as it is cheaper for
       them--the cost of bemo transport along the EIRTP 1project (EIB 6) would be
        IDR 150,000 (about US$16.70). The traders as well as their neighbors (the local
        community) are happy with the sidewalk that was constructed as part of the
       project as there was none before. Though they report no safety concerns prior to
        construction of the sidewalk, they perceive the roadway to be safer and have
       noticed that vehicles slow down. Since these traders do not use the EIB-6 road,
       they feel that the direct impact is little to none. Their biggest concern for the
        community was the lack of water and electricity. The border post guards' office is
       powered by generator, the only one in the village. The nearest electrified town is
        Silawan, about 5 km away.
       Pak Rudi together with his wife Ibu Ratinem are originally from Central Java, but
       have moved to Atambua due to the difficulty of findingjobs in Java. They run a
        small food kiosk in Motoain, in front of the border police post. The kiosk was
       opened 15years after they moved and has been open for the past 3 years. They
       generate about IDR 400,000 (about US$44.40) per day from the kiosk. Pak Rudi
        goes to Atambua by motorcycle, where he is able to buy vegetables, rice, and
       other food products for his family's consumption. He has benefited plenty from
       the road improvement; according to him, the road is not dusty anymore and as

      such he does not need to treat his motorcycle as often. In addition, due to
      increased border crossings, there are now more customers at the kiosk.

EIB 64Lakafehan -Keliting, NTT

      Maukita market: Local residents walk along the sub-project road to market. They
      go to Atambua by bus at a cost of IDR 7,500 (about US$0.85); by motorcycle the
      cost would be IDR 15,000(about US$1.70), so most people use bus. It takes
      about half an hour to travel the 30 km. These villagers have noticed a direct
      benefit of the roadway as the travel time prior to the project was about an hour.
      They are not concerned about safety (though a public works official reported that
      there were crashes after project completion due to speeding). Before road
      rehabilitation bus availabilitywas uncertain, so they were unable to make a
      roundtrip to Atambua within the same day--now they can--due to road
       improvements, bus service is now more regular and reliable. No problems were
      noted for the project. Some of the villagers also benefited directly in the form of
       employment.The villagers at this location also expressed that their district needs
       water and electricity.
       Local road at Manamas: An elderly lady, six children, three of whom are married
      the remaining three are still with her. One of the married daughters lives in Timor
      Leste, but comes to visit regularly with her family. They travel on foot to the
      border at Wini where they pay a border crossing fee of IDR 300,000 (about
       US$33.30) and continue on foot to Manamas--this trip takes about four hours.
      Two of the unmarried children live in Surabaya--one works there and the other is
      in university studying veterinary medicine. They last visited 5 years ago. Her
      youngest child, seventeen year old Angela, lives with her but goes to school in
      Kefamanau. Angela's mother rents a room for her with a local family in
       Kefamanau. The trip by small bus to Kefamanau costs IDR 10,000(about
       US$l.10)each way and is about 1hour. This is Angela's last year in high school;
       she wants to continue to university to study law. Angela's mother has a farm
       where she grows rice and other vegetables--she sells these at market in
       Kefamanau once a week.

EIB 26 Mengwitani - Singaraja, Bali

       Sri lives in hotel worker residences near Pucang Asri Hotel. Shehas been
       working at the hotel for 9 years. Her husband also works at the hotel. They have
      two sons. Sri's parents live in Denpassar so she travels there to see them about
      once a week. She makes this trip by motorcycle, it takes about one hour. Sri
      observes that her ride quality and comforthave improved since the EIRTP project
      was completed. Sri has not noticed any changes at the hotel and believes that the
      road project has had no influence on hotel operations. She has also not noticed
      any negative impacts. Sri goes to market by motorcycle--it is about 2 km north of
      her home. One of her neighbors has two daughters in 2ndand 6thgrades who walk
      to school about 10minutes along the roadway (there are no sidewalks). The
      parents are concerned about their children's safety--many children from the

neighborhood walk to school. There is truck traffic during the day, and they
estimate seeing about 5 trucks every ten minutes. There are also several tourist
buses. They rarely cross the road since they are concerned about safety (there is
also little development on the east side of the road). One neighbor visits relatives
in Singaraja every fortnight, the trip is about 1hour by motorcycle. This neighbor
feels that the road is much safer for him on his motorcycle since the Project
included road widening from 6 m to 7 m.

Annex 9. StakeholderWorkshop Report andResults (if any)

Not applicable.

Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Commentson Draft ICR

                                                Document of
                                         Ministry of Public Works
                                     Directorate General of Highways
                     BORROWER'S PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT (PCR)
                     EASTERN INDONESIAREGION TRANSPORT PROJECT
                                               JUNE 30,2006

                                         Executive Summary

Project Background
In October 2000 the Bank and GO1decided to accelerate preparation of part of the proposed Eastern
Indonesia Regional Road Project (covering all road networks in Eastern Indonesia) so that procurement of
the preservation of National roads and certain strategic roads (environmentalcategory B) could be
processed quickly as a first Eastern Indonesia Region Transport Project. The TOR for preparation was
oriented towards strengthening regional planning and decentralization, integrated spatial and network
planning of National, Provincial and Kabupaten roads including other transport modes using so-called
integrativeplanning tools, as well as regional development and community empowerment,namely towards
what later became the Second Eastern Indonesia Region Transport Project. Four Directorates General in
the Ministry of Settlements and Regional Development handled different classes of roads, and borrowing
arrangements were not in place for other than National roads, so the choice of National and strategic roads
for the scope of EIRTP 1was expedient. Preparation services EIRTPA were completed at the consultant's
expense in March 2002 after the GO1budget financed by three Japanese Trust Funds expired on December
31, 2001.


The key agency responsible for preparing and implementing the Project, the Directorate General of
Regional Infrastructure Development (DGRID or DGRI) within the Ministry of Settlements and Regional
Infrastructure (MSRI) was renamed and restructured in 2004 as the Directorate General of Highways
(DGH) within the Ministry of Public Works (MPW). Unless they need to be distinguished,DGRIDIDGRI
and DGH are termed DGH herein.


Brief Description of the Project
Loan 4643-IND was negotiated on November 7-8,2001 and signed on January 22,2002. The loan became
effective on March 27,2002 and closed on June 30,2006.


The Project improved National roads and a few Provincial roads in all 15provinces of Eastern Indonesia.
Although the loan became effective in March 2002, contract packages from Annual Work Plan I (AWP-1)
began from October 2001 with financing of advance payments (about US$4 m) partly from the Second
Highway Sector loan (IBRD 3712-IND)which closed on December 31,2001. Loan 4643-IND was
modified on August 11,2005 mainly to reallocate funds to civil works.


EIRTP 1continued the preparation of the EIRTP 2 Project begun under EIRTPA, focusing on Provincial
and Kabupaten roads and National roads in Kota in most of the EIR Provinces. Loan 4744-IND became
effective on October 21,2004but procurement of SupervisionConsultants was delayed. While awaiting
procurement, SupervisionConsultants under EIRTP 1 were engaged for Interim Supervisionof EIRTP 2
civil works, financed by EIRTP 1.

Project Component 1: Civil Works and Accident Blackspots

Component la valued at US$ million net of tax(2 percent less than the PAD estimate) included periodic
maintenance and betterment of roads and bridge replacement, comprising 145 contracts on National roads
and 7 contracts on Provincial roads (i.e. other strategic roads). The first works began in October 2001 and
the last began in October 2005, grouped into three Annual Works Programs (AWP), where each AWP
included two or three batches. The program comprisedperiodic maintenance of 1,078.3 Km worth

US$45.88 million (net of taxes), betterment of 1,761.4 Km worth US$136.83 million, and 4,574 meters of
bridge replacement worth US$25.51 million, most procured in multi-year contracts. Bridge replacement
included steel trusses worth US$7.58 million for installation by contractors.


A small Component lb covering treatment of accident blackspots was not included in the Project, as the
related implementation support services were not procured.

Project Component 2: Implementation Support

Component 2 valued at US$ million net of tax (1lpercent less than the PAD estimate including
contingencies) covered consulting services and a small amount of equipment required to support
implementation of the Project. It included provision of funds for incremental operating costs for the Project
Management Unit (PMU) and DGH.


Core Team Consultants (CTC). One team provided technical assistance for the Project Management Unit
(PMU) and DGH in managing EIRTP 1, and to continue preparation of EIRTP 2.40 percent of the cost of
services of US$4.38 million was used to prepare EIRTP 2, increasing the cost to 10percent over the
original contract value, or 1 percent under the PAD estimate.


Regional Team Consultants (RTC). Two regional teams (one for the Central Region which included the
four provinces of Kalimantan and one for the Eastern Region which included the remaining 11provinces),
assisted DGH in oversight of design and supervision of the civil works. RTC also evaluated designs
prepared for EIRTP 2 first year works by the regional governments or their consultants, and RTC Central
oversaw Interim Supervision of EIRTP 2 works in their region. The total cost of services was US$3.82
million, an increase of 12% over the original contract costs, but 5 percent less than the PAD estimate.


Design and Supervision Consultant (DSC). 15 teams engaged by each province in EIR to provide
technical assistance to provincial government agencies for design and supervision of civil works funded
under the Project. DSC in 8 provinces were expanded to provide Interim Supervision teams for start-up of
EIRTP 2 works from late 2005 to June 2006. The overall cost of DSC increased to US12.69 million
including Interim Supervision, an overall increase of 34 percent over the total original contract value, but 2
percent less than the PAD estimate.


Road Traffic Safety Consultants (RTSC). This was intended to support the accident blackspots sub-
component. Because the pilot study under SRRP was still under way, and the Terms of Reference provided
for RTSC services of 30 months, it was agreed with the Bank Mission in September-October 2004 that
there was not sufficient time before the EIRTP 1Loan Closing Date to complete the services, and this
consultancy was not procured.


Equipment. Office and communications equipment to support implementation of the Project by DGH was
procured by National Competitive Bidding (NCB) because of its small size (US$O.18 million, 13percent
less than the PAD estimate). The loan share was revised from 100 percent to 80 percent and Ministry of
Finance r e h d e d the 20% to the Special Account.


Incremental Operating Costs for PMU. IOC included DGH staff travel and other costs (not salaries)
which would not have been incurred absent the Project. This is estimated to have cost US$0.53 million
(not including the IOC for technical audits), 6 percent over the PAD estimate.

Project Component 3: Road Sector Support

Component 3 valued at US$ million net of tax (17 percent less than the PAD estimate including
contingencies) covered technical assistance, training and traffic counting equipment. It also included
provision of funds for incremental operating costs for technical audits by MPW.


Adapting Road Planning, Programming and Budgeting Procedures (PPBP). Mobilized on August 22,
2003 PPBP was intended 1) to strengthen central DGH capability for preparing National road budgets, for

monitoringperformance of the whole road sector, and for medium-term strategic planning; 2) to establish
at the Provincial level, planning programming and budgeting procedures; and 3) to develop a local roads
management system for Kabupaten and Kota. The March 2005 mission reviewed the status and agreed a
revised focus and staff changes, and management effort then produced an acceptableproduct on schedule
in June 2006. The cost of services increased to USs3.49 million, an increase of 18percent over the
original contract value, and 32 percent over the PAD estimate including contingencies.


StrengtheningQuality Management for Roads in EIR (TechnicalAudits). Intended to 1) establish
improved quality assuranceprocedures and organization; 2) improve monitoring of the quality of civil
works; and 3) provide new tools to help improve the management of quality, DGH considered that there
was overlap between Quality Management TA and works supervision. The Bank proposed to applypart of
the funds to assist the Inspectorate General in technical and financial audits for sustainabilityof the Project
and to address the audit targets, and two contracts were prepared, for technical audit and for financial audit.
Funding for the Inspectorate General was arranged in 2006. The audits started in April 2006 and about 50
percent of the technical audit TA was completedby June 2006, the remainder proposed to be funded under
EIRTP 2. The financial audit consultants were not familiar with engineering cost investigations, so their
contract was not signed. The cost of technical audit TA under EIRTP 1was US$O.Ol million, 0.4 percent
of the PAD estimate.


Incremental Operating Costs for Technical Audits. Staff travel and other costs (not salaries) for the
Inspectorate General as a result of the additional work to audit EIRTP 1works and services. This cost
about US$O.I 1 million, and was not included in the PAD estimate. The Loan was amended in August 2005
in part to include this item.


TA for the Establishment of a Road Board and Road Fund. This TA was intended to establish a Road
Fund to be financed directly from road user charges, and managed by a Road Board of a cross-sectionof
road users. The consultant mobilized in January 2004 and met resistance to the concept of earmarkingof
revenues for road maintenance. A "road fund as envisagedcould not be set up. The Terms of Reference
was revised to address performance and governance reform in road maintenance, and a report issued in
May 2005 as Road Performance and Maintenance Financing Study. Recommendationswere not
implemented due to perceived overlap with PPBP. The TA cost US$0.80 million, a reduction of 41 percent
in the original contract value, and 15percent over the PAD estimate.


TA for Extension of ARMS (later: TRAMS and Traffic Counting Equipment): ARMS (Automated
Road Monitoring Services) was replaced by TRAMS (Traffic and Road Asset Monitoring System).Bids
were received in January 2004 but was not implemented after short listing was delayed by Bank
intervention, and evaluation of bids by DGH and the Bank was inconclusive.In parallel, Traffic Counting
equipment was tendered in July 2004, and four contracts were let, two in September 2005 and two in
March 2006, with total cost US$1.43 million. This equipmenthad not been identified separately in the
PAD but will be an important asset in improvement of planning quality.


TA for Improvement of Bid Documents: Rather than award a separate contract for incorporating
environmental SOPs into bid documents, DGH included the tasks in CTC services to take advantage of
their environmental and contract management expertise. The outcome was the application of the SOPs
under EIRTP 1,and preparation of a new set of standard bid documentsby DGH by October 2004, which
were accepted by the Bank for use in EIRTP 2. No additionalcost was incurred, savingUS$0.93 million
from the PAD estimate.


TA for DGRI Training: Intended to strengthenthe capability of Provincial, Kabupaten, and Kota
manpower. It updated and applied earlier Master Training Plans for Kabupaten Roads, and
NationaVProvincial Roads. Mobilized in October 2003, implementationwas completed by April 2005, and
an extension was approved to December 2005 to prepare materials and to run courses in project
management. The cost of services was US$1.59 million, an increase of 24 percent over the original
contract value, and 14percent over the PAD estimate.

TA for PUSLATJAKONS Training: In order to support the ConstructionIndustry Training Centre,a
study on worker and team productivity was done, and training modules prepared or updated for
constructionworkers. Mobilized in January 2003, the contract was completed in May 2004. The cost of
services was US$1.09 million, an increase of 7 percent over the original contract value, but 6 percent less
than the PAD estimate.


Assessment of Achievementof Project Development Objectives
Three Project Development Objectives (PDO) were identified in the PAD, as described in section 6.2 and
Annex 1herein. Achievement of the PDO was assessed by 9 key performance indicators. Achievement in
terms of the indicators by the final year of evaluation, 2005, is summarized as follows:



          Performance was above target or on target for two indicators.
          Performance was below target for six indicators.
          One indicator could not be measured.


Summaryof Outputs by Project Components

Achievement of the Key Performance Indicators of Output, updated to June 30, 2006 was as follows. Two
indicators achieved the target, one indicator wasjust below the target, and one indicator was not achieved
at all.

          (a): Cumulative kilometers of betterment: actual 1,765.0km (includingpartly-completed
          subprojects) compared with target: 1,250km.

          (b): Cumulative kilometers of periodic maintenance: actual 1,078.3km (includingpartly-
          completed subprojects) compared with target: 1,000km.

          (c): Cumulative meters of bridge replacement: actual 4,574 m (includingpartly-completed
          subprojects) compared with target: 5,800.

          (d): Cumulative number of treated blackspots: actual 0 compared with target: 90.


Ratings Summary

       PerformanceRating by PCR
       Outcome:                                       Satisfactory
       Risk to Development Outcome:                   Significant
       Bank Performance:                              Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance:                          Satisfactory


Project Context,DevelopmentObjectives andDesign

Context at Appraisal
The relevant Country Assistance Strategy was dated January 4, 2001 (Report No. 21580-IND). At that
       time:


     1. Indonesiawas striving to emerge from a severe economic crisis, complete its transition to a
          democratic society, and embark on an ambitious program of decentralization.
     2. The new Government of President Wahid inheritedan economy with deep structural flaws, weak
          institutions, and an entrenched bureaucracy. Corruption was still rampant. Regional unrest,
          growing nationalism, and political and ethnic tensions threatened national unity.
     3. Greater transparency was building pressure for reform.
     4. Civil societyorganizations expressed serious concern with high levels of debt and corruption.

       They recommendedthe Bank to focus on poverty reduction through "bottom-up" community
       development,and to involve civil society more actively in futureprograms. In relation to the
       private sector strategy (distributedalong with the CAS), they pointed out the main weaknessesin
       the investmentclimate in Indonesia, which were holding back recovery andjob creation for the
       poor.
   5. The overarching goal of the World Bank Group in Indonesia was to supportefforts to
       reduce poverty and vulnerability in a more democratic and decentralized environment.The
       number of poor had fallen from crisis levels,but half of all Indonesiansremained vulnerable to
       poverty. Accordingly,the Bank Group's strategyin general and the Project Appraisal Document
       for EIRTP 1 in particular focused on three broad priority areas:
             1. Among others,this involvedpolicies and public expendituresaimed at poverty reduction
                 and human capital and infrastructuredevelopment.The PAD noted that the EIR includes
                 the poorest and least populated parts of Indonesia.The EIRTP 1Project would contribute
                 to effortsto accelerate its developmentby improvingthe condition and all-weather
                 usability of existing national and other strategicroad links, and by their sustainable
                 preservation, and support recovery and growth in those sectors dependenton transport.
            2. Building nationalinstitutions for accountablegovernment,which among others
                 includedcivil service reforms, better public financialmanagementand procurement and
                 effective decentralization.The PAD noted that roads are vital and expensivepublic
                 assets. EIRTP 1 supported decentralizationof responsibilityand resources for road
                 management to local institutions in 15provinces,provided for more efficientand
                 transparentuse of public funds for roads through better project selection,improved
                 procurement and financialmanagement arrangements,stricter management of quality,
                 and more effective competition.In addition, it was intended to lay the foundationfor a
                 more self-sustainingbasis of financingof road preservation and improvement works
                 through a fee-for-serviceapproach.
            3. Delivering better public services to the poor, which among others involved support for
                 improved public service deliveryby sub-nationalgovernments,and selectiveassistance
                 to post-conflict areas. The PAD noted that by reducing road transport costs, the EIRTP 1
                 Project would help lower input prices, raise outputprices and increase the
                 competitivenessof local products from affected areas.


Original Project Development Objectives

     (a)  Improve the condition of National and other strategic arterial roads so as to reduce transport
           costs and provide more reliable access between Provincial centers, to regional development
           and production areas, and to other key transport facilities;

     (b)   Support the effectiveand sustainable decentralizationof planning and management
          responsibilitiesfor works on all primary (National,Provincial and Kabupaten)roads to the
          respective provincial and kabupaten governments;and

     (c)  Improve the use of scarce financial and natural resources through increased efficiency,quality,
           and transparencyin award of works.

Revised Project Development Objectives

        Project developmentobjectives were not revised during the Project.

Main Beneficiaries, original and revised

        The PAD noted that the principal direct beneficiarieswould be the local population using the road
       networks. It was noted that the region also contained significantcommercialenterprisesnotably in
        the forest products and plantation sectors that stood to benefit from improvementsto specific
        sections of the network. The identificationof the main beneficiaries was not revised during the
       Project.

Original Components
        OriginalProject componentswere as below. Details are in Section 0.2 (Brief Description of the
        Project):


   1. Component 1:RoadNetwork Preservation
   2. Component 2: ImplementationSupport
   3. Component3: Road Sector Support

Revised Components

        Project componentswere not revised during the Project.

Other Significant Changes

        There were no significantchanges in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangementsand
        schedule,or funding allocationsduringthe Project.



Key Factors Affecting Implementationand Outcomes

Project Preparation, Design Stage, and Quality at Entry
        IIRMS programming guidelines for a link is based on the dominant type of work. Thus the lengths
        "recommendedby IIRMS" are not necessarilythe highest priority works. However,by obtaining
        the Bank's conditionalapproval of the 3 year program at the start of the Project, and then
        followingthat program (86 percent of the links in the original program in the PAD were later
        constructed),uncertaintywas avoided.


        Quality of planning data remained an issue throughoutEIRTP 1.It is noted that more
        sophisticatedmodels such as HDM 4 would not have produced a better result than IIRMS, due to
        databasedeficiencies,lack of sustainableupdating tools, poor segmentationand lack of evaluation
        after design.


        No instances of Qualityof Life improvements, road safety remedial measures, or health and
        conveniencemeasures were recorded by Regional Team Consultants,who found they had to focus
        on essentialissues of pavement design and bridge design.

Implementation Stage

        SimplifiedDesign was forbidden, all civil works subject to Detailed EngineeringDesign. This
        move greatly reduced the number of major designrevisions (only 11,not counting extra lengths or
        added bridges) and was a success.


        Independentpreliminaryengineeringdesigns and cost estimateswere done by CTC for
        comparisonwith DED and the Engineer'sEstimatesby the Province. This achieved savings of
        about Rp. 30 billion in the re-tender of EIB-22.

Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementationand Utilization

        EIRTP 1was the first Bank Loan to decentralizeLoan administrationto the provinces. The Bank
        itself was continuallydeveloping the PMR system and forms during the Project. Frequent changes
        of PMR format by the Bank created confusion in the Provinces. Decentralizationactually creates a
        demand for more consistent and transparent action from those who set up systems at central level.

Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

        A satisfactory Safeguardoutcome was due to wide applicationand monitoringof Standard
        Operating Procedures (SOP)for environmentalaspects of road and bridge construction.This was

        despite some reluctanceby BAPEDALDA, because SOP are not mentioned in Indonesian
        environmentallaw.

Sustaining Reforms and Institutional Capacity

        BAPEDALDAcannot change their organizationstructuresat will to form groups responsible for
        road environment,and their priorities are hgher in other areas. The Public Works Agencies are
        legallyresponsible for this area. Focus on BAPEDALDA may have diverted attention away from
        improvingcontractors' and supervisors'awarenessof environmentalprotection and mitigation.


Outcomes

Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

        The PAD noted that "arterialroad programs should focusprimarily on periodic maintenance..."
        (p.7).EIRTP 1programs covered 35 percent of the 8,122km arterialroads in EIR over five years.
        This 35 percent represented only 7 percent of the network per year, leaving 93 percent to routine
        maintenanceeach year, whch was not treated as part of the Project, and not monitored at all. By
        ignoring works on 93 percent of roads, the Project Design ignored the key factor determiningthe
         improvement of road conditions.

Achievement of Project Development Objectives (PDO)
        All Provinces in EIR experienced a worsening of arterialroad conditionsfrom 1999to 2003,
        based on availabledata. The Project began in late 2001, so the impact of the whole project is not
        yet reflected in the data. The achievementof PDO a) was therefore doubtful. Achevement of
        PDO's b) and c) was not measurable.

Efficiency

        The originallyevaluated works achieved the expectedreturns, after discountingcosts by inflation
        factors to obtain constant prices at 2001 values, and using original traffic.

                          Cost/km in    AADT in 2000      PAD       Implemented      EIRR with Actual
       Program
                             PAD            datab.        EIRR         Cost/km            Costs

       Betterment            698             3353         48%            678              51%

       Periodic M.           397             1999         47%            385              70%

       Total                 503             2477         47%            488              62%

         The overallEIRR for the Project including all road and bridge investmentsand all design,
         supervisionand project management costs is estimated at 40.7 percent. The Net Present Value
         (NPV) at 12percent discount rate is estimated at Rp. 5,916billion. These results are better than
        projected in the PAD.

Justification of Overall OutcomeRating
          IRating:   I Satisfactory

         The Project was carried out efficientlyand on time, despitenon-implementationof some sub-
         componentswhich can be understood in relation to ongoing externaldelays (the accident
        blackspots) or misunderstandings(technicalaudit and the TA for quality management).The
         apparent lack of achievementof the key project developmentobjectivewas also externalto the
        Project, due to apparent lack of routine maintenance on the arterialroads not handled under the
        Project. The other project developmentobjectives were most likely acheved in part, although not
        readily measurable.

Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, GenderAspects, and Social Development
        Not relevant

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
          Not central to the Project


(c) Unintended Outcomes and Impacts
          Dividing supervision consultants into DSC and RTC led to weakness in technical control of field
          supervision.This was an unintended negative outcome of the decision to decentralize contractual
          control over DSC to the provinces.


          Lack of familiarity with contract law is a handicap for many BAPEDALDA. Relying on
          BAPEDALDA for environmental monitoring would introduce new and unintended risks into both
          contract management and environmental management.

Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey

          Questionnaires were distributed to all BAPEDALDA and Provincial Works Agencies at the end
          of the Project to gauge the effectiveness of all aspects of the Action Plan to strengthen
          BAPEDALDA and to improve the environmental management of roadworks.


          Results: [to be inserted when received]


Rationalefor Rating of Risk to Development Outcome

             Rating:   ISigniJicant

          Development outcome for EIRTP 1 is measured primarily in terms of condition of the 8,122 km
          arterial road network in EIR. Shortcomings in project design (ignoring routine maintenance), and
          in implementation (lack of implementation of the TRAMS sub-component)mean that there is a
          significantrisk that the condition of the network as a whole will worsen despite the Project's
          efforts, and that road conditions will not be monitored.


Assessment of Bank and BorrowerPerformance

Bank

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
            IRating: r~atisfactory

          The Project design was simple and efficient, but did not anticipate externalities which would
          affect the achievement of project development objectives. Some objectives were not readily
          measurable. Some TA's were included which were not workable.


(b) Bank Performance in Supervision
            IRating:   I Satisfactory

          Supervision Missions reviewed all aspects, and continually set new deadlines for all aspects,
          especially those subject to slippage.The "Actions To Be Taken" appended to each Aide Memoire
          were the principle management tool. Bank supervision made particular efforts to improve
          engineering quality. Safeguard policy supervisionwas sensible. Fiduciary policy supervision
          could have improved in consistency in support of GOI's decentralization efforts.

Borrower

(a) Government Performance:

            IRating:   I                    -

                         Satisfactoiy

          Despite annual budget delays which occurred in all sectors, the Project was well-supported, and
          sufficient resources were provided to implementing agencies.

(b) Implementing Agency Performance:

            Rating:   1 Satisfactory/Highlysatisfactory

        DGH performance was Satisfactory: the organization structure was significantly improved by the
        end of the Project, aiding implementation. Main shortcoming was a misunderstanding over the
         intent of the techcal audit performance indicator.

        PMU performance was Highly satisfactory:pro-active in setting and achieving targets and
         deadlines, cooperated with all agencies and the Bank in followingup problems, using only a
        handful of staff to handle all issues.


Lessons Learned

Many lessons were learned throughout the Project, arranged by functional area below:


         Project Design


         Planning and Programming


     1. The IIRMS system is a good tool for screening of worksprograms, but data on traffic, road and
         bridge conditions, velucle operating costs and works costs need to be kept up to date.
     2. The arrangementinto annual worksprograms from the start of the Project provided a clear
         program which avoided uncertainty in project implementation.
     3. Acceptance of projects with EIRR below 15percent in the Eastern Indonesia Region is needed in
         order to establish road networks, as a basis for economicgrowth and traffic growth.
     4. The response to poor planning data quality must be to simplifydata requirements. The Bank is
         moving in the opposite direction, relying on improved resources and more sophisticated systems.
     5. The packaging of maintenance works should be monitored carefully-to reduce overlaywork on
         sections with low IRI and traffic.
     6. Sub-project datasheets should be prepared and maintained with key information1assumptions on
         appraisal and design to allow pre- and post- project appraisal.


         Design


     1. (DED) must be checked thoroughly because some designers copyparts from similar sub-projects
         without referring to survey data.
     2. Slufting from SimplifiedDesign to DED resulted in a reduced number of major design revisions.
     3. Some DED used temporary marks as location reference points for stationing instead of Km posts.
         The Km posts shouldbe relocated where errors are large.
     4. Strip maps showing treatments on different segments of links shouldbe prepared and used in
         planning and in management of maintenance.
     5. Assessment of roughness and confirmation of traffic data should be made during design surveys
         to allow revision of the economic appraisal.


         Procurement


     1. Post-qualification of bidders for smallerworks enabled speedierprocurement and allowed wider
         competition.
     2. Most ICB packages were not of interest to internationalf m s . The Bank should increase the ICB
         threshold to U S 1 0 million.
     3. Bulk procurement of bridge trusses shouldbe preceded by a preliminary design check, and a field

   should be added to the BMS database for an initial estimate of proposed replacement bridge
  lengths.


   Implementation


  The advisory period of 6 months after "Project Completion" and before the Loan Closing Date in
   the Loan should be made mandatory and reduced to say 3 months, to avoid risks related to rushing
   of works to completion.
  Design reviews still occur, sometimes greater than 10percent by value. The reasons are not well
   documented. A similar problem is noted with Contract Change Orders.
  Many supervisors do not understand the Terms of Reference. Very often they only watch the
  works but do not take appropriate action on sub-standard works.
   Supervision teams need clearer delegation of authority from the Project Manager. If possible
   automatic delegation should be mentioned in the General Conditions or Special Conditions of
   Contract, or the cases where the Project Manager can intervene should be defined more narrowly.
   Output quality should be reflected in the Chart of Accounts, which is presently focused on input
   categories (resource use) only. Output-based accounting is important because what is measured is
   what is managed.
   Contract documents should be revised to remove ambiguities and gaps in the provisions for price
   escalation, using guidelines developed on this Project.
   In order for technical audit to be effective and independent, it should not be linked with payments
   for work done.
   Technical audit guidelines should be revised to strengthen audit of performance. 95 percent of the
   Audit Decree No. 310/KF'TSIM/2002 deals with inputs, the last 5 percent with outputs, outcomes
   and impacts. The last 5 percent of the guideline in the Decree is not in a usable format and has
   never been used.
   Dividing supervision consultants into DSC and RTC led to weakness in technical control of field
   supervision. Field supervision shouldbe integrated with central management and oversight.
   A disbursement administration period after the Loan Closing Date shouldbe specified in the Loan
   Agreement,binding on both Borrower and Lender. Otherwise it may be subject to an
   administrativepolicy and expire at the Load Closing Date.


   Action Plan for Improved ProcurementJAnti-Corruption


1. Provinces with high risk at procurement such as Central Sulawesi, Central Kalimantan,Papua and
   West Irian Jaya should be monitored very closely for pre-arranged bidding, as well as coercive,
   collusive and fraudulent practices.
2. A detailed evaluation of the Bid Documents and Bid Evaluationby experienced engineers can
   provide an early indication of the presence of fraud and corruption. Ths was implementedby
   PMU and CTC.
3. Post Bidding occurs after bid opening if there is not a requirement for bid documents to be sentto
   the PMU within 24 hours after the bid opening.


   Environmental and Social Aspects


1. The screening procedures in the EMP were effective,but for bridge sub-projectsneed to be
   followed up with site survey of whether land acquisition is required.
2. The Standard Operating Procedures for environmental actions were often neglected by
   Contractors, Consultants and PIU in the field. Strong wording needs to be included in the Special
   Conditions of Contract and Standard Specifications including application of penalties if the parties
   breach the contract.
3. The format for LARAP was not clear, and the thresholdbetween Simple LARAP and Full

LARAP was subject to differences of opinion within Bank staff.
Long-term sustainability of environmental protection in road works is better ensured through the
provincial works agencies rather than BAPEDALDA. It should be considered a normal
engineering supervision task.


Project Management Report (PMR)


PMR format should be determined once, and only revised if essential. Frequent changes of PMR
format by the Bank creates confusion in the Provinces.
Approval for disbursement and replenishment based on the PMR should be done fully by the
Bank's Office in Jakarta (WBOJ). The involvement of WB HQ adds 1-2 months to replenishment
and leaves insufficient budget in the special account.
Decentralization of the PMR should have included on-job training in provinces, notjust classroom
training in Jakarta. GO1 (MOF and BI) and WBOJ staff need to become more consistent and less
error-prone, and more willing to admit errors.
Disbursements against erroneous but valid Loan Numbers (such as EIRTP 2 expenditures charged
to EIRTP 1) were not resolved by WB internal procedures.


Technical Assistance (TA)


TA is driven by the World Bank, and the resulting lack of motivation causes delays and
misunderstandings which nullify the expected benefits. Only TA's which are high priority with the
Borrower should be included.
The added value from many TA's is not felt by DGH, and perhaps is part of the Bank's own
agenda. TA's which are proposed by the Bank should be financed by Trust Funds and managed by
the Bank.
The Bank gives too much advice on shortlisting and on technical evaluation which can be
categorized as Bank interference or conflict of interest (e.g. TRAMS).
Budgeting for 100percent Loan-financed TA by GO1was delayed between 4 and 5 months every
year (9 months in 2005) so invoices were not paid. The linkage with Rupiah budgets should be
removed.


Training


Annual training should be carried out in Procurement, the Project Management Manual, the
Financial Management Report, Environmental and Social Management and Quality Assurance.


Project Management Manual


The Manual provided effective guidance for related institutions (PIU, PMU and DGH), and
minimized disputes and gray areas.


The World Bank's Level of Service


The Bank took an average of 12.29 workmg days to respond to letters from PMUIDGH. The Bank
should inform whether documents are in process by the Task Team Leader or have been
approved.
World Bank should ensure better cooperation and coordination between its staff.

                M I N I S T R Y                 O F         P U B L I C             W O R K S
                            DIRECTORATE GENERAL OF HIGHWAYS
                             DIRECTOlRATE OF PLANNING
                JI. Patimura No.20 Keb. Baru- Jakarta 12110 Telp.(021)7200281,7393928, Fax. (021) 7201760

                             9-fil77AIa6
Our Ref.      : %ow%/                                          Jakarta, December 08,2006
Enclosed      : 1 (one) sheet


Ms Sally Burningham
Senior Transport SpecialisKlTL-ElRTP2
Transport Sector Unit
World Bank Office, Jakarta



Subject: IBRD Loan No. 4643-IND, Eastern lndonesia RegionTransport Project
          (EIRTP-1)- Implementation CompletionReport (ICR)




Dear Ms Burningham,

Referring to The World Bank letter dated November 24, 2006 re: Eastern lndonesia Region
Transport Project (EIRTP-1) loan IBRD 4643-IND Implementation Completion Report and
Results Report, herewith we would like to submittal our comments for the above ICR. We
hope that with inclusion of DGH comments in ICR will provide comprehensive information
and will give positive impact in The World Bank future loan.

Thank you for your kind attention and cooperation.

                                                                         Sincerely yours,



                                                                      Sri Apriatini Soekardi
                                                                       Directorof Planning
Cc:
1. Directorof General of Highways, MPW (as a report)
2. Secretary DirectorateGeneralof Highways, MPW
3. Directorof Technical Affairs, DGH, MPW
4. Directorof Roads and Bridges Eastern Region, DGH, MPW
5. Messrs Mesra Eza and lmad Saleh WBOJ
6. Chief of Sub Directorateof Programand Budgeting,DGH, MPW
7. PMU ElRTP IBRD
8. File

       DGH, MPW Comment on ICR for ElRTPl IBRD4643-IND
                                  November 23,2006

1.Page 9, Section 7.4, Fiduciary,para 1 of ICR:

   Commentbasedon PADdated November 12, 2001:

  The lnspectorate Gemral was only given responsibility for technical audit after the Loan
  Amendment on August 11, 2005. The IG was           not part of the original plan for technical
  audit. The PAD included the "number of independent technical audits carried out" as a key
  performance indicator (pages 2 and 46). The only other reference to technical audit was on
   page 70 of the PAD: "Gol has agreed to ..... Strengthen the quality assurance and
  technical audit systems to minimize the risk of misprocurement." This implied that the TA
  for Strengthening Quality Managementwas intended to do technical audit.

  Task 83 of the TOR of those services (30 October 2001) was to 'Develop Procedures and
   Review Implementationof Technical Audits", but the TOR did not specify who would do the
   independent audits. The QM TA was not implemented, and this gap was not identified.

   The PAD only mentioned the Inspectorate-General on pages 26 and 67: ("the Minister has
   established an anti-corruption unit within the lnspectorate General department").

   The late implementationof technical audits could therefore be ascribed to a shortcoming in
   Project Design.

2. Page 9, second para of ICR:
   Should be year "1999.

3. Page 9, last para of ICR:

   We understand that the Bank has a responsibility and right to investigate suspected cases
   of fraudulent practice and declare misprocurement. However to maximize the benefits of
   these investigations, we would prefer that the Bank and GO1jointly find solutions and agree
   on outcomes prior to the Bank taking its own actions. This would ensure that the solutions
   and outcomes address current problems and also find solutionsfor the future.

   Following up INT investigation,the Government through lnspectorate General MPW, BPKP
   and KPK still carry out investigation to seek clarity and evidence for the problem in
   proportional way. DGH also had made several efforts by improving the capability for
   Procurement Committee, more transparency for the process including civil society
   oversight and adoption of semi e-procurement system as well.

4. Page 12, second para of ICR:

   The project of Timor-Leste was initially requested by The World Bank Jakarta and Timor
   Leste through an email dated August 27, 2002 and The World Bank letter dated December
   16, 2003. The first phase with total length 30.40 Km, contract value IDR 23,879,918,938
   and construction period from August 16, 2004 to November 30, 2005. The road link name
   is Lakafehan-Keliting-Wini-Sakato(total length 53 Km) and Atambua-Lakafehan-Motaain
   (total length 33.5 Km)

   The World Bank inform to DGH in a email dated September 22, 2005 that there is a
   meeting between the President of Indonesia and the President of the World
   Bank on September 14-15, 2005, " President of Rol also reflected on the
   problems with Timor-Leste and the Oecussi-Ambeno enclave and asked The World Bank
   President to support in construction of a road that would bridge the enclave
   and the rest of Timor-Leste and contribute to breaking the poverty cycle of the

   enclave. President of WB indicated he was pleased to look at the road proposal, and
   that the Bank's Country Directorwould look into it."

  With the above information, DGH proposed the remainingsegment that connects both side
   of Timor Leste and total revised effective length75 Km with total cost IDR 66,616,284.000.

5. Page 30, second para (iv) of ICR:

   TRAMS was not awarded and implemented under EIRTP-I due to reasons such as
   different perceptions on aspects of evaluation, and excessive involvement by the Bank in
   the evaluation process: This is best demonstrated by lots of request from the Bank in
   Supervision Mission and World Bank letters for re evaluation for the technical evaluation
   and combinetechnical and financial evaluation.

6. Page 34, no. 41 of ICR:
   Replace 30.40 Km to be 75.00 Km

Annex 11. Commentsof Cofinanciers and Other Partnerslstakeholders

Not applicable.

Annex 12. List of SupportingDocuments


1. Monthly Progress Report No. 46 of Core Team Consultant, dated June 20,2006.

2. Strategic Road Infrastructure Project, World Bank, Project Appraisal Document, June 2,2006,
Report Number 36122-IND.

3. Consulting Services for Regional Team Consultant (Central Region), IBRD Loan No. 4643-
IND. Final Report June 2006.

4. Consulting Services for Regional Team Consultant (Eastern Region), IBRD Loan No. 4643-
IND. Final Report June 2006.

5. Consulting Services for Core Team Consultant, IBRD Loan No. 4643-IND. Final Report on
services for EIRTP 1,June 2006

6. Consulting Services for Core Team Consultant, IBRD Loan No. 4744-IND. Final Report on
services for EIRTP 2, June 2006.
7. Summary of Key Performance Indicators as presented in the Report "Performance Indicators
for EIRTP-1 for 2005", dated April 2006.

8. World Bank supervision mission aide-memoires, January 16-27, 2006; March 3-24, 2005;
September 21-October 8,2004; March 18-31,2004; October 22-November 7,2003; June 2-13,
2003; September 30-October 10,2002; and May 16-June 6,2002.

9. Eastern Indonesia Region Transport Project Loan No. 4643-IND. Reallocation of Loan
Proceeds and Amendment to the Loan Agreement, August 11,2005.
10. Second Eastern Indonesia Region Transport Project, World Bank, Project Appraisal
Document, May 18,2004,Report No. 28071-IND.

11. Country Assistance Strategy at the time of project completion, October 29, 2003, Report No.
27108-IND.

12.Quality at Entry in FY02 (QEAS), A QAG Assessment, April 8,2003,Quality Assurance
Group.
13.Progress Report on Country Assistance Strategy, July 25,2002, Report No. 24608-IND.

14.Technical Assistance for Eastern Indonesia Region Transport Priorities Analysis Study
(EIRTPA). Final Report. Volume 1.Preparation of EIRTP-1, March 31,2002.
15. Eastern Indonesia Region Transport Project Loan No. 4643-IND. Loan Agreement between
the Republic of Indonesia and International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, January
22,2002.

16.Eastern Indonesia Region Transport Project, Project Implementation Plan, January 18,2002.
17. Eastern Indonesia Region Transport Project, World Bank, Project Appraisal Document,
November 12,2001,Report Number 22273-IND.

18.Country Assistance Strategy, January 4,2001, Report No. 21580-IND.

              This map was produced by                                                                                                                              120
              the Map Design Unit of The                                CAMBODIA                                                                                                                                                                            INDONESIA
              World Bank. The boundaries,                                                                                                                                                                  PA C I F I C
              colors, denominations and                                                     VIETNAM                                                                                                                                       EASTERN INDONESIA REGION
              any other information shown                                                                                                                                      PHILIPPINES
              on this map do not imply, on                                                                                                                                                                  O C E A N
              the part of The World Bank                                                                                                                                                                                                           TRANSPORT PROJECT
              Group, any judgment on the                    Gulf of
              legal status of any territory,                                                                                                                                                                                                  ROAD PRESERVATION PROGRAM
              or any endorsement or                        Thailand
              a c c e p t a n c e o f s u c h
              boundaries.                                                                                                                                              Sulu
                                                    THAILAND                                                                                                            Sea                                                                           16    PROJECT PROVINCES




                 Banda Aceh

                                                                               A       L       A        Y        S          BRUNEI
                                    1
                                                   Medan                M                                              I                                                        Celebes                        Talaud
                                                                                           Natuna                                                                                                              Is.                                                           INDONESIA
                                                                                            Besar                           A                             Tarakan                   Sea
                                    Pematangsiantar                                  Anambas
                      Simeulue                                                                                                                                                     For detail, see 24
                                                                                           19                                                                                      IBRD 31376R                            Morotai
                                                     2                        SINGAPORE                                                                                                                                                                135
                                                                                                                                               23    For detail, see                    Manado
                                                                                                                                                     IBRD 31371R
                                     Nias                               Batam
                                                                  Pekanbaru     Tanjungpinang
                                                                                                                                                                                   25                     Ternate        Halmahera

             0                                                    3                        Pontianak                                                                                  Gorontalo          For detail, see            Waigeo                                                           0
                                                                                 Lingga                        20     K A L I M A N T A N                              26
                                                                                                                                                                               For detail, see            IBRD 31381R                               Manokwari
                                                 Padang                                           For detail, see                                       Samarinda
                                                                                                                                                                               IBRD 31377R                 30                                                 Biak
                                               Mentawai                                                                                   Balikpapan                  Palu                                                                Sorong
                                                 Siberut     4                                    IBRD 31369R                                                                                                          Obi
                                                                      5      Jambi                                                                                                          Peleng
                                                                                       Bangka                                    21                                                                                                                      Yapen
                                                                                                                   Palangkaraya                                    SULAWESI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Misool        32
                                                               S U M A T R A           Pangkalpinang                                                                                                                                                                            Jayapura
                                                                                                                                                                 27                               Sula Is.                                               For detail, see
                                                                                           9                         For detail, see                 Mamuju                                                              Ceram                           IBRD 31382R
                                                       Is.                                         Belitung                                 22
                                                                   6             Palembang                           IBRD 31370R                                                                                            Amahai
                                                                                                                                                    For detail, see                                                                      Fakfak
                                                                                                                                                                               29     Kendari               Buru
                                                          Bengkulu             7                                         Bandjarmasin               IBRD 31378R      Parepare                                    Ambon                                                 PAPUA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Timika
                                                                                                                                    For detail, see                                                                                                                (IRIAN JAYA)
                                                                                  8                                                                                 28          For detail, see
                                                                                                                                    IBRD 31372R
                                                                                                                                                         Makassar                IBRD 31379R
                                                                                                                                                                                         Muna                      Banda                        Kai
                                                            Enggano        Bandar       11                                                                                                                                                      Is.                       33
                                                                         Lampung                                                                                                       Baubau                                   31
                                                                               Serang      JAKARTA                               I      N          D         O          N           E         S        I       A      Sea    For detail, see           Aru
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Is.                                   GUINEA
                                                                                     Bogor  12     Cirebon
                                                                                                            Semarang        Madura                                                                                           IBRD 31380R
                  I N D I A N O C E A N                                         10 Bandung               13        JAWA                                                        Java Sea                                                                                                 APUAP
                                                                                               Cilacap   Surakarta           Surabaya                                                                      Wetar            Babar          Tanimbar
                                                                                                  Yogyakarta                            16
                                                                                                                     Malang 15                         Sumbawa                                   Alor                 Moa                  Is.
                                                                                                                                         Bali  Lombok
                                                                                                                                                                Raba         Flores
                                                                                                              14                                                                                                                                                           Merauke                 NEW
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Dili
                  0              200         400       600                                                                       Denpasar       Mataram                          Ende
                                                                                                                                                   17                                                      TIMOR-LESTE
                                                                                                                           For detail, see                    Waingapu         18
                                                                                                                                                                       Sumba
                                 KILOMETERS                                                                                IBRD 31373R       For detail, see                                       Timor                                       Arafura Sea
                                                                               105                                                           IBRD 31374R     For detail, see                 Kupang
                                                                                                                                                               IBRD 31375R
                PROVINCES:

                1 NANGROE ACEH DARUSSALAM                 12 JAWA BARAT              23 KALIMANTAN TIMUR
                2 SUMATERA UTARA                          13 JAWA TENGAH             24 SULAWESI UTARA                                    MAIN ROADS
                3 RIAU                                    14 D.I. YOGYAKARTA         25 GORONTALO                                         SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                4 SUMATERA BARAT                          15 JAWA TIMUR              26 SULAWESI TENGAH
                                                                                                                                          PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                                                                               Gulf of
DECEMBER        5 JAMBI                                   16 BALI                    27 SULAWESI BARAT                                                                                                                                                                                                  IBRD
                6 BENGKULU                                17 NUSA TENGGARA BARAT     28 SULAWESI SELATAN                                  NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                              Carpentaria
                7 SUMATERA SELATAN                        18 NUSA TENGGARA TIMUR     29 SULAWESI TENGGARA         15
                8 LAMPUNG                                 19 RIAU KEPULAUAN          30 MALUKU UTARA                                      PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                               31368R
                9 BANGKA-BELITUNG                         20 KALIMANTAN BARAT        31 MALUKU                                            INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
        2006  10 BANTEN                                   21 KALIMANTAN TENGAH       32 IRIAN JAYA BARAT                                                                                                                   A U S T R A L I A
              11 D.K.I. JAKARTA                           22 KALIMANTAN SELETAN      33 PAPUA (IRIAN JAYA)                                                          120

                                                   109                                         110                                   111                               112                              113                           114
              2                                                        Liku      Merbau                                                                                                                                                                          2
                                                                                                                                                                                        M A L AY S I A
                                                                                      Sajingan


                                                      Kartiasa
                                                                                  Sejangkung


                                                                       Sambas                     Bts Serawak


                                                              Tebas                       Seluas
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Tj.Kerja                                      KALIMANTAN
                                                                                                                                                            Lubokantuo                   Bn.Martinus
                                                                                                                                                                                  Lanjak                                                                   TIMUR
              1                Singkawang                                         Sanggauledo                      Bts Serawak
                                                                               Ledo                                                                                       Badau                               Putussibau Kerian                                   1
                                                               Bengkayang                                                                                                                     Batangsibau
                                                                                                           Entikong
                                EIB-20                                                                                                                               Ng.Kantuk
                                                     009                                                                                               Sp.Ng.                                       Bika                Nanga Era
                                                                                 Simpang Tiga                         Balaikarangan                    Merakai
                                                            Karangan                            Serimbu
                                                                                                                                             Sipiluk            Ng.Merakai                                  Menarin
                                         SeiDuri                                                         Semuntai            Balaisebut                                           Kapuas
                                                      009                                                                                                               Semitau
                                                                                                       EIP-21

                               Mempawah                  008     Anjungan                 Sidas   Ngabang                                                                                             Nangasemangut
                                                                                                             Sosok       Bonti
                                                                                                                                EIP-45                              Sejiran
                                   EIP-1                    Sei Pinyuh      Sibadau              Jempo                                                                      Sejiram  Nangatepuai

                                                                               Mianas            003.1      Tanjung         Sanggau                       Sintang
                                                                           PONTIANAK                             003             Sekadau
              0                                                                                                                                                  Bongkon
                                                 Sei Kakap                                                                                                Tabelian                                                                                                0
                                                                                                        Tayan         Meliau
                                                                            Sei Durian EIB-21                                             Rawak                        Nangamau                                                   K A L I M A N TA N
                                                                                                                       Nanga Taman
                                                                                                   Teraju                                                                    Nanga Tebidah                                               T E N G A H
                                                                   Rasau                                                              Ng.Mahab                     Nangapinoh                     Nanga Serawai
                                                                     Jaya

                                                                                                                                                                            Nangaela    Menukung
                                                                                                              Balai Bekuak


                                                                                                                                                                 Manungkung
                                                                    Padangtikar                                        Aurkuning                   Kotabaru                                                         INDONESIA
                                                                         Island
                                                                                         Teluk Batang
              1                                                                                                                                                                             EASTERN INDONESIA REGION
                                                                                                                                                  Nangasokan                                                                                                      1
                                                                               Maya
                                                                               Island                                                                                                                  TRANSPORT PROJECT
                                                                                                                         Sandai
                                                                                                      Siduk
                                                                                                                                                                                                ROAD PRESERVATION PROGRAM
                                                                                                                Sei Keli
                                                                                                                         Nangatayap                                                                 KALIMANTAN BARAT
                                                      Karimata                                                                         ke Kudangan
                                                      Island
                                                                                                                           Tumbangtiti                                                   PROJECT:                               MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                   Sei Melayu               Tayan 2                                        EIB-20
                                                                                   Ketapang                                                                                                BETTERMENT OF ROADS                  SECONDARY ROADS
                                                                                                                   Menawa
                                                                                             Pelang                                                                        EIP-21
                                                                                                                       Tanjung                                                             PERIODIC MAINTENANCE                 AIRPORTS
              2                                                                                                                  Riam                                                                                          PORTS                             2


                                                                                                                                                                                     009   LINK NUMBER                          DISTRICT (KECAMATAN) CAPITALS

                     0      20        40      60      80       100                                                                                                                                                              REGENCY (KABUPATEN) CAPITALS
                                                                                             Pesaguhan                  Marau
                                    KILOMETERS                                                                                                                                                                                  PROVINCE CAPITAL
                                                                                                                    Mendawai
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                REGENCY (KABUPATEN) BOUNDARIES
DECEMBER                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             IBRD
              This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.               Kendawangan                                                                                                                         PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
              The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                           Sukaraja
              shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                      Manismata                                                                                      INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY                   31369R
              Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any

        2006  endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.

                                                   109                                         110                                   111                               112                              113                           114

                                 111               INDONESIA            112                                    113                                    114

                      EASTERN INDONESIA REGION                                                                                                                                                                                     MAIN ROADS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SECONDARY ROADS
                                     TRANSPORT PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                             AIRPORTS

                           ROAD PRESERVATION PROGRAM                                                                                                                                                                               PORTS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DISTRICT (KECAMATAN) CAPITALS
                              KALIMANTAN TENGAH                                                                                                                                                                                    REGENCY (KABUPATEN) CAPITALS
               0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PROVINCE CAPITAL

                                          PROJECT:                                                                                                                     Tumbangkunyi                                                REGENCY (KABUPATEN) BOUNDARIES

                      EIB-20                 BETTERMENT OF ROADS                                                                                                                                                                   PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                          KALIMANTAN
                      EIP-21                 PERIODIC MAINTENANCE                                                                                            Tumbang Lahung            Saripoi
                                                                                                   BARAT                                                                                          Muara Lahung
                                                                                                                                                        Sei Gula                                                                  0    10      20   30    40
                                                                                                                                                  Sei Hanyu
                                   009       LINK NUMBER                                                                                   Tewah                           Purukcau          Sp. Muaralahung
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            KILOMETERS

                                                                 Bts. Kalbar                                                                                 Kualakurun                         Papar Punjung
                                                                                                                                Tbg. Rahuyan                             Batu Putin
                                                                                Tumbang Nanga                                                                                                                         Bts. Kaltim
                                                                                                                                                   Sei Jalungen                                           Lampeong
                                                                                               Tumbang
                                                                                                            Tumbang                             Tbg. Jutuh                                                 Benangin
               1                                                     Tumbang Taburai          Senamang                                                                                                                                                            1
                                                                                                            Hiran                                                                                     Muarateweh

                                                                                                                 Tumbang Samba              Rahambang                                                                                        KALIMANTAN
                                                                             Tumbangmanjul                                                                                        Pujon          Montalat                                        TIMUR
                                                                                                                            Tbg. Talaken
                                                                                                                                                       Bawan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Kandui


                                                                                                                                                                                                               Patas
               Bts.Kalbar                                                                                                          Takaras                                              Asam         Bandara
                                      Kudangan                                                  Tumbang Sanga                                           Bukit Bamba            Madara                Sanggu

                                                                                                                                                                         Timpah
                                                                                                                                                        Bukitliti                              Buntok         Ampah
                                              Penopa                 Pangkut        Rt. Pulut
                                                                                                                     Kerengpangi
                                                          Nangabulik                                                                Kasongan                        Lahei
                                                                                                 Parenggean
               2                                                                                                                                                                                    Dayu                                                          2
                                                                                         Kualakuyan                                Sp. Sg. Asem           Bk. Rawi
                                                                                                                             010
                               2                                                                                 Pundu                 Tangkiling                                               Belawan      Tamianglayang
                                                         Kujan                      EIB-23                        Km. 65
                                                                                             EIP-2B         010                                             Lap. Terbang
                                                                                                                              PALANGKARAYA                       Sp. Kerengbengkirai
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Pasarpanas
                                                                                               011                                         Kr. Bengkirai                                             Metangi
                                                           Runtu         Asam Baru                                  Kotabesi     EIP-22
                                                                                                  Sp.Bangkal 011                              Berengbengkel
                                                                                                                                                                   014                 Mengkati
                                           K. Waringin
                                                                         Pangkalanlada                    Sampit                                       EIB-22                                     Jenamas           K A L I M A N TA N
                                                                                               Bangkal
                                            Pangkalanbun              Pkl.Pembuang                                                                                                              Dadahub                    S E L ATA N
                                Sukamara
                                                  Psr. Panjang   Kumai                                                                                    Pulangpisau
                                                   Batu Belaman                                                     Bapolang                                                            Palingkau
                                                                                                                                                                               Mandomai
                                                                                                           Samuda
                            Kuala Jelai          S. Pasir                                                                                                                                                                                                          3
               3                                                                                                                                                           Kualakapuas
                                                             Kubu

                                                                                                                              Pegatan                Pangkoh       Barumba
                                                                                                                                                                                  Bts. Kalsel
              This map was produced by
              the Map Design Unit of The                                                                          Ujung
              World Bank. The boundaries,                                                                         Pandaran                        Bahaur Hilir
              colors, denominations and                                                                                                                               Lupakdalam
              any other information shown                                                           Kuala Pembuang
DECEMBER      on this map do not imply, on                                                                                                                                                                                                                            IBRD
              the part of The World Bank
              Group, any judgment on the
              legal status of any territory,                                                                                                                                                                                                                              31370R
              or any endorsement or
        2006  a c c e p t a n c e o f s u c h
              boundaries.                                                 112                                    113                                     114                                       115                                 116

                                                                                                                                                                                       IBRD 31371R

                                   INDONESIA                                              117                                118                            119                         120

EASTERN INDONESIA REGION
                       TRANSPORT PROJECT                                                                  Tou Lumbis            Alang

           ROAD PRESERVATION PROGRAM                                                             Lembubut        Sasipu        Uluulu
                                                                                                         Bisai                                         Numukan
                                                                                            Beruwen                                                                                             4
                    KALIMANTAN TIMUR                                            Papadi
                                                                                                      Silau                 Rembeliangan

                                                                                                    Longberang         Tunjung     Atap

                                PROJECT:                                                       Kurid         Mesalong
                                                                                                                                 Manuk               Tanahmerah
                EIB-18           BETTERMENT OF ROADS                                   Longbawah     Bulungan/Malinau
                                                                               Benuang                                             Sesayap
                   EIBR-11       BRIDGE REHABILITATION
                                 OR REPLACEMENT                                                 Punan
                                                                                 Patara                                                               Tarakan
                          005    LINK NUMBER
                                                                                                                 Langap
                                                                                      Kabuang
                                                                                                                          Pimping
3                                                                                                                                                                                              3
                                                                                         Longkemuat                         Tanjungselor

                                                                                                                         Longpeso
                                                                                       Longbujungan
                                                                                                              Besar
                                                                Sawah

                                                                      Longagung             Napaku


                                   YSIA                                                                                          Tanjungredep
                                                             Datadian                                                                Labanan

                                                     Longnawang
2                                                                                                                                                                                              2
                                                                                                                              Km. 50
                                                        Longuro
                        MALA                                                                                                                          Guntur

                                                                                    Longtop
                                                                Lembusan
                                                                                                                                                                        Talisayan
                                            Metulang                Kebumesai


                                                                                                                                                   Pengadan
 AN                                                              Lasan                                                             EIBR-3
           T                                                                                                                 O26
                                                                                                             Ma. Wahau                       Ma. Lembak

                                                                                                                    DPC                                         Sangkulirang                    1
            BARA               Longpakangai                    Longboh                                                Batuampar

   KALIMANT        Tiongohang                                                                                                            Sp. Perdau               Malui


                                                                   Ujakbiang                                                                   Sangata



                                                                                                                            Ma. Bengkal


                                                                                     Tering
                                                                                                                                                   Bontang
                                                          Bts. Kalteng           Longiram
0                                                                                Linggangbigung                                                                                                0
                                                                                  Sekolakdarat                               Sebulu               Santan
                                                              Barongtongko                                                             Sp. M.
                                                                                       Melak                    Kolabangun      Sp.    Badak      Sambera
                                                                  Sp. Damai    Mentiwan                                    Ambalui                Ma Badak
                                                                    Damai                                  Sp. 3 Senoi
                                                                                  Sp. Blusuh                  Tenggarong
                                                      Bts. Kalteng                                                                       SAMARINDA
                                                                                                                                            Anggana

                                                                           Tukuq                                         Loajanan         Sangasanga
                                                                                                            EIB-1
                                                                                                                    D25
                                                               Bts. Prop                                                                 Dondang

                                                                                                     Semuaisepaku        Gereja      Ma. Jawa
1                                                                                                                                                                                              1
                                                                                                            D25                   Samboja

                                                                                                      Kenangan        D25                                     MAIN ROADS
                        K A L I M A N TA N                                                            EIB-2   Penajam        Balikpapan                       SECONDARY ROADS
                             T E N G A H                                                           Kadman                                                     AIRPORTS

                                                                                                                                                              PORTS

                                                                                                                                                              DISTRICT (KECAMATAN) CAPITALS
                                                                                          Kuaro                                                               REGENCY (KABUPATEN) CAPITALS
                                                                                        Lolo        Tanahgrogot
                                                             KALIMANTAN             Ma.                                                                       PROVINCE CAPITAL
2                                                                                   Biu                                                                                                        2
                0         10    20      30       40             SELATAN                           Periuk       EIB3
                                                                                                                                                              REGENCY (KABUPATEN) BOUNDARIES
                                                                             Batuaji                           EIB-56
                             KILOMETERS                                                                                                                       PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                   D27
                                                                                                                   Ti. Aru
                                                                                                                                                              INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY
This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                            Kr. Dayu
The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                              117                                118                            119                         120

                                                                                                                                                                                       DECEMBER 2006

                                                                                                                                                                                      IBRD 31372R

                                                  115                                                                                            116
                           INDONESIA
  EASTERN INDONESIA REGION
            TRANSPORT PROJECT
     ROAD PRESERVATION PROGRAM
       KALIMANTAN SELATAN
                         PROJECT:

         EIP-20           PERIODIC MAINTENANCE                                                                                       KALIMANTAN

            EIBR-11       BRIDGE REHABILITATION                                                                                             TIMUR
                          OR REPLACEMENT

                    005   LINK NUMBER

                                                                                                   Muarauya



                                                                                                                                                                                                 2
      MAIN ROADS

      SECONDARY ROADS

      AIRPORTS                                                                                             Mabuun

      PORTS                                                                                 Tanjung               Sp. Haruai          Batubabi
                                                            Pasar Panas
      DISTRICT (KECAMATAN) CAPITALS                                                                      Dahai
      REGENCY (KABUPATEN) CAPITALS                                                                                      Halong
                                                                                 Kelua                      Paringin                                                 Bts. Kaltim
      PROVINCE CAPITAL
                                                                                           Lampihong                                                         Kerang

      REGENCY (KABUPATEN) BOUNDARIES                         Amuntai
      PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                       Mantimin
                                                        EIP-42b
                                                                                   Kaparkias                                                              GN. Batubesar
                                                                             Barabai

  KALIMANTAN                                                   Sng.                               Birayang
                                         Tumbunanbanyu         Mandala
                                                                                             Pagat                                                                    Sampanahan
     TENGAH                                                                          Pnt. Hambawang                                            Manggalau
                                                          Negara                                EIBR-12
                                                            Angkinang
                                                         Kandangan                   Telagalangsat                                                                             Pudi
                                          Ma. Muning Balimau                  Pd. Batung

                                                                                        Loksado
                                      Margasari
                                                                      Lumpangi                                                                                         TG. Batu

3                                                                Rantau                                                                                                                         3


           Anjir                Marabahan                                                                                                   Sei Kupang
           Pasar                                                          EIP-46


                                             EIP-3


                     Sp. Serapat                                                                                                                          Sebelimbingan      Kota Baru
     Serapat
                                             006       Sp. Empat                                                                                 Batuliein
                             Sei Tabuk
                                                                                                                                                                 Sei
BANJARMASIN                                                                                                                                                    Pinang
                                                               EIBR-4
                           Gambut        Martapura                                                                                                               Berangas
                                        Kotip Banjarbaru                                                                                                                             Sungai Bali
                 L. Anggang
                                               Araneo
   Tabungmen                                                                                                                                                                         Sebuku
                    Pulausari                                                                                                             Pagatan
                                       EIP-46
                              Batibati                                                                                                                                               Island
                                                                                                                                                                 Laut
                                                                                                                                                                Island

                                                                                                       Sebamban


                                    Pelaihari

           Takisong                                D15      Kintap
                                              Asamasam                                                                                                       Sebanti


4                                                                EIP-23                                                                                                                         4

                                                                              0      10         20      30        40         50               Mekar Putih


                                                                                            KILOMETERS
                         Batakan

                                                                       This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                       The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                       shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                       Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                   115                endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                116

                                                                                                                                                                                       DECEMBER 2006

            JA                          11430'                                  11445'                                       11500'                                         11515'                                            11530'
              W                                                                                INDONESIA

               A                                  EASTERN INDONESIA REGION TRANSPORT PROJECT
                TIMUR                                                                                                                                                Kubutambahan
                                                                         ROAD PRESERVATION PROGRAM
                                                                                                                                                                                        Bandalem
                                                               EIB-24/24A                         BALI                                               Buleleng
                                                                                                                                                      Singaraja


                                    001
                     Gilimanuk                                                                                                                              Gitgit
                                                                     027
                                   Cekik                                                                                                      EIB-26
                                                                              Celukan Bawang                                                                                       Dausa
                                                                                                                                                                                                Kintamani
                                                                                                           Seririt                                   026
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Ty. Bungkah

                                                                                                                       Mayong                                                       Baturanyar
                     815'                                                                                                                                                                                        Kedisan                                                            815'
                                                 002                                                                                 Munduk         Wanagiri                                             Penelokan
                                                                                                                                                                      Bedugul
                              EIB-25                                                                                                                                                                                 Suter

                                                                                                                                     Pupuan

                                                                 Negara                                                Kemoning                               Pacung                                                    Pempatan
                                                                                                                                               Batukaru                                                                                                    Embuh
                                                    Banyubiru                003                                                                                                           Sribatu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Besakih


                                                                                                                             Blatungan                      Baruan
                                                  Pengambengan                                      Pekutatan                                                                                                            Menanga
                                                                                                                 004                                                             Tgl.
                                                                                                                                                                               Alang        Tp.
                                                                                                                                                                                            Siring                     Rendang
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Bangli                                  Amlapura
                                                                                                                                                                   026                                                                                             Sebagan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Nongan                 Selat
                                                                                                                                                   005                            Kedewatan
                     830'                                                                                                              Selemadeg    Marga     Mengwi                                                                                                                830'

                                                                                                    EIB-78          Surabrata                                                     Ubud
                                                                                                                                     Antosari                            Sangeh                         038
                                                                                                                                                                   Sp.                   Bedahulu                        Angentelu
                                                                                                                                                             Mengwi             Teges         Gianyar           Klungkung               036

                                                                                                                                             Tabanan                                                  Sidan
                                                                                                                                                               006                                                     037
                                                                                                                                                                        Kengelan  Semebaung                                           Padangbai
                                                                                                                                                  Sp. Kediri                                                                                                                        NUSA
                                                                                                                                                                    i                                                  Kosamba
                                                                                                                                                    Kediri                                                                                                                TENGGARA
                                                                                                                                                                     Mambal           Sakah                      Gelgel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BARAT
                                                                                                                                                                                       Sukawati             EIBR-23
                                                                                                                                                            Mengwitan 007                     018 019
                                                                                                                                                                                                          EIB-65
                                                                                                                                            Tanablot      DENPASAR
                                                                                                                                                                                      Ketewel    EIP-4   EIP-5    EIP-6

                                                                                                                                                    Kerobokan                                                                     Toyapakeh             Sempalan
                                                                                                                                                                                     Sanur

                                      MAIN ROADS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     845'
                                                                                                       PROJECT:
                                      SECONDARY ROADS                                                                                                                                                                              Nusa Penida
                                                                                       EIB-18            BETTERMENT OF ROADS
                                      AIRPORTS                                                                                                      Tugu Ngurahrai            Benoa                                                      Island
                                                                                       EIP-20            PERIODIC MAINTENANCE                                                                                                                     Tulad
                                      PORTS
                                                                                                         BRIDGE REHABILITATION
                                      DISTRICT (KECAMATAN) CAPITALS                       EIBR-11
                                                                                                         OR REPLACEMENT                                                        Nusadua                                                                            Tunglad

                                      REGENCY (KABUPATEN) CAPITALS                               005     LINK NUMBER
                                                                                                                                                    Uluwatu
                                      PROVINCE CAPITAL

                                      REGENCY (KABUPATEN) BOUNDARIES

DECEMBER                              PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                               This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.    IBRD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                             0      5     10    15     20    25                                         shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any       31373R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
        2006                                                                                                                                            KILOMETERS
                                        11430'                                  11445'                                       11500'                                         11515'                                            11530'

                       116                                                                 117                                                                                 118                                                            119


                                             INDONESIA                                                                                                                                                              MAIN ROADS

                                                                                                                                                                             PROJECT:                               SECONDARY ROADS
                      EASTERN INDONESIA REGION                                                                                                               EIB-18            BETTERMENT OF ROADS                  AIRPORTS

                               TRANSPORT PROJECT                                                                                                             EIP-20            PERIODIC MAINTENANCE                 PORTS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DISTRICT (KECAMATAN) CAPITALS
                        ROAD PRESERVATION PROGRAM                                                                                                                    005       LINK NUMBER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    REGENCY (KABUPATEN) CAPITALS
                       NUSA TENGGARA BARAT                                                                                                                                                                          PROVINCE CAPITAL

                                                                                                                                                                                                                    REGENCY (KABUPATEN) BOUNDARIES

              8                                                                                                                                                                                                    PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                     8



                                                                                                                                                                                           Kawindatoi
                                         Lombok Island                                                                                                              Lb. Kenanga                                          Sangeang Island
                                                                                                            Moyo Island
                                                                                                                                                                     Doropati                 Piong           Ponco
              BALI                                                                                                                                                                                                    Sampungu

                                                                                                     EIB-29
                                                                                                                                                                             Hodo                                 EIP-8

                                 Pemenang                                                                                                                                                                      Donggo
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Kore                               Tawali

                                                                                                                                   Sumbawa                                                                    032                Bima
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Bajo           Raba
                                                               026
                                   EIB-28                                                           028                            Besar                                                          Sp.Sp.
                                          D04 EIB-66                                                                                                                                           Kempo Banggo031        Sila      034       036
                                                             024                                                                    Pal IV
                                                      D06                   Pb. Tenau    Sp. Negara       Semongkai                      Serading                                          Kempo              Dompu           Talabiu
                    MATARAM                                             EIB-4                                                                                                                              Sp.  EIP-24  033                 Lb. Bajo
                                                                  Selong                  028                                                     Lope                                                                            Godo
                                                                                                               Bt. Dulang                                                                                Dompu                         EIP-7
                                                                                            EIP-25                                                                                                              Simpasai     Tangga
                                                         EIB-27                                                                                                     Santong
                               Lembar           Praya                                 Taliwang
                                                                                                               Lenangguar            EIP-50
                                                                        Lb. Balad                                                                   Plampang                       Empang                          Parado
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Huu

                                                                                    Sereweh                                                       Sekokat
                                                                                                                                                                                 Sumbawa Island
                                                                               Benete                                Plora
                                                                                                                                                 Rapang
              9                                                     Sejorong       Tonggo
                                                                                                             Lunyuk                                                                                                                                       UR9

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       TIM


                                   Rembiga


                   Selaparang                                                                                                                                                                                                         TENGGARA
                                                      EIB-28                                                                                                                                                                                          Sumba
                Ampenan     Junction    MATARAM              D04
                                             Cakra Negara                                                                                                                                                                 N U SA                      Island
                                                                                                              0      10        20     30       40       50
                              Dasancermin
                                                    Bengkel                                                                  KILOMETERS
DECEMBER                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IBRD
                                       Rumak
                                                                                                       This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                   Kediri                                              The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                                                                            31374R
                                                                                                       shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
        2006                                                                                           Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                            117       endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                             118                                                            119

             7                                                                                          121                                  122                                     123                                      124                                                 125

                                             Kobo
                                  Mauroli                                                                                                                                  INDONESIA
                         Ronokolo
                                                       Magepanda
                                                                    Woloara                                                EASTERN INDONESIA REGION TRANSPORT PROJECT
                               EIB-7  Detukeli             Nita          Maumere
                                                      Hepang
                   Nuabesi              Wologai                                                                                                      ROAD PRESERVATION PROGRAM
                                                                               Kewapante
                                              Lianunu
                     Detusoko                                            Koting
                                           010    011                            Habibola                                                           NUSA TENGGARA TIMUR
                               Junction
                                                          Maubesi     Sikka
                         Ende
                               Kelimutu           Mbuli       EIBR-6

                          EIBR-7                 Nggala                                                                                                                                   Lato Moting
             8                      EIP-51                EIP-27                                                                                                                          Wotowiti                                                                                            8
                                             Wolowaru
                                                                                                                                                                           Walang                   Adonara Island
                                                                                                                          F l o r e s           S e a                                             Waiwadan
                                                                                                                                                                       Waikhbang                    Waewerang                                      Kokar                        Taramana
                                                                                                                                                                           Ebak                                                                                 Mali
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Sagu   Balauring
                                                                                Kendidi        Flores Island                                                                Larantuka                                         Wairiang         Kalabahi             Sp. Mola
                                                                                                                                                                                              Wallebe                                                                          Maritaing
                                   Komo-do                             Bari     Reo                                EIB-57                                                   Loto
               NUSA                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Mataraben
                                    Island                     Kondo                       Pota
                                                                           EIB-32                                                   EIB-7                                                                Lewoleba
                                                                                                                 Danga                                                          Waerunu                                             Pantar                               Alor
           TENGGARA                             Lb. Bajo                                             Riung
                                                                           Ruteng                                                                                                             Lamakera     Ongalerek                 Island                             Island
                                                                                       Baelaing                 Nila   Aeramo                                         Napungmali            Menanga
               BARAT                                                EIBR-5                            Poma                                               Maumere
                                                                                                            Dedewuwu            Nabe                                               Ritaebang          Lomblen
                                                      EIB-67                                                            Kaburea                                                    Solor
                                                                      Malwatar                              Waepana                                                                                     Island                                                           EIB-69
                                                          Tewaronto              Iteng           Bajawa     Gako                                                                  Island                                                                                             TIMOR-
                                           Rinca                                                                   Aegela
                                                                                                      Sp. Bjw.                     Ende                               EIBR-6                                                                                        EIB-6

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Motoa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LESTE
                                           Island                                                                   Mauponggo                                                                                                                                 Malowon         L23
                                                                                     EIBR-5                                                       EIP-27
             9                                                                                EIP-26           Maumbawa           EIBR-7  EIP-51                                                                                                        EIB-64
                                                                                                      Malanuza      EIB-68
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Bts. Oekosi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Pantemakassar                             067        Atambua
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Wini
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Bts.
                    Waekele                                      Sumba                                                                                                                                     TIMOR-LESTE                                                             Hahlulik
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Timtim
                  Radanata          Ketewer                                                                                                                   Sulamu
                                                                 Island                                                                                                                                                                       Oelfoub       063      064             Motamasin
                Waitabula                                                                                                                                                                                     Timor
                                          Memboro                                                                                                                       Kukak
                                                                                                         S a v u             S e a                                                                           Island                          Kefamenau
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Maubesi
                                                                                                                                                                      EIB-5                                                                       Eban
                 Bondohodi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EIB-31      Webua
                                                                           Waingapu                                                                                          056
                Waikabubak                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EIB-30              Noelmuti                Besikama

                                     Wanokaka                                                                                                                                                                          Lolegama
                                                                                                                                                                                            Oilmasi
                Baura                                                                                                                                                            Oesau                                                   Kapan        061         EIP-9           Wambesak
                      Patiate                       Praipaha                                                                                           KUPANGOesapa
                                                                         Lambaoapu                                                                                                                                                                  Nikiniki
                                   Padedeweri                                                                                                                                Lapter Penfui                                                 Soe                             Boking
                                                                                                                                                      Tenau                                                          EIB-5            059                  Oinlasi
                                                                   Malahar                                                                                           Sp. Lap.
                                                                                    Melolo                                                        Bolok              Terbang                                               Bokong           Batuputih   060
             10                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Kalbano
                                                                       Kenanggar                Ngalu                                                                                                                                              EIP-28
                                                                                 Aukakenok                                                                                            Baun            KUPANG                       057
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Panite
                                                                                                                                                                       Bismark                                                            Oemoro
                                                             Nggongi                   Baiog                                                           Tablolong                                                               BurainDekahuri
                               MAIN ROADS                                        Hamba Utang

                               SECONDARY ROADS                                                                                   Mesara                                                                                                          T i m o r                     S e a
                                                                                                                                        Seba     Bolow
                               AIRPORTS                                                                                                                                                 Pantebaru    Papela
                                                                                                      PROJECT:
                               PORTS                                                                                                                                                                  Eakuo
                                                                                      EIB-18            BETTERMENT OF ROADS                                                                  Baa
                               DISTRICT (KECAMATAN) CAPITALS
                                                                                      EIP-20            PERIODIC MAINTENANCE                                                                 Batutua
                               REGENCY (KABUPATEN) CAPITALS                                                                                                                                                                     0        20       40       60        80

             11                                                                                        BRIDGE REHABILITATION                                                                                                                                                                11
                               PROVINCE CAPITAL                                          EIBR-11
                                                                                                        OR REPLACEMENT                                                                                                                      KILOMETERS

                               REGENCY (KABUPATEN) BOUNDARIES                                005        LINK NUMBER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.           IBRD
JANUAR                         PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                       The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                               INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY                                                                                                                                                                    Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any              31375R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
      Y
       2007
               119                                         120                                         121                                  122                                     123                                      124                                                 125

                                                                                                              123                                                      124                                                                  125
                                        INDONESIA                                                                                                                                                                                                        Ondang

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Siau Island          Ulu
                   EASTERN INDONESIA REGION                                                                    12530'
                                                                                                Sangihe
                        TRANSPORT PROJECT                                                         Island            Naha                                     Esang                                                                                      Tahulandang Island
                                                                                                                                                                                     Karakelong                                                                   Buhias
                      ROAD PRESERVATION PROGRAM                                                        Tahuna                                                                        Island
                                                                                                                        Enemawira                   Talaud
           SULAWESI UTARA/GORONTALO                                                                                                                Islands      Beo
                                                                                             330'        Tamako                  330'                                            Rainis


             2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Biaro Island        2
                                           PROJECT:                                                                                                  Melangguane

                            EIB-18            BETTERMENT OF ROADS                                                                                4                                                                                       EIB-73
                            EIP-20            PERIODIC MAINTENANCE                                                                                 Salibabu         Lirung                                                                            EIB-58
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EIB-9
                                                                                                                                                       Island
                               EIBR-11        BRIDGE REHABILITATION
                                              OR REPLACEMENT                                                                                                                     Kaburuang
                                       005    LINK NUMBER                                                                                                                        Island                             EIP-30                                        EIB-10
                                                                                             300'             12530'            300'                    Mangarang
                                                                                                                                                                                         127
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EIB-34
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MANADO                                         Bitung
                                                                                                                                                                                                            EIB-8                      020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Tondano                EIB-35


                                                                                                                                                                                                   Worotican
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EIP-29
                                                                        EIB-36
                                                                                                                          EIP-48
               SULAWESI                                                                                                                                                                  EIP-49        023        Silian         Tombatu
                                                   Tolinggula                                    EIB-59                                                                                                                                      Tumpaan
             1                                                                                           Atinggola
                TENGAH                                                                                                 Simpang                                                                     Poigar                                                                   1
                                                                      Bulontio             Pel. Kwandang
                                                                                                                                                                         Kaiya
                                                                  044                                                                                                                             SULAWESI
                                                                                  044                                                                                                         023
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Belang (Tahabo)
                                                                                Pel. Anggrek                  007     007       Biontong                                                              UTARA
                                                                                   Molingkaputo        Kwandang                                   Maelang     Pinggaluman                            Popo                Ratatotokdua
                                        G O R O N TA L O                                                                                                                  Kotamobagu
                                                                           EIP-32
                                                                                                       Isimu                                                                                                         Kotabunan
                                     033                                                                         Limboto                                                                        Modayag
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Malobog
                            Lemito                                Paguyaman
                                                                                               001                       Gorontalo                                                                                                  0       10       20         30        40
                                                         Tabulo                                       Batudua
             Molosipat                                                                                                                                      Duloduo
                                          Marisa                                                                               Suwawa
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Onggune
                                                                                          Tangkobu     Biluhudarat               Tulabolo                       039              EIB-33                                                         KILOMETERS

                                  EIP-31                                                          Bilato
                                                                                                            Pel. Gorontalo                                  045
                                                                                                                                              045                                                                                            125
                                                                                                                                 Taludaa                                                  Pinolosian
                                                                                                                                                                           Molibagu
                                                                                                                          Aladi
                                                                                                                                                                EIP-10                                                      EIB-73   Tarabitan    EIB-58
                                                                                                                                      EIP-11Mamalia
                                                                                                                                                    EIBR-13                                                             EIB-9      053             053      Likupang
                         MAIN ROADS                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Maen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Wori      Palaes
                         SECONDARY ROADS                                                                                                                                                                                                                      054
                                                                                                                                                                                                          EIP-30       Molas                                         EIB-10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Mapanget
             0          AIRPORTS                                                                                                                                                            0                      055                 EIB-34   Kauditan
                         PORTS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Airtembaga
                                                                                                                                                                                                             MANADO                           Sukur
                                                                                                                                                                                                  EIB-8 036                                                         Bitung
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Kairagi
                         DISTRICT (KECAMATAN) CAPITALS                                                                                                        This map was produced by                                                                          Girian
                                                                                                                                                              the Map Design Unit of The         Tanahwangko                            015
                         REGENCY (KABUPATEN) CAPITALS                                                                                                                                                                  012
                                                                                                                                                              World Bank. The boundaries,                                                               Kema      017
                                                                                                                                                              colors, denominations and                  036
                         URBAN DISTRICT (KOTAMADYA) CAPITALS                                                                                                                                                                    Tondano
                                                                                                                                                              any other information shown                         Tomohon                            Airmadidi       EIB-35    IBRD
JANUAR                                                                               S U L AW E S I                                                           on this map do not imply, on
                         PROVINCE CAPITAL                                                                                                                     the part of The World Bank                        EIP-29     Sonder       Touliang Oki
                                                                                                                                                              Group, any judgment on the         Tumpaan
                         REGENCY (KABUPATEN) BOUNDARIES                               T E N G A H                                                             legal status of any territory,                                                                                       31376R
      Y                                                                                                                                                       or any endorsement or                        010
       2007              PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                  a c c e p t a n c e  o f  s u c h
                                                     122                                                     123                                            boundaries.                            Amurang Kawangkoan           Kakas
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Worotican       Langawan

             119                                  120                                                        EIB-40                      122                                 123                                    124
                                                                                 Lingadan      121Laulalang            027                                                                                                 This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                           TIMUR                                                                                             EIB-60
                                                                           EIB-12                           Lakuan                                                                                                          The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                 011                                             EIBR-16                                                                                    Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                     Momunu           Buul                   028
                                          EIB-15                                                                                      Poleleh                                                                               endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                              Toli Toli                                                            Umu
              1 KALIMANTAN                                   Ogo Tua
                                                          026                                             Airterang                                                                                                                                                                         1
                                                                             045                                          028

                                                                                  MalalaSilondou                                         G O R O N TA L O                                                         S U L AW E S I
                                                            Ogoamas                            EIB-39

                                               025                   EIB-37           Mepanga                                                                                                                           U TA R A
                                                              EIB-38

                                                    Rerang                                       Lombunu
                                         025

                                                      EIP-33                                                                                                                                                              INDONESIA
                                                              Tinombo
                                         Sebang                                                                                                                                                  EASTERN INDONESIA REGION
              0                                                 009                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                        Tombu                                                                                                                                                              TRANSPORT PROJECT
                                                        Kasimbar
                                                            EIP-12                                                           Unauna                                                                 ROAD PRESERVATION PROGRAM
                                      Tompe
                                                                                                                              Togian   Islands        Daleng
                                                                                                                                                                                                          SULAWESI TENGAH
                                                        Ampibabo
                                                                                                                                                                            Bantaian       Bualemo

                                 Donggala         Pantoloan                                                                                                                                      Pangkalaseang

                                                           Tobah                                                                                                Pagimana
                                                Tawaeli                                                                                                                  Poh
                           Surumana                           Parigi
                                                                                                              Ampana                                  Bunta             Biak                       Balantak
                                        PALU                                                                                          Balingara
              1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1
                                                              Tolai                                                                                                       Luwuk
                                                             Palolo            Tambarana                           Marowo

                                      Bangga          Kolawara                                                                                    Langgeatas                                          Peleng Island
                                                                                                                                                                   Batui                        Salakan
                                                Simora                                     Poso                                                                               Bulagi
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Sambiut                                      M A L U K U
                                               Kulawi                    Kasiguncu            Kabalo       Uekuli                                           Toili
                                                                                                                                                                           Tataba
                                                                   Napu                                                                                    Moilong                                                                                      U TA R A
                                                  Gimpu                    Sanginora         Togalu           Malino                         Raia                                            Liang       Banggai Island
                                                        Gintu                              EIP-43                           Balurube                                                                   Banggai
                                                                           Tentena                                                        Sp. Balurube
                                                            Puna                                                 Tondoyondo                                                       Labobo Island
                                                                                                     EIP-13                                                                                      Mansalean
                                                                                                020                                                                   Bangkulu Island
                                                                                 035                           Kolonodale                                                                                           Salue

              2                                                                                 Tomata                                                                                                             Island                                                                  2

                                                                         EIP-14       Pape               021               EIP-34

                                                                                                                Betleme

                                                                                                                                     Wosu                                                  MAIN ROADS                                                   PROJECT:
                                                                                                       EIP-34
                                                                                                                 Bts. Prop                                                                 SECONDARY ROADS                            EIB-18               BETTERMENT OF ROADS
                                                                          S U L AW E S I
                                                                                                                                                                                           AIRPORTS                                   EIP-20
                    SULAWESI                                                                                                              Bungku                                                                                                           PERIODIC MAINTENANCE
                                                                            S E L ATA N
                                                                                                                                                                                           PORTS
                       BARAT                                                                                                                                                                                                             EIBR-11           BRIDGE REHABILITATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OR REPLACEMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                           DISTRICT (KECAMATAN) CAPITALS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  005      LINK NUMBER
                                                                                                                                                                                           REGENCY (KABUPATEN) CAPITALS

DECEMBER                                                                                                                                                                                   PROVINCE CAPITAL                                                                                   IBRD
              3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3
                                                                                                                                       Bts. Sultra                                         REGENCY (KABUPATEN) BOUNDARIES
                      0      20    40    60      80                                                                   SULAWESI                                                                                                                                                                    31377R
                                                                                                                                                                                           PROVINCE BOUNDARIES

        2006                   KILOMETERS                                                                                                                    Malore
             119                                   120                                       121                  TENGGARA                                                    123                                   124                                           125

                                                                                                                                                                                        IBRD 31378R

                        119                                                      120                                                                                                  122
                                                           Surumana                                                             INDONESIA
                                                090
1
                                        EIP-36                          EASTERN INDONESIA REGION TRANSPORT PROJECT                                                                                1
                                                              EIBR-1
                                     Pasangkayu                                                            ROAD PRESERVATION PROGRAM
                                       089                                     SULAWESI BARAT and SULAWESI SELATAN
                                                                                                                 PROJECT:
                                                                                                                                                                      MAIN ROADS
                                 EIB-14
                                                 Baras                                        EIB-18               BETTERMENT OF ROADS
                                                                                                                                                                      SECONDARY ROADS
                                                                                              EIP-20               PERIODIC MAINTENANCE
                                                   088                                                                                                                AIRPORTS

                                                                                                 EIBR-11           BRIDGE REHABILITATION
                                                                                                                                                                      PORTS
                                  EIB-61        Karossa                                                            OR REPLACEMENT

                                                                                                         005       LINK NUMBER                                        DISTRICT (KECAMATAN) CAPITALS

                                                                                                                                                                      REGENCY (KABUPATEN) CAPITALS

                       EIB-43                       087                                                                                                               PROVINCE CAPITAL
2                                            Topoyo                                                                                                                  REGENCY (KABUPATEN)         2

                                                                                                                                                                      BOUNDARIES

                                       SULAWESI                                                                                                                       PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                       Barakang                                                                                        Tidantano
                                           BARAT
                          Kaluku                Bonehau                     Sae                                                           EIBR-17
                                                                                                   Masamba                       Tarengge
                                                     Batuisi                    Tallang                               Wafu
                                                                                                    Sabang                                    Malili

                                                                                                                                              Laskap
                     MAMUJU
                                                                                EIP-15
                                                                                                                                                Bts. Sultra
                                         Mamasa
        052
3                                                                                              Palopo
                                                          Seseng                004                                                                                                               3

EIB-13                                Malabo

                                                                Makale
                                         Tabone                                 EIP-35
                        EIBR-17
                                                 Polewali                  005  SULAWESI                       EIB-44
      052                                                                                                                                                    S U L AW E S I
                                        050                            Malauwe
         Majene                                    Tuppu                         SELATAN
                                                        Enrekang                                                                                           T E N G G A R A
                                                                              EIBR-17
                              EIP-37                                                                            040


                                                    Pinrang              Rapang           EIB-44                                                             0     20       40      60

                                                         Bangkae        Pk. Jenb. S.
                                                                                      Anabanua        Solo                                                          KILOMETERS
                                                  Parepare
4                                                                            043
                                                                                                Tarumpakae
                                                                        Impaimpa                                                                                                                  4

                                                                                      Sengkang
                                                                    Tampa                                                                                     Palori                121
                                                                    ngeng                   Pampanus
                                                      009      Sopeng                               Kalampu
                                                                                                                                               6                                          6
                                                                     Cabenge         Saloondro
                                          EIB-15                                                        EIP-44                                      Benteng      Selayar
                                                                     Takalala        026                     Watampone                                           Island
                                                             Barru                                         Pel. Bajo E.

                                                    Pakae                            Uj. Lamuru    EIB-42
                                                                        EIB-70
                                                                     Tanabatug
                                                   011                                                                                          Barangbarang

                                                                      022
                                        Pangkajene K.                                    Sanrego                                                              Ampatama

                                                               EIB-41            EIB-76               Bajo
                                                  Maros
5                                                                          EIB-75                                                                                                                5
                                                                                                      Sinjai
                                                                                    Tondong                                                                      Kayyadi
                                Sungguminasa          UJUNGPANDANG                                                                                                  Island

                                                                                                    Kajang                                                              Tanahjampea
                                                                                    Tamel                                                      7
                                                                                                                                                                        Island             7
This map was produced by
the Map Design Unit of The                 Takalar             Boro
World Bank. The boundaries,                                                      Bantaeng                Tanahbaru
colors, denominations and                                                                                                                                                           Bonerate
any other information shown                                                                                                                                                          Island
on this map do not imply, on                                                                                                                                          Kalao
the part of The World Bank                                                              Bulukumba                                                                     Island
Group, any judgment on the                                           Jeneponto                                                                                                      121
legal status of any territory,
or any endorsement or
a c c e p t a n c e o f s u c h                                                                                      Selayar Island
boundaries.                                                                     120                                 (see inset)       121                                           122

                                                                                                                                                                                         DECEMBER 2006

                                   121                      SULAWESI                                 122                                                    123                                               124                                            125
                                           Bts. Sulsel.
                                                              SELATAN                                   SULAWESI                                                                                            INDONESIA
                                                                                                         TENGAH                                                EASTERN INDONESIA REGION TRANSPORT PROJECT
              3                  Tolala                                                                                                                                                  ROAD PRESERVATION PROGRAM                                                   3

                               Lelewawo                                                                                                                                                     SULAWESI TENGGARA
                                                                               Ronta                                 Bts. Sulteng
                                                                                                       Landawe
                                                                                                     (Kotamaju)
                             Batuputih                Poreku

                                                                                                                                                                                              PROJECT:
                                         Lapai                                                          Asera                                                                                                                        MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                EIB-18          BETTERMENT OF ROADS                  SECONDARY ROADS
                                                                                                  Andowia                                                                       EIP-20          PERIODIC MAINTENANCE
                               Lasusua                                                                                EIBR-8                                                                                                         AIRPORTS

                                                                                                         Tinobu                                                                    EIBR-11      BRIDGE REHABILITATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                OR REPLACEMENT                       PORTS

                                               EIBR-8                                                                                                                                                                                DISTRICT (KECAMATAN) CAPITALS
                                                                                                               Lasolo                                                                     005   LINK NUMBER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     REGENCY (KABUPATEN) CAPITALS
                                   023                                                                                                Nangananga
                                                                                                                                       Lepolepo                                                                                      PROVINCE CAPITAL
                                                             Wolo                                                     EIP-17
                                                                                                   Unaaha                               Wuawua
                                                                                                                                         Mandonga
                                           EIP-16                                                                                                                                                                                    REGENCY (KABUPATEN) BOUNDARIES
                                                                                         EIB-16                            001               KENDARI
                                                                                                             Lambuya                                                                                                                 PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
              4                                                                   001         Raterate                   Pohara             Tobimeta                                                                                                                 4
                                                        014          Kolaka           Barru                             Kendari                                 Wawoni
                                                                                        Baula        Motaha                                                       Island
                                                                                                                                         Lapuko

                                                                                 Pomala             Polipolia                           Punggaluku     Anwunio

                                                                                                            Alangga            Ambesia
                                                                                                                                                          Amolengu
                                                                                                                                              Lainea
                                                                                                                                 Torosulu                      Labuan
                                                                                                                    Tinanggea

                                                                                                                                                 Tampo
                                                                                                                                                              Lambale


                                                                      Buasin               Sp. Kasipute       Kasipute                              Maligano              Ereke
                                                              (Buopinang)                                                                Raha                    Ronta
                                                                                                                                 Muna
                                                                                                                                 Island                          Buton Island
              5                                                                                                                                   Pure       Bubu                                                                                                    5
                                                                                                                                            Labundoua               Lawele
                                                                                                                                                                    Labundobundo
                                                                                                                             Wakuru                                 Kamaru
                                                                                                                               Lakapera     Wakangka                                          Patuha
                                                                                                Kabaena
                                                                                 Kabaena                                                                                                         Wangiwangi
                                                                                                                                                  Mataompana           Losalimu
                                                                                     Island                                                                                                             Island
                                                                                                                                 Wara                           Matanauwe

                                                                                                                                Baubau                                                                 Kaledupa
                                                                                                                                                          Ps. Wajo                         Kaledepu

                                                                                                                                                         Banabungi                            Island                                   0        20      40       60

                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Tomia
               This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                                                                                                                  KILOMETERS
DECEMBER       The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                                                                                                          Waha        Island                                              IBRD
               shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
               Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
               endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                                                                                       Palahidu                                                 31379R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Binongko Island
        2006
              6                   121                                                               122                                                    123                                         Pepoua      Rukuwa                                    125 6

                                                        127                          128                           129                                130                           131                     132              133

                                          M A L U K U U TA R A
                                                                                                                                   EIB-45

                                                                                                                                         EIB-72
                                                                                                      EIBR-9              EIBR-9                  EIB-62
                                                                                                                                                            EIB-71
                                                                                               Taniwel                         Nahai               Pasahari
              3                                                                    Sp. Pelitajaya
                                                                                           Piru                   Saleman                                                                                                            I R I A N J AYA
                                                                                                                                     Besi                     Kobisonta
                                  Airbuara
                                                        Samalogi                                          Sp. Makariki                  Seram Island
                                                                                             Eti   Hunitelu                Waipia
                                                                                                            Liang                                                             Bula                                                        B A R AT
                                                             Namlea                  Loki                                 Masohi
                        Fogi             Buru                                                                                                           Bukit
                                                  024                        Serikembe      Kairatu                                        Tehoru                               Dawang
                                       Island                                                                  Amahai
                                                                                                                            Tamilau         Haya                Warinama
                                                  EIB-63       Marloso                                                                                                             Waru
                                                                             Maiputih         Waiselan
                                            Tifu                                                                              EIBR-2                                                Musiwang
                                                                 Warawa                Ambon
                                                                                                       046                                                      Kotabaru
                                 Leksala               Mako                             Island                               EIBR-10                                                 Air Nanang
                                         Namole                                                             EIP-18                                                         Gulegule

              4

                                                                                                    Saparua Island
                                                                        Liang                                           Itawaka
                           Ambon Island         Morela                                               Kulur
                                                              115            Pelau
                                                                        Wai
                                   Kaitetu Hila Hitu                                         Hulaliu
                            Seil                         EIP-38         Tulehu                        Haria       Saparua
                                                                   Suli                                                                                                                      Tamedan
                   Negrilima                               Passo
                                     007 Durianpatah                               Haruku
                                                                                    Haruku Island
                             EIP-38                                    004                                                                                                         Ngadi      Ohoitu
              5 Asilulu               AMBON            Galala
                                    Laha                           Hutumuri                                                                                                                Tual                                                                             5
                                                               Air Besar                                                                                                                   Island
                                     Liliboi
               Wakasihu                                 Soya                                                                                                                       Tual
                               Alang                                                                                                                                                                                           Kai
                                               Latuhalat                                                                                                                      Langgur
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Islands

                                                                    INDONESIA                                                                                                                Kai                                      Bombay                      Mariasi


              EASTERN INDONESIA REGION TRANSPORT PROJECT                                                                                                                                     Island                                 Naw
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Pobo

              6
                                          ROAD PRESERVATION PROGRAM                                                                                                            Debut                                                                  Aru
                                                                                                                                                                            Tetuat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Islands
                                                                  MALUKU                                                                                                                                                                                           Kudere

                                                                        PROJECT:                                                                                                                                                                       Siodal     Palalabala

                                                       EIB-18              BETTERMENT OF ROADS                                                                                                Damar                                                                      Koba
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Slanidal
                                                       EIP-20              PERIODIC MAINTENANCE                                                                                                                                                        Batugoyang

              7                                          EIBR-11          BRIDGE REHABILITATION                                                                                                                                                                            7
                                                                           OR REPLACEMENT                      Damar
                                                                                                                                                                                               Siwahan
                                                                  005      LINK NUMBER                         Island                                                                                                                    MAIN ROADS

                                                                                                                                                                                                          Arina                          SECONDARY ROADS
                          Wete Island                                     Romang                                                                                                                            Tanimbar Islands             AIRPORTS
                            Lutang                                        Island                                                                                                               046     Anuidas                           PORTS

                                                                                                                                                      Babar                             Saumlaki          EIB-77                         DISTRICT (KECAMATAN) CAPITALS
                                  Ilwaki                                                                                                              Island                                        EIB-46                               REGENCY (KABUPATEN) CAPITALS       8

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PROVINCE CAPITAL
                                                                                  Moa
                                                                                 Island                                                                                                                                                  REGENCY (KABUPATEN) BOUNDARIES

DECEMBER                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                   IBRD
                 TIMOR-                                                                                    This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                   0    30      60     90  120
                                                                                                           The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                                               INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY                    31380R
                                                                                                           shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                            KILOMETERS
        2006       LESTE                                                                                   Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
              9                                       127                          128                  endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                              131                      132              133                 134                 9

                                             INDONESIA                                                 126                           127                                 128                               129               130

            EASTERN INDONESIA REGION                                                                                    PROJECT:                                              Morotai
                                                                                                                                                                               Island                                  MAIN ROADS
                          TRANSPORT PROJECT                                                              EIB-18          BETTERMENT OF ROADS                                               Barebare

                                                                                                         EIP-20          PERIODIC MAINTENANCE                                                                          SECONDARY ROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                         Daruba
                 ROAD PRESERVATION PROGRAM                                                                                                                                                                             AIRPORTS
                                                                                                            EIBR-11      BRIDGE REHABILITATION                                                     Daeo
                                                                                                                         OR REPLACEMENT                                    Lap.
                               MALUKU UTARA                                                                                                                                Terbang                                     PORTS
                                                                                                                   005   LINK NUMBER                                                                                                                 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DISTRICT (KECAMATAN) CAPITALS
                                                                                                                                                             Galela               EIBR-18                              REGENCY (KABUPATEN) CAPITALS
                                                                                                                                                        Kedi     035        Tobelo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PROVINCE CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                                                  EIP-39
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       REGENCY (KABUPATEN) BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                               Podiwang                               Jara-jara
                                                                                                                                                     Coal                     036                                      PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                             EIP-19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY
                                                                                                                                                Jailolo           Kao                  Lolabaia

                                                                                                                                             Sidangoli                              Subaim
              1                                                                                                                                  Bosso         Dodinga                        EIB-48                                                1
                                                                                                                                                                                       Buli
                                                                                                                                                                      030    Ekor            EIBR-18
                                                                                                                                                     Fel Feri
                    S U L AW E S I                                                                            Ternate
                                                                                                               Island                                           Bobaneigo                 Gotowase
                          U TA R A                                                                                                                           043      Sagea
                                                                                                                                                EIB-47
                                                                                                                                                        Toniku            Halmahera
                                                                                                     Ternate                                              043                Island         Patani


                                                                                                                                                         Payahe
              0                                                                                                           Garuamelia
                                                                                                                   Rumiua                                                 Weda                                                                       0


                                                                                                                                                      Dehepo                Matuting


                                                                                                   Tidore                                                               Sakela
                                                                                                                     Soasiu
                                                                                                   Island
                                                                                                                                               Labuha        Babang
                                                                                                                                                                                       Gane                          I R I A N J AYA
                                                                                                                                                       Bacan                                                              B A R AT
              1                                                                                                                                       Island                                                                                        1



                                                                                                                                                                  Bisa Island



               SULAWESI                                                                                                                                     Dikalamu
                                                                                 Sula Island
                TENGAH                                                  Tikong
                                                                                                                                                                   Obi
                                                                                         Dofa
                                                              Bobong                               Faiabisahaya                                                   Island
              2                                                                                 Pohea                                                                                                                                               2
                                                                                                 Sanana

                                                                                                  Manaf      Sanana Island
DECEMBER                                                                                                                                 0      25        50        75        100                                                                      IBRD
              This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
              The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                                                         KILOMETERS                                                                                           31381R
              shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
              Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
        2006  endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                125                                                  127                                 128                               129               130

                              130                                 132                                   134                                   136                                                                                                           Warumbaim
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Kuansun
                                                                                                                                                                             Jenggerboi                             Biak Island                        Demta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Nimbokrang                 Depapre  016 JAYAPURA
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Wandos                                          Berap
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Kemri        Sentano
                                                                                                                                                                          Ababiadi                 Wambrisau   Warsa                                                                    Hamadi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Oasom                                Holtekang
                                                                                                                                                                                  Korido                                                                           Basum
                                                                                                              EIB-17                                                                                                Korem                               Gemyem
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Taja        Yanbra         Arso         018
              0                   Waigeo Island               EIB-55                                                                                                                      Sorindiweri                                                                             Yeti
                                                                                             EIBR-21                                                                                                                                                                                    Waris
                                                                                                              EIB-18                                                                                                                               Lereh            EIP-40
                                               Kabare                                                                                                            0                                                                                                       Senggi
                                                                     EIB-51                                                                                                                        Wardo                                      Km. 234.00                                 EIB-49
                                                                                                              EIB-19                                                                                                 Junction   Malurber                                          019
                                              Saanek                                                                                  Biak Island                                                          Adaki                                                                        Ubrub
                                                                                   Soukorem             005                                                                                                                    Marau
                                                           Makbon                                                                                                                                    K. Baru   Biak
                                                                                      Mubrani                                                                                                                                Bosnik                            Tengon
                                            Sorong                 003 Ayamaru                                MANOKWARI
                                                                             FategomiKebar          Masni
                                           Doom
                                                             Ps. Putih                         Prafi        Maruni                                                                                              Mokmer
                                     Bailalap                                                                            EIBR-20
                                                        Klamono                                     008                                 Biak
                                           Saila                                                                   006                                                                            138                              140                                   142
                                                              Altinyo               Kamurkeh
                                            Seget                            Kambuaya                   007
                                                                       Teminabuan         Merdey                Oransbari                        Saubeba
                                                EIB-74                                                                                          Manawi              Sumberbaba
                                                             Wersar                    Mage                                             Ansus
                           Misool Island                                                                     Ransiki                                                   Dawai                         Ampawar
              2                                  EIBR-22                                                                  EIB-52                                                 Damoe
                                                                                Inanwatan           Metur   Mameh                               Serui                                                     Sarmi                                                                              2
                                               I R I A N J AYA                             Bentuni
                                                                                                                                                                           Barapasi
                                                                                   Bamberoi                                                                                                                         Bonggo
                                                       B A R AT                   Hurimber          Windasi                                                  Warem                                                                                      JAYAPURA
                                                                           Kokas                   Babo               Wasiar
                                                              Werba                                Bourof                                             Napan
                                                                 Tarea                   Bufuwer
                                                                     Fakfak                    Susunu                                             Neinam
                                                                                                                           Kwatisore          Kimbay
                                                                       EIB-54                                                 Wanggar                                                         Illu
                                                                                               Kaimana                                 Nabire                                                                   Bokendini  038      Bolakme

                                                                                                           Etna                                                                     Illaga
                                                                                                                               025        EIB-53                                                      Piramid
                                                                                                                                                             Enarotali                                                              EIP-20
              4M A L U K U                                                            Kanaka                        Semini
                                                                                                                                   Mapia                                                          Tiam                Wamena                                                                 4
                                                                                                                                        Bonamani         Wagete
                                                                                                                                                                                                     PA P U A
                                                                                                                                                      Tembagapura

                              130                                 132                                   134                                                                            ( I R I A N J AYA )
                                                                                                                                                                        Timika
                                                                                                                                                           Pomako 2                                                                     Oksibil
                                                         INDONESIA                                                                                                                                                                              Iwur

                                                                                                                                                                      EIBR-11
                              EASTERN INDONESIA REGION                                                                                                                                                Sawerma                       Kouh
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PA P U A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Atsy                   Waropko

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Miodiptana
                                        TRANSPORT PROJECT
              6                                                                                                                 6                                                                                                                                     N E W                6
                                ROAD PRESERVATION PROGRAM                                                                                                                                                                          Tn. Merah

                                                                                                                                                                                                            Agota
              IRIAN JAYA BARAT and PAPUA (IRIAN JAYA)                                                                                          Arafura                                                                                                          G U I N E A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Pirmapun         Getentiri
                                                                                                                                                      Sea                                                                                        EIB-50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Obaa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            044    Bupul
                               PROJECT:                                            MAIN ROADS                                                                                                                                                              023
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Muting
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Bapai                                        Erambu
                 EIB-18          BETTERMENT OF ROADS                               SECONDARY ROADS                                                                                                                 Yadam     Sanomere    Jakebok

                 EIP-20          PERIODIC MAINTENANCE                              AIRPORTS                                                                                                          Yos Sudarso          Salor                             Sota
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               024
                                 BRIDGE REHABILITATION                             PORTS                                                                                                                 Island                   Kuprilk
              8    EIBR-11                                                                                                                                                                                                Kumbe                               EIBR-19
                                 OR REPLACEMENT                                                                                  8                                                                     Kaimana     Okaba
                                                                                   DISTRICT (KECAMATAN) CAPITALS                        0        50       100       150        200                                                                                                           8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EIP-41
                           005   LINK NUMBER                                                                                                                                                                             Merauke
                                                                                   REGENCY (KABUPATEN) CAPITALS                                      KILOMETERS                                                                               Rawabiru
DECEMBER                                                                           PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                                                                                                                                                            IBRD
                                                                                                                                 This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.

                                                                                   REGENCY (KABUPATEN) BOUNDARIES                The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                 shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                                                                      31382R
                                                                                   PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                           Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                 endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
        2006
                              130                                 132            INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY 134                                   136                                             138                             140                                    142

                                130                                   132                                   134                                   136                                                                                                           Warumbaim
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Kuansun
                                                                                                                                                                                 Jenggerboi                             Biak Island                        Demta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Nimbokrang                 Depapre  016 JAYAPURA
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Wandos                                          Berap
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Kemri        Sentano
                                                                                                                                                                              Ababiadi                 Wambrisau   Warsa                                                                    Hamadi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Oasom                                Holtekang
                                                                                                                                                                                      Korido                                                                           Basum
                                                                                                                  EIB-17                                                                                                Korem                               Gemyem
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Taja        Yanbra         Arso         018
              0                        Waigeo Island              EIB-55                                                                                                                      Sorindiweri                                                                             Yeti
                                                                                                 EIBR-21                                                                                                                                                                                    Waris
                                                                                                                  EIB-18                                                                                                                               Lereh            EIP-40
                                                   Kabare                                                                                                            0                                                                                                       Senggi
                                                                         EIB-51                                                                                                                        Wardo                                      Km. 234.00                                 EIB-49
                                                                                                                  EIB-19                                                                                                 Junction   Malurber                                          019
                                                  Saanek                                                                                  Biak Island                                                          Adaki                                                                        Ubrub
                                                                                                 Soukorem   005                                                                                                                    Marau
                                                               Makbon                                                                                                                                              Biak
                                                                                          Mubrani       Masni                                                                                            K. Baru
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Bosnik                            Tengon
                                                Sorong                 003 Ayamaru                                MANOKWARI                                                                                                                                   Bolakme
                                               Doom
                                                                 Ps. Putih       FategomiKebar     Prafi        Maruni                                                                                              Mokmer
                                         Bailalap                                                                            EIBR-20
                                                            Klamono                                     008                                 Biak
                                               Saila                                                                   006                                                                            138                              140                                   142
                                                                  Altinyo               Kamurkeh
                                                Seget                            Kambuaya                   007
                                                                           Teminabuan         Merdey                Oransbari                        Saubeba
                                                    EIB-74                                                                                          Manawi              Sumberbaba
                                                                 Wersar                    Mage                                             Ansus
                           Misool Island                                                                         Ransiki                                                   Dawai                         Ampawar
              2                                      EIBR-22                                                                  EIB-52                                                 Damoe
                                                                                    Inanwatan           Metur   Mameh                               Serui                                                     Sarmi                                                                              2
                                                   I R I A N J AYA                             Bentuni
                                                                                                                                                                               Barapasi
                                                                                       Bamberoi                                                                                                                         Bonggo
                                                           B A R AT                   Hurimber          Windasi                                                  Warem                                                                                      JAYAPURA
                                                                               Kokas                   Babo               Wasiar
                                                                  Werba                                Bourof                                             Napan
                                                                     Tarea                   Bufuwer
                                                                         Fakfak                    Susunu                                             Neinam
                                                                                                                               Kwatisore          Kimbay
                                                                           EIB-54                                                 Wanggar                                                         Illu
                                                                                                   Kaimana                                 Nabire                                                                   Bokendini  038      Bolakme

                                                                                                               Etna                                                                     Illaga
                                                                                                                                   025        EIB-53                                                      Piramid
                                                                                                                                                                 Enarotali                                                              EIP-20
              4M A L U K U                                                                Kanaka                        Semini
                                                                                                                                       Mapia                                                          Tiam                Wamena                                                                 4
                                                                                                                                            Bonamani         Wagete
                               130                                    132                                   134                                                                                       PA P U A
                                                                                                                                                          Tembagapura
                                                             INDONESIA                                                                                                                        ( I R I A N J AYA )
                                                                                                                                                                            Timika

                                EASTERN INDONESIA REGION                                                                                                       Pomako 2                                                                     Oksibil
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Iwur

                                            TRANSPORT PROJECT                                                                                                             EIBR-11                         Sawerma                       Kouh
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PA P U A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Atsy                   Waropko

                                                POVERTY BY DISTRICT                                                                                                                                                                            Miodiptana

              6                IRIAN JAYA BARAT and PAPUA (IRIAN JAYA)                                                              6                                                                                                                                     N E W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Tn. Merah                                                 6

                                                                                                                                                                                                                Agota                                               G U I N E A
                                  PERCENTAGE OF POOR:                                                                                              Arafura
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Pirmapun         Getentiri
                                     <10%                                                                                                                 Sea                                                                                        EIB-50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Obaa
                                     10  19%                                                                                                                                                                                                   044    Bupul
                                                                                       MAIN ROADS                                                                                                                                                              023
                                     20  29%                                                                                                                                                                                           Muting
                                                                                       SECONDARY ROADS                                                                                                          Bapai                                        Erambu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Jakebok
                                     30% +                                                                                                                                                                             Yadam     Sanomere

                                                                                       AIRPORTS                                                                                                          Yos Sudarso          Salor                             Sota
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   024
                                  PROJECT:                                             PORTS                                                                                                                 Island                   Kuprilk
              8                                                                                                                     8                                                                                                                            EIBR-19
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Kaimana            Kumbe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Okaba
                 EIB-18              BETTERMENT OF ROADS                               DISTRICT (KECAMATAN) CAPITALS                        0        50       100       150        200                                                                                                           8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Merauke                            EIP-41
                 EIP-20              PERIODIC MAINTENANCE                              REGENCY (KABUPATEN) CAPITALS                                      KILOMETERS                                                                               Rawabiru
NOVEMBER                                                                               PROVINCE CAPITALS
                    EIBR-11          BRIDGE REHABILITATION                                                                           This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                                                IBRD
                                     OR REPLACEMENT                                    REGENCY (KABUPATEN) BOUNDARIES                The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                     shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                           005       LINK NUMBER                                       PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                           Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                                                                                   35139
        2006                                                                                                                         endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                         Improvements to roads and bridges
                         are subject to annual reviews.
                               130                                    132            INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY 134                                   136                                             138                             140                                    142

