Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4643 IND
Loan Agreement
(Eastern Indonesia Region Transport Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated January 22, 2002
LOAN NUMBER 4643 IND
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 22, 2002, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
Page  2
(the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the 
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the Bank to assist 
in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to extend the 
Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements 
for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended through October 6, 
1999) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“BAPPENAS” means the Borrower’s National Development Planning Agency;
(b)
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set forth in the table in Part 
A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(c)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and services referred 
to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(d)
“Environmental Management Plan” means the Plan, adopted by the Borrower on 
November 6, 2001, setting forth the measures to be taken during the implementation and 
operation of the Project to eliminate or offset adverse environmental impacts or to reduce such 
impacts to acceptable levels, and setting forth the actions needed to implement these measures;
(e)
“Fiscal Year” and “FY” mean the Borrower’s fiscal year commencing January 1 and 
ending December 31;
(f)
“Isolated Vulnerable People” means those social groups in Indonesia that have a distinct 
social and cultural identity, and that are susceptible to being disadvantaged in the development 
process induced by the Project or any part thereof;
(g)
“Isolated Vulnerable People Development Plan” means a development plan prepared by 
a Project Province pursuant to the provisions of the guidelines for the treatment of Isolated 
Vulnerable People set out in the Environmental Management Plan, and pursuant to the 
recommendations of the social impact assessment carried out in accordance with such guidelines, 
and acceptable to the Bank, to mitigate any social or cultural impact of the Project on Isolated 
Vulnerable People;
(h)
“Kabupaten” means a regional autonomous district within a province of the Borrower;
(i)
“Kota” means a municipality, an administrative division within a province of the 
Borrower;
Page  3
(j)
“Land Acquisition and Resettlement Action Plan" means a resettlement and 
rehabilitation action plan, acceptable to the Bank, prepared and implemented by a Project 
Province, pursuant to the Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework and paragraph 4 
(e) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(k)
 “
Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework” means the Policy Framework 
set out in the Borrower’s letter to the Bank of even date with this Agreement and appended to the 
Environmental Management Plan, for the provision of compensation, rehabilitation and 
resettlement assistance to Project Affected Persons;
(l)
“P3JJ” means the Provincial Project Office for the Design
 
and Supervision of Road and 
Bridge Works in each of the Project Provinces;
(m)
“Project Affected Persons” means persons who, on account of the execution of  the 
Project, had or would have their: (i) standard of living adversely affected; or (ii) right, title, 
interest in any house, land (including premises, agricultural and grazing land) or any other 
physical asset acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; (iii) access to productive assets 
adversely affected, temporarily or permanently; or (iv) business, occupation, work or place of 
residence or habitat adversely affected; and “Project Affected Person” means individually all 
those who qualify as Project Affected Persons;
(n)
“Project Management Manual” means the manual to assist the Central, Provincial and 
Local Governments’ Project staff in the implementation of the Project through the description of, 
inter alia
, procurement procedures (including the letter on national competitive bidding 
procedures) and standard documentation, reporting requirements, financial management 
procedures including audit procedures, and environmental criteria applicable to Project design, 
as such Project Management Manual may be amended from time to time in agreement with the 
Bank;
(o)
 “Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with Section 
4.02 of this Agreement;
(p)
“Project Management Unit” means the unit established in the Directorate of Technical 
Affairs of the Directorate General of Regional Infrastructure in the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Settlements and Regional Infrastructure for the purposes set forth in paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement;
(q)
“Project Provinces” means the Borrower’s provinces of Bali, Gorontalo, Kalimantan 
Barat, Kalimantan Selatan, Kalimantan Tengah, Kalimantan Timur, Maluku, Maluku Utara, 
Nusa Tenggara Barat, Nusa Tenggara Timur, Papua, Sulawesi Selatan, Sulawesi Tengah, 
Sulawesi Tenggara, and Sulawesi Utara, and any province or provinces that may be established 
in the future within the geographical boundaries of the provinces referred to above;
(r)
“Road Fund” means the fund to be established in a pilot province by the provincial 
government for purposes of funding road maintenance in accordance with paragraph 7 of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(s)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;
(t)
“Steering Committee” means the inter-agency
 
committee established by the Borrower for 
the purposes set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and
(u)
“Strategic road” means an arterial road that satisfies the classification criteria of national 
roads under the Borrower’s Road Law but that has not yet been reclassified as a national road.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Page  4
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set 
forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to two hundred million Dollars 
($200,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the 
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required 
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of the fee 
referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2006, or such later date as the Bank 
shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one percent 
(1%) of the amount of the Loan. On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of said 
fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not 
withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR 
Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the date of 
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and 
including an Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the next following 
Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in United States Dollars for 
value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial 
Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on or next 
preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined 
by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) three-fourths 
Page  5
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) three-fourths 
of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted average 
margin, for such Interest Period, below (or above) the London interbank 
offered rates, or other reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect 
of the Bank’s outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by 
the Bank to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it 
that include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines that it is in the interest of 
its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest rates 
applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to 
the Borrower of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which 
case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on 
April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in accordance 
with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project, 
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through its Ministry of Settlements and Regional 
Infrastructure with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, engineering, financial, and road safety practices and sound environmental and 
social standards, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Page  6
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for 
this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the continued 
achievement of the Project’s objectives; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower 
on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such 
year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements, records and 
accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records and 
accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the 
Bank may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan Account 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports, the Borrower shall:
Page  7
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account 
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
Project Management Reports submitted during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02.  The Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter, a 
Project management report for such period, which:
(a) 
(i)
sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and Projected sources and applications of 
funds for the Project for the six-month period following the period covered by said report and (ii) 
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during the period 
covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
during the six-month period following the period covered by said report;
(b)
(i)
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (ii) explains variances between the 
actual and previously forecast implementation targets; and
(c) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, as at the end of the period covered by said 
report.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the General 
Conditions:
Page  8
(a)
that the Steering Committee has been established in accordance with paragraph 1 
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and
(b)
that the annual work program for Fiscal Year 2002, acceptable to the Bank, has 
been finalized.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of 
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
c/o Directorate General of Budget
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
P. O. Box 1139
Jakarta 10710
Indonesia
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
FINMINISTRY
45799 DJMLN-IA
(21) 381 2859
Jakarta
44319 DEPKEU-IA
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
64145 (MCI)
Page  9
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Jakarta, 
Indonesia, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By
/s/ A. Anshari Ritonga
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
/s/  Mark Baird
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
A.
General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
Dollars
)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works under:
70%
Page  10
(a)  Part A.1, A.2 and A.3
127,500,000
       of the Project
(b)  Part A.4 of the Project
1,300,000
(2)
Goods
12,700,000
100% of foreign
expenditures, 100%
of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 80% of local
expenditures for other
items procured locally
(3)
Incremental operating
400,000
80%
costs
(4)
Consultants' services
29,000,000
100%
and training
Page  11
Loan Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
Dollars
)
to be Financed
(5)
Fee
2,000,000
Amount due under
Section 2.04 of this
Agreement
(6)
Unallocated
27,100,000
TOTAL
200,000,000
=========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “incremental operating costs” means reasonable expenditures incurred 
by the Directorate of Technical Affairs and the Project Management Unit for staff travel, per 
diem, communications, consumables, web page establishment and maintenance, advertisement of 
bidding, printing and publication of Project information, and rental of meeting facilities, but 
excluding staff salaries, which expenditures would not have been incurred absent the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement
,
except that 
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $4,500,000, may be made in respect of 
Categories (1) and (2) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of 
payments made for expenditures before that date but after November 1, 2001.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in United States Dollars a special deposit account 
in Bank Indonesia (its Central Bank) or in a state commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including, in the case of a state commercial bank, 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. Except as the Bank may otherwise 
specify by notice to the Borrower, all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by 
the Bank into the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of this Part B.  Payments 
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.  For each 
Page  12
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.  For each 
payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as 
the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
2.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, after the Bank has received evidence 
satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals from the Loan 
Account of amounts to be deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account shall be supported by a 
Project Management Report.
(b)
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (i) the amount so requested; and (ii) the 
amount which the Bank has determined, based on the Project Management Report accompanying 
said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the 
six-month period following the date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so 
deposited, when added to the amount indicated by said report to be remaining in the Special 
Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of $28,000,000.  Each such deposit into the Special 
Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the 
Eligible Categories.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report does not 
adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be made 
by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the period of time 
specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit  of (A) the records and 
accounts for the Special Account or (B) the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with 
respect to which withdrawals were made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
4.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank shall have 
notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  
Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits 
into the Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
Page  13
5.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special Account 
was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, provide 
such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the 
Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the Special 
Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during the six-month 
period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 5 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation 
in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in stimulating economic growth and 
improving social welfare in the Project Provinces through the improvement of access to road 
transport facilities, the reduction of road transport costs and the efficient use of road transport 
sector resources.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A
:  
1.
Carrying out of a program of periodic maintenance works on about 1,000 kilometers of 
the national and the Strategic road networks in the Project Provinces.
2.
Carrying out of a program of betterment works, including widening of roads, on about 
1,250 kilometers of the national and the Strategic road networks in the Project Provinces.
3.
Carrying out of a program of bridge replacement of a total length of about 5,800 meters, 
including provision of steel truss bridges, on the national and the Strategic road networks in the 
Project Provinces.
4.
Carrying out of accident mitigation measures in about 90 priority locations in the Project 
Provinces, including at least three priority locations in each Project Province under the program 
Page  14
Provinces, including at least three priority locations in each Project Province under the program 
set out in Part B.4 of the Project, to reduce accidents in the Project Provinces.
5.
Resettlement and rehabilitation of Project Affected Persons under Parts A.1, A.2, A.3 
and A.4 of the Project.
Part B
:  
1.
Strengthening the capacity of the staff of P3JJ in each Project Province in the carrying 
out of design and supervision of works under Parts A.1, A.2, A.3 and A.4 of the Project, 
including provision of technical assistance therefor.
2.
Strengthening the capacity of the staff of the Project Management Unit in managing the 
Project, including provision of technical assistance and office and communications equipment 
therefor.
3.
Strengthening the capacity of the staff of the Directorate of Central Region Infrastructure 
and the Directorate of Eastern Region Infrastructure of the Directorate General of Regional 
Infrastructure in the Borrower’s Ministry of Settlements and Regional Infrastructure in the 
carrying out of the oversight of design and supervision of civil works under the Project, including 
provision of technical assistance therefor.
4.
Preparation of an accident blackspot program to improve accident blackspots on the 
national and the Strategic road networks  in  the  Project  Provinces,  consisting  of: (a) the 
establishment of blackspot investigation units and provision of related training to such units; (b) 
provision of training to traffic police in traffic accident reporting systems; (c) identification of 
accident blackspots; (d) development of accident mitigation measures; (e) monitoring of the 
accident blackspot program; and (f) preparation of a road traffic safety component for the 
Borrower’s proposed Second Eastern Indonesia Region Transport Project; and including 
provision of technical assistance therefor.
Part C
:  
1.
Strengthening of Road Management (Planning, Programming and Budgeting 
Procedures) under Decentralized Operations
(a)
Strengthening the capacity of the staff of the Directorate General of Regional 
Infrastructure in the Borrower’s Ministry of Settlements and Regional Infrastructure in preparing 
national road budgets, in monitoring performance of the national road sector, and in preparing a 
medium-term strategic plan for the national road sector, including provision of technical 
assistance therefor.
(b)
Development of a framework for road planning, programming and budgeting 
procedures under decentralized operation and establishment of road planning, programming and 
budgeting procedures under decentralized operation at the Borrower’s administrative provincial 
level, with defined resources, methodology and adequate private sector participation, including 
Page  15
level, with defined resources, methodology and adequate private sector participation, including 
provision of technical assistance therefor to the Directorate General of Regional Infrastructure in 
the Borrower’s Ministry of Settlements and Regional Infrastructure.
(c)
Development of a Kabupaten and Kota level local roads management system 
compatible with the national and provincial systems referred to in sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) 
above, including provision of technical assistance therefor to the Directorate General of Regional 
Infrastructure in the Borrower’s Ministry of Settlements and Regional Infrastructure.
2.
Strengthening Quality Management for Roads in the Project Provinces
Establishment in the Project Provinces of: (i) improved road quality assurance 
procedures and organization, (ii) improved monitoring of civil works for roads, and (iii) new 
tools to improve the management of quality in road contract administration, road project 
management and asphalt paving, including the carrying out of related studies and the provision of 
technical assistance therefor to the Directorate General of Regional Infrastructure in the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Settlements and Regional Infrastructure.
3.
Implementation of a Demonstration Provincial Road Fund
Establishment and administration of a demonstration Road Fund in a pilot province for 
the financing of road maintenance, and provision of related technical assistance to such province.
4.
Automated Road Monitoring Surveys
Carrying out of an automated road monitoring survey in selected provinces of the 
Borrower, including Maluku, North Maluku, Papua and Aceh, to assist in the planning, 
monitoring and design of roads and bridges, including the provision of technical assistance 
therefor to the Directorate General of Regional Infrastructure in the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Settlements and Regional Infrastructure.
5.
Improvement of Standard Bidding Documents for Roads and Bridges
Improvement of the Borrower’s standard bidding documents for roads and bridges 
through the preparation of standard bidding documents to include specifications, construction 
safety measures and environmental standard operating procedures for minimizing and mitigating 
common adverse environmental impacts, and provision of technical assistance therefor to the 
Directorate General of Regional Infrastructure in the Borrower’s Ministry of Settlements and 
Regional Infrastructure.
6.
Training and Studies
(a)
Carrying out of a study to determine the organizational structure and institutional 
linkages in training delivery between the Borrower’s Ministry of Settlements and Regional 
Infrastructure and the Project Provinces’ Road Agencies and the road sector training needs of 
provincial and Kabupaten staff in the Project Provinces, including provision of technical 
assistance therefor to the Directorate General of Regional Infrastructure in the Borrower’s 
Page  16
assistance therefor to the Directorate General of Regional Infrastructure in the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Settlements and Regional Infrastructure.
(b)
Preparation of training modules for road and bridge planning, design, 
construction supervision, maintenance, and related environmental management and land 
acquisition, including provision of technical assistance therefor to the Directorate General of 
Regional Infrastructure in the Borrower’s Ministry of Settlements and Regional Infrastructure.
(c)
Carrying out of road and bridge planning, design, construction supervision, 
maintenance, and related environmental management and land acquisition training for provincial, 
Kabupaten and Kota staff in the Project Provinces, including provision of technical assistance 
therefor to the Directorate General of Regional Infrastructure in the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Settlements and Regional Infrastructure.
(d)
(i) Development of job descriptions and competencies for road sector 
construction workers, and programs to improve their productivity; and (ii) updating of existing 
road sector construction worker training modules and development of new training modules; 
including provision of technical assistance therefor to the Construction Industry Training Center 
of the Borrower’s Ministry of Settlements and Regional Infrastructure. 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
(Expressed in
Date Payment Due
Dollars
)*
April 15, 2007
4,970,000
October 15, 2007
5,065,000
April 15, 2008
5,165,000
October 15, 2008
5,265,000
April 15, 2009
5,370,000
October 15, 2009
               5,470,000
April 15, 2010
               5,580,000
October 15, 2010                                                    5,690,000
April 15, 2011
                5,800,000
October 15, 2011
5,910,000
April 15, 2012
6,025,000
October 15, 2012
6,145,000
April 15, 2013
6,265,000
October 15, 2013
6,385,000
April 15, 2014
 6,510,000
Page  17
October 15, 2014
6,640,000
April 15, 2015
6,770,000
October 15, 2015
6,900,000
April 15, 2016
7,035,000
October 15, 2016                                                    7,170,000
April 15, 2017
7,310,000
October 15, 2017
7,455,000
April 15, 2018
7,600,000
October 15, 2018
7,745,000
April 15, 2019
7,900,000
October 15, 2019
 8,050,000
April 15, 2020
 8,210,000
October 15, 2020
 8,370,000
April 15, 2021
 8,535,000
October 15, 2021
 8,695,000
____________________
* The figures in this column represent the amount in United States dollars to be repaid, except as provided in 
Section 
4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
: General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B
: International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of Contracts
Page  18
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages estimated 
to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each and contracts for works shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost $3,000,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto 
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C
: Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $3,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $190,900,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines and in accordance 
with the provisions of the Supplemental Letter on National Competitive Bidding Procedures of 
even date with this Agreement and appended to the Project Manual. 
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 
3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D
: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement 
plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and 
works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been 
approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more, each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,750,000 or more, the first 
contract for betterment works in each Project Province estimated to cost less than $1,750,000, the 
first contract for periodic maintenance works in each Project Province estimated to cost less than 
$1,750,000, and the first contract for bridge replacement works in each Project Province 
estimated to cost less than $1,750,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Page  19
estimated to cost less than $1,750,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
: General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 
and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this 
Schedule.
Part B
: Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, 
Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C
: Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for Parts B and C 
of the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
Page  20
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall establish and, thereafter, maintain until completion of the Project, an 
inter-agency Steering Committee chaired by BAPPENAS’ Deputy for Production, Trade and 
Infrastructure and including representatives from the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Home 
Affairs, the State Ministry for Development of Eastern Indonesia, the Ministry of Settlements 
and Regional Infrastructure and the Ministry of Communications, and responsible for the 
facilitation of coordination among the Borrower’s Ministries and among the local governments 
of the Project Provinces for purposes of Project implementation.
2.
The Borrower shall maintain until completion of the Project, a Project Management Unit 
in the Directorate General of Regional Infrastructure of the Borrower’s Ministry of Settlements 
and Regional Infrastructure, responsible for the implementation of the Project, chaired by the 
Director of Technical Affairs of the Directorate General of Regional Infrastructure, and said Unit 
to be provided at all times with adequate funds and other resources and staffed by qualified and 
experienced personnel in adequate numbers as shall be necessary to accomplish its objectives.   
3.
The Borrower shall, through the Directorate General of Regional Infrastructure of the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Settlements and Regional Infrastructure and through the local 
governments of the Project Provinces, take all such action as shall be necessary to ensure that:
(a)
not later than June 30 in each year, commencing June 30, 2002, and until the 
completion of the Project, a draft annual work program for all components of the Project to be 
implemented during the following Fiscal Year is prepared and furnished to the Bank for its 
review and comments, including: (i) the scope of the program; (ii) the results of the 
environmental screening of the proposed works, (iii) the Land Acquisition and Resettlement 
Action Plans and the Isolated Vulnerable People Development Action Plans; (iv) cost estimates; 
(v) time-based implementation schedules; (vi) financing plan; and (vii) budget arrangements; and
(b)
not later than November 30 in each year, commencing November 30, 2002, 
finalize the above mentioned annual work program for implementation, taking into account the 
comments of the Bank thereon.
4.
The Borrower shall ensure that in carrying out the works and activities under Part A of 
the Project: 
(a)
the proposed works and activities have been included in the relevant annual work 
Page  21
program referred to in paragraph 3 of this Schedule;
(b)
the proposed works and activities have a projected minimum economic rate of 
return of fifteen percent as calculated in a manner acceptable to the Bank, or such lower 
economic rate of return as the Bank may agree in exceptional circumstances;
(c)
necessary counterpart funding to fully finance the proposed works and activities 
is available and in amounts acceptable to the Bank;
(d)
appropriate engineering, social and environmental standards and practices that 
would minimize any acquisition of land and avoid involuntary resettlement of Project Affected 
Persons have been considered in the design of the proposed works and activities;
(e)
for proposed works and activities involving the involuntary resettlement of 
Project Affected Persons, (i) a Land Acquisition and Resettlement Action Plan has been prepared 
in accordance with the Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework and in consultation 
with said Project Affected Persons, (ii) such Land Acquisition and Resettlement Action Plan has 
been approved by the Bank, and (iii) every Project Affected Person has been compensated and/or 
has been provided with a resettlement site and moving allowance prior to the taking of the land 
and related assets, and such compensation and provision of resettlement site and moving 
allowance has been substantially completed prior to the signing of the contract for the carrying 
out of such works or activities, in accordance with the provisions of said Plan;
(f)
for proposed works and activities involving Isolated Vulnerable People, (i) a 
social impact assessment pursuant to the guidelines for the treatment of Isolated Vulnerable 
People has been prepared, including an Isolated Vulnerable People’s Development Plan as 
required, (ii) such assessment and Plan have been approved by the Bank, and (iii) the most 
critical aspects of the Plan have been implemented prior to the signing of the contract for the 
carrying out of such works or activities; and
(g)
for proposed works and activities, the environmental impact assessment 
requirements have been completed pursuant to the provisions of the Environmental Management 
Plan, including the provisions relating to cultural property, under terms and conditions which 
shall have been approved by the Bank.
5.
In carrying out Part C.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than July 31, 2005, furnish the recommendations of the study on the 
proposed framework referred to therein
to the Bank for review and comments; and
(b)
thereafter, prepare and carry out an action plan to develop such framework
 
taking into account the comments of the Bank on the recommendations of the study, if any.
Page  22
6.
In carrying out Part C.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than July 31, 2005, furnish the recommendations of the studies to the 
Bank for its review and comments; and
(b)
thereafter, prepare and carry out an action plan for the implementation of the 
recommendations of the studies
 
taking into account the comments of the Bank on the 
recommendations of the studies, if any.
7.
In carrying out Part C.3 of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a)
select the pilot province in accordance with criteria acceptable to the Bank;
(b)
take all measures required to establish the Road Fund in the pilot province by 
June 30, 2004, and, promptly thereafter, operate the Road Fund in a manner acceptable to the 
Bank; and
(c)
by December 31, 2005, furnish to the Bank a report on the implementation of the 
Road Fund including recommendations on the establishment of road funds in other provinces. 
8.
In carrying out Part C.4 of the Project, the Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 
2003, complete the automated road monitoring survey in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
9.
In carrying out Part C.5 of the Project, the Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 
2003, finalize the enhanced bidding documents, in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
10.
In carrying out Part C.6 (a), (b) and (c) of the Project, the Borrower shall, not later than 
June 30, 2003, furnish to the Bank for its review and comments the draft report on training and 
the training modules, and, thereafter, finalize such report and training modules taking into 
account the comments of the Bank, if any.
11.
In carrying out Part C.6 (d) of the Project, the Borrower shall, not later than December 
31, 2003, furnish the recommendations of the studies and the training modules to the Bank for its 
review and comments, and, thereafter, prepare and carry out an action plan for the 
implementation of the recommendations
 
taking into account the comments of the Bank on the 
recommendations, if any.
12.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
Page  23
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank, on or about June 30 in each year, commencing June 30, 2003, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the preceding calendar 
year and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by September 30 in each year, commencing September 30, 
2003, or such later date as the Bank shall request, the corresponding report referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions 
and recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 6
Performance Indicators
Performance Indicators
Indicator
Baseline
2002
2003
2004
2005
A. Objective: Improvement of 
     national and Strategic roads
     to reduce road transport costs
     and provide reliable road access
1. Percent of segments on the
Impact
62%
 70%
 75%
80%
85%
    budgeted work program
    which are recommended by 
    IIRMS (the Integrated
    Indonesian Road Management
    System)
2. Network condition:
    (a) Roads: international
Outcome
7.0
6.9
6.8
6.7
6.5
          roughness index
    (b) Bridges: condition mark
Outcome
1.37
1.32
1.27
1.27
1.16
B. Objective: Decentralized
     planning and management
     of roads to be operational
     and sustainable 
3. Timeliness of annual work
Impact
02
913
15
    program: Number of Project
    Provinces which have submitted
    a long list Annual Work Program 
    by August 15 in each year
4. Number of Project Provinces
Outcome
05
912
15
    where BAPEDALDAs
Page  24
    (provincial environmental
    protection agencies) furnish
    reports on environment and
    social aspects of the annual
    work program to the Project
    Management Unit
Page  25
Performance Indicators
Indicator
Baseline
2002
2003
2004
2005
5. Reports from the Planning,
Output
Phase 1
Phase 2
Phase 3
    Programming, Budgeting
Report
Report
Report
    Procedures Technical 
    Assistance
C. Objective: Improved use
     of scarce financial and natural
     resources through increased
     efficiency, quality and
     transparency of implementation
6. Quality of Initial Design:
Impact
28%
50%
70%
80%
90%
    Percent of Sub-activities
    which meet design criteria
7. Technical Audit of Works:
Outcome
0
15
15
15
10
    Number carried out
8. Reports from quality 
Output
Phase 1
Phase 2
      assurance technical 
Report
Report
      assistance are available
D. Physical Outputs
9. Works Completed:
Output
      (a) Cumulative Kilometers
0 km
400km
800km
1100km 1250km 
           of  Betterment     
      (b) Cumulative Kilometers
0 km
300km
600km
800km
1000km 
            of Periodic Maintenance
      (c) Cumulative meters
0m
400m
2500m
4500m
5800m
           of Bridge Replacement
      (d) Cumulative number of 
0
0
35
65
90
            treated Accident
            Blackspots
