FINAL REPORT
E-22o
-VL. 1-
The World Bank
Getlini Waste Disposal Site
Remediation and Upgrading
Environmental Assessment:Final Report
February 1997
Environmental Resources Management
1915 I Street NW, Suite 500
Washington DC
Telephone (202) 785 0329
Facsimile (202) 296 1175
email ERMDC@aol.com
ERMC



onimL igm
The World Bank
Getlini Waste Disposal Site
Remediation and Upgrading
Environmental Assessment: Final
Report
February 1997
Reference 3335
For and on behalf of Environmental Resources
Management
Approved bby:
IPosition:        f'L\C
Date:       C uA    j 



CONTENTS
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY                                               i
I          INTRODUCTION                                                     1
1.1        BACKGROUND TO THE ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT                       1
1.2        PURPOSE OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT                          I
1.3        INTERACTION WITH ENGINEERiNG FEASIBILITY CONSULTANTS             2
1.4        DATA CoLLECTION IN THE ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT                  2
1.5        INTER-AGENCY AND PUBLCINGO INVOLVEMENT                           3
1.6        STRUCTURE OF THE ENVIRONAfENTAL ASSESSMENT                       4
2          LEGAL AND ADMINISTRA TIVE FRAME WORK                             6
2.1        NATIONAL ENIRONMENTAL LEGISLATIoN AND REGULATION                 6
2.2        THE LAW ON STATE ECOLOGICAL EXPERT7SE                            7
2.3        WORLD BANK OPERATIONAL DIRECTIVE 4.01                            8
2.4        ENWRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT APPROVAL PROCEDURES                       8
3          PROJECT ALTERNATIVES                                             10
3.1        AVALABLE ALTERNATIVES                                            10
3.2        ALTERNATIVE SITES                                               10
3.3        ALTERNATIVE TO WASTE DISPOSAL BY LANDFILL                        12
3.4        ALTERNATIVE LANDFILL TECHNOLOGY OPTIONS                          12
4          DESCRIPTION OF BASELINE ENVIRONMENTAL CONDITIONS AND
CURRENT OPERATIONS                                              15
4.1        INTRODUCTION                                                     15
4.2        SITE LOCATION AND CHARACTERISTICS                               15
4.3        ADMINISTRATIVE AND POLITICAL CONTEXT                             19
4.4        EXISTING OPERATIONS                                              20
4.5        STAKEHOLDER ANALYSiS AND Socio-ECONOMIC CHARACTERISTICS          23
4.6        CLIMATE                                                          33
4.7        GEOLOGY AND HYDROGEOLOGY                                         34
4.8        SURFACE HYDROLOGY                                                41
4.9        WATER QUALITY                                                    41
4.10       SoILs                                                            49
4.11       ECOLOGY                                                          53
4.12       AIR QUALITY                                                      56
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                   TnE WoRID BANK



4.13        TRAFFIC                                                          57
4.14        NOISE                                                            58
5          PROJECT DESCRIPTION                                               60
5.1        INTRODUCTION                                                      60
5.2         CONTAINMENT AND CONTROL OF LEACHATE AND LEACHATE PLUME           60
5.3         WASTE MANAGEMENT ENGINEERING                                     64
6          OUTCOME OF PROJECT CONSULTATIONS                                  67
6.1         CONSULTATION ACTIVITIES                                          67
6.2        OUTCOME OF CONSULTATION                                           68
6.3        FUTURE CONSULTATION AND DISCLOSURE ACTIVITIES                     69
7          IMPACTS AND MITIGATION MEASURES                                   70
7.1        INTRODUCTION                                                      70
7.2        SOCIAL, SOClO-ECONOMIC AND CULTURAL                               70
7.3        HYDROGEOLOGY, HYDROLOGY, AND WATER QUALITY                        78
7.4        HEALTH AND SAFETY                                                 82
7.5        AIR QUALITY                                                       85
7.6        NOISE                                                             89
7.7        ECOLOGY                                                           92
7.8        OFF-SITE TRAFFIC                                                  94
7.9         VISUAL/LANDSCAPE                                                 96
7.10       SUMmARY OF KEY IssUEs                                             98
8          REQUIREMENTS FOR ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENTAND MITIGATION0O
8.1        INTRODUCTION                                                     100
8.2         OPERATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT                            100
8.3        ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL AND MONITORING PLAN                        104
8.4        IMPLEMENTAT7ON OF MITIGATION MEASURES                            106
References



EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Introduction
Environmental Resources Management (ERM) was commissioned by the World Bank
to prepare an Environmental Assessment (EA) report of the proposed remediation
extended operation of the Getlini waste disposal site, Riga, Latvia. The project has
been classified as Category A and a full EA is required in accordance with World
Bank OD 4.01 and applicable Latvian legislation (eg the Law on State Ecological
Expertise). The EA work was carried out in parallel with a technical feasibility study,
conducted under a separate Terms of Reference (ToR) by SWECO of Sweden.
The EA project commenced on 26 August 1996, and was carried out over a period of
approximately four months, with a Final Report in January, 1997.
The Setting
The Getlini waste disposal site is located approximately 12 kilometres south-east of the
centre of Riga City in Stopini Pagast (1). Getlini is situated in the Daugava River
basin approximately 1.7 km north of the river on the right bank.
The site is located in a level plain where sandy, glacial sediments form a sandy surface
aquifer. This unconfined surface aquifer is not locally important for drinking water
supply, because its water quality is affected by a large peat bog and ground-water
pollution from the Getlini disposal site; however, there are a number of shallow wells
in the vicinity used primarily for irrigation purposes. Underlying the surface aquifer
are deeper aquifers which represent an important, regional water resource.
Contamination has not yet reached the deeper aquifers, but hydrogeologic modelling
indicates that it eventually will unless remedial measures are carried out.
Adjacent to the waste disposal site territory are 54 permanent households with a
resident population of 117 people of which 14 households are in close proximity to the
site.
The dominant land use in the area has for centuries been agriculture and to a lesser
extent forestry. The surrounding landscape consists of a matrix of agricultural fields,
pasture, forest, and bogs or other wetlands. The local population consists mainly of
unskilled labourers and pensioners who supplement their income with agricultural
produce from garden plots. Also there are groupings of small garden plots which are
essentially the gardens of Riga residents and are a source of food for many city
households and additional income for many families.
'1 A Pasast is local mim cipal district
ENViRONMENTAL REsouRcEs MANAGEmENT                                  WORLD BANK



Getlini Bog borders the site to the north and east. There are narrow belts of forest
along the western and southern edges which block the waste pile from view. Larger
tracts of forest border the eastern and northern edges of Getlini bog and block view of
the site from these directions.
The Getlini Waste Disposal Site
The Getlini Waste Disposal Site is a Soviet era municipal waste dump serving Riga
City and the surrounding area. The site has been in use since 1973 without benefit of
modern sanitary landfilling practices. Conditions in the recent past were quite poor,
with continual open fires and poorly controlled access. In mid 1995, a new company,
Getlini-2, jointly owned by the local municipality and Riga City, took over daily
management of the site. Getlini-2 has significantly improved management at the site,
reduced some of the minor, negative environmental impacts such as fires and
uncontrolled dumping, and instituted a manual materials recovery program at the
tipping face. However, contamination of the surface aquifer by leachate from the
waste pile is ongoing and no effective measures have been implemented to abate this
problem. Moreover, while the landfilling operations are better controlled, they consist
simply of waste tipping on a large waste pile without benefit of daily covering or
compaction. Landfill gas is not collected or managed in any way.
The site is 87 hectares in area of which approximately 36 hectares have been covered
with deposited waste. The waste pile is approximately 24 metres in height at its
highest point with an estimated total volume of waste of 3.7 million m3. The site
presently receives approximately 205,000 tonnes of municipal waste per year and
45,000 tonnes of industrial waste for a total of 250,000 tonnes/year. The bulk of the
industrial waste consists of concrete rubble and other inert materials.
Project Description
The project proposes to remediate environmental pollution and modernize the Getlini
site to international good practice standards. The resulting environmental benefits
include abatement of ongoing ground and surface water contamination which will
result in improved ground and surface water quality, improved site management and
control to assure receipt and handling of appropriate waste only, general improvement
in site appearance, and management and control of landfill gas and utilisation for
energy production.
The project will meet these objectives through the following proposed works on the
original site area:
* capping or covering of the existing waste pile with a layer of soil material to
significantly reduce the infiltration of precipitation and therefore leachate
generation;
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                                 WORLI) BANK
ii



* removing contaminated water by installing wells to capture leachate and
contaminated ground water, and construction of a surface drainage control system
to capture surface runoff;
* construction of water treatment facilities to treat the contaminated waters prior to
release to the River Daugava;
* establishing an efficient management and waste control system at the site in line
with good international practice; and
* construction of gas collection and pumping facilities to control and utilise landfill
gas for energy production.
Public Consultation
Consultation was carried out in accordance with World Bank policy and guidelines.
Furthermore, stakeholders were identified during the course of a social assessment to
identify in particular those members of the general public whose environmental or
social situation might be materially affected by the project. Key consultation activities
included:
* meetings with public authorities, key NGOs, current site management and other
institutional stakeholders;
* public meetings at which stakeholders were brought together and encouraged to
discuss issues in general session facilitated by a member of the Environmental
Assessment team; and
* a series of interviews with randomly selected members of the local community, site
workers, and informal waste/food pickers (scavengers) at the site.
In addition, information has been made available to the Latvian media throughout the
development of the project and will continue to be disseminated during the construction
and operation phases.
In response to the findings of the consultation, chemical analyses of soil from
surrounding agricultural lands were carried out to determine if there had been pollution
caused by previous landfill activity, and operational improvements have been
recommended for the future management of Getlini-2. Measures to address the
remaining minor concerns of stakeholders were also developed and incorporated into
the site Environmental Management Plan (EMP).
Potential Impacts
ERM conducted a preliminary assessment of potential impacts of the proposed project
and the likely significance of the impacts, and recommended measures to manage and
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                                  WORLD BANK
. . 



monitor environmental effects. As the project proposes to remedy past environmental
degradation, the predicted impacts are overwhelmingly positive in terms of the local
enviromnent. However, all engineering projects also have the potential for adverse
effects on local and social conditions. The EA indicates the types of impacts expected
and the types of mitigation measures likely to be necessary and presents these in an
outline Environmental Management Plan (EMP). After the detailed engineering design
is completed, a revised EMP should be produced containing a timetable and costed
proposals for implementation.
Issues/impacts known to occur in landfill development and of most concern to
stakeholders were identified during an August-September 1996 scoping exercise and
fell into eight areas:
* social, socio-economic and cultural;
* hydrogeology, hydrology and water quality;
* health and safety;
* air quality;
* noise;
* ecology;
* off-site traffic; and
* visual/landscape.
Most significant of these were social impacts, including the loss of income for the
semi-formal waste workers and the loss of access to the waste for the informal
waste/food pickers. In both cases the impact is associated with the economic
difficulties of the transition economy, and may dissipate if the Latvian economy
improves. Semi-formal workers are those who benefited from the manual materials
recovery/recycling program initiated by Getlini-2. Effects on this group may be
mitigated by phasing the modernisation of the materials recovery operation such that
there are continued, if decreasing, collection and recycling opportunities over the next
one to three years.
The informal waste/food pickers' practice of scavenging food from the waste pile poses
health and safety risks and is clearly undesirable. The only feasible measure to reduce
the impact of the opportunity loss is to make sure that the affected people are warned
in advance about the coming management changes and the implications. The exclusion
of this group is an inevitable consequence of capping the existing waste pile which is a
key component of the ground-water remediation program, and which will have long
term environmental benefits for the locality and region.
Discharge of the treated effluent is unlikely to have an adverse impact on the water
quality of the Daugava and the Gulf of Riga. However, there is some concern that
local effluent standards may be inappropriately stringent, as they were intended to
apply to domestic wastewater and not landfill leachate. Agreement on appropriate
treatment levels for the landfill effluent, and hence quality standards, must be reached
between Latvian environmental authorities, the World Bank, and the project design
engineers.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOIURCES MANAGEMENT                               WORLD BANK
iv



Mitigation and Environmental Management
The benefits of the project will be fully achieved only if the landfill is operated
properly. The necessary engineering measures and operational practice will be built
into the design of the project. Additional measures to ensure the findings of the EA
are implemented are summarized in the following table.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                                        WoRLD BANK
V



Outlinie En viron,niie,ttal Maanagemitentt Plait
Measure                                                       Responsibility           Timing                       Monitoring Agency
Manage the transition of the materials recovery regime to minimise  Project implementation  Years 1-3 of the remediation    Riga City Council
effccts on the semi-fonral workers                            engineers                programme
Publish information leaflet to advise semi-formal and informal  The site management    Before the start of the      Riga City Council
workers of the impending changes to working practices         company                  remediation programme
Develop a business plan which includes proposals for building  The site management     Before the end of construction  Riga City Council
institutional capacity in enviroinmental management, restoration and   company         activities
aftercare, and liaison with neighbouring residents.
Implement a monitoring program to ensure that facilities are operate  Project design engineers   As part of detailed engineering  Riga City Council
as intended and no adverse effects result from the continued                           design
operation of the site. The program should be developed in
consultation with the Ministry of Environment and include
monitoring of treated leachate, landfill gas, groundwater quality and
response to any complaints about noise.
Development of an operational management plan which includes  Getlini-2 Management in   During detailed engineering    Riga City Council
environmental management, worker health and safety, and       consultation with design   design
emergency response procedures.                                engineers
Preservation of a belt of forest around the site to provide visual  Project implementation  During construction and future  Riga City Council
screening                                                     engineers                operation



I            INTRODUCTION
1.1          BACKGROUND TO THE ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
Environmental Resources Management (ERM) have been commissioned by the World
Bank to prepare an Environmental Assessment (EA) report of the proposed remediation
and extended operation of the Getlini waste disposal site, near Riga, Latvia. The
project has been classified as Category A and a full EA is required in accordance with
World Bank OD 4.01. The EA work is being funded by a Japanese PHRD grant.
The EA work is being carried out in tandem with a technical feasibility study,
conducted under a separate Terms of Reference (ToR) by SWECO of Sweden. The
feasibility study has been contracted by the Riga City Council, and is being funded by
Sida, Sweden. The project will potentially result in the provision of a World Bank
loan agreement for provision of infrastructure and equipment.
The EA project commenced on 26 August 1996, and will be carried out over a period
of approximately four months, with a Final Report due on 3 January 1997.
1.2          PURPOSE OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
The overall purpose of the EA is to identify the potential environmental impacts which
may result from the proposed remediation and extension of the existing Getlini landfill
site as described in the SWECO Feasibility Study, assess their significance and identify
mitigation, management and monitoring measures. A key issue in the impact
assessment will be social impacts.
This assessment will allow planners and project proponents to assess the suitability of
the project for development, integrate environmental mitigation measures into the
project at an early stage, and meet the necessary legal and administrative requirements
for project planning.
The remediation of the landfill is intended to make a significant positive impact on the
quality of the environment in the area. However, this remediation, and continued use
and extension of the site, has the potential to create some adverse environmental
impacts. The EA will therefore report on the anticipated positive and adverse
environmental impacts from the proposed development, and to assess their significance
against baseline environmental conditions.
The EA will achieve its overall objectives by:
* identifying the baseline environmental conditions in the vicinity of the site;
* discussing and evaluating development alternatives;
ENVIRONMENTAL REsoURCES MANAGEMENT                           THE WoRLD BANK
1



* presenting and discussing the features of the proposed landfill engineering design
and operational plan;
* identifying and evaluating the range of potential environmental impacts from the
remediation and extension proposals for the Getlini landfill;
* identifying the measures required to mitigate these impacts, above and beyond those
features already included in the proposed design and operational plan, including
environmental management and monitoring requirements.
1.3          INTERACTION WITH ENGiNEERING FEASIBILITY CONSULTANTS
ERM and the engineering feasibility consultants, SWECO, have closely liaised
throughout the study in the transfer of data and information, and in the development of
landfill design and operation proposals.
SWECO's feasibility study outputs can be summarised into: remediation of existing
disposal site; continued operation under sanitary landfill methods and enhanced landfill
gas generation. Site restoration and aftercare, and the feasibility of landfill gas
utilisation do not fall within SWECO's Terms of Reference and will need to be carried
out at a later planning stage.
1.4          DATA COLLECTiON IN THE ENVRONMENTAL ASSESSME
Preliminary data collection is being achieved from available maps and reports, site
visits and site investigations carried out by SWECO. ERM have used data obtained
from detailed site investigations being carried out by SWECO in the following areas:
* topographical survey of site and surroundings;
* site geology;
* local hydrogeology;
* existing water quality and contamination from the site;
* raw leachate composition;
* existing landfill gas quantities and composition; and
* utilised and available void capacity.
However, the following additional survey work is being carried out by ERM to
determine baseline environmental conditions in those areas not covered under the
feasibility study:
* identification and consultation with key stakeholders;
* survey of flora and fauna adjacent to the landfill site;
* socio-economic characteristics of the population living in the vicinity of the site;
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                              THE WoRLD BANK
2



*  opinions of stakeholders in relation to the project;
*  socio-economic characteristics of informal waste pickers (commonly termed
,scavengers') currently working at the waste disposal site;
*  a limited survey of soil contamination;
*  traffic flows on local roads; and
*  baseline noise survey.
In addition, qualitative judgements are made of the baseline environmental conditions
in respect to ambient air quality.
1.5             INTER-AGENCY AND PUBLICINGO INVOLVEMENT
Two field visits have been conducted during this study both involving extensive
discussions with locally involved/interested organisations and individuals. In addition,
ERM attended a public meeting in relation to the project on 26th October 1996, and
gave a presentation on the key issues to be addressed in the EA.
A list of organisations/persons consulted during the preparation of this report, and the
subject of discussions is presented in Table 1.5a below. A full discussion of the
outcome of these consultations and the issues raised in the public meeting is presented
in Section 5 of this report.
Table I.Sa      Inter-Agency and PubliciNGO Involvement During the Environmental Assessment
Involved Organisation   Person Consulted             Subject of Consultations
The World Bank          Anders Halldin               World Bank project requirements, project
proposals, environmental impacts and
mitigation measures
SWECO                   Per Olof Seman               Site investigation findings, engineering
Mikael Svingby              feasibility findings, engineering design,
Anders Rydergren            proposed operational management methods,
Lars Brolin                 environmental enhancement and mitigation
measures
Ministry of Environment  Baiba Gaile                 Key environmental issues, national
and Regional            Viktors Brenners             environmental legislation, procedures for
Development             Arnolds Luksevics            project review.
Ilze Donina
Marite Lipsa
Riga City Council       Raitis Arnts                 Project proposals
Marita Nihnane
Stopini Pagast Officials   Ilmars Lusis (mayor)      Project proposals, key environmental
issues, views of local residents.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                                         THE WoRLD BANK
3



Involved Organisation   Person Consulted             Subject of Consultations
Getlini 2 Management    Edgar Sarkans                Existing operational management practices.
Current plans and recent achievements
Getlini 2 Staff         Various
Environmental Protection  Arvids Ullme               Project proposals. key environmental
Club                                                issues, level of NGO interest/concern
Coalition for the Clean    director                  Project proposals, key environmental
Baltics                                              issues, level of NGO interest/concern
Regional Environment    Erika Lagzdina               Project proposals, key enviromnental
Centre (REC)                                         issues, level of NGO interest/concern,
other involved parties.
CEE Bankwatch           Helga Kukure                 Project proposals, key environmental
issues, level of NGO interest/concern,
other involved parties.
Latvian Solid Waste     Ruta Bendare                 Project proposals, choice of landfill gas
Assoc                                                management options.
Local Residents         Various (selected sample)    Personal details, livelihood, opinion of
existing landfill, opinion of proposed
project.
On-Site Waste Pickers   Various (selected sample)    Personal details, family, livelihood,
dependence on activity, health, aspirations.
1.6             STRUCTURE OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
The content of this EA report has been prepared in full accordance with the guidelines
given in the World Bank Operational Directive 4.01. This report is divided into the
following eight sections:
* following this introduction, Section 2 discusses the legal and administrative
framework affecting the project. The section focuses on identifying relevant
national legislation and regulations, the administrative structure under which the
project must be approved and monitored, and any existing licensing conditions
under which the landfill is operated.
* Section 3 discusses the range of potential alternatives to this project. The section
discusses the process through which this remediation and continued operation
project became the preferred planning option, the applicability of different
technologies and policy measures to catering for the City's waste arisings, and the
proposed site design options being evaluated as part of the parallel feasibility study.
* Section 4 presents a full discussion of the baseline environmental conditions and
current operations at the Getlini site.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                                          THE WORLD BANK
4



* Section 5 presents the outcome of project consultations carried-out in the study.
This includes a summary of discussions and issues raised in the Public Meeting held
on October 26th 1996 during the pre-appraisal mission for the project.
* Section 6 presents a summary of the key facets of the proposed engineering design
and operational management proposals for remediation and continued operation of
the Getlini site, drawing out key issues of relevance to this environmental
assessment;
* Section 7 discusses and assesses the potential environmental impact of the project
and their significance. The section presents a discussion of both positive and
adverse environmental impact of the proposed project.
* Section 8 presents the consultants' recommendations for environmental mitigation,
management and monitoring, addressing the key environmental issues associated
with the project, and recommending procedures for improving environmental
management at the site, above and beyond those currently proposed in the
feasibility study.
ENV1RONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGrEENT                              THE WORLD BANK
5



2            LEGAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE FRAMEWORK
2.1          NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL LEGISLATION AND REGULATION
The Law on Environmental Protection, 6th August 1991, is the main legal text within
which environmental protection issues are regulated and controlled in the Republic of
Latvia. The Law sets out the competence and authority of individual institutional
bodies in environmental protection. The specific institutions mentioned in the Law
are:
* The Republic of Latvia Environmental Protection Committee ();
* The Republic of Latvia Council of Ministers;
* State Environmental Protection Authorities; and
* Municipal Government.
In addition to the framework Law on Environmental Protection, 1991, the existing
laws and regulations which have been identified as being relevant to this project are as
follows:
- Law on State Ecological Expertise, 1990;
- Law on Specially Protected Nature Areas, 1993;
- Law on Hazardous Waste, 1993;
* Law on Natural Resource Tax, 1995; and
* Regulations for Territorial Planning, 1994.
In addition to the above enacted laws, at the time of this study a Draft Instruction of
the Environmental Protection Committee on Water Permits was also in circulation.
There was no indication, however, given of when this instruction may come into force.
Furthermore, a Water Code specifying ambient and emission standards for water
quality was still in force during the conduct of the study. The standards in this
document were developed and in force prior to independence, and indications were that
they were under revision by the Environmental Protection Depart of the Ministry of
Environmental and Regional Development. Although there was no formal timetable for
release of the new standard, it was anticipated that they could be in force at some point
during late 1997/early 1998.
There is currently no existing legal text which sets out required standards of municipal
waste disposal, or required operational management procedures at waste disposal sites.
A regulation on solid waste management is, however, under development, although
(I) The duties of whidh are passed to the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                             THE WoRLD BANK
6



there was no indication of the likely content or date of issue of this law at the time of
this study.
The main law listed above which has direct relevance to the content of this
environmental assessment is the Law on State Ecological Expertise, 1990 (discussed in
Section 2.2 below).
2.2           THE LAW ON STATE ECOLOGICAL EXPERTISE
The Law on State Ecological Expertise, 9 October 1990, sets out requirements for
'ecological expertise' which is similar in scope to the World Bank EA procedures.
The Law specifies the chief requirements of the procedure as being:
* to determine whether the level of potential environmental hazard has been correctly
addressed;
* to provide an assessment of the potential environrmental impact of a planned
activity;
- to evaluate the acceptability of an economic activity taking into account all
environmental conditions; and
3 to establish and evaluate the effects of economic facilities impact on the surrounding
environment.
Ecological Expertise assessments of environmental impacts and discussions of
conditions are carried out by a specially appointed committee. The law places
responsibility for data gathering and implementation of recommendations on the project
proponent, in this case Riga City. These include:
* the completeness, scientific validity and accuracy of the information used;
* the environmental effects of implementation of the project;
* the organisation, financing and conduct of scientific research and planning;
* full completion of all documentation required in the project;
* discussion of the project concept and potential environmental effects with
representatives of social organisations and local residents;
* fulfilment of the recommendations included in the assessment report of the
committee's Ecological Expert(s).
This project provides Technical Assistance to the project proponent (the Riga City
Council) to undertake an EA. The EA report contains all information requested in the
Law on State Ecological Expertise, and provides information which enables them to
ENVoRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAoEMENT                              THE WORLD BANK
7



meet their obligation regarding environmental protection during construction and
operation of the project.
2.3          WORLD BANK OPERATiONAL DIREcTivE 4.01
According to Terms of Reference of this project and standard World Bank project
planning procedures, this environmental assessment should be prepared in compliance
with the World Bank Guidelines for EA set out in the World Bank Operational
Directive (OD) 4.01, dated October 1991, and subsequent amendments.
The Guideline stresses that the purpose of an EA is to improve decision making and to
ensure that project options under consideration are environmentally sound and
sustainable. EAs should identify ways of improving projects environmentally, by
preventing, minimising, mitigating or compensating for adverse impacts, and should
normally cover:
* existing environmental baseline conditions;
* potential environmental impacts;
- environmental comparison of project alternatives;
- preventive, mitigation or management plan;
* environmental management and training; and
* environmental monitoring.
Again according to the OD 4.01, the detail of the EA performed should be
commensurate with the expected environmental impacts. The classification of each
proposed project depends on the type, location, sensitivity, and scale of the proposed
project, as well as the nature and magnitude of its potential impacts.
This project has been classified as 'Category A', which means that a full EA is
required including comprehensive analysis of the potential environmental impacts and
the likely social impacts of the project.
Analysis of the social impact involves identification of key stakeholders, categorised as
'primary' (ie directly affected members of the public) and 'secondary' (ie institutions
affected). Following this there is a requirement for consultation with the key
stakeholders regarding the potential impact of the project, and specification of
appropriate mitigation measures.
2.4          ENViRONMENTAL ASSESSmENT APPROVAL PROCEDURES
The environmental assessment will be reviewed and approved by:
The Ministry of Environment and Regional Development:
* State Ecological Expertise Board;
* Riga Rayon Environmental Protection Board;
* Environmental Protection Department.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                            THE WORLD BANK
8



* The World Bank.
Representatives of the State Ecological Expertise Board have indicated that they will
set up a Commission of Experts for Review of the EIA, the powers for which are
granted in their guideline document Operational Guideline for Environmental Expertise
Work, Vice Chairman of the Environmental Protection Committee, 1993. The
Committee will comprise both internal department experts as well as externally
contracted independent experts.
The document will also be reviewed by World Bank Staff and peer reviewers to ensure
that all internal Bank project preparation requirements for a Category A project are
satisfied.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                               THE WoRLD BANK
9



3              PROJECT ALTERNATIVES
3.1            A VAILABLE ALTERNA TIVES
Analysis of project alternatives forms an essential part of an EA, and aims at
establishing, at an early stage, whether there are viable alternatives to a proposed
development which can fulfil the same function with a reduced overall environmental
impact.
This section discusses the project alternatives under three distinct sub-sections:
* alternative sites;
* alternatives to waste disposal by landfill; and
* landfill technology alternatives.
3.2            ALTERNATivE SITES
Prior to this project, a Danish Consulting firm, Carl Bro, carried out an extensive site
search exercise to identify and select a landfill site to serve Riga City for at least ten
years.
Eight potential sites were initially identified, one of which was the Getlini site. During
the site search process Getlini was assessed as being unsuitable for long-term use as a
landfill site due to the lack of a proximal source of suitable cover material and
contamination of the underlying aquifers. Studies performed by Baltec Associates in
1994 and 1995 concluded that leachate from the Getlini dump had contaminated not
only the Quatemary surface aquifer but also the underlying Plavinas and Amatas
aquifers. The Amatas is an important aquifer and overlies the Gauja which is the
major regional aquifer. However, subsequent reviews of the Baltec Associates results
suggested that the trace contamination detected in the Plavinas and Amatas formations
may have been an artifact of well installation and that the reported magnitude of
contamination in the Quaternary aquifer was typical for a municipal waste site and did
not pose a grave risk to human health. Furthermore, the majority of the local
populace used water from the deeper aquifers or imported water from the Riga City
system. Extensive hydrogeological investigations carried out by SWECO during the
feasibility study for remediation and continued operation at Getlini confirmed that
ground water contamination by Getlini leachate is restricted to the Quaternary surface
aquifer and that the underlying Plavinas and Amatas aquifers are not
contaminated. ()
In 1995, at the conclusion of the Carl Bro site search, the preferred site of the eight
candidate sites was located within the former military complex in the Adazi area which
°) Hydrogeologicalmodecling indicated under existing conditions (i.e.. no changes at the Getlini site) that the leachate contaminated
plume in the Quatemary aquifer would reach the Plavinas aquifer in approximately 25 years.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                                     THE WORLD BANK
10



is located over 40 km north of Riga City. However, a preliminary feasibility study of
the Adazi site(s) concluded that costs for road and bridge upgrades to carry waste truck
traffic to the site would be prohibitively expensive. Furthermore, communities along
the road network were extremely opposed to the plan.
At the conclusion of the site search it was clear that all of the alternative sites
identified at that time had associated technical and/or environmental constraints or
were liable to induce considerable public opposition to their development.
Following this unsuccessful site search exercise and a new analysis of the
hydrogeological studies and water chemistry data provided by Baltec Associates,
attention shifted back towards assessing the potential for continued operations at the
Getlini site in conjunction with remediation. (1) This shift back to Getlini was
welcomed by the Stopini Pagast officials and by Getlini-2 management and employees.
While the search for an alternative site was underway, the landfill, under new
management, had become a significant local enterprise, and source of employment for
local people.
Furthermore, over this period, there was a reduction in pressure from the local
villagers for the site to be closed, as they noticed tangible improvements in the
standard of operational and environmental management at Getlini.
The overall project, as currently defined, has the potential to provide significant
benefits as compared to finding and developing an alternative site, as follows:
* as a significant local employer, the continued operation of the site rather than
closure will allow those people currently employed to retain their positions and
further develop their landfill management skills; and there may be limited potential
for formal workers to transfer to similar posts at any new site;
* developing an alternative site has the potential to lead to significant environmental
impact, meet public resistance, and/or be more costly to the taxpayer than the
current proposals;
* consolidating, into one project, the remediation of the Getlini landfill site with
development of further landfill capacity at the same site, is likely to maximise the
use and availability of skilled waste disposal site managers and operatives; and
* site investigation and analysis by the engineering feasibility consultants, SWECO,
have concluded that the Plavinas and Amatas aquifers are not currently
contaminated. Further, with properly applied remedial engineering measures the
risk of future contamination can be reduced substantially and with the proper
containment of further landfill cells additional risks should be negligible.
"I Remediation of the Geslini site had always been a componentof the Riga soLid waste project regardless of the fmnal site selection
outcome.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                                   THE WORLD BANK
11



3.3          ALTERNATIVE TO WASTE DISPOSAL BY LANDFILL
It should be noted that even in countries with the most active and successful waste
reduction policies, there is always a requirement for some landfill capacity (eg for the
disposal of ashes from waste incineration facilities, or process rejects from waste
processing plants). The extent to which final disposal to landfill is relied upon, and
the required landfill capacity in the country, however, varies from country to country,
and can be influenced by introduction of policies, technologies and education
programmes.
The range of options available for reducing the quantities of waste requiring disposal to
landfill are identified in the 'waste management hierarchy' introduced in the EU
Second Environmental Action Programme (1977-81). The hierarchy indicated that the
highest priority is to avoid generating waste in the first place; if waste is generated the
quantity should be minimised. The next level of priority is to reuse or recycle as
much as practicable. Waste treatment should then be aimed both at the recovery of
materials and energy and at the minimisation of quantities of waste requiring final
disposal. When all other practical alternatives are exhausted then waste/residues
should be considered for landfill.
Although the waste management hierarchy has been used widely as a statement of
principle, in many cases management of wastes has to be carried out by methods with
lower 'desirability' owing to logistical, technical and financial constraints.
Carl Bro, a Danish consulting firm, carried out a forward plan for waste management
in Riga in 1994 (Riga Waste Plan, 2000-2005). The current Getlini project largely
invalidates the applicability of this study; however, the Ministry of Environment and
Regional Development has arranged with the Danida technical assistance programme,
for a comprehensive national waste management strategy to be carried out in the near
future. The Consultants understand that one of the aims of that study will be to
identify and prepare source separation and waste reduction proposals. SWECO's
feasibility study aims at providing the necessary technology for improved municipal
waste management including a number of actions and investments for improved
handling and separation of recyclable materials. However, even in the event that waste
production in the future is greatly reduced through various means, the Consultants
consider there will always be a need for some degree of waste disposal through
landfilling for the Riga City region.
3.4          ALTERNATIVE LANDFiLL TECHNOLOGY OPTIONS
3.4.1        Features of a Sanitary Landfill
Over the past 10-20 years in Western Europe and North America, there has been a
gradual shift towards greater environmental control at municipal waste landfill sites
due to recognition of their potential impact on the environment. The main focus has
been placed on:
ENVIRONMENTAL R£SOURCES MANAGEMENT                             THE WORLD BANK
12



* minimising their impact on ground and surface water quality;
* improving health and safety standards;
* minimising nuisance impacts (noise, odour, dust, litter etc) to local residents:
* restoring landfill sites once completed, and minimising on-going impacts through
after care measures following closure;
* minimising the risks from landfill gas migration and maximising the energy
generation from this gas.
This project represents an opportunity to make significant improvements to
environmental management at the Getlini landfill, addressing all of the above issues.
SWECO are charged with developing proposals in respect to all of the above (with the
exception of restoration and after care).
The main areas where there are technological options are:
* leachate containment engineering for future landfilling areas; and
* landfill gas control systems for future landfilling areas.
SWECO currently propose to utilise compacted clay liners for new areas of the site.
The alternative to this proposal is to use synthetic liners which have a lower
permeability than the clay liner and thus in principle provide a greater degree of
environmental control.
There are advantages and disadvantages associated with both types of liner system.
Although synthetic liners theoretically provide greater environmental control
(permeability typically below 10-" metres/s as opposed to 10- metres/s), they are more
susceptible to damage (and resulting leakage) than clay liners during and after
installation. At the same time, construction of clay liners can be more problematic,
due to difficulties in achieving a uniform level of compaction and containment as a
result of the natural variability in material properties. The choice between lining
systems therefore needs to be made on the basis of technical and financial feasibility as
well as theoretical environmental performance.
Three main landfill gas control alternatives have been analysed by SWECO:
* Gas extraction from the existing landfill, waste disposal ends at Getlini in 1998.
* Gas extraction from existing landfill, operation continues until year 2015.
* Gas extraction from existing landfill, continuous disposal is made in 'energy cells'.
The conclusions from SWECO's analysis are that significantly greater volumes of gas
can be collected if waste disposal is carried out in energy cells. These energy cells
essentially comprise the construction of a sealed landfill cell; capping to minimise
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                                 THE WORLD BANx
13



fugitive emissions; collection, heating and recirculation of leachate and forced injection
into the waste; and high efficiency gas collection.
In this manner, the generation rate and collection efficiency for landfill gas is
maximised and generation rate is controlled by varying leachate circulation and internal
waste temperature. Through these measures the security of supply (and potential for
gas utilisation) is enhanced.
High gas collection efficiencies, however, can also be achieved through constructing
landfill cells and installing gas collection equipment in other ways. The main
difference between SWECO's proposed energy cell and other high efficiency gas
collection systems being used internationally, is that collected leachate is heated,
recirculated and injected into the landfill to maximise the conditions for landfill gas
generation. In particular, in a northern European country such as Latvia, where
climatic conditions can be unfavourable to putrescible waste decomposition, this
heating and recirculation/injection is likely to have an upward affect on the gas
generation rate, particularly during winter months.
From an environmental perspective enhancing gas collection efficiency and potential
for utilisation is beneficial. Not only will emissions of methane (an aggressive
greenhouse gas) be minimised, but also the safety implications of poor landfill gas
control (ie migration of gas to surrounding properties, risk of site fires, and sub-
surface stability) can be minimised. The energy cell technology is therefore a useful
method of optimising gas control and utilisation, and minimising the potential impact
on the local and global environment.
Overall, as long as designated water quality standards are met through construction of
the liner system to high specifications, and landfill gas systems are managed
professionally, the use of clay liners and energy cells is considered to be appropriate
from an environmental perspective. The use of these technologies should not,
however, be decided on environmental grounds alone, and must also be justified on the
basis of cost-effectiveness and availability of local technical and management skills to
ensure their proper construction and management.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                                   THE WORLD BANK
14



4             DESCRIPTION OF BASELINE ENVIRONMENTAL CONDITIONS AND
CURRENT OPERATIONS
4.1          INTRODUCTION
This section presents available data on existing site operations and baseline
environmental conditions at the solid waste disposal site at Getlini. The key site
characteristics which influence the potential for significant environmental impacts to
occur during both remediation and continued operation of the proposed sanitary landfill
are described with respect to the following:
* site location and surrounding land use characteristics;
* administrative and political context;
* existing operations;
* stakeholder analysis and socio-economic characteristics;
* climate;
* geology and hydrogeology;
* hydrology;
* water quality;
• soils;
* ecology (flora and fauna);
* air quality;
* traffic; and
* noise.
4.2           SITE LOCATION AND CHARACTERISTICS
The Getlini waste disposal site is located approximately 12 kilometres south-east of the
centre of Riga City in Stopini Pagast (') (see Figures 4.2a, 4.2b, and 4.2c). Getlini
is situated in the Daugava River basin approximately 1.7 km north of the river on the
right bank. The Riga-Daugavpils branch of the Latvian Railway and the Riga-
Daugavpils Highway (the A6) lie between site and the river. Access to the site is
gained via Krustpils Street, which branches off the Riga-Daugavpils Highway and dead
ends at landfill entrance road. (A lightly used gravel road continues past the landfill).
The site is located in an area where the dominant land use for centuries has been
agriculture and to a lesser extent forestry. Since 1940 agricultural land in Latvia has
declined relative to forest lands due to farm abandonment. This shift in land use
occurred in the Getlini site area which is proximal to Riga City, the primary
population centre. During the Soviet era a number of industrial plants and other state
° A Pagast is local municipal distict.
ENVIRoNMENTAL RESOURCES MANAOEMENT                               THE WORLD BANK
15



Figure 4.2a Riga metropolitan area and Getlini waste
disposal site
\  R1 G A S                       f                      KEY                   N
Site Location
JUR A                          LiCIS
Dune p    X
P                              \V:lzl,                                                        __ 
Zvejniems              Ledur a.
- tSi                      \               1                      9h  art  ;?   VJnagl<-5  ;;jVaIe    14 
t    tm                  \                         ~      ~        ~        ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~SAU L K
t   6                       \                         tJlaS>esmelesezo;2~~~~~~~~~~~~~3    J   a \ m  '   N   uS
1 g27J333td17 O9.096ADWJA



-Figure 4. 2b Getlini Waste Disposal Site Vicinity
KEY                    N         /
A
Site Location
7   Riga Region
* ~~ ~1   ISalaspils [T
Stopinu Pag
0  1      2       3     4kin
---UP-"~~
Mjrjjj~~~~~e ~+                                                                  +   +    +                ~     ~     ~      o m ~   a
+   +   +ACOA                  4
+ + + +~~~~~~~~+     
2,4                                                    RUM            ri~L+ 4~~.  4~+  6±,+  +
*,f1)p +t4-          + 
STCAN07                                                                   +   +       +~~~~     ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ +   +4*  + ~ -i~    t:*1
CIQm  I)   EALC'~~~f,  I~~V,NA ~ A   /                                                                                              KUlr t+l 6 i+~sa        ~ fI ~
t07335IO +OAWJ



Me
2~~~~~~
LEGEND
,    Existing monitoring and production wells
9 wit predomin0at b                   houses
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~. . -e  Areas with predominantly brick houses
Areas with predominantly wood houses
Scale 1:20 OO
Figutre 4.2c  Getlini ivaste disposal site, immediate vicinity
(gp aphiw  courtessy of SWECO).



enterprises were constructed in the area. Several of the plants in the area are no
longer operational. and the sites have been largely abandoned.
The portion of Stopini Pagast adjacent to the waste disposal site consists of 54
permanent households with a resident population of 117 people. The number of
households in close proximity to the site is limited to fourteen. These are located in
the vicinity of the site entrance point and west and southwest of the site.
The area is rural and agricultural in character. Land use is approximately 50 %
agricultural and 50% abandoned field, forest or wildlands (bog or wetland). The local
population generally falls within the low income bracket, and local garden plots are a
vital component of their subsistence economy.
South of the railway, where the boundaries of Riga City extend along the Daugava,
there are a number of summer garden communities. These communities consist of
groupings of small garden plots with modest "summer houses". These places are
essentially the gardens of Riga residents and are an important source of food for many
households as well as a tie to tradition and family. Surplus crops may also constitute
an additional source of income for many families. There are also suimmer garden
communities southeast of the site in which are located within Stopinu -Pagast.
Getlini Bog, a large raised [ombrotrophicI bog, surrounds the north and east of the
site. The majority of the bog is in Salaspils Pagast.
Due to forest belts which surround the western and southern borders of the waste
disposal site, the waste pile is not readily visible from Krustpils Street or the Riga-
Daugavpils highway. Larger tracts of forest border the eastern and northern edges of
Getlini bog as well, shielding the waste pile from view from the north and west.
4.3          ADMiNISTRATIVE AND POLITICAL CONTEXT
The 1994 Law on Local Government established the structure for municipal
governance in Latvia. There are two levels of local government. The first level
consists of the rural municipalities or pagasts (of which there are 493) and the town
municipalities (of which there are 69). The second level of local government consists
of the 26 rayon (district or county) governments and the seven republican cities which
have rayon status but also perform the municipal functions of the first level local
governments. First-level local governments are responsible for municipal services,
housing, primary health care facilities, and some social assistance. Second-level local
governments are responsible for public transport, industrial waste management, clinics,
tertiary care facilities, old peoples homes, and homeless shelters. Republican cities
perform the functions of both levels.
The Getlini disposal site is located in Stopini Pagast approximately 12 km south-east of
the centre of Riga City (see Figure 4.2b). Stopini Pagast, with a population of
approximately 7,000, is one of several first level municipal governments which are
contained within Riga Rayon, a second level municipal government entity which
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                              THE WORLD BANK
19



surrounds Riga City. Riga City is the largest republican city in Latvia and the major
population centre. Riga's population is approximately 820,000. Riga Rayon's
population is approximately 200,000, hence the combined population for the Riga
metropolitan area (Riga City and Riga Rayon combined) is estimated at 1,000,000.
The Getlini disposal site serves as the primary waste disposal site for Riga City. The
site also receives some portion of the waste from Riga Rayon, although there are
another 22 reported waste dumping sites within the rayon.
The Getlini site was first used as a disposal site for municipal solid waste generated in
Riga in 1972. Until 1984, according to a resolution of the Council of Ministers of the
Soviet Socialist Republic of Latvia, the Getlini landfill belonged to Riga City. In 1984
the Council of Ministers abolished the resolution, but did not adopt an alternative
disposal strategy; and therefore the landfill continued operating but under no legal land
tenure.
The Riga City Conveniences Board was running the Getlini landfill from 1984-1991.
In 1991, the responsibility for operation was then passed to the private waste collection
firm operating in the City, Hoetica. In 1993-94, the local government of Stopini
Pagast requested and were granted permission to take over the management of the site.
This request was motivated by the potential threat of industrial waste from Germany
being imported and disposed at the Getlini site.
On December 12, 1994 a new joint venture company, Getlini-2, Ltd, was registered,
with Stopini Pagast as the controlling shareholder (51 %) and Riga City as the minority
shareholder (49%). This joint venture was established despite sharp conflicts between
the two shareholders over the usage and management of the landfill. The Getlini-2,
Ltd joint venture commenced operations on January 1, 1995.
Since the establishment of Getlini-2, Ltd, there has been a marked improvement in the
standard of operational management control at the Getlini site. These improvements
have been noted by officials from Stopini Pagast and Riga City Council, the
Environmental Protection Committee of the Republic of Latvia, and by local residents.
4.4          EXISTiNG OPERA TIOS
4.4.1         Recent Improvements
Since the establishment of Getlini-2, Ltd improvements have been made to site
reception facilities, offices, concrete surfacing, general site organisation and
management, and gatehouse control procedures. Possible methane generated fires/open
burning on the waste pile and disposal of hazardous waste have ceased. In addition,
new plant and equipment has been purchased for site operations (weighbridges,
bulldozers etc).
The management have placed significant focus on the recovery of materials from waste
deposited at the site through use of formal and informal employees. Recovered
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                              ThE WORLD BANK
20



materials (paper, cardboard, glass, metals, wood etc), are sold on for
reprocessing/reuse at commercial rates. There appears to be a thriving domestic
market for these recovered materials.
4.4.2         Site Reception Procedures
Strict site reception procedures are maintained at Getlini. The gatehouse is staffed
with National Home Guard officers, who visually check for non-conforming wastes,
such as industrial/hazardous waste. A consignment note system is used at the site. and
charges are based on volume of waste delivered. At the time of this EA, Hoetica's
waste collection vehicles had begun to be directed to pass over the weighbridge to
record the tonnage of waste being delivered.
Strict control is maintained over the entry and exit of persons to the site, including
waste pickers working atop the landfill where the fresh waste is dumped. (Access to
the lower edges of the waste pile is far less controlled). Persons entering the site
through the site reception area have to be authorised by the Director or his
representative.
A register of approved waste pickers is held at the gatehouse. Authorised waste
pickers are given armbands and circular metal tags to wear round their necks, as a
means of distinguishing them from un-authorised persons. Under no circumstances are
these waste pickers allowed to carry secondary raw materials off the site, and all
materials collected are purchased by Getlini-2, Ltd for subsequent re-sale. Checks are
made to ensure that waste pickers comply with these rules. Waste pickers are,
however, allowed to take food and other miscellaneous items for personal use (eg
clothes) off the site.
4.4.3         Waste Transport and Placement
Access to the tipping area is via internal site haul-roads, formed on previously
deposited waste. Construction debris and wood chippings are laid, particularly in wet
weather conditions, to provide better grip and a firmer foundation.
Once at the tipping area, refuse collection vehicles unload their contents. Because of
the high number of vehicles entering the site, up to 6 vehicles can be observed
unloading at the tipping face at any one time. The vehicles fan out radially from a
central manoeuvring area at the tipping face. While the vehicles are unloading, waste
pickers conglomerate around the vehicles to obtain ready access to the freshly
deposited waste.
One bulldozer typically operates at the landfill face, and several other bulldozers are
owned by Getlini, and used in rotation. The bulldozers level out deposited waste once
it has been initially picked over by the waste pickers, which in turn provides further
opportunities for the waste pickers and provides a level foundation for additional lifts
of waste. No cover materials or waste compaction methods are applied to the finally
deposited waste.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                                 THE WoiRLD BANK
21



4.4.4         Existing Materials Recovery Activities
Materials recovery at the site is carried out jointly by formal employees of Getlini-2,
Ltd, whose basic function is operational management and control, and registered waste
pickers, who pick the materials out of the waste. The waste pickers are paid in
accordance with the amount and type of materials they have recovered from the
deposited waste.
In total, 220 persons are authorised to pick materials off the site, although site
management stress that the number on site varies according to the season (in particular
due to the availability of other employment), and the personal preference of the
individual waste pickers.
During site visits in the summer and fall of 1996, approximately 150 waste pickers
were working at the landfill. The waste pickers are organised, and organise
themselves, into 'Brigades'. A Brigade can consist of anywhere between 2 and 20
people, and are formed on the basis of type of material collected, as well as personal
relationships.
Although the waste pickers do not pay taxes on their income, and are therefore strictly
'informal sector' workers, given that they sell all of the materials collected to the site
management and work under constant management supervision, they are in fact
working in a semi-formal manner at the landfill site. Throughout this report therefore,
this group is referred to as 'semi-formal waste workers'.
In addition to the semi-formal waste workers, Getlini-2, Ltd staff have indicated that
numbers of non-registered people get onto the landfill from other access points around
the perimeter, and roam the site in search of food and residual waste materials. There
are estimated to be 50-100 of these 'informal waste/food pickers' entering the site,
possibly after dark according to some sources. Under the current circumstances it is
virtually impossible to limit the access of these informal waste/food pickers to the site.
They are, however, not allowed to enter the tipping face area (where the fresh waste is
deposited), at least during the standard operating day (roughly 0700-2300).
4.4.5         Leachate and Landfill Gas Control
There is little or no systematic control of leachate and landfill gas at Getlini. During
1995-1996, a perimeter channel was excavated to in theory capture leachate and
contaminated ground water and to prevent flow towards the residences on the south
side of the site. SWECO, however, consider it unlikely that this cut-off drain is
having any significant mitigating effect on the migration of leachate and may in fact
have a negative impact.
There are no surface water drains to prevent infiltration of rain water into the
deposited waste, and there is no collection or treatment of leachate.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                                THE WORLD BANK
22



There are no vents or collection pipes for control of landfill gas. Investigations by
SWECO during the feasibility study determined that significant quantities of gas were
present in the landfill mass despite the lack of cover material.
4.4.6         Health and Safety
Employees at the Getlini waste disposal site are reported by Getlini-2, Ltd to have
extremely low rates of absenteeism due to illness. Site management report that out of
21,484 available working days, there have been only 680 days of absenteeism due to
illness, representing around 3% of total working days. Furthermore, site management
stress that out of the 680 days of absenteeism, the majority have been taken up by two
persons who had long term illnesses/injuries which were not caused as a result of
working at the site.
Site management and employees are provided with vaccinations for encephalitis,
diphtheria and tetanus. In addition, site management are also reported to have paid for
medical inspection and treatment costs incurred by some local residents of Getlini
Village.
There is no documented information on the health status of waste pickers on-site.
Interviews with the waste pickers (discussed further in Section 4.5) have, however, not
revealed a high incidence of poor health conditions. Getlini-2 management have
stressed that alcoholism is prevalent among these persons.
Waste pickers can be observed taking precautions to avoid injury at the landfill face by
only starting to pick waste when vehicles are fully off loaded, and lining up by the side
of unloading vehicles. However, there is a high risk of injury in cases where the
unloading operations are misjudged, of if people stumble or trip in the rush to gain
first pickings of the waste.
Bird scaring (through firing a flare) is carried out regularly at the landfill site as a
means of preventing interference with day-to-day operations. This practice is also
likely to reduce the potential for transmission of infectious diseases from the site. No
compaction or covering of waste is, however, carried out to minimise the build-up of
vermin and pests in the deposited waste.
4.5           STAKEHOLDER ANALYSIS AND SocIo-EcoNoMIc CHARACTERISTICS
4.5.1         Identification of Key Stakeholders
Proper consultation as well as assessment of the impacts of the project and
development of effective mitigation measures is dependent on the identification and
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                                 THE WORLD BANK
23



analysis of key stakeholders. The following key primary and secondary
stakeholders ") have been identified in this project.
Primary Stakeholders: Those who are directly affected by the project
1.    Getlini 2 Management;
2.    Getlini 2 Formal Sector Employees;
3.    Local Residents;
4.    Registered 'Semi-formal' Waste Workers (2);
5.    Non-Registered Waste/Food Pickers; and
6.    Residents of Riga City.
Secondary Stakeholders: Those who are involved in the implementation of the project
7.    Riga City Council;
8.    Stopini Pagast;
9.    World Bank/SIDA;
10.   Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development;
11.   NGO's (CEE Bankwatch, REC, Environmental Protection Club, Latvian Fund
for Nature, Alternative Energy Information Office).
Classification of Key Stakeholders
The relative importance and influence of these stakeholders in relation to this project is
mapped out in Figure 4.5. la which allows a clear distinction to be made between the
different stakeholders. The following paragraphs summarise the information presented
in the figure.
* High Importance, Low Influence: Those stakeholders which are important to the
project but not influential (in the top left of the figure) are those whose interests are
vulnerable and need to be taken into full account during the project planning.
* High Importance, High Influence: Those stakeholders identified in the top right
hand box are the variant parties within whom a consensus on the correct project
plan must be secured.
*  Low Importance, High Influence: Those stakeholders in the bottom  right of the
figure are those with whom the project proponents should consult and/or keep
informed of project developments, in order to maximise the chances of a successful
project.
0I Stakeholders are persons, groups or institutions with interests in a project programme. Primary stakeholders are those ultimately
affected, either positively or negatively. Secondary stakeholders are the intermediaries involved in the project process who influence
primary stakeholders.
"' Serni-formal waste workers are not directly employed by Getlini 2 Ltd. but are registered and authorised to enter the site, managed by
formal sitc employees, derive income from sale of recovered materials to Getlini-2 Ltd., and are prohibited from selling recovered
materials off-site.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                                            THE WORLD BANK
24



* Low Inportance, Low Influence: Those stakeholders indicated in the bottom left of
the figure are those whose interest and influence in the project is only peripheral.
and therefore do not need to have access to the EA report nor be kept closely
informed of project development.
The stakeholder analysis presented in Figure 4.5.1a reveals two key findings. Firstly,
there are three vulnerable primary stakeholder groups characterised by having low
influence but high importance to the project. These are the registered semi-formal
waste workers, non-registered waste/food pickers, and the residents of Getlini Village.
Secondly, risks to project success are associated with three secondary stakeholder
groups, classified as having high influence and high importance. These include Riga
City Council, Stopini Pagast and Getlini 2 Management. Special care is being (and
will continue to be) taken to ensure that these groups are in full agreement with the
project objectives and proposals, in order to maximise the chances of project success.
4.5.2         Data Collection
As identified above, there are three primary stakeholder groups who have been
identified as being of high irmportance and low influence in relation to this project, the
local residents, semi-formal waste workers and informal waste/food pickers. ERM's
data collection exercise has concentrated on gaining an understanding of the socio-
economic characteristics of these key vulnerable groups. Data collection has been
conducted jointly by a Latvian consulting firm, Baltic Data House, and ERM. Baltic
Data House's report 'Social Impact Appraisal of the Getlini Disposal Site Remediation
and Upgrading Project' has been presented in Annex B of this report.
Information was collected via semi-structured interviews with local residents, semi-
formal waste workers, and informal waste/food pickers. However, it was not within
the scope of the EA to conduct lengthy, in depth studies of the latter two groups.
Furthermore, the information gathered through the interview process may not be
totally accurate for various reasons. Many of these two latter groups were reluctant to
be interviewed, some who were interviewed may have been intoxicated, and certain
information was widely disparate (ie earnings). Getlini-2 management indicated that
the semi-formal workers in particular were generally very opposed to being
photographed by the press or television crews for fear of having family or friends
subsequently recognize them in the newspapers or on television.
The findings of the data collection in relation to the three key stakeholder groups are
presented in the following sub-sections.
4.5.3         Local Residents
Local residents are expected to be one of the major beneficiaries of the project. They
are likely to benefit from several aspects of landfill site remediation, particularly
improved water quality.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENr                               THE WORLD BANK
25



Figure 4.5.1a Stakeholker Classification Matrix
HIGH
A                          B
7. 8.
4.
3.    2
IMPORTANCE                            II
CD
6.
9.
to.
11.
LOW             POWER & INFLUENCE ON THE PROJECT            HIGH
STAKEHOLDERS
Primary                                Secondary
7.   Riga City Council;
1.   Getlini 2 Management;             8.   Stopini Pagast;
2.   Getlini 2 Formal Sector Employees; 9.  World Bank/SIDA;
3.   Residents of area;                10.  Ministry of Environment and
4.   Registered 'Semi-formal' Waste         Regional Development;
Workers;                          11.  NGO's (CEE Bankwatch, REC,
5    Non-Registered Waste/Food             Environmental Protection Club,
Pickers; and                           Latvian Fund for Nature,
§.   Residents of Riga City.                Alternative Energy Information
Office);



There are 14 permanent residences (approximately 30 people) in close proximity to the
southern and southwestern edges of the site, and a total of 54 residences (117 people)
in the wider surroundings. The nearest residence to the site is located approximately
200 m south of the site reception area, approximately 500 metres south from the
landfill. Other residences are also located around 500 metres south-west of the
landfill, although their lands stretch to within 50-100 metres of the site. Seven local
residents and eight from the surroundings were interviewed by Baltic Data House.
The interviews were conducted using the same questionnaire which was designed to
identify the baseline socio-economic and health conditions of the residents, to identify
their concerns in relation to the existing landfill operations, and to gain their opinions
in relation to the proposed project. A copy of the questionnaire is provided in Annex
B.
The majority of the local residents have been living there for more than 25 years, (and
approximately half of the respondents hade been living at Getlini all of their lives).
Almost all of the residents reside in private or family residences.
Three of the seven respondents were pensioners, two were unemployed and two had
jobs in Riga City. One of the respondents (and his spouse) were officially employed at
Getlini 2. During interviews with Getlini 2 management, the predominance of
pensioners in the locality was also stressed. In addition, the management confirmed
that they were employing a few local people at the site, and that some of the
pensioners worked as semi-formal waste pickers to supplement their income.
Out of the fifteen local residents interviewed, three of the respondents estimated their
financial situation as sightly above average compared to Riga residents, five considered
their salary to be slightly below average and seven considered their income to be
similar to inhabitants in Riga.
Almost all local residents expressed dissatisfaction with living near the Getlini disposal
site, with the major reason being cited as the stigma attached to living beside a dump.
Reflecting this, Getlini 2 Management has received complaints from local residents
about the use of signboards indicating routes and distances to the site, as it was felt
they unnecessarily publicised the presence of the site.
All residents stressed concerns about the quality of their local environment, particularly
in relation to a perception of soil and vegetable contamination, poor air quality (dust,
odour), poor water quality and noise. A further key issue which was raised by
residents is the local water quality and lack of water supply to the area. The public
water supply issue shouldsoon be resolved according to Stopinu pagast Mayor Ilmars
Lusis. Stopinu pagast has funded construction of a Riga City water supply line to the
Getlini area. At the time of this writing, Mayor Lusis confirmed that the project was
completed except for the installation of residential water meters. As soon as the
meters are installed, the the line will be opened. However, no completion date was
given.
Half of the residents interviewed consider that they often suffer from respiratory
illness, such as bronchitis, lung inflammation and bronchial asthma. Some of the
ENVIRONMENTAL REsouRcEs MAN/oEMENT                             'ME WORLD BANK
27



residents linked these health problems directly to the close vicinity of the landfill site.
None of the respondents considered their health condition to be good or very good.
Residents highlighted, however, that the Getlini site management were helpful in
covering their medical health expenses.
The majority of residents stressed that the landfill management, and environmental
impacts from the site, had improved significantly since the establishment of Getlini 2 at
the end of 1994. In particular, residents noted that the open burning of waste on-site,
and the resulting dust emissions, were ceased at that time.
'Now when Getlini-2 has appeared, they're doing everything possible to avoid
polluting air and water; but not long ago it was so that due to the smoke and bad
smell it was impossible to breathe.' (Local Resident)
The nature of local environmental concerns since that time has shifted away from the
operations on the site, to other associated impacts such as noise and odour from
passing refuse collection vehicles and, in some cases, disruption from passing waste
pickers (including noise and theft of vegetables).
Although some respondents experienced disruption from waste pickers going to and
from the site, others considered it to be beneficial for these persons to be allowed to
collect and sort materials from the deposited waste:
'I think that people should be allowed to work there - let them earn some money for
bread if this is the only place; some of them live just near the landfill - in wooden
houses. They don't disturb us.' (Local Resident)
Two respondents see some advantage in living near the landfill, due to the additional
income which they can receive from picking materials at the site:
You can work there officially and also earn additionally - after work my husband
and I - we continue gathering glass, metals, and we exchange them for money right
there - at Getlini; it's an extra income to our official wages.' (Local Resident)
Residents have mixed opinions regarding whether the site should be closed or remain
open, although many highlighted that they would prefer not to live so close to a waste
disposal site.
The majority had heard of foreseen changes at the landfill, hoping that the
environmental situation would improve as a result of the project. Some residents,
however, were sceptical of whether actual improvements would be made to the site as
a result of the project, with one respondent stressing a concern of additional impacts
(noise and dust) from the transport of construction materials to the site,
and others highlighted that they did not believe that improvements will be realised in
the short-term.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAEmENT                               THE WORLD BANK
28



4.5.4         Semi-Fonnal Waste Workers
In the Baltic Data House Report, presented in Annex B, interviews were conducted
with three semi-formal waste workers (defined as informal workers in that report).
Following this survey, and during ERM's second field visit to the site, this group were
identified as being particularly vulnerable in the context of the project proposals, as the
waste pickers will cease to be allowed to work at the landfill face and may not be
completely catered for under alternative materials recovery arrangements. As a result,
a further nine interviews were conducted to identify their socio-economic
characteristics, and in particular their reasons for working at the site, dependence on
the landfill site for income, and future aspirations. As with the Baltic Data House
interviews, interviews were semi-structured, and interviewees selected at random.
Table 4.5.4a summarises the survey responses. The questions asked are presented in
Annex C.
In addition to the semi-structured interviews, ERM carried out a rapid age and gender
survey, for a sample group of 20 semi-formal waste pickers. This consisted of visual
observation of the gender and likely age of the selected person. The results of this
additional survey are presented in Table 4.5.4b below. This is considered to be
representative of the general characteristics of the semi-formal workers.
Table 4.5.4b  Gender and Age Profile of 20 Selected Semi-Formal Waste Workers
20 - 30                   30 - 40                     40 - 60
Male         Female        Male          Female       Male          Female
2            2             6             1            5             4
The following conclusions can be drawn from the survey responses:
* the semi-formal waste pickers exhibit extremely diverse socio-economic
characteristics and have a wide range of reasons for working at the waste disposal
site;
* some of the semi-formal workforce were previously in professional jobs, which
they have lost during the transition economic phase;
* the majority of respondents worked at the site all day and every day;
* the majority of respondents had only worked at the site since independence;
* incomes range from 0.5-5 Lt (US$1-US$20) per day, and averaged at around 2.5 Lt
(US$5) per day. They all sell the materials collected to Getlini-2, Ltd;
* all respondents were working at the site either because they had no other form of
income, or because other sources of income were insufficient for their family
needs;
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                                 THE WORLD BANK
29



Table 4.5.4a Survey of Semi-Formal Waste Workers
Question                                                                  Respondent's Charactersitics
2             3              4             5              6             7              8             9
Sex            Female         Male           Female        Male           Female        Male           Male          Female         Female
Age            50             47             28            42             24            60            41             Would not say 66
Family         Widow,         Married, wife  Husband and   None           Mother        Divorced, 4    Married, 3    2 children in   Grandmother,
daughter in    does not know  daughter.                                 children      children       "special'     son ill, 2
Germany, no   his job. 2     Mother                                                                  school         grandchildren
relations in    children
Riga
Frequency of   Every day, all Every day, all Every day, all Every day, all Every day, all Every day, all Every day, all 2 or 3 times   Every day, all
Work at Getlini day. Worked  day. Worked  day. Worked  day. Working day, every          day. Working  day. Working per week, all  day.
there for 3   there for 5   there for I    there for 2    season.       there for 16   there for 2   day, wouldn't
years         years          year          months        Working there years           years         say how long
for 4 years
Income         5 Lt per week  20 Lt per      15 Lt per     5 Lt per week  25 Lt per     14 Lt per     5-8 Lt per     15 Santimes   14 Lt per week
($10)         week ($40)    week ($30)    ($10)          week ($50)    week ($28)    week ($10-16) per day          ($28)
($0.30)
Other Source of None, too old  Son working.  Husband also   None,        Mother on      None          Wife earns 5   None          pension,
Income         to get other    Family needs  working at    previously on  pension.                    Lt per month                 daughter-in-
job           more income   Gellini, similar benefits for 4                                                         law woTks, but
income.       years                                                                    family needs
Receives child                                                                         more income
care benefit



Question                                                                 Respondent's Charactersitics
Previous       -                             Publishing and Mechanic,    Worked in a   Sailor in      Mechanic        -            Teacher
Occupation                                  trading        farning       kindergartenw  merchant
hich was      marine
closed.
Language
problem
prevents her
from getting
another job
Domicile        Riga City     Riga City     Riga City      Riga City     Riga City      Riga City     Riga Rayon    Riga City      Riga City
Stated Health    Needs        Good           Good          Good          Good           Fair, old leg   Good         Good          Average for
Condition      operation, has                                                           injury                                     age
had no medical
treatment
Willngness to be Willing      Willing       Willing        Willing       Willing        Willing       Willing        Willing       Not sure
Employed at                                                                                           (impossible to
Getlini if asked                                                                                      find other job)
Other Notes    Ethnically     Possible      Had other job  -             Ethnically     Ethnically    Ethnically     Ethnically    Ethnically
Russian.      alcoholic.     opportunity.                Russian        Russian       Russian        Russian, takes Latvian, works
Expressed     Collects      Less/                                                                    only food and  in glass
gratitude to the metals.    insufficient                                                             clothes       recycling
Director to be               salary                                                                                exclusively,
allowed to do                                                                                                      takes clothes
her work                                                                                                           or other
interesting
items



* some respondents were pensioners supplementing their income by working at the
site;
* only one respondent had been offered alternative employment, although in this
instance the salary offered was less than she could earn at the site, and perceived as
insufficient for her needs;
* all of the respondents lived in Riga City, and commuted to the landfill site by train
daily;
* the majority of respondents expressed their health condition as good, and there was
no immediate evidence of occupational illness;
* all of the respondents expressed a willingness to become formal employees if asked
by the management;
* over half of those interviewed were of Russian ethnic origin;
* only one observant showed obvious signs of alcoholism, although it should be noted
that the survey was carried out in the early afternoon;
* there are more semi-formal waste pickers in the 40-60 year age bracket compared
to 20-30, and 3040, although there was a large number of males in the 30-40 year
age bracket.
A further key observation of the Consultants during the survey, was that, in contrast to
many other countries, the waste pickers did not come from a particular social group,
and did not have a long heritage of waste picking. The only common link between
those interviewed is that they had all been affected negatively by the economic
transition since independence.
4.5.5         Informal Waste/Food Pickers
This group consists of those who visit the site solely to search for food, clothing, and
possibly other items of value for their own use and on their own initiative. They are
not registered by Getlini-2 and are in fact considered by Getlini-2 management to be
trespassers. They are not allowed on the top of the waste pile where the fresh waste is
dumped during working hours. They do not seek or receive payment from Getlini-2
for material gathered (though two individuals interviewed stated that they did receive
payment from Getlini-2 for recyclable materials gathered). They gain unauthorised
access to the site from surrounding lands since there is no perimeter fence to control
access.
This group has been identified as a vulnerable group because under project proposals
all areas of the site (apart from the active tipping cell) will be covered with some
material to minimise the infiltration of precipitation and perimeter fencing will be
constructed to prevent access from any other point apart from the main site entrance.
This will prevent or severely curtail the informal waste/food pickers' ability to gain
access to the site and to food and materials of value in deposited waste.
ENVIRONMENTAL REsOuRCEs MANAGEmENT                                THE WORLD BANK
31



Table 4.5.5a        Survey of Informal Waste/Food Pickers
Question
1           2           3            4            5           6            7           8            9            10
Sex         female       male        female       female      female       male         male        female       male        male
Age         66           51          53           39          54           45           59          43           48          42
Language   Russian       Russian     Russian      Russian     Russian      Russian     Russian      Russian      Russian     Russian
Family      none         none        husband,    4 children   husband      wife, 3      none        husband, 2  none now,  wife, son 19
children    & husband, (handicap-   children                  grown        divorced
grown       husband     ped), son                             children     from wife
also at                                                        who has
Getlini                                                       daughter
Frequency   4-5 days/wk 5-6 days/wk 5-6 days/wk 7 days/wk   3-4 days/wk 6-7 days/wk 6-7 days/wk 4-5 days/wk 6-7 days/wk 7 days/wk
of visits    7-8 hrs/day  8-9 hrs/day  9 hrs/day    8 hrs/day    8-9 brs/day  8 hrs/day    8-9 hrs/day  6-7 hrs/day  8 hrs/day    8-9 hrs/day
to Getlini
For how     6 yrs        4 yrs       3 yrs        5 yrs       3 yrs        7 yrs        15 yrs      3 yrs        3 yrs       2 yrs
long
Income      pension of  none,        none, too    none,       none, can't  none, no    none, can't  none,        none, no    none,
source      40 Lats per unwilling to  young for   Latvian     get          point in    get          senseless to  point in    ineligible for
month       try for      pension,    citizen but  allowance   seeking      allowance   apply for   trying to get allowance
allowance   unwilling to can't get                allowance                allowance   allowance   since left
try for     allowance                                                                   last job
allowance                                                                              'voluntarily'
Domicile    Riga, not   Riga,        Salaspils,   Riga,       Riga,        Riga,       Riga,        Salaspils,   Riga,       Riga,
registered   registered   registered   registered   registered   registered   registered    registered in registered   registered
Riga
Health      bad          ok          ok          ill          average      ok          ok           ok           ok          ok
Health care none, can't  none, can't  none, can't  none, can't  none. can't  none, can't  none, can't  none, can't  none, can't  none, can't
afford      afford       afford      afford       afford      afford       afford       afford      afford       afford
Objects     clothing,    glass,      clothing,    food,       clothing,    clothing,    food,       clothing     metals,     clothing.
collected at food        metals sell  food        clothing    food         sell glass &  clothing                glass,      food
Getlini                  to company;                                       metal to                              plastic to
clothinlg &                                       company                              sell, foodi &
food for self                                                                           clothiog for
self



Question
1           2           3            4            5           6            7            8           9            10
Estimated   300          500          300         700          200         500          500         300          500          700
numbers of
fellow
scavengers
Demogra-   40-65 yrs,   45-50,       35-50,       40-55,      40-60,       40-60,       14-60, equal 40 average, 40-60,      40-50, equal
phics of    more men   mostly        Russians    equal        mostly       similar      Russians &   mostly      mostly      Russians and
fellow      than         Russian                  Russian and Russians,   numbers of  Latvians,    Russians    Russians,   Latvians
scavengers  women,       men                      Latvian     lots of      men and      many                     lots of
Russians &                                        pensioners   women and  pensioners                pensioners
Latvians                                                      Russians
and
Latvians
't



Determination of the approximate size of this group is extremely difficult since their
numbers on any given day are influenced by many factors. Estimates by Getlini-2
management personnel range from 100 to 600. Interviews with 10 persons from this
group yielded a broad range of estimated numbers, from 50 to 700. Estimates made
on site visits in August and October would put the size of this group much lower, at
100 to 150, but no formal counts were carried out. It is expected that the size of this
group varies seasonally as well as daily depending on weather. As with the Semi-
Formal Waste Workers, semi-structured interviews with randomly selected individuals
were carried out with 10 members of this group with the same questions those posed to
the semi-formal workers. The summarized responses are given in Table 4.5.5a.
The following conclusions can be drawn from the survey responses:
* the informal waste/food pickers exhibit socio-economic and demographic
characteristics similar to the informal waste workers: half male and half female,
Russian extraction, predominantly middle aged (39-60 with one 66 year old), and
unemployed;
* they visit the site as a last resort, are convinced that they have no prospects for
employment due primarily to age, and that it is pointless to apply to the government
for the unemployment benefit (only one interviewee was a pensioner supplementing
her income);
* the majority lived in Riga and were registered there (8 out of 10);
* the majority stated their health was not a problem but that they could not afford
formal medical care if their health should decline;
* they visit the site five or more days per week for the entire day;
* the majority have been doing this since independence when they lost their jobs in
state organizations.
4.6           CLIMATE
Latvia has a northern European, maritime climate. The maritime influence of the
Baltic Sea maintains a relatively mild annual temperature regime given the country's
northern latitude (57 degrees N). The site is located approximately 15 kilometres
inland from the Gulf of Riga in the coastal belt where the climatic influence of the
Baltic is particularly pronounced. The mean annual temperature for the area is 5.4
degrees Celsius.
Mean annual precipitation based on an 80 year record is 627 mm and is distributed
throughout the year. The maximum and minimum annual precipitation for this period
of record are respectively 967 mm in 1928 and 473 mm in 1918. Precipitation tends
to be greatest during the summer months and least during the winter. The highest
recorded monthly precipitation was 290 mm in August, 1978. On average 72% falls
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                             THE WORLD BANK
33



as rain, 16% as snow, and 12% is mixed. During the year there is precipitation on
150-170 days, with a maximum of 16-18 days per month during November-January
and a minimum of 9-12 days per month during March-July. The average monthly
precipitation for the Riga region is given in Table 4.6a.
Table 4. 6a    Average Monthly Precipitation
Month                                 Precipitation (mm/month)
January                               33
February                              27
March                                 27
April                                 42
May                                   44
June                                  62
July                                  85
August                               -70
September                             75
October                              61
November                              56
December                              45
Total                                 627
The water balance for the Getlini area was estimated by SWECO using standard
assumptions and long term averages for precipitation and temperatures. In an average
year of 627 mm of precipitation, 420 mm will be lost to evaporation, 104 mm to
surface runoff, and 103 mm to infiltration. These are average values since runoff,
infiltration, and evaporation vary seasonally. Runoff dominates during the growing
season when the ground is frozen and temperatures are low. Evaporation and
infiltration are dominant during the growing season. SWECO used the average values
for all calculations, estimates, and hydrogeological modelling.
The winds are very unstable and highly variable in direction and intensity, but are
dominated by westerly winds. During the warm season (April-October) SW winds
dominate (20-35%) with NW winds less dominant (10-20%). During the cold season
SE (20-30%) and SW (10-15%) winds prevail.
4.7          GEOLOGY AND HYDROGEOLOGY
The geology and hydrogeology of the Getlini waste disposal site has been the subject
of numerous investigations over the last 15 years due to long standing concern over
possible contamination of ground water. This description of the geological and
hydrogeological conditions at the site is based on the following primary sources:
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                             THE WORLD BANK
34



* ongoing detailed, site studies performed by Geo-Konsultant Ltd. under the
SWECO's engineering feasibility study contract with Riga City Council financed by
SIDA (SWECO Progress Reports 1 (September 1996) and 2 (October 1996), and
the SWECO draft final report dated November 29, 1996;
* hydrogeological studies performed by Baltec Associates, Inc. in 1994 and 1995
under contract to the World Bank
The analyses performed by GeoKonsultant Ltd. incorporate data from 49 water supply
wells and 78 other borings with additional geophysical investigations utilizing georadar
surveys and vertical electrical profiles. The above studies have also relied on
numerous reports by the Latvian Geological Survey and others too numerous to cite
herein.
4.7.1        Regional Geology and Geomorphology
Latvia and the other Baltic republics lie within the Baltic Lowlands region of the North
European Plain (structurally the East European Platform). The surface geology of the
Baltic Lowlands region is characterised by post Quaternary landforms derived from
surficial glacial deposits overlying horizontal, upper Paleozoic (Proterozoic),
sedimentary bedrock which in turn overlies Archaen and Middle Paleozoic
(Proterozoic) crystalline bedrock at depth.
4.7.2        Site Geology and Geomorphology
The Getlini disposal site is located in the Baltic Ice Lake Plain geomorphic province of
Latvia, a level region with surface formations derived from glacio-lacustrine sediments
which overly Quaternary glacial tills. Elevations decrease from 13 metres above sea
level in the north to 8-9 metres to the south in the Daugava River valley. The
stratigraphy consists of Quaternary deposits overlying horizontal, upper Devonian
sedimentary bedrock formations to a depth of over 100 metres. Older sedimentary
rocks and crystalline basement rocks underlie the upper Devonian strata. These older,
deeper strata were not part of the investigation and are not discussed herein. The
Quaternary and upper Devonian formations are described below.
The Quaternary formation generally consists of the following components in
stratigraphic sequence:
* bog deposits, thickness up to 4.2 metres;
* fine aeolian sand, thickness up to 3 metres;
* Baltic Ice Lake deposits (fine to medium grained sands), thickness up to 9 metres;
* lacustrine delta sediments (coarse sands w/ gravels), thickness up to 10 metres;
* lacustrine lagoon sediments (silts and clays), thickness up to 4.5 metres;
* till (loam), thickness up to 3 metres.
The total thickness of the Quaternary deposits is 14-17 metres. A geologic map of the
site vicinity is presented in Figure 4. 7.2a.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                             THE WORLD BANK
35



"'7 
VI,  bv Bogy d  o/k
Saasis omao
a -lvia depsit
v Eolan depsits   Pavina fomaio
AreavAthdiscntinous ill aye
Oi7   Boreholes, numbers
Lin ofgelogcalcrss-ecio
Scal 1"2 00
Figi- 4..2    Geloicl mp  f te  etini       ,st
disposalite vicnity (grphic- curtesy o SWECO)



Scale: horizontal 1:20 000
sw                                              vertical 1:100                                              b
A
21~~~~~~~~~2
LEGEND
HOLOCENE
Technogenic deposits                       Boggy deposits                         Alluvial deposits
UPPER PLEISTOCENE. Latvian formaton
j      j  lAlluvial deposits                                  Glaciolacustrine deposits
Baltic Ice Lake deposits            |IF   .I Glacigenous deposits
UPPER DEVONIAN
D   Salaspils formation                                   Plavinas formation, 2 th subformation
Plavinas formation, 4 th subformaton                    Plavinas formahon, 1 # subformation
[|  D3p3  |Plavinas formaton, 3 th subformation                     Amata formation
b       --   Stratgraphic of boundaries, reliable (a), supposed (b).  17
1     Boreholes
..... . --- . Boundaries of lithological units
IZIZ 6  \>Waste              Z     I  Silty and clayey sand  '    '  Dolomite        ;-/'  Clayey dolomite
... ~p~~,z/                        "          \_ 1  1 1       11 1  
Peat           l           Clayey silt, silty clay  1     Dolomitic marl            Cavemous dolomite
1 Sand                      Clay                ISandstone
|: .*. ,.* j Sand with gravel F7°I
|: :;::. .,: and pebbles   o          Till
Figure 4.7.2b Geological cross-section of the Getlini
waste disposal site area (graphic courtesy of SWECO).



The Upper Devonian formations consist of the following in stratigraphic sequence:
* Salaspils Formation, a marly dolomite with clay lenses, thickness up to 15 metres;
* Plavinas Formation, dolomite, thickness up to 17 metres;
* Amata Formation, sandstone interbedded with siltstone and clays, thickness up to
50 metres.
The Gauja Formation, another Devonian sandstone formation underlies the Amata.
The Gauja is the major, regional aquifer. A geological cross-section of the site area is
presented in Figure 4.7.2b.
The Quaternary deposits constitute aD unconfined surface aquifer; the three underlying
formations are confined. Leaky confining layers (formerly termed aquitards) ('), of
different geologic origin and composition, separate the Quaternary and Plavinas, the
Plavinas and the Amata, and the Amata and the Gauja. These leaky confining layers
restrict hydraulic and hydrologic exchange between the aquifers. The presence of
these leaky confining layers is significant since the hydraulic head pressures decrease
with depth in the three upper aquifers. The implication is that without the confining
layers, there would be downward flow from the Quaternary aquifer to the lower
aquifers which would have resulted in extensive contamination of the lower aquifers.
There are gaps or windows in the confining layer between the Quaternary and the
Plavinas, however, these are located to the north of the site under the peat bog and
upgradient from the point where leachate enters the Quatemary aquifer.
Ground water flow direction in the Quaternary and Plavinas aquifers is to the southeast
to the Daugava River. The direction of ground water flow in the Amata formation is
to the west towards the Gulf of Riga and the Baltic Sea.
The water table in the Quaternary formation in the Getlini area is generally close to the
ground surface. Readings from 26 wells indicate that the water table ranges from 1 to
2 m below grade in upland sites.
SWECO measured transmissivity a) in the Quaternary and Plavinas formations. An
extremely high transmissivity of 600 m2/day (equates to a permeability of 50 m/day)
was measured in the Quaternary formation. Transmissivity in the Plavinas was 40
m2/day.
4.7.3           Conceptual Hydrogeological Model of Getlini Waste Disposal Site
The general conceptual hydrogeological model of the Getlini waste disposal site is as
follows. The waste pile contains a mound of leachate in its interior. As precipitation
"A confining layer is a geologic unit having little OT no inuinsic permeability (ability to pass water). A confining layer passes no
water; a leaky confining layer passes small amounts of water at slow rates. Leaky confining layers were formerly termed aquitards.
' The rate at which water of a prevailing density and viscosity is transmitted through a unit width of an aquifer or confining bed under a
unit hydraulic gradien¢ It is a function of properties of the liquid, the porous media, and the thickness of the porous media.
ENVIRONMENTAL REsOURCEs MANAGEMENT                                         THE WORLD BANK
38



infiltrates the top of the waste pile, leachate is driven out of the bottom of the pile and
into the underlying surface aquifer by hydraulic pressure. The peat layer underlying
the waste pile has been compressed by the weight of the waste, and to some extent
impedes leachate flow into the Quaternary aquifer. Hence the greatest flow of leachate
from the mound in the waste pile occurs at the outer edges of the pile where the peat is
less compacted. The leachate is entrained and diluted in the in the flowing ground
water and moves in the direction of flow, which is south/southwest to the Daugava
River. At Getlini, the Quaternary is the underlying aquifer and the direction of flow is
southwest to the Daugava River. Some portion of the leachate/contaminated ground
water is also welling up into the deep trenches/ditches which have been excavated for
various reasons on the western and southern edges of the site. The SWECO results
indicate that the water quality in these ditches is very similar to the raw leachate.
Where these ditches are connected to old agricultural drainage works, leachate
contaminated water may emanate from the site as surface water. However, the
primary pathway for movement of leachate contaminated water is ground water flow in
the Quaternary aquifer.
4.7.4        Leachate Contaminant Plume
Extensive ground-water sampling studies were carried out under the SWECO study to
define the nature and extent of the ground-water contamination. Hydrogeological
attributes of the contamination are discussed here; water chemistry and water quality
implications of the plume are discussed in section 4.9 Water Quality.
Key findings are that the contamination is confined to the Quaternary aquifer and has
not yet reached the Plavinas, Amata, or Gauja aquifers. The latter three aquifers are
the important regional water supply aquifers lying below the surface Quaternary
aquifer. Hydrogeological modelling indicates that if no remedial action is taken, the
contamination will impact the Plavinas aquifer by the year 2020. Assumptions in the
model assume that the existing rate of leachate generation will remain unchanged and
that the plume will grow as it has over the last several decades.
For assessment and mapping purposes, SWECO defined the leachate contaminant
plume on the basis of chloride concentrations of 300 mg/l or greater, though maximal
chloride concentrations approached 10,000 mg/I. Historical ground-water data indicate
that contaminant concentrations in the centre of the plume were increasing during the
1980's but have since stabilized. This suggests that an equilibrium between the flux of
leachate from the disposal site and natural dilution/degradation processes in the core of
the contaminant plume has been reached. The migration of the plume front since 1983
is illustrated in Figure 4.7.4a. The irregular progress and front edge of the plume is
due to lithologic variability in the Quaternary formation (see Section 4.9.1 and Figures
4.9. la and 4.9. Ib). The plume is travelling in the direction of the Quaternary aquifer
flow, southwest towards the Daugava River, at an estimated rate of 50-60 metres/year.
The hydrogeological model predicts the plume will reach the Daugava by the year
2020. The current maximal extent of the 300 mg/I of chloride isopleth is
approximately 1.5 km from southern edge of the disposal site. The plume is
approximately 1.5 km2 in area and the ground-water volume is approximately 3 million
ENViRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                             THE WORLD BANK
39



-    I4i                    V32    \-                               4£u                    2
8  t e      X                       ' t >- .'   ; °-;, , _i i12
¶                       0ta~~~~  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~12.4 
MSt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S
IDA
10.7
(EC>150 mS/rn, Cl1>300 mg/i)
<_o-,              ...5,O5     . Groundwater level, mn a.m.s.l.
JM        Wells where arrival of the plume
A:    was conrirmed
Scale 1:20 000    __
Figure 4. 7. 4V   Observed progression of the contaminant
plume (graphic courtesy of SWECO).



3 million m3. Contaminant concentrations are highest towards the bottom of the plume
as infiltration from the surface causes dilution.
4.8          SURFACE HYDROLOGY
In the Getlini vicinity and Latvia in general, precipitation exceeds evaporation
throughout the year. Hence, even though annual precipitation is relatively low, surface
water is abundant. Average annual precipitation is 627 mm with average, annual
evaporation approximately 420 mm. Surface runoff averages 104 mm and infiltration
103 mm. The relative magnitudes of runoff, evaporation, and infiltration vary
seasonally with runoff greater during the winter months and evaporation and
infiltration greater during the growing season. However, surface runoff is relatively
low compared to many regions of the world due to the climate and the extremely
permeable nature of the surface soils.
The Getlini site is located in the Daugava River basin. The divide between the
Daugava River Basin and the Jugla River basin is 1.5 kilometres northeast of the
Getlini site. Surface drainage is south to the Daugava river via a series of drainage
works installed during the Soviet period. Gradient in the ditches is low and
maintenance has been poor, yet flows of 3 I/s (260 m3/day) were measured in the main
drainage ditch to the Daugava. However, this flow is minute when compared to the
average flow in the Daugava of 51.8 million m3/day (600 m3/s). One ditch which
formerly drained part of the west side of the disposal site has been blocked where it
once passed under the Riga-Daugavpils railway berm.
Surface water chemistry is discussed in the Section 4.9 Water Quality.
4.9          WATER QUALITY
Surface and ground water quality investigations conducted by GeoKonsultants under
SWECO's auspices indicate that contamination from the waste disposal site is less
severe than previously thought in terms of types of contaminants and extent of the
contamination. Contamination is restricted to the Quaternary aquifer (the water table
aquifer) and the surface water ditches which drain the site area and flow to the
Daugava. In addition, background water quality in the vicinity of the site is heavily
influenced by Getlini bog. While the raw leachate and the contaminated ground water
do not contain detectable toxins or hydrocarbon compounds, levels of ammonia,
phosphorous, and COD are very high. Ground and surface water quality and the
results of SWECO's extensive investigations are discussed below.
4.9.1        Ground-water Quality
The background chemistry of ground water in Latvia is characterized by a low content
of salts (dry residue is less than 600 mg/1). The major ions are bi-carbonate and
calcium. Concentration of other ions do not exceed 60 mg/l as a general rule. Levels
of iron are relatively high as is typical in most humid regions. Concentrations of other
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                             THE WoRLD BANK
41



metals are generally low and in the range of micrograms. In general, the ground-
water is good and well suited for drinking purposes.
However, the water chemistry in the vicinity of bogs such as Getlini is quite different.
The bio-geochemical processes characteristic of bogs alter water quality with high
levels of organic materials. The organic materials, largely fulvic acids, create high
levels of chemical oxygen demand (COD-Cr) and ammonia (on average 70 mg 0,/1
and I mg/l respectively). The fulvic acids also strongly colour the water. As Getlini
bog is upgradient of the disposal site, the effects of the bog on ground-water quality
must be considered when evaluating the extent of the leachate contamination since the
leachate also consists of predominantly organic compounds. The chemical profile of
the bog water is given in Table 4.9. Ia.
The degree of contamination in the Quaternary aquifer varies horizontally and
vertically as can be seen in Figures 4.9.la and 4.9.1b. Due to dilution away from the
source, there is a natural continuum of contaminant concentrations in the field.
SWECO adopted a logarithmic classification system for defining degrees of
contamination which is presented in Table 4.9.1b and on the figures. This
contamination classification which was referenced in Section 4. 7, is based on chloride
and COD concentrations.
Table 4.9.lb     Classification of degrees of water contamination (SWECO 1997)
Water type   EC*       COD-Cr    BOD,          Cl         N,~,        Other
parameters
clean       <UBA**    <UBA         <1.5        <40         <UBA       <UBA or
only one
parameter
slightly
exceeds UBA
slightly   90-150      UBA-100    1.5-5        100-300    UBA-10      > UBA
contaminated
contaminated 150-400   100-300     5-20        300-1000    10-70       > UBA
strongly   400-1300    300-1000    20-50       1000-3000   70-600     > UBA
contaminated
Very strongly 1300-5000   1000-6000   50-200   3000-10,000  600-10,000   > UBA
contaminated
(leachate)
Uncertain    UBA-90    <UBA        < UBA      40-100       < UBA      < UBA
(except
sodium)
Units: all units are mg/I except for EC (micro Siemens) and COD-Cr and BOD,
(mgO2/1).
* EC = electrical conductivity
** UBA = upper background of aquifer
ENVMRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAOEMENT                                 Ti1E WORLD BANK
42



*           LEGEND           Scale 1;20 000>
Groundwater quality in unconfined Quaternary aquifer
CoorWater Lv e    CE 'm It    COD-Cr,mq 0
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~la to slihtl
3 000 -10 000  1 000 - 6000
Groundwater qualitv in confi ed Plavinas aquifer
Colour Water tvve         cr,rnah  COD-CrtmqO.A
Snightlam inated   100 300          3D-100   l
r Conta              300-1000   100-300
o* nicntain-ated 1000 300o0 300-1000
f(.    x        \              N-v t    .,     6,0-          Groundwater table, m a. m.s. s.
\5(  /      > D   I 4tmj ' ^  ~~~~067   Monitoring well
A'                      / "~~~~~~~~~~ ~ A  .     Line of hydrogeochemical cross-section
Figure 4.9. Ia  Ground-water contamination map
(Agraphic courtesy of SWECO).



Scale: horizontal 1:20 000
vertical 1:100
SW                                                                                         NE
A                                                                                          B
LEGEND
~-Groundwater level (unconfined Quaternary aquifer)
I1    Groundwater level (confined Plavinas aquifer)
f     Monitoring well with filter interval
Geology
m          0                                                             5-30
L . ±Z '  waste      L.._..-..  sand          L     =1clay and marl    [ti:: :I sandstone
L2--- ' peat        I/ 1/I//IA11 silt and till  1         ]dolomite
Groundwater quality
Colour |Water type                                Cl-, mg/I           COD-Cr, mg 02/I
0                     l                             <40              Less than background
Slightly contamninated            100 - 300                <0 I O
Contaminated                   300-1000                100-300
_       Strongly contaminated            1 000 - 3 000           300 - 1 000
_ 0      Verystronglycontaminated(leachate)     3000-10000              1000-6000
-30                                                                                     -3ner0n 0-10  es hn akgon
Figure 4.9. lb Hydrog,eochemical cross-section
(Gu rapht lvlurte.dy of SWECO a)  f



Maximum concentrations of leachate parameters in raw leachate, ground water. and
surface water are presented in Table 4.9.1c. The raw leachate data for the Getlini site
Table 4.9.lc      Maximum  concentrations found in leachate, contanminated ground
water, and surface water (SWECO 1997)
Parameters     Units         Leachate       Ground Water  Non-flowing    Flowing surface
surface water   water (ditches/
bodies (pond    canals)
and ditches)
EC            micro Siemens   4830            1560         2920           89
dry residue   mg/l           39,000         11,000         24,000         700
Na             "             15,000           3900           8900         180
K              "                50             24             45            7.8
Ca                             220            340             190         110
Mg             "                92             140            70           31
Cl             "               9700           4400           6400         170
S04            "                120            130            110          86
Alkalinity    mg HCO3JI    23,000             5800          13,000        430
N/NH4         mg/l             4500           340            950            1.7
N/NO2                            0.010          0.040          0.020        0.065
N/NO3                            0.10           0.73           0.20         0.60
Nl,,           "               9900           1000           2000          24
Si             "                23              7             23            5.7
F                                1.7            1.1            1.8          0.12
S                                1.0            0.48           1.6          0.07
P/P04                           12              1.4            3.8          0.82
COD-Cr        mg 02/1          5500           1300           3000         220
BOD7          mg 02/l           180            75             58            6.9
TOC            mg/l          . 3600            700           1900           8
Fe             "                 12             6              9            0.24
Al             "                 9.0            0.96           6.1          0.03
Zn                               0.93           0.40           0.93         0.013
Cr             "                 7.4            0.95           7.4          0.0002
Pb             "                 <0.1           0.007          <0.05        0.005
Cu             "                 0.57           0.024          0.47         0.049
Co                               0.067          0.036          0.062        0.004
Cd                               0.008          0.002          0.008        0.003
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                                       THE WORLD BANK
45



Parameters    Units         Leachate       Ground Water  Non-flowing    Flowing surface
surface waler   water (ditches/
bodies (pond   canals)
and ditches)
Hg                             <0.05          <0.05         <0.05        <0.05
can be compared to a range of raw leachate data collected from 12, U .S. municipal
landfill sites which is presented in Table 4.9.1d.
Table 4.9. Id   High/low range of leachate parameters from 12 U.S. municipal landfills (from
Chian, E.S.K. and F.P. DeWalle, 1976, Sanitary landfill leachates and their
treatment, Journal of the Environmental Engineering Division, Proceedings of thle
American Society of Civil Engineers, Vol.102: pp 411431).
Parameters                  Concentrations
mg/l unless noted           high                         low
EC (electrical conductivity  16,800                      978
in micro siemens/metre)
Na                          1580                         44
K                           2300                         35
Ca                          3900                         76
Mg                           1140                        35
Cl                          2467                         60.2
so,                          1558                        19.5
Alkalinity                  3520                         142
N\NH4                       1028                         1.4
N/NO,                       0.06                         below detection limit
N/NO,                       10.25                        0.4
COD                         71,680                       134
BOD,                        57,000                       3.9
TOC                         27,700                       70
Comparison of the raw leachate data in Table 4.9. 1c with those above reveal that in
general the Getlini values are medial to low. The exceptions are the very high values
of sodium (Na), sulfate (SO4), alkalinity, and amnmonia (N/NH4) measured for the
Getlini raw leachate. Phosphorous, which was not included as a parameter in Table
4.9. Id, was also somewhat high, 12 mg/I, in the Getlini raw leachate.
SWECO also tested for anthropogenic substances such as pesticides and
polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) and coliform bacteria. No anthropogenic toxins or
carcinogens were detected. Coliform bacteria were detected but levels were quite low.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMEENT                                    THE WORLD BANK
46



In summary, the data indicate that the ground water in the Quaternary aquifer has been
severely contaminated by the leachate from the Getlini disposal site, and that the extent
of the contamination will continue to spread horizontally and vertically unless remedial
actions are taken. The predicted downward migration of the plume will eventually
contaminate the Plavinas aquifer which is a regional aquifer of some importance.
SWECO characterized the raw leachate as follows:
* The nitrogen load is equivalent to untreated waste from 40,000 persons.
* The BOD7 load is equivalent to untreated wastewater from 2500 persons.
* The pollution load from surface runoff equivalent to runoff from highways and
industrial areas
* Chemically the leachate is characterized by high levels of ammonia nitrogen,
phosphorous, organic compounds, chlorides, and iron.
The primary pollutants from the Getlini site are nutrients; no anthropogenic toxins
were detected in the contaminated ground water. While consumption of the raw
leachate would be unhealthful, due to dilution the level of contamination in the ground
water does not appear to pose acute health risks to the resident population or to other
users of the contaminated ground water. While the contamination does make the water
undesirable for human consumption, the water quality of the Quaternary aquifer in the
site vicinity has long been adversely affected by Getlini bog and has never been a
desirable source of drinking water (Carl Bro 1993).
4.9.2        Surface Water Quality
No data were collected by SWECO on background surface water quality. Natural,
background, surface water quality would reflect the background ground-water quality.
Therefore, in the Getlini vicinity, the background surface water quality would be
heavily influenced by Getlini bog and would be significantly different from surface
water unaffected by a bog.
SWECO analyzed surface water quality in the ditches or canals adjacent to the Getlini
disposal site and the ditches which drain the area to the Daugava. The maximal
concentration data are presented above in Table 4.9.1c. The pattern of surface water
contamination in the immediate vicinity of the disposal site is mapped in Figure
4.9.2a. The data indicate that the most contaminated surface water is contained in the
non-flowing water bodies, which are adjacent to the waste pile. Surface water
contaminant concentrations decline with distance from the waste site, and the ditches
draining to the Daugava are only slightly contaminated.
It is inferred from the data that contaminated ground water is upwelling into the
ditches adjacent to the waste pile. These ditches are sufficiently deep to puncture the
compressed peat layer under the waste pile which functions as a leaky confining layer
to some extent.
As noted in the previous section, the leachate from the disposal site has clearly
contaminated the surface water along with the ground water. However, no toxins or
ENVIRoNMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                              THE WoRLD BANx
47



Jm  __  m ~~~ ~ ' ~ ' t ' 1s- 333 . 34~~'~'
.,~~~1. r   \          '''X                           >      ~p~,,r'_
p,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 0''
Sk".~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
1/   \LEGEND
9_______ ,lSurface water quality
ter2 >  type   mESC  CFr   COD-Cr, Other
__________    -     mg I,,. mg .I  r onamtedrs
Lestan
107      I~~~~clean       <40 -~O~O    ro~on
contaminated    60S150  100-300  3 10_____
Cotamninated 150 400  30-1000  100-300 Higher thani
contM____ated_ 400 1300 11000-3000 300-1000 bcgon
-%~~  ~<                                      r   1300-3000 3000-7000 1000-3000L
-D6 Sampling points               Scale 1:20 000
Figure 4.9. 2a Map of surftwe water contamination in the
vivinitv of the Getlini waste disposal site('graphic courtesy
(?f SWECO).



pathogens which would form an acute threat to human health have been detected, and
while the concentrations of contaminants measured would make the water unpleasant
and undesirable for drinking purposes, limited consumption of the water should not
pose an acute health risk. Furthermore, in the immediate vicinity of the site the
background water quality is already strongly influenced by Getlini Bog and has long
been considered undesirable for drinking purposes (Carl Bro 1993).
4.9.3         Daugava River Quality
The general water quality of the Daugava River is discussed briefly since contaminated
surface water from the Getlini site flows to the river via drainage ditches, and the river
is proposed as the receiving water body for treated leachate from the landfill in the
future. The data cited are 1982 Soviet COMECON data which were extracted from a
European Commission report: Water Supply and Sewerage in Latvian Small and
Medium Sized Towns, Report 3, Investment Strategy Report, December 1993, prepared
by Haecon-Halcrow. In the COMECON system rivers were classified according to
primary water quality parameters and placed in one or more of six different classes
with Class I being least polluted and Class VI being most polluted. The lower
Daugava was classified as a IV/V. The corresponding water chemistry classification
profile for these two classes is given in Table 4.9.3a.
Table 4.9.3a  COMECON Water Quality Classification Parametersfor Classes IV and V in mg/l
Class TSS   Dis. 02   BOD5 COD MnO4 N/  N/  N/   P/   Cl  SO4 Fe pet. Phen
Slds                      NH4 NO2 NO3  P04                 prod ols
IV   <100 1000  >4  15   70  30   2    .05  10   1    300 300 5  .3  <.1
V    < 200 1200 > 2  25   100  40   5    .1  20   2    500 500 10 1   > 1
COMECON defines Class IV waters as negligibly polluted and Class V waters as
polluted. Comparison of the COMECON data for the Daugava with the maximal
concentrations of contaminants (ie the worst case scenario) found at the Getlini site
(Table 4.9.1c) reveal the following:
* BOD is far greater in the raw leachate, the ground water, and in the non-flowing
ditches than in the Daugava, but lower in the flowing ditches than in the
Daugava. (')
* COD is greater in all four categories at the Getlini site than in the river.
* Ammonia nitrogen is far greater for all categories at the Getlini site than in the
river except for the flowing ditches.
* N/NO2 levels at the Getlini site are comparable with Class IV values but less than
Class V values.
* N/NO3 levels are lower at the Getlini site than in the river.
1 Note that COMECON data is given in BOD5 whereas SWECO data in Table 4.9. le is given in BOD7.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                               THE WORLD BANK
48



* P/P04 levels are far higher in the raw leachate than Class V values, double Class V
values in the non-flowing ditches, and comparable to Class IV levels in the ground
water and flowing ditches.
* Chloride (Cl) levels are far higher in the leachate, ground water, and non-flowing
ditches than Class V but lower in the flowing ditches than the Class IV levels.
* S04 levels are far higher in the river, presumably due to sea water intrusion.
4.10          SOILS
Soils in the vicinity of the Getlini waste disposal site are of three general types: peat,
sandy (podzols), and acid loamy soils (podzoluvisols). Neither of these general soil
types are naturally well suited for agriculture. Peat soils are typically waterlogged and
require extensive drainage for agricultural usage. Sandy and acid loamy soils are
naturally low in fertility and require application of fertilisers.
Due to some past concern regarding levels of metals in the topsoil in the vicinity of the
waste disposal site, 20 topsoil samples were collected and analyzed for metals as part
of the baseline field investigation. The soil samples were analyzed in SWECO's
laboratory using an ICP metal scan which analyzed for aluminum, lead, boron, iron,
cadmium, calcium, potassium, cobalt, copper, chromium, magnesium, manganese,
molybdenum, sodium, nickel, vanadium, and zinc. This investigation purposefully
replicated the soil sample locations of the 1994 soil analyses performed by Baltec
Associates (Baltec Associates 1994) to allow comparison of results. The sampling
locations are illustrated in Figure 4. 10a. Baltec Associates analyzed for arsenic, lead,
cadmium, copper, chromium, mercury, nickel, and zinc.
Tlhe results of the metal analyses are presented in Table 4. lOa. While the metal
concentrations in a number of the samples are above background levels for Latvia,
only two sites exhibited concentrations above the Maximum Permissable
Concentrations established by the Latvian Ministry of Health. The two sites, Nos. 5
and 13, are approximately 190 metres apart. No. 5 is immediately adjacent to
Krustpils Street, and No. 13 is adjacent to the railway at Rumbula station. The
relative location of the two sites would suggest that the probable source is not the
waste disposal site but vehicle exhaust at site No. 5 and possibly the railway at site
No. 13.
Site No. 5 is the vegetable garden of the residence closest to the waste disposal site
entrance and very close to Krustpils Street (<5 m). Recorded lead, copper, and zinc
levels exceed the MPC levels, and this was the only site where cobalt and molybdenum
levels over the detection limit were measured. This site is the closest of the 20 sites
sampled to Krustpils Street which suggests that the primary source of metal
contamination is vehicle exhaust. Atmospheric deposition is typically the primary
source for lead in soils and is also a common pathway for copper and zinc, though
copper and zinc are also associated with pesticides.
At site No. 13 lead levels were just below the MPC value (31 mg/kg versus the MPC
of 32 mg/kg) and zinc levels greatly exceeded the MPC. The probable source of the
ENVIRONMENTAL PRSOURCES MANAGEMENT                              THE WORLD BANK
49



Figure 4.1 Oa Soil Sampling Locations (from Baltec 1994)
,~~~~~~ *--                  ____i_____              - /X-   -1 -W                        =
*      .~~~~~~~k             .               G2~~~~~~~Cedini LandMll
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I 
=  .\                                     /       ~~~~~~~~~~~Scale: 1:7,500
N.
::
IN ~ ~   ~
.2.A~~~~~~9



Table 4. 1Oa    Results of Metal Analyses of Soil Samuples Collected at Getlini in mg/kg dry weight.
No.    Al      Pb     B       Fe     Cd     Ca      K      Co      Cu     Cr    Mg    Mn    Mo          Na     Ni    V        Zn
1      2700   11      33      1200   < 1    2700   950    < I    6.3    4.7    730    55        2.1    420    2.7    5.4    38
2      2300   20      32      950    <I    1100   410    <I    4.7    9.9    180    27           1.1    220    1.5    2.4    19
3      2600   16      28      1200   < I    1900   530    < I    8.1    5.7    370    55         1.9    170    2.4    3.6    48
4      3500   31      36      1700   < I    3300   610    < I    11       5.9    700    68       1.5    150    2.9    7.8    60
5      3700   170    41      6200   < I    15000  660    1.8    51        16      1900   360    < 1    310    5.8    16       250
6      2200   15      27      2200   < I    1300   720    < I    4.9    4.5    330    61         1.7    270    2.1    5.3    52
7      2600   12      21      1800   < I    1600   740    < I    I1       5.6    300    48       < I    250    3.4    4.8    38
8      2900   <5    24        1800   <1    1500   550    <1    2.8    4.7    420    24           <1    350    3.8    6.1    11
9      3400   <5    20        1200   <1    1200   750    <1    1.9    4           330    21      <1    360    2.0    3.0    16
10     3500   13      10     2800   < l    1400   490    < 1    5.8    5.3    460    240    < 1    140    1.5    5.8    22
11     5100   23      27     2400   < 1    3600   810    < I    10        7.8    740    44       < 1    180    2.7    7.3    39
12     2800   <5    17       1200   <1    1200   390    <1    3.0    2.3    280    23            <1    430    1.2    2.7    13
13     3100   31      13     3700   < 1    6600   770    < 1    13        6.5    990    130    < 1    390    2.9    9.6    230
14     2700   6.3    16      1900   < l    1400   490    < 1    5.8    4.4    220    31          < 1    430    2.6    3.7    17
15     1900   5.7    31      1100   <1    520    510    < 1    2.4    2.8    180    23           <1    220    1.9    2.9    13
16     3200   23      17     1100   < 1    1600   590    < 1    3.6    4.7    360    21         8.5    300    2.7    5.9    42
17     1800   11      19     800    < I    1900   750    < 1    6.7    4.1    480    34          < 1    300    1.5    3.8    28
18     2600   6.4    30      1200   < 1    870    490    < I    < 1    2.6    310    20          < 1    230    1.0    4.7    8
19     1900   7.8    28      830    < 1    2500   640    < 1    3.7    4.2    570    24          < 1    320    2.4    3.6    27
20     3200   6.8    26       1500   < 1    14000  720    < 1    3.3    14        7400   45      < 1    200    2.7    6.2    37
Bckg*          5-15                                                1.5-5  2.5-10                                1.2-5          1.5-5
MPC*          32                     3.0                           40     100                                   50             150
*
* Background concentration for soils in Latvia (from  Baltec Associates 1994)
** Maximum  Permissahle Concentrationis, Latvian Ministry of Healthi (from  Baltec Associates 1994)



Table 4. lOb   Results of Baltec Associates mnetals analyses in soil in the vicinlity of t/te Getlini waste disposal site, saimiples collected July
and/or August, 1994 (all data in mng/kg)
No.      Date             Zn          Cd          Pb          Ni         Cu          Cr          Hg         As
1        07.19            21,08       0.18        20.77       1.44       4.04       0.23         0          0
1        08.12            37.02       0.50        14.63       3.57       6.39        1.28        0          0
2        07.19            3020        0.17        25.00       2.68       14.57       1.04        0           0
2        08.12            15.11       0.17        12.43        1.04      3.99        1.58        0           0
3        07.19            115.45      0.45        61.95       3.50       16.60       1.92        0          0
4        07.19            90.55       1.01        30.75       3.88       11.40       4.35        0           0
5        07.19            81.35       0.56        31.11       4.25       11.05       4.58        0          0
5        08.12            46.89       0.83        22.90       4.46       9.31        4.23        0          0
6        07.19            73.85       0.28        23.16        1.59      7.55        1.64        0           0
6        08.12            169.80      0.38        35.50       2.45       12.62       2.42        0           0
7        07.19            43.62       0.26        29.36        1.97      12.57       8.59        0           0
8        07.19            7.41        0.06        6.71        0.94       2.57        1.24        0           0
9        07.19            22.65       0.16        9.95         1.20      10.19       0.63        0           0
10       07.19            18.44       0.25        13.21       2.13       4.11        2.03        0          0
11   *  07.19             16.11       0.17        11.40       1.71       4.34        1.09        0          0
12       07.19            9.85        0.15        10.34       1.20       2.70        0.74        0          0
13       08.12            107.75      0.43        27.00       3.39       12.14       2.10        0           0
14       08.12            15.73       0.20        6.72         1.20      3.31        0.92        0           0
15       08.12            221.17      0.42        12.10       2.45       6.15        2.02        0           0
16       08.12            20.49       0.41        13.46       2.52       2.75        0.96        0           0
17       08.12            74.30       0.34        11.49        1.76      3.94        0.88        0           0
18       08.12            28.52       0.31        14.05       2.09       4.77        0.93        0           0
19       08.12            47.22       0.80        25.40       5.72       8.26        1.67        0           0
20       08.12            26.38       0.33        18.96        2.22      6.96        2.42         0          0
MPC              150        3.0         32           50        40          100          2.0        2.1
Bolded valties exceed Maximum Permitted Concentrations (MPC) established hy  Latvian Ministry of Health



metal concentrations at site No. 13 is less clear, but immediate proximity to the
railway suggest the railway as a source.
The Baltec topsoil data are presented in Table 4.10b. There are significant differences
between the Baltec data and the new data presented in Table 4. 10a. The reasons for
the differences in the results between the two studies is not known, but it seems most
likely that they are an artifact of different sampling methodologies and possibly a result
of laboratory equipment differences. The new samples were collected using a
composite method wherein five samples were collected from a 25 m2 area, from a
depth not exceeding 25 cm, and carefully mixed and then quartered to produce one, 1
kg sample. The 1 kg samples were hand carried to an accredited Swedish laboratory
where metal scans were performed on an ICP (Inducted Coupled Plasma equipment).
The exact collection methodology employed in the Baltec Associates study is not
known. The collector has departed from Latvia and could not be reached. However,
the markedly different results obtained in the Baltec Associates study for the replicate
samples at sites 1, 2, 5, and 6 suggests that individual samples were collected from
slightly different locations and that there may have been variations in concentrations
across the site. This is supported by the fact that at the four locations where samples
were collected on two different occasions (Nos. 1, 2, 5, and 6), the results varied
significantly. The Baltec samples were analyzed in Latvia by the Raziba Laboratory of
the Ministry of Agriculture. The provenance of the Ministry of Agriculture laboratory
is unknown, but the Swedish laboratory is an accredited, very modern laboratory
utilizing state of-the-art equipment. Hence, there is a great deal of confidence in the
new soil data results.
Despite the differences in methods and results, the Baltec Associates data have only
four instances where measured values exceeded Maximum Permissable Concentrations
(zinc at Nos. 6 and 15, and lead at Nos. 3 and 6). The distribution of the sites,
however, offers no obvious explanation for the higher concentrations.
4.11          ECOLOGY
The description of baseline ecological conditions in the vicinity of the Getlini disposal
site is based on literature and field surveys conducted by field ecologists from the
Latvian Fund for Nature (Otars Opermanis, zoologist, and Ivars Kabucis, botanist)
during September 1996.
The landfill is within 12 kilometres of the centre of Riga and the southeastern edge of
Riga lies just to the south. Several small municipalities and numerous villages lie to
the north and south. The town of Salaspils, population 15,000, lies 4 km to the
southeast. Hence, the region surrounding the Getlini site has been subjected to
extensive anthropogenic impacts for centuries. Traditionally the dominant land use
was agriculture on arable lands and grazing, forestry, and hunting on the more
marginal areas. During the Soviet period a number of industrial facilities and a major
thermal power plant were constructed in the immediate vicinity, bogs and wetlands
were extensively drained, and a major hydropower dam was constructed on the
Daugava River several kilometres to the east of the Getlini disposal site.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                                THE WoRLD BANK
53



4.11.1        Habitats
The 87 hectare disposal site territory has little value for flora or fauna due to its highly
disturbed condition. The species observed and recorded on the site are common
species characteristic of sites frequently disturbed by human activities or recently
abandoned.
The surroundings, especially Getlini bog and to a lesser extent the adjacent woodlands,
are relatively more valuable in terms of habitat. Getlini bog is a large raised
(ombrotrophic) bog; however, bogs and other wetlands are common in Latvia due to
the northern latitude and glacial history. Furthermore, much of Getlini Bog has been
disturbed by extensive peat mining operations. Fifteen distinct habitats/land use-cover
types were identified in the site vicinity (see Figure 4.11. la). All of the plant
community types are common in Latvia and none were considered significant in any
way (e.g., age, disturbance history, protected species habitat). None of the habitats or
plant communities are considered significant or unusual in terms of Latvian
biodiversity nor deemed worthy of special protection or conservation by the Latvian
Fund for Nature. The Latvian Fund for Nature is currently inventorying the habitats
of Latvia under the European Unions CORINE Biotopes Project. None of the critical
or significant habitats identified under this program occur in the Getlini waste disposal
site area.
4.11.2         FZora
No protected plant species occur within landfill site. However, one protected plant
species, Lycopodium annotinum, occurs in the ground layer of the birch forest block
immediately adjacent to the disposal site (see Figure 4. 11.la). This species is listed in
the 1985 Red Data Book published by the Latvian SSR Academy of Sciences. This
once common species has declined in recent decades due to extensive harvesting for
medicinal and decorative purposes.
4.11.3         Fauna
One protected species (according to the 1985 Red Data Book), the Rhinoceros beetle
(Oryctes nasicornis), has been recorded on the actual disposal site. However, this
record consist of a single siting of a single individual and was considered a random
occurrence and of no great significance in terms of the species. 0)
An additional three protected species, again according to the Red Data Book, have
been recorded in the vicinity of the site. These include Wood sandpiper (Tringa
totanus), Great shrike (Lanius excubitor), and Eagle owl (Bubo bubo).
The Wood sandpiper has been observed in wetland ponds adjacent to Rumbula railway
station during migration. This species breeds farther to the north and passes through
Latvia during spring and fall.
>" The Red Data Book infonnation is being revised and updated, and a number of the species listed in 1985 version wiDl be deleted as a
result of more recent studies.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                                   THE WORLD BANK
54



Maip habitat types in surroundings of Getlini
waste disposal area and record sites of protected species
Legend
i Waste disposal area
OM t_Individual farms
* Gardening  co-operatives
Ponds
Lakes
130gs
Peat e%cavation
Wetlands
Grasslands
(V¶ JA Ruderal places
Pine  forests  on  peat soil
Pine  forests  on  sand  soil
Birch-pine  forests
Birch  forests
Salix scrub
/ .IRdilroad
Ro_tds  with  asphalt cover
Roads  without asphalt cover
// 'Wide irrigation ditches
N.arrow   irrigation  ditches
Records of protected  species:
y                         12 (hy-e.trsi iii. was louu,,d i, th.e p-iphe,V vt
1-w-sle di.ps's.l sit, It is imnp-,il,t,' to is e,sljly
s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~55  -jla.  cits lUn<:e I3 (1(croid
_ 1 ._ I  n,,us,  xccgbjis, , (cth s a o bses6ec ,s, the cents t
! AobesI,t,s,. Ge|tI,;: 9wls lessil-oy vt Fgic Owl ties
csi s,.. ' ntlit, 2 5 k,,,d NE hof,. the w-sle dispesol
'csss.   -t,eefo,e ,s.rle Itse cztcthes,c,t 0i t11 *'lz1'
Scal" I   1((1000
Figure 411. Ia Getini %asie dispo.sasite  ittw maop (by
Otarn Opermanis4.



The Great shrike's breeding and wintering habitat are raised bogs such as Getlini Bog.
This species is a rare breeder and an uncommon winter resident, but a pair has been
recorded nesting in Getlini bog in recent years.
A nesting pair of Eagle owls was recorded 2.5 km east of the site from 1989 through
1992. Unconfirmed records indicate that there is now an additional breeding pair in
the Getlini area. It is possible the owls feed on the large rodent population at the
waste disposal site, hence their nesting in the vicinity. However, this species has been
increasing in numbers in recent years.
Detailed listings of flora and fauna species are presented in the field survey report in
Annex D.
4.12          AIR QUAUTY
There are no existing data on air quality (eg dust, odour, SO,, NO,) in the Getlini
area, but qualitative information and the nature of potential impacts indicate that such
data is unnecessary.
The overall background air quality of the area is perceived to be good, characteristic
of a rural-suburban area. However, as in other former Soviet republics a significant
portion of industry has ceased operating since independence. Hence, existing
conditions may sharply contrast with conditions 5 or more years ago. This
phenomenon has been particularly pronounced in the area of air quality.
The prevailing wind direction is from the north-west. Under these wind conditions
airborne pollutants from the landfill could impinge upon the residences at the eastern
extent of the disposal site.
The local sources of air emissions include the following:
e a power station 4 kilometres northwest of Getlini;
* dust and fuel combustion emissions from vehicles using local roads;
* dust and odour from the waste disposal site;
* fuel combustion emissions from the nearby Riga-Daugavpils Railway;
*- local peat burning; and
* tyre burning in Salaspils Pagast.
The power station burns natural gas and is unlikely to have a significant negative
influence on air quality.
Air emissions from the site and access road may impact local residents, particularly
during dry weather and unfavourable conditions, when dust/particulate emissions can
be generated in large quantities and transported over significant distances. The main
sources of dust emissions from the site are the movement of waste collection vehicles
along external and internal haul routes, and the deposition and levelling of waste at the
tipping area.
ENvmRONMENTAL RESOURCES M"AAEMENT                                Ths WoRID BANK
56



Many local residents highlighted that they had respiratory problems and complained of
emissions of odour and dust from passing waste collection vehicles. Following the
cessation of open-burning of waste at the site, residents have noticed a significanr
improvement in air quality. The ceasing of the waste pile fires was a major factor
influencing the perception of improved operations at the site among the local residents.
It is also possible that any respiratory ailments may have been resulted from former
Soviet times when many of the local industries were operating.
Other source of emissions did not appear during site visits to be significant
contributors to air quality surrounding the Getlini site. Although site management
highlighted the presence of local peat burning and tyre burning, no visual evidence of
these practices could be seen. It is possible, however, that emissions from these
sources increase during winter months.
4.13           TRAFFIC
The principal roads that run close to the Getlini site are Krustpils Street, the direct and
only access road to the site, and the A6 (the Riga-Daugavpils Highway), which
Krustpils Street adjoins approximately 4 kilometres west of the site.
Krustpils Street is in a good state of repair, and is predominantly used as an access
road to the Getlini site. The road is 6-8 metres wide, and is of sufficient width to
comfortably allow two way flow of landfill-related traffic. Krustpils Street also
provides the primary egress to the local residences and the northern access to the
Rumbula rail station and adjacent community.
The A6 is the major south-eastern radial route out of Riga City. Traffic on the A6
comprises a mixture of private and commercial vehicles. Traffic counts were carried
out during the field visit on both of the above roads. The results of these traffic
counts are presented in Table 4.13a below.
Table 4.13a       Vehicle movement counts per hour by vehicle type at several
locations
Location, time and  Waste trucks   Light vehicles*  Heavy vehicles**   Total movements
date
Intersection of the   84               336               60               480
A6 and Krustpils
St., 13:25, 23 Oct.
Krustpils St.,       100                16                0                116
13:45, 23 Oct.
Krustpils St.,        32                20                0                52
15:15, 25 Oct.
Getlini Gate,         56                 8                0                64
15:00, 25 Oct.
' Light vehicles included cars, 4-wheel drive vehicles, vans and microbuses. and small commercial vehicles
Heavy vehicles included trucks and other heavy vehicles but did not include waste trucks travelling to the disposal site
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                                      THE WORLD BANK
57



Getlini-2, Ltd figures for daily truck volume at the landfill are:
* a peak of 700 (1400 movements);
* an average of 500 (1000 movements);
* a low of 200 (400 movements).
The field traffic count data for waste trucks presented in Table 4.13a above support the
Getlini-2, Ltd data. The peak rate recorded in the field on 23 October was 100 waste
trucks/hour which equates to 1200 waste truck movements per day assuming the rate is
constant over a 12 hour day. The lowest rate recorded in the field was 32 waste
trucks/hour which is 384 movements per day.
4.14         NOISE
A noise survey was carried out by ERM during September 1996. Measurements were
made between 1300 and 1500 hours on Wednesday 23rd September, and a further
measurement taken at one key location between 1500 and 1600 hours on Friday 25th
September 1996 (see Table 4.14a). Even though the main set of measurements was
taken during typical lunch hours, on that particular day the there was no obvious
difference in traffic flows compared to other times of the day. Indeed the traffic flows
along the access road, and the number of vehicles entering the site during the second
time of measurement, was considerably lower than during the previous measured
period.
Weather conditions were favourable during the initial measurement period, with no
rain and only very light winds. On the second day there was a slight rain, although
not sufficient to severely affect noise readings.
Noise measurements were taken from four locations as follows:
* Location I -  at the tipping face, approximately 5-10 metres from the tipping
activities;
* Location 2 -  site reception area, approximately 5-10 metres from the weighbridge
and gatehouse, and 300 metres from the tipping face;
* Location 3 -  at the nearest noise sensitive receiver (residence) to the site access
road (Krustpils Street), approximately 6 metres from the roadside;
and
* Location 4 -  at the nearest noise sensitive receptor (residence) to the tipping face,
approximately 500 metres from the active area, and a similar
distance from Krustpils Street.
All measurement locations were in free-field conditions, approximately 1.5 m above
ground level. Locations 1, 2 and 4 had unobstructed views to the tipping face,
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                             THE WoRL[ BANK
58



although Location 3 was surrounded by 50 metres thickness of conifer trees,
obstructing views to the tipping face and site reception area.
Recordings of various indices of noise level (LAN. period LAIO, LAS-, LA9 and LAMa. tsiowil
were taken with a CEL 393B precision integrating sound level meter. The calibration
of the meter was checked with a pistonphone prior to conducting the survey.
Table 4.14a    Baseline Noise Levels (dB)
Location  Time  L.,    LA,    LA,    LAIO   LA..   Dominant Noise sources
1         13:25  81      68      75     85      95     Unloading waste collection vehicles,
bulldozer, people
2         13:45  67      51      61      71     86     Waste collection vehicles, gatehouse
control activities
3 (Weds)  14:00  59      44      49     63      73     Vehicles along road, garden farming
(Friday)   15:15  54     40      45     56      70     Vehicles along road, garden farming
4         14:20  44      35      41      53     80     Farm animals
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                                          THE WORLD BANK
59



5            PROJECT DESCRIPTION
5.1          INTRODUCTION
The Getlini disposal site has been used as a waste disposal site for Riga city and the
surrounding areas since the early 1970's. The site has been operated as a dump
without benefit of modern sanitary landfill practices. Environmental pollution
consisting primarily of shallow ground-water contamination has occurred. The project
proposes to remediate environmental pollution and modernize the Getlini site to
international best practice standards. The key elements of the project proposal are
described in this chapter. The description of the proposed works is based on the
feasibility study prepared by SWECO (SWECO 1997). The objectives of the
feasibility study were to:
* identify a least cost solution to remediate the existing waste pile at Getlini in order
to ensure that a future contamination of the ground-water aquifers can be avoided;
- verify the actual ground-water quality in the Quatemary, Plavinas, and Amatas
aquifers;
* estimate the geotechnical situation and waste composition, and estimate the
extractable landfill gas from gas composition information;
* verify the conceptual model concerning leachate flow inside the existing waste pile
as elaborated by EA Engineering, Science, and Technology; and
* develop a solution for future operation of the Getlini site based on: (i) normal
sanitary landfilling technology; and (ii) utilizing biodegradation of the organic dry
solids and sequestering of the methane to replace fossil fuels in nearby boiler
houses.
This chapter describes the engineering works proposed in the feasibility study pursuant
to the above objectives which are the basis for the following chapter on Potential
Impacts and their Significance. For more detail regarding the project engineering and
related issues refer to SWECO's Feasibility Study and Preliminary Design of
Remediation and Continued Operation of the Getlini Disposal Site, Laivia, Final
Report, January 1997.
5.2          CONTAINMENT AND CONTROL OF LEACHATE AND LEACHATE PLUME
SWECO has defined the following conceptual program for remediating the ground-
water contamination problem at Getlini. While extensive investigations were
performed, this was a feasibility study only; additional investigations and engineering
will be required during the detailed engineering phase to finalize the program.
ENVIRONmENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                             THE WoRLD BANK
60



5.2.1        Covering
The existing waste pile is not covered by any material, daily or otherwise. This has
permitted maximum infiltration of precipitation and therefore maximum generation of
leachate. In the project proposal the waste pile will be covered with natural soil
materials and to a lesser extent composted and inert materials to be derived from the
proposed energy cells. SWECO has specified a 0.5 metre thick covering consisting of
two layers: a base layer of clay and sandy loam 0.3 metres in thickness with a
permeability of less than 1.1 x 10 9 metres/second covered by a 0.2 metre layer of sand
and gravel and site material. The design objective for the cover is to reduce the
estimated infiltration rate from 96 mm/yr or to 60 mm/yr or by 38%, or in terms of
daily leachate production to reduce production from 94 ml/day to 58 m3/day, also a
reduction of 38%. This represents a significant reduction in leachate production and
should also cause a reduction in the hydraulic head of the leachate mound within the
waste pile, which in turn should reduce the driving force of the plume. Furthermore,
the flow rate in the Quaternary aquifer is estimated at 250 m3/day. Under existing
conditions this very large flow dilutes the raw leachate resulting in significantly lower
concentrations of contaminants in the plume relative to the raw leachate. The
predicted 38% reduction in leachate loading to the surface aquifer will further enhance
this dilutive effect resulting in reduced contaminant concentrations in the plume.
5.2.2        Leachate Collecton at Edge of Existing Waste Pile
Hydrogeological modelling indicates that the quantity of leachate emanating from the
landfill can be significantly reduced by installing and pumping two low volume wells
at specific locations in the north and south ditches adjacent to the site. The wells
would be installed at a depth below the contaminant plume, approximately 10 metres
below the surface, and pumped at a rate of 5 litres/second. The pumpage, which
would consist of leachate mixed with clean ground water, would be piped to the on site
Sequenced Batch Reactor leachate treatment facility for treatment prior to discharge to
the Daugava River (see Leachate Treatment and Containment at New Landfill Cells and
Discharge of Treated Water to the Daugava below). This provision should have the
added benefit of reducing leachate flow into the ditch network.
This program of capping and extraction of contaminated ground water at the source
provides a practical and cost effective means to abate contamination of the Quaternary
surface aquifer and to significantly reduce the potential for future contamination of the
underlying Devonian aquifers (Plavinas and Amata). Given the extent of the plume
and the concentrations of contaminants in the raw leachate and the plume, the positive
impact of this remediation effort on future ground-water contamination is expected to
be significant. The collection of leachate emanating from the edges of the waste pile
should also have a positive impact on surface water quality in the ditches on the
western and southern edges of the site.
It is well documented that biodegradation of municipal waste under un-enhanced
conditions takes place over 25 to 35 years over which time production of contaminated
leachate gradually ceases. The above program is designed to abate leachate production
and control the movement of the contaminant plume emanating from the existing waste
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                             THE WORLD BANK
61



mound for the near future. As leachate production declines the rate of pumping may
be reduced and ultimately cease entirely. Hence, continual monitoring of leachate and
ground-water chemistry will be an essential component of this remediation program.
5.2.3        Leachate Collection and Treatment at New Landfill Cells
Future waste management at the site will utilize energy cell technology and a
Sequenced Batch Reactor leachate treatment plant to treat the leachate prior to
releasing the effluent to the Daugava River as follows.
A series of cells will be created at the southeastern portion of the site and ultimately
additional cells may be constructed on the surface of the existing waste pile. The cells
will be of sufficient volume to hold approximately six months waste. The bottom of
the cell will be compacted and sealed with clay or equivalent to sufficient standards to
prevent infiltration (specific details are not included in feasibility study, but are to be
included in detailed engineering studies) and engineered to collect leachate. Any
leachate generated during the filling period will be pumped to the leachate treatment
plant. Once the cell is filled and closed, collected leachate will be continuously
recirculated through the cell and when necessary heated to a temperature optimal for
bacterial growth. This will serve to partially treat the leachate. At the end of the
energy generation period, the leachate will treated in the SBR and ultimately released
to the Daugava River. This operation should prevent any discharges of untreated
leachate to the environment and therefore have a significant positive impact.
5.2.4        CoUection and Treatment of Surface Runoff
Under existing conditions surface runoff from the uncovered waste pile, haul roads,
and paved areas entrains particulate matter, oil and gas, various waste liquids, and to a
lesser extent leachate. This runoff is presently uncontrolled. SWECO proposes to
collect runoff through an engineered system of surface drainage ditches which will be
lined or compacted such that the water cannot infiltrate into the ground and will not
mix with more contaminated surface waters or raw leachate. The collection ditches
will drain to a two stage settling ponds for treatment prior to release to the Daugava.
5.2.5        Discharge of Treated Water to the Daugava
In the feasibility study SWECO discusses the complexity of leachate chemistry,
evaluates treatment options, and recommends biological treatment as the preferred
option for treatment of raw leachate and strongly contaminated ground water. This
recommendation is based on cost/benefit and operational complexity issues. The
specific type of biological treatment recommended is a Sequenced Batch Reactor. A
two stage settling pond system is recommended for surface runoff because contaminant
levels are anticipated to be quite low. The recommended approach is discussed in the
context of environmental and water quality objectives for the Daugava, Riga Gulf, and
the Baltic Sea. Estimated composition and future, annual pollutant loadings from the
rehabilitated Getlini landfill were developed and are presented in Table 5.2.5a.
SWECO recommends that the treatment program should focus on nutrients and
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                             THE WoRLD BANK
62



Table 5.2.5a               Estimated future pollutant loadings from leachate and surface runoff water (SWECO
1997)
Parameter        Leachate          water             Surface          runoff
mg/l             tonnes/yr         mg/l             tonnes/yr
CODc,            1600              500               150               8
BOD,              200               63
Total nitrogen    600              190                2.5              0.1
Ammonia nitrogen  590              186
Total phosphorous    5               1.6              1                0.05
Suspended solids                                     500               27
organics, specifically total nitrogen, ammonia nitrogen, and total phosphorous, given the existing
eutrophication problems in the Baltic Sea. SWECO's suggested treatment efficiencies are given in Table
5.2.5b. These treatment efficiencies are considered by SWECO to be economically
Table 5.2.5b   Suggested treatment effwiencies (SWECO 1997)
Parameter     Untreated      leachate       Treated       leachate        Reduction (%)
mg/I          tonnes/yr      mg/l          tonnes/yr
BOD7          200             60             25            4              88
Total nitrogen  600          190            450                           25
Ammonia       590            185            60             19             90
nitrogen
Total           5             16             1             0.2            83
phosphorous
and technologically feasible and sufficient to achieve water quality objectives for the
River Daugava, Riga Gulf, and the Baltic Sea. The Daugava is a large river with an
average flow of 600 m3/second (Carl Bro 1993), however the river is polluted and
reduction of nutrient loadings is a major environmental management objective.
SWECO's study is a feasibility study only, and specifics as to the volumes and
chemistry of effluent discharge and the assimilative capacity of the Daugava in terms
of water quality and hydrology were not carried out. These analyses are to be
performed under the detailed engineering study. Hence, the potential environmental
impact of the effluent discharge from the Getlini site can not really be determined at
this time. SWECO has endorsed an approach based on total annual loads so that the
impact of the proposed loads from the landfill can be evaluated relative to the total
loads in the river. However, the Latvian regulations for effluent discharge are based
on concentration limits from the former Soviet Union water quality regulations rather
than annual loadings. The Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional
Development has stated that the effluent must meet the existing standards. These
standards are generally considered unrealistically high in the European Union, and
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                                       THE WoRto BANK
63



meeting the standards will not necessarily ensure that here will be no impact. The
World Bank has traditionally insisted that the local standards be met or exceeded.
Given that one of the primary goals of the project is enviromnental enhancement, it is
assumed that a realistic compromise between the current Latvian standards and
international best practice for leachate treatment will be reached such that the landfill
effluent will not have an adverse impact on the water quality of the Daugava, the Gulf
of Riga, or the Baltic Sea.
5.3          WASTE MANAGEMENT ENGINEERING
SWECO's waste management proposals are described below. SWECO's basic
approach is to consider the waste delivered to the site as a resource both for potential
income realized from recycling materials of value as well as the production of methane
gas and compost from the enforced decomposition of the organic fragment.
5.3.1        Waste Stream
Getlini receives approximately 205,000 tonnes of municipal waste and 45,000 tones of
industrial waste annually. Presently, the bulk of the industrial waste consists of
concrete rubble and other inert materials, not hazardous waste. The dry substance of
the municipal waste is estimated to be 62%. The corresponding organic content is
estimated to be 39% of the total waste (or 63% of dry substance). Of the organic
content, 62% is considered to be biodegradable (or 24% of the total weight). These
data are from SWECO (1997).
5.3.2        General Site Management
SWECO's proposals for the site include detailed recommendations for modernizing the
site including:
* controlled site access through fencing the site and controlling access at the gate
* relocation and upgrading of the gate with new weigh bridges
* upgraded waste registration at gate
* construction and/or remodelling of new staff/administration buildings with sanitary
facilities, etc.
Specific waste management technologies proposed are discussed below.
5.3.3        Waste Separation
Source separation is the most efficient form of waste separation. Source separation has
been experimented with in Riga but is not feasible in the near future. Hence, while
SWECO recommends source separation as a future objective, the feasibility study
assumes that separation will take place at Getlini for at least the near term.
ENVIRONMEENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                            THE WORLD BANK
64



SWECO proposes that incoming waste be examined and divided into three categories:
unsorted domestic waste, unsorted industrial waste, and sorted waste/material and then
be delivered to pre-determined areas of the site.
Domestic waste will then be sorted by a combination of machinery for heavy objects
and a picking belt for the remainder. The picking belt will be approximately I metre
wide and 2 metres above ground and move at a velocity of 15 metres/minute.
Workers will stand along each side of the belt and be organized into 6 person teams
responsible for different categories of waste (eg glass, plastic, metals, wood) which
they will pick and throw into bins or containers underneath the belt.
Industrial waste will be sorted by excavators equipped with gripping devices. The
drivers will place the sorted material into specific piles or containers. After sorting,
the recovered material will be transported to specific areas for treatment and storage.
Inert material will be disposed of at the landfill. Other material categories will be
delivered to appropriate disposal sites. SWECO proposes that in general no hazardous
wastes mixed with other wastes should be received at Getlini. However, the landfill
must have the capability to temporarily store any hazardous waste inadvertently
received. A hazardous waste landfill is under development in southern Latvia, and any
hazardous waste collected at Getlini would be shipped to the proper facility.
SWECO also plans a recovery area for voluntary public use. In this area private
persons or small enterprises will be encouraged to sort their waste into a series of
marked bins. This voluntary sorting may be encouraged through a reduced tipping fee
system.
5.3.4         Landfilling and Gas Production
Landfill gas will be produced from both the old waste pile and from new landfill,
energy cells.
A series of gas wells will be installed in the old waste pile to extract gas. These wells
will be pumped and the extracted gas will be piped to a compressor facility which will
then direct the gas to end users. End users may be both internal (the Getlini facility)
or external (commercial enterprises, boiler houses for district heating). SWECO
estimates that 200 million m3 of gas with a methane content of 50-55 % can be
extracted over the next 15 years from the existing waste pile.
Future landfilling and gas production will be accomplished with energy cells. Energy
cells are essentially conventional, modem landfill cells with compacted bottoms to
prevent leachate infiltration. Energy cells differ from conventional landfill cells in that
after filling and covering, the biodegradation of the waste is accelerated or enforced by
recycling leachate through the cell. The leachate is heated to maintain temperatures
optimum for bacterial decomposition inside the cell (approximately 37 degrees
Centigrade). At Getlini, the cells will be 95 x 180 metres and are sized to contain
approximately 6 months of waste based on the existing waste stream. The gas
production and landfilling process is summarized as follows.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                                THE WoRLD BANK
65



After the sorting process described above, the waste will travel by conveyor to a
shredder, to maximize surface area of the waste, and then to the energy cell by
additional conveyors. The deposited waste is spread in the energy cell by machinerv
which also serves to sufficiently compact the waste. Depending on management
objectives, the cell may be filled vertically or horizontally. The cell is covered after
filling with fine till or other suitable material and then compacted to prevent infiltration
and insulate the cell. After filling and covering, two series of perforated steel pipes
are installed from the upper surface: one for leachate injection and one for gas
extraction.
In order to reach maximum decomposition rates and gas production, the following
conditions must be met:
* the refuse is shredded
* the relationship between available carbon and nitrogen is about 60/1 or less
* the refuse moisture is high
* pH is about 7
* heat is added for control of the cell temperature
SWECO estimates that the fully operational cell system will produce approximately 26
million ml of gas per year with a methane content of 50-55 %. These calculations are
based on gas extracting operations for the period 1999 to 2020.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAOEMENT                                   THE WORLD BANK
66



6            OUTCOME OF PROJECT CONSULTATIONS
This section describes the measures taken to inform stakeholders about the project. to
receive their opinions and to build their concerns into project design. It also describes
how the consultation and disclosure process will continue, after the submission of this
report, throughout the life of the project.
6.1          CONSULTATION ACTIVITiES
Background
As described in Section 4.3, World Bank involvement in developing options for
Municipal Solid Waste Disposal in and around Riga dates back to 1993. At that time
it was determined that consultations about the siting and operation of a new waste
disposal facility in Latvia would be more effective if stakeholders were instructed in
the basic principals of modem sanitary landfill design. In 1995, therefore, the Bank
sponsored a series of measures aimed at increasing awareness of the nature of sanitary
landfill. Briefing articles were distributed in the national press, a video film was
dubbed into the local language and shown at public meetings, a group was taken on a
tour of a Swedish landfill site and a number of television discussions and follow-up
newspaper reports ensued. Although the primary stakeholders for this remediation
project are different, many of the secondary (institutional) stakeholders are unchanged,
with a result that the understanding of the project and the ability to communicate this
to the general public, is much improved over the situation in 1995.
Identification of Stakeholders
Key stakeholders include:
* all people living or working on, or around the site whose environment or socio-
economic situation might be affected as a result of project activities;
* those public sector bodies with responsibilities directly relating to, or affected by
the proposed activities;
* NGOs whose areas of interest or expertise include areas and/or amenities potentially
affected by the proposed activities;
* private sector organisations whose commercial activities may be affected by the
proposed activities.
A Social Assessment was carried out (fully reported in Section 4.5) to identify key
stakeholder groups. Particular attention was paid to identifying those members of the
general public whose environment or social situation might be materially affected or
who had well-founded cause (in the light of previous waste disposal practice in Latvia)
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                              THE WORLD BANK
67



to worry that this might be the case. Vulnerable stakeholders are defined in. Section
4.4 and listed in Figure 4.5a,
Consultation with Stakeholders
The consultation process will continue as the project cycle unfolds, particularly with
regard to the implementation of mitigation measures. Each type of stakeholder group
was approached in the manner deemed to be most effective at imparting the necessary
information and receiving background information and comments, as follows:
* The public authorities and the current Getlini 2 management were consulted through
a series of meetings with the Bank Task Manager, the EA consultants (ERM) and
the engineers undertaking the feasibility study (SWECO). The inception (scoping)
EA report and the draft report were made available for their review and comment.
* NGOs were briefed through a series of meetings conducted by ERM and Baltic
Data House during the summer and fall of 1996 at which the purpose and projected
outcome of the project were described. They proved to be very knowledgeable
regarding new developments due to their continued monitoring of the project and
expressed no significant concerns.
* A random sample of the population living on and around the site was interviewed as
part of the Social Assessment, and as it became apparent that a key impact would
be the effect on semi-formal workers and informal waste/food pickers at the site,
samples of both groups were interviewed. In addition a series of public meetings
was held (25 May, 26 October, and 14 December 1996) to explain the project,
report progress and receive comments. A summary of the outcome of each of
these, plus notes from meetings with NGOs, is included at Annex E.
6.2          OUTCOME OF CONSULTATION
Waste disposal in Latvia has until now been at surface dumps which have been poorly
regulated and operated. As the largest waste disposal site in the country, Getlini in
particular became associated with readily apparent environmental problems such as
litter, vermin, odours, and smoke from chronic fires, along with the suspected
pollution of surface and sub-surface waters.
The operational improvements instituted by Getlini-2 management have been changing
this perception, even as project preparation proceeds. In addition project
communications have been successful at imparting the environmental remediation
aspects of the proposed activities. In general, therefore, stakeholders accept that the
proposals do not threaten physical damage to the environment, but rather will bring
further improvements, and key environmental NGOs have declared that they have no
concerns (see Annexes B and E). The substantive concerns that remain may be
summarised as follows:
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                            THE WORLD BANK
68



* The Ministries of Finance and Environment have been concerned about the
ownership arrangements of the landfill. The issue is that the institution which holds
the controlling ownership must be viable and capable of assuming responsibility for
taking and servicing the World Bank loan.
* The semi-formal workers around the site wish to maintain their source of income.
* The informal waste/food pickers fear loss of even this poor means of sustenance.
* Residents around the site are concerned that semi-formal workers and informal
waste/food pickers seeking access to the site are liable to trespass on their property
and may cause damage or commit theft.
* Residents sharing access roads with the waste trucks wonder if there may be
increased traffic volume leading to congestion.
* Owners of land around the site have speculated that run-off from the site may in the
past have contaminated soil, leading to the pollution of their market garden produce
along with miscellaneous general fears of adverse environmental effects of the waste
disposal site.
All these issues are fully addressed in Section 7 along with the remainder of potential
impacts.
6.3           FUTURE CONSULTATION AND DiSCLOSURE ACTIVITIES
To ensure that stakeholders continue to be fully informed about and have the
opportunity to comment on aspects of implementation that affect them the following
future activities will be carried out as part of the Bank's project preparation or
included in the Environmental Management Plan to be carried out by the engineering
contractors responsible for project implementation (see Chapter 8).
* full disclosure of the EA report, ie announcement in a newspaper that the report is
available and its being made available for public review and comment;
* press releases to local newspapers before the start of engineering works and
activities likely to cause temporary nuisance;
* consultation with affected groups and their representatives on the implementation of
mitigation measures;
* establishment of a facility for dealing with queries/complaints during engineering
works.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEmENT                               THE WORLD BANK
69



7            IMPACTS AND MITIGATION MEASURES
7.1          INTRODUCTION
This section provides preliminary assessment of the potential positive and adverse
impacts resulting from the remediation and continued operation of the Getlini waste
disposal site, the adequacy of the proposals included in the feasibility study, the
potential significance of the impacts of the project, and recommended mitigation
measures. Since the project proposes to remedy past environmental degradation many
of the predicted impacts are positive in terms of the local environment.
It should be noted that the basis of this report is the feasibility study (SWECO 1997); a
detailed engineering design has not been initiated. Therefore potential issues/impacts
can not be quantified at this time. This report seeks to indicate the types of impacts
expected and the types of mitigation measures likely to be necessary. This information
will guide the detailed engineering design at which time impacts should be reassessed
to determine whether additional mitigation is necessary. After the detailed engineering
design is completed, a revised environmental management plan should be produced
containing a timetable, quantities, and practical proposals for implementation.
A summary of mitigation measures along with additional recommended environmental
management and monitoring measures are presented in Section 8.
Key issues/impacts were identified in consultation with stakeholders during a scoping
exercise from August to September 1996. The results were published in an Inception
Report dated September 1996. The issues/impacts which will be addressed in this
section have been divided into eight areas:
* social, socio-economic and cultural;
* hydrogeology, hydrology and water quality;
v health and safety;
* air quality;
* noise;
* ecology;
*. off-site traffic; and
* visual/landscape.
7.2          SOCIAL, SOcIo-EcoNoMic AND CULTURAL
This subsection discuses the potential impacts associated with the remediation and
continued operation of the Getlini landfill, their significance, and proposed or
recommended mitigation measures. Social, socio-economic and cultural impacts may
result from the effect the project has on land ownership, employment opportunities,
income levels and access to recreational facilities or cultural sites. As this project
involves the remediation and modernization of an existing waste disposal site, impacts
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                             TIE WORlD BANK
70



associated with new landfill development were not necessarily applicable. However.
the following categories of potential impacts were identified on the basis of typical
impacts associated with landfill development, the scope of the proposed project
activities, the findings of the Social Assessment (Section 4.5), and the consultations
(Chapter 6):
* resettlement of population directly displaced by the landfill;
* loss or disruption of land in productive use;
* creation of formal employment opportunities;
* loss of semi-formal waste worker employment opportunities;
* loss of waste/food picking opportunities;
* effect on local recreational and cultural activities.
7.2.1         Resettlement of Population Directly Displaced by the Landfill
Impact
There are no houses or permanent dwellings located within the proposed site boundary,
nor are there any inhabitants in informal dwellings on-site. The proposed project does
not involve an expansion of the footprint of the site into surrounding areas, only more
effective utilisation of the available land. Nor will new access roads or off-site
facilities be required. As a consequence there will be no displacement of population as
a result of the project.
Mitigation.
No mitigation measures are required.
7.2.2         Loss or Disruption of Land in Productive Use
Impact
The only areas of the existing site in productive use are those needed for landfilling of
waste and associated materials recovery activities. Productive land uses in the vicinity
of the site include peat harvesting and vegetable gardening. As there will be no
extension of the site footprint as a result of the proposed development, ie no expansion
onto surrounding lands, there will be no disruption to these productive land uses as a
result of the project proposals.
Mitigation
No mitigation measures are required.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                                 TRE WORLD BANK
71



7.2.3        Formal Employment
Impact
The local economy of Getlini village and surroundings is rural/suburban in character
and there are few employment opportunities. Interviews with residents revealed that
many non-pensioner residents comnmute into Riga for their employment.
Hence, the Getlini disposal site represents a significant centre of employment and
income with approximately 90 formal employees and an additional 150 or so semi-
formal workers per day on average. The majority of these employment opportunities
have been created over the last two years as a result of Getlini-2 Ltd revenue
generation initiatives, in particular the recovery and sale of recyclable components of
the waste stream.
Recycling is central to all of the existing operations, and it is useful to think of the
Getlini site as a thriving and competitive materials recovery and recycling enterprise as
well as a disposal site for residual wastes. The proposals for remediation and
continued operation of the facility are intended to provide additional potential for
revenue generation (from landfill gas utilisation), increased efficiency (from more
systematised operations), and enviromnental benefits (through site remediation and
improved environmental management). An overall change in numbers of formal (long-
term) employees is not, however, anticipated according to the feasibility study
(SWECO 1997).
The remediation and continued operation of the Getlini landfill site will, however,
require extensive civil and structural works, which will be contracted to local
enterprises. The investment is therefore likely to create employment opportunities in
that sector of the economy, in particular during the initial period of the project.
Additional jobs created are likely to be both highly skilled and low/semi skilled, but
given the small number of working age residents, the potential benefit to the local
community is somewhat limited.
Mitigation
No mitigation measures are required.
7.2.4        Loss of Semi-Fonnal Waste Worker Employment Opportunities
Impact
Getlini-2, Ltd has registered a total of 220 semi-formal waste workers, however not all
are present each day. Individuals work according to their need as determined by
access to alternative work, personal preference and availability of other family income.
On each of two site visits in summer and fall, approximately 150 semi-formal waste
workers were observed to be working at the Getlini landfill tipping face.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                              THE WORLD BANK
72



Semi-structured interviews with waste pickers (summarised in Section 4.5) revealed
that, in the case of the interviewees, working at Getlini was their paid employment and
provided an essential source of family income. Although they are not formally
employed by Getlini-2, Ltd, we have designated this group as 'semi-formal' workers
because they are:
* registered and authorised to enter the site;
* managed by the formal workforce;
* derive income from sale of recovered materials to Getlini-2, Ltd management;
* prohibited from selling recovered materials off-site.
The presence of the semi-formal waste workers is accepted by the site management
because they are a critical component of the current material recovery operation and
are paid on a quantity basis only.
The proposals for remediation and continued operation of the Getlini site, require the
prevention of waste picking at the landfill tipping face. Instead it is proposed to
construct a conveyor/picking belt, commonly termed a materials recovery facility
(MRF), in the waste processing area of the site. Refuse collection vehicles would
enter the site and deposit their waste onto a pre-prepared area. The waste would then
be fed onto the picking belt, picked over manually with the recovered waste set aside,
and the residual material fed into a shredder.
This proposal requires formalisation of the existing materials recovery activities
whereby waste pickers would be formally employed within the facility. This change
could have a number of environmental and social consequences as summarised in
Table 7.2.4a.
Table 7.2.4a Impact of Formalising Materials Recovery System
Aspect             Potential Impact of the Project Proposals
Environmental      The efficiency of material extraction from the waste will be greater with a MRF
than with manual separation at the tipping face. However, as the input feedstock
is mixed municipal waste (and not pre-sorted waste), the efficiency would not be
as high as in some other MRF schemes in Europe. (I)
Socio-Economic     The formalisation is likely to result in many of the semi-formal waste workers
losing their means of gaining income. Getlini-2, Ltd have expressed a reluctance
to employ the semi-formal waste workers due to a perception that they are an
irregular and unreliable workforce accustomed to open working hours and
practices and incapable of conforming to Getlini-2, Ltd standards. Further, the
feasibility proposals estimate that fewer waste-picking workers would be required
with the MRF than under the current scheme. However, an MRF would provide
secure employment opportunities for some.
(1 Pre-soring of waste involves separation of reclyclablcs or other materials of value at the source through provision of separate bins for
materials orothersortimg/collectionschemes. Pre-sortingis typicallydependentoncitizen educationandvohlntaryorfinancially
incentivized cooperation.
ENVIRONMENTAL RP3OURCES MANAGEMENT                                          THE WORLD BANK
73



Aspect            Potential Impact of the Project Proposals
Health and Safety   The MRF would significantly iinprove health and safety for materials recovery
workers at Getlini. Although no effects on the health status of the semii-formal
waste workers are apparent, it is generally considered unsafe to allow workers or
scavengers to pick materials in close proximity to unloading waste collection
vehicles and bulldozers.
Economic          The operating costs of the MRF would be relatively high. Increases in the
marginal costs of materials recovery could potentially affect the competitiveness
of the Getlini-2, Ltd recycling business in the medium-long term.
The official unemployment rate in Latvia is 7%. however the true number may be far
higher. Social groups most affected are pre-pension age people (ie women over 50
and men over 55) and unskilled workers of all ages. The state makes a provision for
people registered as unemployed, and the municipalities are responsible for carrying
out the program. However, many of the respondents indicated that they had not
applied for this benefit due to a perception that they would be unsuccessful.
A brief investigation into the "social safety net" system in Latvia by Baltic Data
House, ERM's local social assessment consultant, revealed that this perception of the
inaccessibility of the unemployment benefit program is widespread. In addition, the
program only provides benefits (currently 90% of minimum wage or 34.20 Lats/month
or approximately US$ 68.40) for a limited period (6 months in 1996 to be extended to
9 months in 1997), and an additional eligibility requirement is certified ability to speak
Latvian. Hence, it may not be a coincidence that the majority of semi-formal workers
were Russian and unable to speak Latvian.
It is clear that proposals to formalise employment in recycling could deprive at least
some of these people of an important source of income. On the other hand, there
would be clear health and safety benefits and the employment lost is not a traditional
occupation but an opportunistic response to rapid economic transition. The work
represents a temporary window of opportunity which arose only in the past few years,
when effective site management allowed informal recycling to become profitable for
the operators. The semi-formal workers travel by train to the site, reside off-site in
permanent accommodation and are in apparent good health (see Section 4.5).
Although the loss of income at the landfill may cause temporary distress, most share
other family income and none exhibit the level of destitution seen in such occupational
groups in other developing countries.
Mitigation
Discussions with SWECO, the feasibility study consultants, indicate that it would be
cost-effective to delay the construction of the materials recovery facility and allow
semi-formal waste picking to be phased out over a three year (or more) transition
period. Waste picking at the landfill tipping cell could be immediately halted, with the
waste being picked over prior to shredding instead. Simultaneously, a set of key
ENVIRONMENTAL REsouRcEs MANAGEMENT                                     ThE WORLD BANK
74



changes in the management of the semi-formal waste picking activities could be
implemented to improve health and safety as follows:
* prepare two or three bays located radially around the shredder, and manage
operations so that waste pickers are only allowed into bays when unloading/loading
activities have been completed and all mechanical vehicle movements have halted.
Whilst a bay is being picked over by the waste pickers, loading/unloading
operations can be carried out in the alternative bay(s) to maximise efficiency.
* request that waste pickers wear suitable protective clothing, in particular hard
wearing gloves and potentially light face masks, at all times; and
* provide vaccinations for infectious diseases which may be acquired at the site.
While it is recognised that the SWECO MRF proposal is likely to be more efficient in
removing materials from the waste stream, and also allow a better control over health
and safety, there are several advantages of building a transition period into the project
as described above:
* the transition period will allow the semi-formal waste pickers to gradually adjust to
the implications of the formalised materials recovery system, allowing time for
semi-formal workers to find other employment and/or adjust to more controlled and
demanding working practices;
* the transition period will allow site management to gradually adjust to the new
landfill management system and to focus their energies in the short term on
properly constructing and operating the energy cells and building their experience
as suppliers to the energy market;
X the transition period will allow Riga City Council, in association with the Ministry
of Environmental Protection and Regional Development and other authorities, to
develop an integrated waste reduction strategy prior to making final investment
decisions about the need, potential and most favoured location of a materials
recovery facility;
* the transition period will allow the project to proceed in a fashion which is fully
sensitive to the local socio-economic considerations, maximising environmental
benefits, and minimising negative impacts from the facility.
7.2.5         Loss of Informal Waste/Food Picking Opportunities
Impact
The informal waste/food pickers share many of the same social characteristics with the
semi-formal workers, differing primarily in having no source of income (according to
those interviewed). The proposals to cover the existing waste pile and limit access to
the waste tipping area to employees will deprive this group of a seemingly important
source of survival. However, the profile of these waste/food pickers at Getlini is
ENvIRoNMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                               THE WORLD BANK
75



atypical of waste site "scavengers" in other areas of the developing world. All of
those interviewed reported having a permanent residence, such as a flat, offsite (80%
in Riga), and they commute to the site. Furthermore, in Latvia the practice is a recent
phenomenon linked to the economic transition, not a traditional occupation associated
with a particular caste or class of society as in India. It is also a practice which poses
health and safety risks to the practitioners and which is strongly opposed by the health
and environment ministries, the local government, and the disposal site management
company Getlini-2. The practitioners are largely the unemployed who are or perceive
themselves to be too "old" to adapt to the changing economy yet are too young for
pension eligibility. The majority of the practitioners interviewed (90%) were
registered which makes them eligible for an unemployment allowance. However, the
respondents all indicated that they had chosen not to apply for this benefit due to their
conviction that they would be unsuccessful.
As discussed in Section 7.2.4, this perception of the inaccessibility of the
unemployment benefit program is widespread. The unemployment benefit is the
responsibility of the municipal governments, not the national government, and it is
administered differently in each municipality making overall assessment and/or
oversight of the program difficult. All of the randomly selected waste/food pickers
interviewed were discovered to be of Russian origin.
One of the main features of the project proposals is to cover the existing waste pile at
the Getlini site with soil material, so that the infiltration of rain water into the site, the
resulting quantities of leachate being generated from the site, and levels of
contamination of water resources are significantly reduced. This water quality
mitigation measure is clearly going to remove access of informal waste/food pickers to
the existing waste pile.
Further, fresh waste arriving at the site will be shredded before placement in the
landfill 'energy cells' and increased management control will be placed on preventing
unauthorised persons from gaining access to the site. Management will particularly
focus on ensuring that persons do not gain access to the energy cells, where there
would be a risk of injuries and damage to equipment. It will therefore be necessary to
reinforce the restrictions on informal waste/food pickers and make sure there is no
access to the freshly deposited waste during the day or night.
Clearly there will be an effect on the activities of waste/food pickers. These people
will be forced to look elsewhere for income and food and during the transition period
will experience extra hardship. Given the illicit nature of this activity, and the
difficulties in isolating affected individuals, there is little potential for minimising the
impacts other than providing education and assistance regarding accessing
unemployment and related benefits.
The significance of this potential impact is difficult to gauge. The alternative of not
covering the existing site would be unacceptable in the context of the need to minimise
infiltration and subsequent leachate emissions in order to reduce ground-water
contamination from the site. Allowing continued access to the tipping area (or energy
cell) would not be acceptable in terms of health and safety and risk of damage to on-
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                                 THE WORLD BANK
76



site equipment. As the informal waste/food pickers gain only marginal benefit from
entering the site, the effect on their well being will be marginal and temporary.
Prevention of unauthorised access is seen as an important advantage by the local
population because it will remove the motivation to trespass on surrounding properties.
Also the prevention of waste/food picking will remove a health and safety risk.
Mitigation
The complexity of this issue cannot be fully resolved within the scope of this study. A
fundamental question posed by this situation is the seeming reluctance on the part of
the waste/food pickers to apply for unemployment benefits, and on a larger scale the
adequacy of existing social programs to cope with unemployment and poverty in a
difficult period of economic transition. The requirement of certification of ability to
speak Latvian as a pre-requisite for eligibility may be a major obstacle for ethnic
Russians, particularly those that are destitute. The only feasible mitigation is to make
sure that the affected people are warned in advance about the coming management
changes and their implications. This can accomplished by the production and
distribution of an information leaflet in Russian and Latvian.
7.2.6         Effect on Local Recreational and Cultural Amenity
Impact
There is no indication that the current site activities are affecting recreational and
religious amenity in the Getlini village and surroundings. As no additional land is to
be taken up by the remediation and continued operation of the Getlini site, there will
be no adverse effect on recreational or cultural amenity. There is, however, potential
for a positive effect if the site is properly restored at the end of the project.
Mitigation
It is not within the engineering feasibility consultants Terms of Reference to present
proposals for restoration of the landfill site after final closure at some future date.
However, the EIA consultants strongly advise that restoration and aftercare proposals
be developed and included within the project, in line with standard practice
internationally.
If properly restored, the site may be available for certain types of economic activity,
and in particular may provide improved facilities for the local population. These
opportunities will arise progressively as the site is filled. Acceptable uses for the
restored site will be agricultural, horticultural and amenity uses. Buildings and major
structures will not be suitable for development on the site due to extreme risks of
subsidence, structural collapse, damage to the landfill cap, accumulation of methane
gas in confined spaces.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                                 THE WORLD BANK
77



7.2.7        Increase in Local Property Values
Impact
Solid waste disposal in Latvia has a poor reputation, due to the low level of
environmental pollution control applied at the existing landfill sites. In many cases the
development of a landfill can affect, to a significant extent, the value of properties
surrounding a site. In the case of Getlini, residents have complained about having to
live near the site, in particular highlighting the stigma attached with the area as a cause
of discomfort. The majority of residents in the area have, however, lived in the area
for a significant period of time and have not recently moved to the area, indicating that
the property market in the area is extremely low.
Since the commencement of Getlini-2, Ltd operations,however, there has been a wide
agreement within stakeholders associated with the site that the environmental
management conditions have significantly improved. These improvements, however,
do not appear to have been noticed by the media at large, and therefore it is likely that
the overriding perceptive of Getlini is that it is operated to poor environmental
standards.
Mitigation
If this project was to go ahead it is likely that there would be increased media attention
on the existing and possible future enviromnental performance of site operations. This
coverage would be likely to improve the public image of the site, and also potentially
reduce the stigma that is currently associated with living next to the landfill. The
landfill management can enhance this effect by paying attention to public relations and
issuing press releases, etc, as the project progresses.
Tangible environmental benefits, as well as an improved public image of the Getlini
landfill only be realized over some period of time. These benefits are therefore
unlikely to significantly affect the saleability of houses in the area, at least in the
foreseeable future. The overall positive impact of the project on property values is
therefore estimated to be of minimal significance even thought the improvements
should arrest further decline in property values.
7.3           HYDROGEOLOGY, HYDROLOGY, AND WATER QUALITY
This section describes the range of potential hydrogeological, hydrological, and water
quality impacts associated with the remediation and continued operation of the Getlini
landfill, their potential significance, and proposed or recommended mitigation
measures. For the most part the project proposals in this area are remedial efforts
designed to abate an existing ground-water contamination problem and to prevent
future environmental pollution from the modernized landfill. Hence, this component
of the project constitutes enhancement of existing conditions and mitigation is
unnecessary. The only exception is the proposal to release treated leachate
contaminated water to the River Daugava.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEM.ENT                              THE WORLD BANK
78



7.3.1        Containment and Control of Leachate and Leachate Plume
Impact
Leachate is produced directly from liquid waste and refuse moisture content and
indirectly from precipitation falling on and percolating through the waste pile. Raw
municipal waste leachate is a concentrated municipal wastewater and typically contains
high levels of chlorides, nutrients, ammonium, and organic compounds which create
very high biological oxygen demand and chemical oxygen demand. Leachate may also
contain metals and various inorganic compounds and in some cases toxins depending
on the types of wastes disposed.
Investigations over many years have reported the contamination of the shallow surface
Quaternary aquifer and tracked the migration of a leachate contaminant plume from the
Getlini waste disposal site towards the Daugava River. Recent investigations
performed under SWECO's auspices by Geo-Konsultant, Ltd., the most comprehensive
and extensive to date, have defined the extent of the ground water contamination and
collected extensive water chemistry data, some of which are presented earlier in this
report (Section 4.7). Hydrogeological modelling results performed under this study
indicate that if no remedial actions are taken, the contaminant plume will increase both
horizontally and vertically and potentially impact the deeper Plavinas aquifer as well as
the further contaminate the Quaternary aquifer.
Mitigation
A major positive impact of the proposed project will be the program for remediating
the ground-water contamination problem at Getlini and for preventing future
contamination by arresting leachate formation, and collecting and treating leachate (as
described in Section 5.2).
7.3.2        Effect of Taking Soil for Covering the Waste Pile
Impact
The existing waste pile which is approximately 35 hectares in area will be covered
with a 0.5 metre thick soil layer. SWECO has specified two layers: a 0.3 metre base
layer of clay and sandy loam with a permeability of less than 1.1 x 10-9 metres/second
and a 0.2 metre upper layer of sand and gravel. This constitutes approximately
175,000 m3 of material. Acquisition of such a large quantity of soil material will
require one or more borrow areas. The potential impact(s) will be associated with the
borrow area(s).
SWECO does not designate a specific borrow area in the feasibility study, hence the
exact potential impacts could not be assessed. However, the impacts typically
associated with borrow sites are expected to apply. These are:
change in land use at the borrow site (eg forest clearance, loss of agricultural land);
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                             THE WORLD BANK
79



* impacts associated with land use change (loss of agricultural land, habitat loss,
visual/aesthetic impacts):
* creation of a pit or depression;
* noise associated with excavators, sorting machinery, and hauling vehicles;
Mitigation
Mitigation measures recommended to manage and minimise potential environmental
and social impacts associated with the borrow site(s) are:
* conduct ecological surveys of site(s) to determine if any protected species or
significant habitats may exist;
* compensate land owner where appropriate;
* implement a program of site management (eg dust control) to minimise operational
impacts to the environment and/or residents of the area; and
- develop a program of appropriate aftercare measures in consultation with local
authorities.
7.3.3         CoUection and Treatment of Surface Runoff
Inpact
Analysis of the containment and drainage ditches adjacent to the site indicates high
levels of contamination by leachate. Although the primary source is polluted, shallow
ground water welling up into the ditches, a limited, secondary pathway is surface
runoff from the site. Under existing conditions surface runoff from the waste pile,
haul roads, and paved operational areas is uncontrolled. This runoff, which contains
small quantities of leachate as well as sediment and residuals from the waste, is a
source of surface water pollution.
Mitigation
Surface runoff from the waste pile and future operational areas such as waste delivery
areas, paved sorting areas, roads, and parking areas will be directed to a series of
surface ditches which will be engineered to raise the invert of the ditches above the
water table and to make the bottoms and sides of the ditches impervious. The runoff
water will be discharged to a two stage series of settling ponds for treatment prior to
discharge to the Daugava via existing drainage canals.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                                 THE WORLD BANK
80



7.3.4        Discharge of Treated Water to the Daugava
Impact
The discharge of treated, landfill leachate effluent to the Daugava has the potential to
adversely impact water quality in the Daugava. As previously described the Daugava
is already polluted by municipal wastewater and agricultural runoff. Potential nutrient
loads from the Getlini landfill could constitute an additional loading of nutrients.
Mitigation
The quality of the effluent released will be designed to minimise adverse impacts. If
future monitoring of the impacts of landfill effluent discharge should reveal that there
is significant adverse impact, then the appropriate mitigation measure would be to
redesign the treatment plant at the landfill to further improve the water quality of the
leachate. Technologies to purify the effluent are available. However, the issue of
what level of treatment is appropriate is an environmental management problem. The
decision should be based on existing and predicted future conditions, management
objectives in the river basin and the Baltic Sea, and cost/benefit analyses.
The following actions are recommended for the determination of an acceptable effluent
treatment level for the project and for prevention of future adverse impacts:
* conduct a study of water quality, pollutant loadings, and hydrodynamics in the
reach of the Daugava where the effluent would be discharged;
* determine the proposed rate of discharge from the landfill treatment plant;
* assess the potential for adverse impacts under several different treatment level
scenarios reflecting realistic options;
* select a treatment level in keeping with Latvian and international environmental
management goals for the Daugava and the Baltic Sea, World Bank standards,
project economics, and the technical and management capacities of the landfill
operations company or other management organization;
* institute or participate in an existing water quality monitoring program in the lower
Daugava to monitor effects of landfill leachate effluent, the results of which
program should be used to evaluate and manage the treatment program.
7.3.5        Residential Water Supply Issues in the Getlini Vicinity
Impact
The majority of the residences in the vicinity of the Getlini site have shallow wells in
the Quaternary aquifer. The water quality of these wells has traditionally been affected
by Getlini Bog, and most of the residents have obtained drinking water from the
several deep wells in the area or imported water. The shallow wells have been used
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                              THE WORLD BANK
81



primarily for irrigation purposes. However, there is considerable public concern over
the water quality of the shallow wells and potential adverse impacts from use of the
water contaminated by the leachate.
Mitigation
The remediation works described above should reduce contamination in the Quaternary
aquifer and improve the aquifers's water quality, but the influence of Getlini Bog on
the background water quality will be unchanged. Further, there are two parallel
programs which will reduce any potential adverse impacts resulting from public
consumption of the contaminated water in the near future and which should alleviate
public concern. Stopinu Pagast has financed the construction of a public water supply
line for the area from the Riga public water supply system. This system's operation
awaits only the installation of household meters at the time of preparation of this
report. This program is unrelated to the landfill project and is not formally evaluated
in this report but will clearly have a positive impact in terms of providing convenient,
clean water to each household.
The second program is an outgrowth of the landfill project. Due to public concern
over ground-water quality in the Getlini area, the World Bank has decided to
commission a water quality testing program for residential wells in the area. This
investigation will be carried out in 1997. This program is designed to determine if
water quality problems exist, if they are related to the leachate, and to educate the
public in terms of any associated risks.
7.4           HEALTH AND SAFETY
The sub-sections below discuss the range of potential health and safety impacts
associated with the remediation and continued operation of the Getlini landfill, their
potential significance, and any proposed or recommended mitigation measures.
7.4.1         Improved Health and Safety at dhe Site
Impact
Site records indicate an extremely low incidence of absenteeism due to illness or injury
within the formal landfill workforce. This indicates that existing health and safety
practices are of a satisfactory standard in relation to the formal workforce.
The nature of the semi-formal waste picking activities, however, exposes this group to
greater health and safety concerns. Only one of the nine semi-formal waste pickers
interviewed expressed any concerns about health. It is possible, however, that some of
these people may be carrying some health affects as a result of their work which they
are not aware of, due to a lack of desire to have, or inability to pay for, medical
checks or treatment.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                               THE WORLD BANK
82



Particular health concerns arise from allowing populations of vermin and insects to
build-up within the waste pile. As there is no compaction or use of daily cover at the
site, existing operations show a lack of attention to this issue, and represent a
significant potential health concern.
There are safety concerns associated with workers roaming around the tipping face of a
landfill. The movement of mechanical vehicles and off loading of refuse collection
vehicles next to the waste pickers has significant potential to cause injury.
International practice is to limit or prevent standing persons within a designated
distance of the tipping face for this reason.
Mitigation
Under the project proposals the semi-formal waste pickers will be excluded from the
tipping face area, and materials recovery activities will be carried out in a separate part
of the site. New materials recovery arrangements are proposed to be organised and
managed to ensure that health and safety risks from these activities are greatly reduced.
The existing waste pile is to be covered eliminating a major portion of the waste
supporting vermin and insects. In the future the area of raw waste exposed to the
atmosphere will be substantially reduced, consisting only of a single active energy cell.
The material in the energy cells will be sorted and shredded prior to dumping in the
cells and compacted or covered daily.
7.4.2         Avoidance of Risk of Disease Transmission to the Local Community
Impact
Under current waste disposal practices, and in particular due to the lack of covering
and/or compaction of waste being carried out at the site, there are some risks of
transmission of disease from the site to the local community. The proposals for
remediation and continued operation of the site includes measures designed specifically
to minimise these risks.
Diseases can be transferred from the landfill site to the local community through three
media:
* animal vectors;
* water; and
* air.
Mitigation
Vectors which may transfer pathogens from the landfill site to local communities
include vermin, insects, birds and humans. Timely compaction of waste and/or the
application of daily cover is critical for the control of vermin and insects and
consequently for minimising the potential for spread of vector borne diseases.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                                 THE WORLD BANK
83



Birds can be controlled in a number of ways. These include, inter alia, the use of
flares (as at present). pre-recorded bird distress calls, use of 'scarecrows'. or the use
of trained birds of prey. The continuation of the use of flares to scare birds off the
site is recommended, and other measures are recommended be applied where
considered appropriate.
Routine health checks for the workers are an essential means of detecting the existence
of contagious diseases at the site prior to any potential spread of disease from the
landfill site. Vaccinations are currently provided to site staff. It is recommended that
the programme of health checks and vaccinations be extended to the semi-formal waste
workers, possibly in collaboration with the local health authority.
The potential for water borne diseases is likely to be small at Getlini. Any potential
can be minimised by ensuring that stagnant pools of water are not formed on-site, and
through designing the perimeter drainage system to avoid build-up of stagnant water
on-site or nearby. Sufficient attention has been placed to surface water drainage in the
conceptual design, and this consideration should be carried through to the detailed
design stage.
The potential for airborne health impact has been significantly reduced under Getlini-2
management through improved controls of waste tipping and cessation of open fires in
and on the waste pile. Residents have noted this important change in site management,
and under no circumstances should open burning of waste be resumed. Under current
conditions the potential for airborne health impacts is considered quite low, and the
potential should further decline under the design recommendations in the feasibility
study. The amount of waste exposed to the atmosphere at any one time will be
significantly less (the entire waste pile is currently 35.5 hectares versus the proposed
energy cells with a total area of 1.7 hectares of which only a small portion will be
exposed to the atmosphere at any one time).
Other air emissions from the landfill activities, including landfill gas, odour and
vehicle emissions, are unlikely presently to be giving rise to health impacts.
Remediation and controlled operation of the site, with implementation of adequate
environmental control measures, is not considered likely to give rise to such impacts.
7.4.3         Improved Control over Landfill Gas
Impact
Landfill gas is a product of the degradation of wastes under anaerobic conditions.
With a high content of methane, toxic and inflammable gases, the generation of landfill
gas poses significant risks to human health and life (due to risk of exposure to and
explosion of the gas). The risk is greatest where gas is allowed to build-up in confined
spaces, such as within buildings adjacent to or on a site or in collapsed void spaces
within the deposited waste.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAOEMENT                                 THE WORLD BANK
84



Mitigation
In order to minimise the risks to human health from landfill gas a highly efficient
active extraction system is being proposed. At the existing site, collection wells will
be sunk into the landfill to collect the available quantities of gas. In the new energy
cells a high efficiency leachate production and collection system will be installed. In
addition, waste arriving at the site will be shredded prior to deposition in the cell, to
maximise the speed and homogeneity of decomposition in the cell.
Overall, the project provides an important opportunity to stabilise the existing landfill
site, and continue landfilling under controlled conditions. This is likely to reduce the
health and safety risks associated with improper control of landfill gas.
7.5           AIR QUALITY
The sub-sections below discuss the range of potential air quality impacts associated
with the remediation and continued operation of the Getlini landfill, their potential
significance, and any proposed or recommended mitigation measures.
7.5.1         Odour Impacts from Site Activities
Impact
Odours at landfill sites are generated from movement, placement and decomposition of
waste. The main method of reducing the generation of odours from the site is to
ensure good on-site management practices, in particular ensuring that there are no open
fires on-site, and to fill the landfill site in small well-defined cells using cover material
as and when necessary to prevent prolonged exposure of decomposing wastes to the
atmosphere.
The emission of odours is also dependent to a certain degree on the efficiency of the
waste collection and transport system. Waste which is left for significant period before
collection will be at a more mature state of degradation when arriving at the landfill,
and therefore emit more odours. The Latvian climate does not, however, lend itself to
rapid decomposition of waste prior to collection and transit, and therefore the odour
emissions are likely to be low in comparison with landfills in warmer climates.
Prior to the commencement of Getlini-2, Ltd operations in 1995, local residents
complained of significant odour impact. This was probably due to the poor
management practices at that time and the open fires which were reported to be
common. Since 1995, however, the level of odour emissions from the site were not
highlighted as being a particular concern. This condition was confirmed by field visits
in August during the course of the investigation. The general lack of odour problems
is also attributable to the large distance between the tipping areas and nearest sensitive
receivers.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                                 THE WORLD BANK
85



Mitigation
The proposed remediation measures will include the covering of the existing site with
inert materials, the landfilling of wastes on a cellular basis, and capping of the cell
following completion to provide optimum conditions for the control of landfill gas.
All of these measures are likely to reduce the potential for odour emissions at the site,
and the degree of impact experienced at sensitive receivers.
However, there will still be some potential for significant odour emission at the site.
These are:
* processing and shredding of waste;
* transfer of shredded waste to the energy cell via conveyor; and
* excavation of the energy cell prior to completion, and re-deposition on the existing
(and capped) landfill.
Detailed design of the site will need to consider the potential for odour emissions from
these three stages of the on-site waste management process.
The main method of controlling odour emissions from waste processing, shredding and
transfer is to ensure that these activities are carried out efficiently, ie that waste is not
left to stand for long periods of time prior to shredding and transfer to the energy cell.
Materials recovery should therefore be carried out within a relatively short period of
time (maximum of half a day) and the shredder and conveyor system should be
designed with sufficient capacity for peak waste inputs. Furthermore, full contingency
measures should be put in place to ensure that in the event of any mechanical failure
(or during period of routine maintenance) of the shredder or conveyor system there is
an efficient alternative method of transferring waste to the energy cell.
With respect to excavation of the energy cell, care should be taken to only excavate the
cell when in situ waste decomposition is completed. Even under this full-
decomposition scenario, given the heterogeneous nature of waste, it is likely that there
will be some areas of the energy cell where waste has not undergone full
decomposition. In this event, non-fully decomposed waste should be transported to
another cell or left in situ rather than excavated for further use. This requirement
should be fully reflected in the operational/environmental management plan for the
site.
Overall, it is considered that the positive effect of remediating the site and operating it
on a cellular basis will outweigh the potential negative effect intensified waste
processing of waste and excavation. However, given that the baseline level of odour
impact to sensitive receivers is minimal (due to their distance from the site), the
positive odour impact of the design proposals is also likely to be of minimal
significance.
ENVmoNMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                                  THE WoRiL BANK
86



7.5.2        Dust Impacts from Site Activities
Impact
As with odour, significant quantities of dust are typically generated from landfill
operations. Major sources of dust include vehicle movements on unpaved or dirty
road surfaces, waste off loading, processing and handling and bulldozing/compaction
activities, placement of cover material, and construction of the final cap. Impacts are
likely to be more acute in dry conditions.
As with odour impacts, dust emissions can be minimised by filling the landfill in small
well-defined cells and ensuring the efficient processing and handling of waste at the
site. The use of conveyors rather than vehicles for on-site movement of wastes under
normal operating conditions, as proposed in the feasibility study, will have the effect
of considerably reducing the potential for emission of dust as well as noise. Site roads
will, however still be required for movement of construction vehicles, and to be used
as haul roads to the energy cells in the event of mechanical failure/maintenance of the
shredder and conveyor system.
Mitigation
In order to further minimise dust emissions, and maximise the positive impact
experienced from the site remediation and continued operation, roads should be
maintained in a good condition and dust control exercised by regular sweeping and, if
appropriate, spraying and damping-down of all site roads.
Furthermore, it is recommended that a wheel wash facility be provided within the site
reception area and used by all vehicles. This will minimise the transference of mud
and debris onto external roads from the site, and therefore control dust impacts to the
local community.
However, the enhanced use of cover materials and enhanced processing of waste on-
site will contribute to the residual levels of dust at the site. In particular, care should
be taken to ensure that dust emissions from the shredder are controlled at source. This
control will benefit not only local sensitive receivers, but also, and perhaps more
critically, be a valuable method of ensuring good working conditions. An integrated
sprinkler system for dry days would achieve this goal.
Overall, the proposal to use a conveyor belt for internal movement of wastes rather
than vehicles is likely to have a marked positive effect on dust emissions from the site.
This positive impact is likely to outweigh any negative impacts which may result from
intensified waste processing, and enhanced use of cover materials at the site.
However, given that sensitive receivers are distant from the landfill operations, and the
existing negative dust impacts are considered to be of moderate significance, the
overall positive impact is assessed as being of moderate positive significance. If wheel
washes were to be included as part of the design proposals the scale of positive impact
would be further enhanced.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                               THE WoRLD BANK
87



7.5.3         Vehicle Exhaust Emissions
Inpact
It is estimated that a maximum of around 840 vehicles (1,680 vehicle movements) per
day and a possible maximum of 170 vehicles (340 vehicle movements) in a peak hour
(assuming 20% of total flow in a peak hour) will be using the Getlini landfill site
during its projected lifetime.
Although there is no data available on the baseline air quality in the area, the
Consultants' qualitative impression was that local air quality was not poor in the area,
and traffic count data collected do not suggest that there is a significant current
problem with impacts of vehicle emissions.
Given that the predicted worst case additional flow of vehicles to the site is only 20%
more than the baseline traffic flows, it is highly unlikely that any significant impact
will result from these additional vehicle emissions. The overall level of impact is
therefore anticipated to be negligible.
Mitigation
No mitigation measures are required.
7.5.4         On-Site Construction Activities
Impact
This section relates specifically to air quality impacts from on-site construction
activities. Air quality impact from the transport of materials to the site during the
construction phase are addressed under Section 7.8.2. The specific activities which
will be required for remediation of the site are as follows:
* placing cover material over the existing deposited waste;
* relocating/constructing new administrative facilities;
* installing landfill gas and leachate control systems; and
* constructing new landfill, energy, cells.
Dust emissions from the placement of cover materials over the existing waste pile is
likely to be the major source of potential air quality impact during the initial
remediation phase.
Mitigation
These initial construction activities are likely to be carried out over a relatively short
period of time, around I year, and given that the nearest sensitive receiver to the filled
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                                  ITE WORLD BANK
88



areas of the site is over 500 metres away, impacts from these activities are likely to be
minimal. Best management practices for the control of dust on construction sites
should be employed to minimise the potential problem. This would include covering
of any stockpiles of earth and sprinkling of haul roads to reduce dust.
7.5.5         Reduced Greenhouse Gas Emissions
Impact
Methane gas is a major green house gas and a product of the decomposition of
municipal waste under anaerobic conditions. Therefore any measures which
significantly reduce methane emissions to the atmosphere are considered positive. The
project proposes to extract and utilize landfill gas from the existing waste pile as well
as from the new energy cells.
Gas pump testing on the existing site have identified that there are significant quantities
of landfill gas available. Furthermore, the feasibility study consultants predict that the
quantities of landfill gas will be sufficient enough to make utilisation of the gas
technically feasible. There is an existing market for the gas (either directly as gas or
for generation of electricity), so a further, additional positive impact will utilization of
this landfill gas in place of fossil fuels.
The impact of the project on reducing greenhouse gas emissions from the Getlini site
should be significant. The corresponding impact of this reduction in regional terms
will be less dramatic, since there are many other unmanaged dumps and other
unchecked sources of methane in the region. The project would, however, represent a
significant advance on the control of greenhouse gas emissions from waste disposal
sites. On balance, the significance of the impact is considered to be moderately
positive.
Mitigation
No mitigation required.
7.6           NOISE
The sub-sections below discuss the range of potential noise impacts associated with the
Getlini waste disposal site, and their potential significance. Detailed baseline noise
survey and noise modelling exercises were not justified on the basis of the very small
numbers of noise sensitive receivers near the site and the expected magnitude of noise
impacts. A noise survey was completed, however, as reported in Section 4.11.
The receiver most likely to be affected by noise from the site operations is the isolated
dwelling near the access road. Apart from this dwelling the nearest receiver to the site
is about 500 m away and as such should not be significantly impacted by noise
generated within the site. The potential increase in the noise generated by vehicles on
the access road is therefore the most likely source of noise impact during both the
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                                 THE WORLD BANK
89



construction and operational phases. Impacts from noise on the access road are
discussed in Section 7.8 that addresses Off-Site Traffic.
7.6.1          Construction Noisefrom Remnediation Activities
Impact
Construction activities associated with the remediation and extension of the landfill are
listed in Section 7.5.4 above.
Noise impacts from sanitary landfill construction activities is primarily dependent on
the specific plant deployment and the proximity of construction activities to noise
sensitive receivers. The most significant period of construction noise generation is
likely to be during the initial phase in which the old landfill area will be capped off
with soil. During this phase up to 50 trucks per day are estimated to be required to
bring cover material to the site via the access road, and bulldozers will spread the fill
to cover the old landfilled area.
Reference to British Standard 5228 (1) indicates a total sound power level for two
bulldozers and one truck operating on the old landfill area of about 112 dB(A),
assuming each plant is operating at full load for about 50 % of the time. At a distance
of 500 m the highest possible noise level would be about LAeq pcnod 50 dB. With
ambient noise levels at the remote receiver to the south west (survey location 4) of
about 44 dB(A) it is likely that construction noise will be audible when the plant is
operating at the higher levels on top of the landfill area and there is no screening of
noise emissions from it. However, this is not a disturbing level of noise and is
unlikely to result in significant noise impacts.
Mitigation
It is recommended that noise from the site be monitored and a noise action plan be
prepared in order to respond to any complaints that may arise. No significant noise
impacts are expected however, and no further mitigation is required.
7.6.2          Operational Noise
Impact
Sources of operational noise from the landfill site will include:
* movement of vehicles around the site reception area;
* movement of waste on the conveyor system;
* placement of waste and daily cover material;
* deposition, levelling and compaction of waste;
* excavation of energy cells in the future; and
" British Standard 'Noise control on construction and open sites', Part I code of Practice for basic information and procedures on
noise control, BS5228: 1984
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                                     THE WORLD BANK
90



* audible bird scaring devises.
As part of the feasibility study proposals, the site reception area will be relocated. The
site reception areas will be relocated to within 100 metres of the nearest sensitive
receiver. Even with this relocation, however, the dominant noise source at that
particular sensitive receiver will be the site access road, rather than the site reception
area, and the additional affect of the relocation on the noise experienced at that
dwelling is likely to be minimal.
There is no reason to expect the new conveyor system to be a significant noise source
since it will be a modern free flowing design. The new conveyor system will reduce
the number of truck-movements on the site, and whilst the changes to the operations in
the site reception will alter the main noise sources the overall number of plant and
their noise emissions will not increase significantly under the proposed mode of
operation.
The planned expansion of the site will move the landfilling area away from the nearest
receiver (to the south west of the site) and the old filled area will tend to screen noise
emissions so that noise levels at this receivetare likely to reduce.
At a future stage when the new landfill energy cells have stabilised they will be
excavated as part of the energy cell technology proposed for the new landfill area.
This activity will produce noise levels similar to those during the capping process
described above under construction noise and remediation activities.
If audible bird scarers in the form of flare guns are currently in use. These will
continue to be audible at the two receivers although as the active filling area moves
away from the receivers noise levels will reduce. If necessary their use will be
restricted, and if they are found to disturb local residents the approach would be to use
quieter scarers, potentially trained birds of prey.
Overall, on the balance of the design proposals it would appear that the operational
noise impacts to sensitive receivers from on-site vehicle movements are likely to
reduce rather than increase. The use of a conveyor system for transfer of waste
materials up to the tipping face rather than vehicles, and the conduct of filling
operations in a distant part of the site will have the effect of reducing noise
experienced at the sensitive receivers. This positive impact is likely to outweigh the
small negative effect of relocating the site reception area.
However, given that the existing operational noise impacts are considered to be
minimal, due to the relative isolation of the site, and few numbers of sensitive
receivers, the positive impact is only likely to be of minimal significance.
Mitigation
It is recommended that noise from the site be monitored and a noise action plan be
prepared in order to respond to any complaints that may arise. No significant noise
impacts are expected however, and no further mitigation is required.
ENVIRONMENTAL RPSOURCES MANAOGEENT                                 THE WoRLD BANK
91



7.7           ECOLOGY
This sub-section provides a discussion of the range of potential ecological impacts
associated with the Getlini project and comments on their significance. No significant
ecological impacts are anticipated for two primary reasons: there are no significant
flora, fauna, or habitats found on the Getlini site territory; and the project proposal
does not involve any expansion of the Getlini disposal site territory.
7.7.1         Loss of Flora and Fauna Habitats
Impact
The project does not propose to expand the landfill outside of the original site
boundaries. Hence, there will be no significant grading, clearing, or construction
occurring in the adjacent lands. The only impact to existing natural habitats will
consist of the eventual clearance of approximately 6 hectares of woodland in the
southeast corner of the landfill property. This wooded area is comprised of a mixture
of birch forests, pine forests on peat soil, and birch and pine forests. These areas have
been disturbed frequently during the past 25 years of landfill operation, and at some
point in the past were ditched for drainage purposes. These wooded areas common in
the vicinity of the site and do not constitute significant or important habitat.
Mitigation
No mitigation measures are required.
7.7.2         Severance of Wildlife Corridors
Impact
As the site has been in use for almost 25 years, it is likely that the resident wildlife
populations have adapted to the existing situation. The proposed works at the Getlini
site will not significantly alter physical conditions or create any new obstructions to
wildlife movement in the vicinity of the site or isolate habitats.
The re-development of the site will affect the larger mammalian predators of the area
which are presumed to utilize the resident rodent population at the disposal site as an
important food resource. In the short term the proposed perimeter fence will impede
egress to the site for this group of mammals which may include foxes and possibly
wolves. This effect is unlikely to be absolute since these animals will find some means
of access if the food supply is indeed a significant resource. But, in the long term the
modern landfill management techniques to be employed will reduce and possibly
eliminate the rodent population. Capping of the existing waste pile and daily covering
of the fresh waste in the future cells will reduce access to the waste. The resident
rodent population should decline significantly and thereby decimate this food resource.
The perimeter fence should not effect avian predators such as the eagle owl (Bubo
bubo) nor smaller species of terrestrial predators; however, in the long term the
ENVJRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                                 THE WORLD BANK
92



reduction in the rodent population will remove a food resource for all predatory
species.
Hence, the proposed works may adversely impact the local population of predatory
animals reliant on the disposal site's rodent population as a food resource.
Mitigation
No mitigation measures are required.
7.7.3        Protected Species
Impact
Four protected species have been recorded in the vicinity of the Getlini disposal site
and one species was found on the disposal site. The four species found in the vicinity
include one plant, Lycopodium annotinum, and three birds: the Wood sandpiper
(Tringa totanus), the Great shrike (Lanius excubitor), and the Eagle owl (Bubo bubo).
The fifth species, the Rhinocerous beetle (Oryctes nasicornis) was collected on the
disposal site property on a single occasion several years ago. It should be noted that
the listing of protected species is currently under revision and it appears that the list
will be considerably reduced as the populations of some species such as the Eagle owl
are on the increase.
Lycopodium annotinum, a once common species which has been over harvested for
herbal medicine and Christmas decorative purposes, occurs in a birch woodland
immediately south of the site. The proposed works should have no adverse impact on
this population.
The Wood sandpiper has been observed during migration in wetland ponds adjacent to
Rumbula railway station. The proposed works should not adversely affect this area
and therefore should not have any adverse impact on this species.
The Great shrike and the Eagle owl are both avian predators which may utilize the
rodent population of the Getlini site as a possible food resource, hence the proposed
works may decrease the food supply for these species. It is extremely unlikely that
these species are entirely dependent on this single food supply. In general, however,
the proposed works should not adversely affect this species.
The Rhinocerous beetle was collected on the disposal site several years ago. This is
considered a random occurrence and no great significance is attached to the beetle's
presence at the site on that occasion. Hence, the proposed works are not considered to
pose any adverse impact to this species.
Mitigation
No mitigation measures are required.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                             THE WORLD BANK
93



7.8           OFF-SITE TRAFFIC
This sub-section discusses the range of potential off-site traffic impacts associated with
the Getlini landfill, and their potential significance.
7.8.1         Increased Traffic Loading and Congestion
Impact
The remediation and continued operation of the Getlini landfill has been calculated by
the feasibility study consultants to allow the landfill to continue to accept waste from
central Riga for a minimum of 22 years, and potentially up to 50 years, without
enlarging its basic footprint. The maximum flows of waste vehicles in and out of the
site are difficult to assess due to the following key factors:
* the population in Riga City, and birth rates are falling but may stabilise in the
future;
* the waste arisings per capita are likely to increase in the future with increasing
affluence and linkage with the western consumption-led economy;
* waste collection vehicles with larger capacity are currently being phased in; and
* the site may accept waste from the outer Riga districts in the future.
Based on the above considerations, the feasibility study consultants forecast that the
number of vehicles arriving at the site will increase by a worst case factor of 20%.
This means that forecasted Getlini-2, Ltd figures for daily truck volumes at the landfill
are:
* a peak of 840 (1,680 movements) per day;
* an average of 600 (1,200 movements) per day; and
- a low of 240 (480 movements) per day.
The field traffic counts recorded on 23 and 25 October showed a peak of 100 waste
trucks/hour and a minimum of 32 waste trucks/hour on Krustpils Street. This street is
the only access to the site and also provides the primary egress to the local residences
and the northern access to the Rumbula rail station and adjacent community. Krustpils
Street is in a good state of repair, is 6-8 metres wide, and is of sufficient width to
comfortably allow two way flow of landfill-related traffic. Traffic flow on Krustpils
Street comprises a mixture of personal and commercial vehicles and is currently very
light. Krustpils Street adjoins the Riga-Daugavpils Highway approximately 4
kilometres west of the site.
As traffic is extremely light on Krustpils Street, the most probable area for potential
congestion resulting from waste hauling traffic would be at the intersection of Krustpils
Street and the Riga-Daugavpils Highway, which is a major traffic artery. However,
no congestion or queuing was observed at this intersection during the traffic surveys
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                                 THE WORLD BANK
94



even at the peak observed flow of waste truck traffic on 23 October. Background
traffic on the Riga-Daugavpils Highway was at a flow of 396 vehicles per hour (at the
time of the survey). It is therefore anticipated that Krustpils Street and the Krustpils
Street/ Riga-Daugavpils Highway junction have adequate capacity to cope with the 20
% increase in traffic flow that has been forecast from the extended landfill operations
without any significant congestion being generated.
Similarly, the 50 or so vehicles per day anticipated during the construction phase for
capping of the old fill area would only give rise to a further increase in traffic flow of
about 5%, and hence are not expected to result in traffic congestion, even in
combination with concurrent waste deliveries.
Mitigation
No significant impact is predicted, therefore no mitigation is required.
7.8.2        Air Quality Impacts from Vehicle Emissions
Impact
The air quality impacts from waste haulage vehicles are dependent upon the baseline
levels of pollutants (SO2, NO, particulates, lead etc) along the haulage routes, the
existing traffic levels and patterns, and the number of additional vehicle movements
caused by the remediation and expansion of the site. Given the absence of data in the
first two categories it is not possible to quantify the significance of these impacts at
this stage.
However, the Getlini-2, Ltd traffic flow forecasts show that traffic generated by the
landfill will increase flows on Krustpils Street by about 20-25%. This increase in
emissions may be off-set by the modernisation of the waste vehicle fleet since newer
vehicles will tend to meet better emission standards. Also this vehicle flow is not
substantial and is unlikely to lead to poor air quality in the open area around Krustpils
Street.
The additional landfill traffic will represent a minor component of total traffic flow
along the Riga-Daugavpils Highway and the wider road network, and hence any
resulting impacts are anticipated to be minimal. In order to quantify the significance
of these impacts it would be necessary to carry out an extensive programme of ambient
air quality sampling and testing.
Mitigation
Although no significant impacts have been predicted it is desirable to take any
opportunity to reduce air quality impacts if possible. Two simple measures are
recommended. Firstly, a wheel wash should be provided to ensure that waste vehicles
leaving the site do not transfer mud onto Krustpils Street that could produce
unnecessary dust once dried. Secondly, the vehicles should be properly maintained so
as to minimise emissions; the engines should be tuned regularly.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                              THE WORLD BANK
95



It is anticipated that the ongoing upgrading of the truck fleet will result in a. significant
positive impact. The new trucks have more efficient, cleaner burning engines and are
equipped with compactors which increase capacity and thereby reduce trip numbers.
Fleet upgrading in the near future may offset any increase in the area served by the
Getlini facility.
7.8.3         Traffic Noise
The traffic flow estimates predict that traffic generated by the landfill will increase
flows on Krustpils Street by about 20-25%  The noise emissions from the new waste
vehicles may be different than those of the existing waste fleet. They will be larger
vehicles, but they will be newer. On balance it is unlikely that individual vehicles will
have significantly different noise emission levels. Hence vehicle pass-by noise levels
should not change significantly.
The 20-25% increase in flow is unlikely to raise period averaged noise levels by more
than a few decibels (1.0 dB according to standard traffic noise theory). LA, peInI noise
levels at the nearest receiver are currently about LA,, pe  55 dB. This is not a high
level of traffic noise and whilst any increase is undesirable a slight increase would not
lead to unacceptable levels.
Mitigation
Significant noise impacts are not expected and,therefore, no mitigation measures are
required.
7.8.4         Littering
Imrpact
Littering is not currently a problem on the access road. The addition of new waste
vehicles will tend to reduce the use of open waste carrying vehicles and thus
potentially further reduce the potential for littering outside the site.
Mitigation
Significant impacts are not expected and, therefore, no mitigation measures are
required.
7.9            VISUAL/LANDSCAPE
This sub-section discusses the range of potential visual/landscape impacts associated
with the remediation and re-development of the Getlini disposal site. The general
setting and topographic features of the site have been described previously in sections
4.2, 4.7, and 4.10, but will be summarized briefly here prior to discussion of potential
impacts.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                                   THE WoRLD BANK
96



The Getlini disposal site is located in an area of very little topographic relief, the
seaside plain formed by the Baltic Ice Lake during the Quaternary. The land use to
the northwest, west, and south is predominantly rural/agricultural with scattered farm
residences and outbuildings, fields and pastures interspersed with secondary blocks of
forest or fallow lands. Hence, despite the relatively flat landscape, vistas are
somewhat limited by forest stands. Rumbula rail station, on the Riga-Daugavpils line
of the Latvian Railway, lies approximately 400 metres to the southwest. The A6, the
Riga-Daugavpils Highway lies approximately 700 metres to the southwest. A number
of industrial facilities, largely abandoned and no longer operational, lie one kilometre
or more to the west of the site. Getlini bog, a large raised bog (approximately 500
hectares in area), abuts the site to the northeast and east. With the exception of Getlini
village, approximately 1.5 kilometres to the east, there are no residences or places of
business to the east within one kilometre of the site.
Inmpact
The site region is not an area of significant natural beauty or recreational interest. Nor
are there any significant vistas of national or local interest in the area.
The Getlini disposal site is 87 hectares in size of which some 35.5 hectares consists of
accumulated waste. In its present configuration, the waste pile rises to a maximum
height of approximately 37 metres above sea level or approximately 24 metres above
the local ground surface. The site lies within the Daugava River Valley, and the
ground surface elevation ranges from 15 metres above sea level near the site to 7
metres above sea level to the south in near the Daugava River.
Under existing conditions of land cover and waste pile height, the waste pile is well
screened from the northwest, west, south, and east by existing forest belts of 50 to 100
to 200 metres width. These are the three directions where people work and reside
with visual proximity to the site. Due to the existing forest screen, the only view of
the waste pile is from an unimproved, sand road off Krustpils Street which provides
access to several farms located immediately west of the site. This view of the waste
pile is the result of a gap in the forest belt adjacent to the landfill.
The proposed remediation works will consist primarily of rehabilitating existing ditches
and pumping of wells and will not significantly affect local visual characteristics.
In general, the visual characteristics of existing waste pile will be considerably
enhanced by the proposed project. The waste pile now consists of raw waste with no
covering. The sides are unstable and raw waste is regularly dozed over the side slopes
where it tumbles down into adjacent wetlands and drainage ditches. Under the
proposed project, the waste pile will with regraded to stable side slopes, covered with
soil, and then grassed. Ultimately the side slopes will be planted with trees. Raw
waste will no longer be visible at the surface.
The maximum elevation of the waste pile will be determined during the detailed
engineering study, but is projected by SWECO to be approximately 50 metres. Thus
the waste pile will be extended vertically some 12 metres over the existing conditions,
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                                 THE WORLD BANK
97



with the result that the mound will extend above the screening belt of trees.. The
vertical extension will consist of earthen, sanitary landfill cells with vegetated side
slopes, beginning with grass and ending with trees. Waste filling will take place in the
cells. Hence, raw waste and operating vehicles and other equipment will be largely
screened from view. The resultant visual impacts should be minimal.
The proposed site re-engineering works and operational improvements will not expand
beyond the site territory but eventually operations may extend into some currently
unused portions of the site territory. Much of the unused areas support woodlands
which constitute a significant portion of the forest belt which screens the site from
view. This could constitute a potential adverse impact at the western and southern
edges of the site which front inhabited areas. This potential impact would be realized
only if the existing forest were cleared.
Mitigation
Significant impacts are not expected. If a 20 to 30 metre belt of forest is preserved at
the outer edge of the site territory, the net impact of the project will be positive when
compared to existing conditions and, therefore, this should be considered during
detailed design. Otherwise no mitigation measures are required.
7.10          SUMMARY OF KEY ISSUES
In summary the proposed project should have an overwhelmingly positive impact. The
key positive benefits are listed below:
* leachate production and resultant contamination of the Quaternary aquifer should be
arrested;
* the extension of the contaminant plume should be halted, and the concentrations of
contaminants in the plume should decline over time through degradation and
dilution;
* there are no significant anticipated impacts relative to baseline conditions in the
areas of ecology, air quality, traffic, noise, or visual/landscape.
The only significant, potential adverse impacts are possible social impacts. These are
the potential loss of income for the semi-formal waste workers and the potential loss of
access to the waste for the informal waste/food pickers. In both cases the relative
importance of these impacts is a function of the economic difficulties resulting from
the transition economy, and the potential impact may be reduced as the Latvian
economy begins to improve. The dependency of even a small sector of the society on
waste picking poses health and safety risks and is clearly undesirable. As discussed in
the report the impacts to the semi-formal workers may be mitigated to some extent by
phasing the modernisation of the materials recovery operation such that there are
continued if decreasing collection and recycling opportunities for the informal workers
over the next one to three years.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                                 THE WoR.LD BANK
98



Discharge of the treated effluent should not constitute a significant impact. There are
a number of established technologies to treat landfill leachate to virtually any limits.
The issue is what level of treatment is appropriate in terms of water quality
management objectives and cost/benefit. This issue will be resolved during the
detailed engineering study for the project. Existing World Bank policy requires that
local effluent standards be applied unless it can be demonstrated that proposed
alternative standards are justifiable and will have no significant adverse impact. lt is
assumed herein that an agreement on treatment levels will be reached between the
various parties involved which will not have a significant adverse impact on the water
quality of the Daugava and the Gulf of Riga.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                                   THE WORLD BANK
99



8            REQUIREMENTS FOR ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT AND MITIGATION
8.1          INTRODUCTION
The construction, operation, restoration and aftercare of a sanitary landfill is a large
civil engineering project, which should be conducted to appropriate standards of
management and site operational procedures. Poor standards of site operation and/or
inadequate site management have the potential to cause unacceptable environmental
nuisance to, or significant environmental impacts on, residential, commercial and
industrial developments in the immediate vicinity of the site, irrespective of the
standards of site engineering and construction undertaken.
This Chapter proposes a number of significant changes to the operational and
management practices currently in force at Getlini, aimed at achieving higher standards
of environmental control and protection of local amenity and compliance with World
Bank standards and international good practice. It also outlines the Enviromnental
Management Plan which should be adopted to ensure that the mitigation measures and
monitoring regime recommended as a resuft of the EA are implemented effectively and
in a timely manner.
8.2          OPERATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT
The present study specifies engineering measures and changes in operational practice
that will permit the remediation and/or upgrading of the existing disposal site to
sanitary landfill status. This section provides a summary of the recommendations for
safe and environmentally sound operational procedures for dealing with all aspects of
the receipt, processing, transfer and deposition of MSW on the site.
8.2.1        Site Management
In order to attain the high standards of environmental performance associated with
sanitary landfill it is essential that the landfill constructed and operated as designed.
The site manager must be fully conversant with all operations of the landfill facility
and know and understand the potential hazards associated with the activities of the site.
The manager must therefore be experienced in sanitary landfill operation or must
undergo training.
The site must follow a safe system of work and before operation starts documentation
should be developed describing how management intends to deal with the following
key issues.
* a working plan with principles and procedures for dealing with the key health and
safety and environmental issues identified in the EA report;
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                             THE WORLD BANK
100



* allocation of adequate resources to environmental training, pollution control
equipment and maintenance;
* adequate environmental awareness training of all site operatives;
* monitoring and enforcement of operating and quality assurance procedures;
* compliance with all relevant health and safety regulations and procedures; and
* procedures to ensure the conformance of site activities with prevailing
environmental legislation.
Effective site management must incorporate adequate measures regarding the following
issues:
* records of all staff and operational matters;
* staff recruitment and training;
* visitors' access; and
* signs and directions.
8.2.2         Health and Safety
Hazards are a common attribute of landfill sites, deriving from the presence of:
- steep and potentially unstable slopes;
- bodies of standing water;
- pests carrying and spreading pathogens and communicable diseases;
* contaminated, putrescible, toxic and/or infective material; and
- noxious, flammable, toxic and/or hazardous landfill gas.
At the Getlini landfill, site management should implement a Health and Safety policy,
drafted by a competent person, which complies, as a minimum, with the requirements
of occupational health and safety laws in Latvia. The principles and details of the
Health and Safety policy should be communicated in full to all site operatives, non-
staff contractors and other visitors to the site. Adopted safety procedures must be
observed at all times.
Site management should focus on the following key areas:
Emergency Response
* to maintain clear unobstructed access to the site and site activities for emergency
services at all times;
* to establish a detailed Working Plan for emergency procedures in case of fires,
accidents, injuries, and unacceptable waste;
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                                 THE WORLD BANK
101



Medical Screening
* to train staff to recognize the symptoms of key illnesses;
* to carry out periodic medical examinations of health screening for site staff: and
* to provide regular health screening for wasteworkers.
8.2.3         Waste Reception Procedure
Only waste which has been cleared from the reception area as suitable for disposal
and/or processing should be permitted further into the site.
All waste loads which require special handling and disposal arrangements, should be
subject to a pre-booking system to facilitate the use of efficient and safe check-in and
disposal procedures.
Waste measurement
The arrangement of waste reception facilities proposed for the site has been designed
to facilitate measurement of wastes arriving at the site. All waste delivery vehicles
entering the site will be required to weigh in and out over a weighbridge. Two
weighbridges are available, the "in" weighbridge and "out" weighbridge respectively,
to accommodate the volume of vehicle traffic at maximum levels of site operation.
Waste inspection and clearance
It is the responsibility of site management to satisfy themselves that waste delivered to
the site is acceptable and safe for disposal and/or processing. The types of waste
which may be accepted on a site are normally stipulated by the licensing authority. No
waste should be permitted access to the tipping face or the topsoil plant unless it is
deemed to comply with the conditions of the site license. All site operatives should be
fully conversant with the site license and specified waste control procedures. Site
reception staff should inspect waste loads visually as a matter of routine and should
undertake sampling and testing of waste loads, on both a random and regular basis.
Waste requiring detailed inspection should be refused entry to the tipping area and
should, instead, be directed to the designated waste inspection area.
Unacceptable or non-conforming waste
Any waste considered by site management unacceptable for disposal should be isolated
and segregated from all other waste and stored in a designated, secure quarantine area
where the waste can be held safely. Waste delivered to the site on fire should be taken
to the waste inspection area, discharged and extinguished using water or suitable
extinguishers.
8.2.4         Waste Clearance and Transport
Upon clearance at the weighbridge or the waste inspection area, traffic should be
directed to the waste processing/shredding area, commercial/industrial waste area,
ENVIRONMENTAL RSoURCES MANAGEMENT                                THE WORLD BANK
102



compost area and/or other areas of the site, where they should unload in accordance
with the instructions of site operatives.
Where appropriate, one-way traffic systems should be used to avoid unnecessary traffic
conflicts. Drivers of loads of special/difficult wastes should be directed to designated,
pre-prepared, areas for tipping.
8.2.5         Shredding and Waste Conveying
Shredding and waste conveying to the landfill cell should be conducted in accordance
with strict health and safety procedures. Care should be taken to ensure that dust
emissions are not excessive. In order to ensure that waste is not left for significant
periods of time in the waste processing/pre-shredding area in periods of mechanical
failure or routine maintenance of the shredder/conveyor, a Contingency Plan should be
developed providing instructions on alternative arrangements for transferring waste to
the energy cell.
8.2.6         Waste Discharge and Emplacement
Waste should be deposited at the tipping face in accordance with the design objectives
of the site and with the minimum of risk to site personnel, the environment
surrounding the site and local amenity. The landfilling process should be carried out
to specified and agreed standards of operation, site management and site safety. All
disposal operatives should be adequately trained and be fully conversant with the
specified operating procedures.
8.2.7         Excavation of Energy Cells
No partially decomposed material should be excavated from the energy cell and placed
in other areas of the site. This control measure is designed to control odour from
excavation and to ensure that decomposing wastes are not placed in uncontained areas
of the site.
8.2.8         Communications on Site
It is imperative that efficient, unambiguous and effective systems of communications
are employed at each site and that all employees, contractors and visitors to the site are
fully conversant in the systems and procedures adopted. Effective on-site
communications are vital to ensure:
* efficient and safe transfer of wastes through the site;
* implementation of designated inspection and checking procedures;
* discharge of wastes in the appropriate areas;
* adoption of appropriate procedures for dealing with special wastes;
* resourcing and application of appropriate staff and plant; and
* maintenance of links to emergency services and other parties.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                               THE WoRLD BANK
103



8.2.9        Protection of Local Amenities
Appropriate operational procedures, should be implemented if needed to minimize
address potential nuisance of site activities upon surrounding developments, if indicated
by monitoring programmes, site inspections and/or following receipt of public
complaints.
8.3          ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL AND MONITORING PLAN
8.3.1        Requirement for Monitoring
Site operations should comply, at all times, with relevant National, Environmental
Legislation and with emissions limits which protect neighbours from potential nuisance
and are indicative of good management. The EA found that there are unlikely to be
significantly polluting emissions resulting from the proposed landfill site, good
practice, however, requires that some environmental monitoring be undertaken on a
regular basis during all phases of site development, site restoration and upon
completion of site activities. Environmental monitoring provides the mechanism for:
* assessing the overall environmental impacts of site development;
* identify, at an early stage, pollution emanating from the site;
* identifying any deviations from acceptable standards of site operation; and
* formulating proposals for site remediation measures, as necessary.
The purpose of environmental monitoring is therefore not just to meet standards, but to
provide information to allow improved environmental management at the sites.
8.3.2        Emission Standards and Monitoring Requirements
Required Standards
There are no relevant Latvian controls applicable to landfill operation, nor any World
Bank standards specific to this kind of development. There are generic World Bank
standards applicable to industrial facilities however, and many European countries have
relevant industry standards.
Emission standards are recommended to be applied in the following key areas:
* water quality;
* landfill gas explosive limit and occupational exposure limits;
* noise.
Water Quality
The landfill site has been designed to minimize emissions of leachate from the existing
waste mass as far as possible, and to provide a high level of containment of leachates,
with a rate of emission (ie liner permeability) of no greater than I x 10-9 being
specified. Trigger levels for contaminants should be established during the detailed
ENvIRoNMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                             THE WORLD BANK
104



engineering study in consultation with the Ministry of Environmental Protection and
Regional Development. The contaminant levels used by SWECO to delineate the
contaminant plume and to classify the various gradations of pollution could serve as a
basis for selecting future trigger levels.
Leachate should be monitored throughout the lifetime of the site, and further
remediation actions taken in event of a continuing significant release into the
environment. The parameters which should be monitored, and the frequency of
monitoring recommended are given in Table 8.3a below.
Table 8.3a    Leachate Monitoring Parameters and Frequency
Parameter'                                Frequency of Monitoring
Leachate levels in on-site monitoring wells  Weekly
pH                                        Weekly
Chloride                                 Weekly
Conductivity                              Weekly
COD                                       Bi-annually
BOD                                       Bi-annually
Total organic carbon                      Bi-annually
Full range of compositional characteristics  Annually
(organic, salts and heavy metal compounds)
Notes 1. Unless otherwise indicated, monitoring should be carried out from both on-site and off-site
monitoring wells for all parameters.
SWECO and GeoKonsultant Ltd have proposed a 25 well monitoring network for the
Quaternary aquifer. Eighteen of the wells are existing, and 7 new wells would be
installed. Five of the new wells are to be installed at the edge of the plume to a depth
of 10 metres. One of the five would be screened in the whole aquifer section and the
other four screened for only one metre at the base. The long screened well is for
analysis of contaminant stratification. The other two new wells would be installed
along the axis of the plume between existing wells Nos. 15 and 58. These wells would
be used to monitor the relationship between contaminant concentration and distance
from the site.
SWECO have not finalized recommendations for monitoring the Plavinas aquifer due
to some contradictions in the existing information. However, the preliminary
recommendation is for 3-4 wells drilled to a depth of 30 metres. Specific locations are
given in the SWECO feasibility study report.
Landfill Gas Monitoring
The most significant risks associated with landfill gas derive from the potential for
flammable gases, such as methane and hydrogen, to form flammable mixtures in air
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                                   THE WoRLD BANK
105



when these gases are present within certain concentrations. The critical concentration
limits are known commonly as the "Lower Explosive Limit" (LEL) and the "Upper
Explosive Limit" (UEL). The flammable ranges are:
* 5% to 15% by volume for methane; and
* 4% to 74% by volume for hydrogen.
In the open air, for example at the boundary of the landfill, such relatively high levels
of gas should not occur because of the effects of dilution and dispersion. Gas
concentration should be monitored however to control gas migration from the site.
Two levels of gas concentration should be established that will trigger different courses
of action.
* A threshold level will indicate a potential landfill gas problem and will initiate more
frequent gas monitoring;
* a higher trigger level (action level) will initiate appropriate remedial action to
control gas migration.
The concentrations proposed for these levels are:
D threshold level - 5% of LEL; and
* action level - 20% of LEL.
Noise
Noise levels at nearest sensitive receivers should be monitored on a yearly basis, and
in particular during the construction phase, to confirm whether impacts are within
acceptable limits.
World Bank Environmental Guidelines (1988) suggest that a noise limit of LAeq 1 hour 70
dB would be acceptable for the unpopulated area around the Getlini site. If noise
impacts are reported by the surrounding population, however, the landfill operator
should respond in accordance with a pre-determined and agreed Noise Action Plan.
The actions required might include repeating monitoring, identifying the source of
noise causing the impact, and taking actions to silence the particular source.
8.4          IMPLEMENTATION OF MITIGATION MEASURES
To ensure that mitigation and environmental enhancement measures identified in the
EA Report are implemented as specified, a plan should be drawn up along with the
detailed designed specifications which will indicate:
* the measure proposed and its purpose;
* who is responsible for taking the required action;
* how much the action is expected to cost;
* a schedule for carrying out the proposed action;
* who is responsible for monitoring to see that the action is effective.
ENRONMRENTrAL REsOURCES MANAOEMENT                             THE WoRLD BANK
106



An outline of this plan with as much detail as can at present be supplied is given in
Table 8.4a. This table should serve as a model for completion by the design engineers
and approval by the consenting authority (ie the Ministry of the Environment) before
construction activities commence.
ENvIRoNMENTAL REsouRcEs MANAGEBENT                                     THE WoRLD BANK
107



Table 8.4a      Outline Environmental Management Plan
Measure                                                 Responsibility        Cost          Timing                    Monitoring
Agency
Manage the transition of the materials recovery regirne to  Project implementation  None    Years 1-3 of the          Riga City Council
minimise effects on the semi-formal workers (Section 7.2.4)   engineers                     remediation programme
Publish infornation leaflet to advise semi-formal workers and Getlini-2 Management  $500    Before the start of the   Riga City Council
scavengers of the impending changes to working practices                                    remediation programme
(Section 7.2.6)
Develop restoration and aftercare proposals (Section 7.2.6)    Getlini-2 Management  $3,000, if    Before the end of the  Riga City Council
international  remediation programme
consultants'
help Is
required
Allocate responsibility for public relations to a manager and   Getlini-2 Management  None  Immediately               Getlini-2
make sure that the press and local population are aware of the                                                        Management
improvement programme and progress (Section 7.2.7).
Mitigating the effects of taking soil for daily cover (Section    Getlini-2 Management  To be  Before commencement of   Riga City Council
7.3.2)                                                                        determined   the remediation programme
Engineering ditches and settlement ponds to collect surface    Project implementation  To be  During the remediation  Riga City Council
runoff water from the landfill site (Section 7.3.3).    engineers             determined   construction works
Studying effect of treated leachate on the Dauguva and  Project design        To be         As part of detailed       Riga City Council
adjusting treatment level to ensure no adverse impacts  engineers              determined   engineering design
(Section 7.3.4).
Testing groundwater quality in the general area of the project World Bank office in   To be  During detailed engineering  Riga City Council
(Section 7.3.5).                                        Riga                  determined    design
Development and enforcement of a safer materials recovery   Getlini-2 Management  None      Before commencement of   Riga City Council
system (Section 7.4.1).                                 in consultation with                the remediation programme
project design engineers
Routine health checks and vaccinations for all those employed Getlini-2 Management  To be   Yearly throughout the     Riga City Council
at the site (Section 7.4.2).                            in consultation with   determined    operational period of the
local health authority              site
Sinking of landfill gas test wells and routine monitoring of    Project implementation  To be  During the remediation  Riga City Council
landfill gas quantity and composition (Section 7.4.3).  enginieers and Getlini-2  determined   construction works
Management



Measure                                                  Responsibility         Cost         Timing                     Monitoring
Agency
Procedures to lirnit odour and dust suppression measures  Getlini-2 Management  To be        During detailed engineering  Riga City Council
included as part of the operational management plan (Sections in consultation with  determined    design
7.5.1 to 7.5.4).                                         design engineers
Regular monitoring of noise and preparation of a noise   Getlini-2 Management  To be         During detailed engineering  Riga City Council
management plan (Section 7,6.) and 7.6.2).               in consultation with   determined    design and monitoring
design engineers                    throughout construction and
operation of the landfill
Regular maintenance of the waste truck fleet and continued    Getlini-2 Management  To be    Throughout the operational  Riga City Council
upgrading of the fleet (Section 7.83).                                          determined    period of the landfill
Preservation of a belt of forest around the site to provide  Project implementation  None     During construction       Riga City Council
visual screening (Section 7.9).                          engineers                           activities
_                                                                                                    .       .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



REFERENCES
Baltec Associates (1994) Hydrogeological and Environmental Investigations,
Getlini Municipal Waste Disposal Site, Riga, Latvia. The World Bank.
Carl Bro a/s (1993) Evaluation of the Environmental Conditions of Getlini
Landfill. Riga City Council, Latvia and Danish National Agency for
Environmental Protection.
Haecon-Halcrow (1993) Water Supply and Sewerage in Latvian Small and
Medium Sized Towns, Report 3, Investment Strategy Report. European
Commission.
SWECO (1997) Feasibility Study and Preliminary Design of Remediation and
Continued Operation of the Getlini Disposal Site, Latvia. Riga City Council,
Latvia and Sida.



