-~~~~~~
The World Bank
Getlini Waste Disposal Site
Remediation and Upgrading
Environmental Assessment:Appendices
February 1997
Environmental Resources Management
1915 I Street NW, Suite 500
Washington DC
Telephone (202) 785 0329
Facsimile (202) 296 1175
email ERMDC@aol.com
ERM.



The World Bank
Getlini Waste Disposal Site
Remediation and Upgrading
Environmental Assessment:Appendices
February 1997
Environmental Resources Management
1915 I Street NW, Suite 500
Washington DC
Telephone (202) 785 0329
Facsimile (202) 296 1175
email ERMDC@aol.com



CONTENTS
APPENDIXA
Terms of Reference for Environmental Assessment
APPENDIX B
Social Assessment Report, by Baltc Data House
APPENDIX C
Semi-formal Workers and Informal Waste/food Pickers Questionnaire
APPENDIX D
Ecological Field Survey Report, by Otars Opermanis
APPENDIX E
Public Meetings



APPENDIX A
s



LATVIA
RIGA SOIM WASTE MANAGEMIENT PROJECT
Terms of Reference
Environmental Assessment for Remedition and Continmed Operation of tie
Getini Disposal Site
1.   Introduction
These Terms of Reference (TOP,) cover Xt preparation of a project-specific Environmental
Assessment (EA), for the remediation and contned operatiou of the Getli disposal site, serving
the city of Riga, Latvia. The EA shall be prepared ia a manner consistent with World Bank
standads and procedures for a Category A project and with the laws and regulations of the
Govemment of Latvia, exected by the Ministry of Environmental protecion and Regional
Development (MOEPRD).
2.    Background Inforntaion
The Governent of Latvia has identified that it wishes to remediate and contnue operation
of the existng Getlini municipal (non-hazardous) solid waste disposal site, as a priority project, and
has requested World Bank assistance in fmncg these worlms under the proposed Riga Solid Waste
Management Projec
The upgrading of the existg site to sanitary landfill status will mclude instalation of
leachate and landfill gas collection and management systems, as needed to result irL environmentally
acceptable pollution control. The proposed project will include provision of operational eqpment
to spread, grade and cover the solid wast received by the landfill in a cost-effective manner. These
works will generate a significant improvement in standards of waste disposal in the area, and are
anticipated, on balance, to significantly improve environmental conditions at the Getlni site.
A contract for a 'Feasibility Stdy and Preliiinary Design of Remediation and Continued
Operation of the Getlini Disposal Site' will n in parallel with the EA study. The selected EA
consultants should work closely with the selected engineering design consula  to ense that
proposed meares are fully reflected in the EA study, and all reasonable measures are taken to
maximize the environmental benefits of the proje=, and mimmize environme:tal impacts.
In addition, a contract for training in landfil operation is also due to be let, which is
intended to transfer the skills required to allow the landill to be operated in accordance with the
feasibility/engineering study and the EA study respectively.
3.    Objective
The objectives of the EA are to ensure that all environmental consequences of remediation
and upgrading Xt existng Gedlini landfl to sanitary landfll status are evaluated and addressed, and



2
tbat miugation measres can be ulcorporated into the final design of the landfi site. The EA will
be based on the preliminary landfill design and operation  plan to be prepared in the
feasibility/design study.
A comprehensive program of site investigation works are to be carried out as part of the
feasibility/design study. The EA study team will be given opportunity to comment on dte location
of sampling points by the feasibility/design consultas, and will be given full access to tet results.
The consultants may wish to carry out limited soil/water investgations outside of the site boundary,
to supplement analysis during the feasibility/design study, and to further defie the baseline
environmental conditions. The inteion of these investigations will be to determine the extent to
which the existing wast disposa activities bave affected enviromental conditions in aeas
imnediately adjacent to the site.
4.    Evironm=e    Assessment Reqirements
The EA will be prpared in accordance with:
-     the World Bank Operatioal Directive 4.01, dated October 3, 1991;
*     Operational Directive 4.00, Annex A, dated October 31, 1989;
*     the sectoral guidance contained in the Environmental Assessment Sourcebook, dated
December 1991.
Latvian legislation or/and regulations on the topics of landfilling have not yet been fully
prepared. However, the EA will be prepared with consideration of the general EA approach from
MOEPRD.
5.    Study Area
The study shall cover an area of a rAdis  of 1,000 mets from the boundary of the landfil
location for purposes of aesthetic tereial, and almospheric pollution issues; the watershed and
aquifer areas from the landfill to any downgradient receiving waters (shallow and deep
groundwaters, as well as surface waters); and the receiving wat:rs of the outfall from the treatment
plan in wbich leachate and wnff water shall be treated.
The study area will also include the route of direct waste haulage and transfer from Riga city
to the landrix= (i.e., across existing or planned roads) as well as the potential impact on neighboring
households.
6.    Tas* 1. Description of the Proposed Proiect
Based on the feasibility/design study being carried out by a Swedish consultant company in
parallel with the EA study, the elements of the project shall be described, icluding:
Infrastructure of service area:
briefly describe the service amea (number of inhabita, residential areas, land use,
in:luding previous use over the last 30 years, industrial areas, tsfer sttions);



3
*     determine the direct haul routes and rnfer roues from was center 1 (eastern part
of Riga City) and waste center 2 (westem part of Riga city) to the sanitary landfill,
including any new acces roads that may need to be upgraded or consMicted.
Facts about the landfll development:
*     proposed layouts, cross-sections, remediation measures for the existig landfill,
measures for a continued operation including all receiving facilies, energy cell
construction, leachate and landfill gas collection and management facilities, and other
proposed mitigation measures;
*     descnption of the responsible partes, mcluing organi=aion structre and staffing for
the landffll development;
*     confIrmation and consulation program with affected people in area;
*     proposed operational plans for waste types and q dantities which may be received;
mncludg special bandlin requirements for gardenyuard wastes, buly wastes (tires,
apphiances, matesses, ctc), constrtcdon/demolijon debris, dewatered wastewater
treatment plant sludges, batteries, and phaceuica, infectious, sharps and
radioactive medical wastes;
-proposed operatonal plans for identification and handling of waste types and
q es which are not expeed tD be allowed to be received; including hazardous
dustral wases, uneated sepdc tank or septic contents, and surgical wastes;
health and safety plans;
proposed final closure procedures; and
*     montoring plan (short-and long-term).
7.    Task 2, Descijption of the Environmen
The environment shall be described through assembly, evaluation and presenaion of baseline
data on the following:
Physical environment:
*     nature of surrounding environment (including homes, farms, forest areas, industry,
small business enterpises and other establisments) and proximity to these;
*     descnption of the exitng topography and the proposed areas which wril be affected
by any visualJlandscape impact;
*     traffic conditions along the major hul routes between the main ceters of waste
generafion atnd the Getlini landfill site at present and following mplemention of the



4
project. The existing aaffic conditions must be based on field smrvey; and proposed
itffic patterns should also be examined;
0     description of the geology of the area through compiling available data, and data
collected as part of the feasibilityfdesign study;
*     determinaton of all grouzdwter recharge areas and use of ground water
downgradient fom the landfill, and presentation of available information about
groundwatr quality;
*     condition of present and plumed use of the receiving water and proposed standards
for discharge to the receiving water;
*     deeminaion of meteorological data (net infiltration, temperature variations and
prevaing wind dhrctons).
Biological Environment:
-     collect any ifornation on sensitive habitats in the area and any rare, endmigered or
commercally important speces;
*     identify any nearby protected areas;
*     conduct a survey of flora and fauna at the site aninearby areas which may be
impacted.
Soil, economic and cultural =e ent:
*     identify any populaions which may need to be resetled in order to enable remediation
and contined operation of te lall, mcluding the use and compensation value of
the land or properties which they own or imabit; descbe the sensitivty and
difficulties of resettlement;
*     ervaluate the benefts to the local population of the proposed project, including heslth
effects, imProved water quality, and improved lfill opeational manageetmt
*     investigate the extent of soil contamination as a result of runoff water from Getlini
disposal site. The investigation should determe to what extent the soil could be
regarded as contmined. Compaison should be made towards soil in the vicinity of
the site which has never been in contact with runoff water from the Gedini site, and
known information about soil chcteristics in other parts of Latvia;
v     descnibe past and present use of the location and surrounding land and any historcal,
religious or culturl significance of the area;



5
e     determine the demographic character of the surrounding neighborhoods and te
sensitivity of the public to the proposed landfill, inluding perception to increased
traffic, noise, dust, odor, and aesthetic appearane;
*     identify other planned development activities on the location and in the nearby
surrondings.
8.    Task 3. Legisltve and Regulatory Comnideratioms
The national and local legislation and guidelines on landfllling of waste are to be descnrbed
and the authorities responsible for monitoring of consuction and the environment are to be noted.
Any standards to be met for discharge from leachate treatment plants must be included. Discuss te
eed for any legislation to be prepared in order to ensure that the proposed environmenal standards
will be fulfilled.
9.    Task 4. Determinaion f Potential Impacts of the Proposed Project
Identify and describe all potntial major environmental impacts from tte landfill remediation
and contmued operation which will be significant over the long-term. These should include, but not
necessarily be limited to the following:
*     leachate emanatin to surroundings throgh leakage in the proposed liner system;
including estinates of quantity and quality of a potential leacbate leakage and the
consequences to groundwater and receivg surface water by using the information
obtained under Task 3;
*     mnpact to neighborhoods along direct haul routes from increased traffic (primarily
noise, dust, litter and odor), and including economic development due to
improvements in roadways and trade along the haulage route;
estimate impacts to surrounding neighborhoods near the landfill from noise, odor,
gaseous emissions, dust, and wind blown litter potentally related to landf$l
remediation and continued operation;
creation of direct annd secondary jobs related to landfill development;
closure (i.e. discontied dumpi, grading and top covering) of the existing open
dump disposal site.
10.   Task 5. Anaysis of Alternatives to the Proposed Project
Descbe alternatives that were examined in the course of screenig sites and conducting
preliminary design and assessment of the proposed project. Describe alternative designs for
construction and operation which were examined, Including liner soltutions (no liner, clay liner,
synttic liner and composite liner systems), alternative gas venting, flaring and utilization systems,
operation alternatives (cell development vs. open face development, optmizing of metbanogenisis
vs. no special operation techniques), leachate treatment methods (reycling vs. non-recycling and



6
treatment in an existing municipal waste water treatment plant vs. on-site treatment) and alternative
haul routes.
Discuss the environmental impacts of the Getlini site not being remediated and upgrAded
compared with the proposed solution (remediaion and contued operation), and the alternadve of
closure of the Getlini site and developmet of a new saniay landfill. Compare the altematives in
terms of potial enrviromnental impact; indicative capital and operation cost; sustainability under
local conditions; and institutional, tranig and monitorng requiremens.
11.   Task 6. Development of Management Plan to Mitigate Negative Impacts
Recommended feasible and cost-effectve measures to prevent or reduce signfican negative
impacts to accepable levels. Indicate any residual impacts foUlowing mitigation, and of the
instimtional and raini:ng requirments to implement them. Consider compensaton to any affected
parties for impacts which canot be mitigated (e.g., re-housing of residents within a distance of
approx. 250 meters from the proximity o the proposed landfill).
Prepare a management plan (ncluding staffg requirements and other necessary support) to
implement the mitigating measures.
12.   Task 7. Developmunt of Monitoring Plan
Prepare a monitoring plan for the proposed lni. The monitoing plan sban comprise the
followig:
leachate qualt and quantity;
*    groundwater quality and level;
*     gas quality on-site and off-site and, if required (i.e., utilization, on-site quanity;
*     effluent quality from leachate treaunent plan;
*     constructon issues (lier placement, draiage layer, piping, concrete Wality, etc.)
The monitormg plan shall only mclude indicator parameters which are uncomplicated to
obtain and easy to evaluate.
13.   Task 8. Idenrcation of Instutional Needs to Implment Environmental Assessment
Recommendations.
Review the instimtiona capacity to implement, manage and monitor (in the short term as
well as in the long-term) the sanitay landfill. Recommend, if necessary, technical assistance and
institutional sengteuing to assist implementation of the project.
14.   Task 9. Inter-Agency Coordinatzon and Pu:blicINGCo Participation
Descnbe how the project has been developed in support of different involved Ministries, how
the existing regulations and guidelines have had an impact on the proposed solution, and how
affected parties, mass media and NGOs have been informed and participated in the declsion maldng



7
process.
The EA consultant should be ready to participate in public meeings, organized during World
Banik pre-appraisal and appraisal missions, to present their findings.
15.   Reporting
The environmenal assessment report shall be concise and limited to prentatio of key dat
and discussions. The main text must focus on findings, conclusions and recommendaions,
supported by summary of data colected and citation for any references used in interpreting those
data.
The environmental assessment report sall have the followe outline:
*     Executive Summary
*     Policy, Legal and Administrative Framework
*     Description of the Environmeit
*     Assessment of Environmenta Impacts
*     Analysis of Alternatives
3     Mitigaton M men Plan
-     Ewvironmental Maagement and Training
*  ~Aonitoring Plan
-     rInr-Agency and Public/NGO Involvement
*     References
*  Appendices:
16.   Consulting Tean
The consulting team should consist of tthe folowing:
*     hEvironmenra Assessment specialists experienced in appraisal of impacts from waste
disposal sites, and landfill design and operational procedures;
*     Environmental planng spWcialist experienced in evaltion of environmenl impacts,
land use planning and community participation projects.
*     Hydrogeologist experienced in assessment of water quality impacts frm landfills;
*     Technical specialit exerienced in assessment of noise and air quality impacts fm
ndfills and waste haulage vebicles.
*     Ecologist with experience of field surveys of flora and fauna.
*     Exngineer with experience in road planing and design.
_.    17.   Schedule
A Draft EA report (5 copies in English and 5 copies in Latvian) shall be submitted witlin
three months of the notice to proceed with this scope of work to the World Bank for review.
Outputs from the feasibility/design project will be promptly provided to the consultant to assist in



g
meeting this schedule.
The Final EA report (10 copies in English and 10 copies in Lavian) shall be completed and
delivered tD the World Bank within one month of receipt of comments from the Bank, MOEPRD,
and the Riga City Council.
A monthly progress report shall be submitted to the Bank, including information on progress
of the project, problems occured and suggestions for solving of problems
All backgund data and information relevant to th EA shall be submitted to the Bank
withmin the Draft EA Report.
18.   Other rnfojmnaion
the EA shall be based on outputs from the 'Feasibdiity study and preliminary design of
remediation and continued operation of the Getini disposal site".
Findings of the sifting project 'Siting of a new lndfill for Riga City Council? of November
1994, prepared by Carl Bro Envirnments als shall be considered in the EA.



APPENDIX B



BALTIC DATA HOUSE
MARKE & SOCLAL RESEARCH GROUP?
SOCIAL IMPACT APPRAISAL
OF THE GETLINI DISPOSAL SITE
REMEDIATION AND UPGRADING
PROJECT.
OCTOBER 1996
Akas Str. 5X
Rip LV-1050
Tel. 371-2-7312484
Fax. 371-2-7312483



GEML INI LANDFILL
Latvian Report
October 1996
CONTENTS
1. MEET'HODOLOGY                           .  .. ................................... . .. -2
2. INTRODUCTION
2.1. Objective of the study                   .4
2.2. Background of socio-economic context to the Getlini site  .4
3. STAKEHOLDER ANALYSIS
3.1. Evalution of primary stakeholders .11
3.2. Residents - socio-economic characterizatin .11
3.3. The main problems from the point of view of residents of immediate victinity. 13
3.4. How to change situion. .16
3.5. Media importance .18
4. DESCRIPTION OF OPERATIONS AT THE GETLINI LANDFILL, FROM THE
PERSPECTIVE OF PRIMARY STAKEHOLDERS
4.1. Structure of the Getlini management                               19
4.2. Description of cunrent situation .19
4.3. Evalution of current situation .20
S. MAIN FEqDINGS .-- .....-... -----_-2
APPENDIX
Sampling
Copies of the householders questionnaire (Latvian and Russian)
Copies of the worker's questionnaire (Latvian and Russian)
1



GETLINI LANDFILL
Latvian Report
October 1996
1. Methodology
A semi-stuctured interview method was used in this research.
In total 26 respondents were questioned:
I. Primary Stakeholders
7 Getlini immediate vicinity residents,
8 residents of Getlini surroundings,
3 formally employed at the Getlini landfill,
3 informal workers of the Getlini landfill,
The selection of the residents took place according to the geographical principle: 1) group of
residents living just next to the landfill (their land bordering with the landfill; roads going to
the landfill are close to the houses; farming and lands of these houses are directly influenced
by the environment pollution due to the landfill, 2) group of residents whose houses are
farther from the landfill (this group of residents are not direcdy influenced by the
communications between the city and the landfill that is why they do not find disturbing
either the landfill transport, or the scavengers wandering about but very strong is the
environment pollution due to the landfill). See the whereabouts of the respondents'
households on the map of the Appendix. The respondents were selected, using the selection
principle that is popular in sociology - the so-called "youngest male method" which
guarantees selection of respondents at rndom.
I. Higher Institutions representatives:
director of the Getlini landfill,
representative of the Riga Council,
rersentative of the Stopini mral district municipality,
III. NGOs representatives
leader of the Enviromnent Protection Club,
leader of the Coalition for Clean Baltics.
On the whole, the interviews cover the main interest groups of residents concerning the
Getlini landfill: residents, employers of the Getlini landfill, employees, as well as NGOs
representatives.
The interview plan was made so that it would allow us to discover the main conflict spheres
of the various interest groups: both property relations, the land of the Getlini landfill, labor
relations (employers and employees at the Getlini landfill), matters of enviromnent pollution,
as well as the range of social items. See the interview plan for residents and employees in the
Appendix.
The interviews were conducted by two especially prepared high level interviewers who has
great experience of conducting in-depth interviews. The resident interviews took place at the
residence of the respondents (resident interviews) and at work place (formally and informally
employed at the Getlini landfill, higher Institutions, NGOs representatives). The resident
interviews took place on October 4-1 , higher and NGOs representatives interviews - on
2



GETUNL4ND FILL
Latvian Report
October 16
October 13-16. The length of the resident interviews: from 0,5 hour to 1 hour; higher
Institutions, NGOs representatives: from 1 hour to 1,5 hours.
From the resident side you could notice responsiveness and. a certain satisfaction that
somebody expresses interest in their sore problems. The attitude of the higher Institutions,
NGOs representatives toward the interviews also was favorable, as positive they evaluated the
possibility to express their opinions and interests concerning the Getlini landfill matter.
3



GE TL INI L4NDFILL
Lavian Report
Ocrober 1996
2. Introduction
2.1. OBJECTIVE OF THE STUDY:
1) Identify the groups which are most likely to be affected by the project,
2) Determine or evaluate the size of these groups,
3) Survey subsamples of each group to find out who they are, what they do, and how
they are likely to be affected by the project.
A presumption that the major impact could be to change employment opportunities for the
formal and informal (scavengers) workers at the landfiLL
2.2. BACKGROUND OF SOCIO-ECONOMIC CONTEXT TO THE GETLINI SITE
The Getlini landfill started functioning in 1972, it is located on the land of the Stopini rural
district. Until 1984, according to the resolution of the Council of Ministers of the Soviet
Socialist Republic of Latvia, the Getlini landfill belonged to the Riga city. In 1984 the
Council of Ministers had a new resolution with which the previous resolution was abolished
but the new one did not state any further usage of Getlini and thus the landfill became
hosdess. From 1984 the Riga city did not have any legal relations with the Stopini rural
district but the Riga city was supposed to be the host of Getlini. The Riga city Conveniences
Board was running the landfill from 1984 to 1991 (without a legal motivation), then it passed
the Getlini landfill along with its facilities (mechanisms, buildings) to the Hoetica private
company. It used the landfill only to accumulate waste, besides, there was no control of the
waste that was brought to it.
In 1993-94 the self-government of the Stopini nural district, being afraid that large quantities
of plastics could be brought from Germany, turned to the Environment committee and
received a permission to control the cargoes coming to the Getlini landfill. In 1994 the self-
government made a resolution on taking the management of the Getlini landfill, establishing a
joint venture with the Riga Council since the landfill is located on the land of the Stopini nrual
district but waste to it is mainly brought from Riga.
"Then we decided that we should establish an enterprise. You cannot leave Hoetica 's
activities uncontrolled So we started forming the Getlini-2 enterprise."
(representatrve of the Stopini rural district's self-government. "
"About 99% of the waste is from the Riga region " (director of the Getlini-2)
On December 12, 1994 the new joint venture Getlini-2 was registered. Its controlling interest,
i.e., 51% belong to the Stopini rural district and 49% - to the Riga Council. It was a
compromise decision to establish such a joint venture - they managed to make it after rather
sharp conflicts between the Riga Council and the Stopini rural district's self-govermment on
the usage and management of the Getlini landfill.
The Getlini-2 joint venture began real functioning on January 1, 1995 but until July 15, 1995
when Getlini-2 completely took the management of the landfill, parallelly with it the Hoetica
private company was also working there.
At that time Hoetica dealt with bringing in and storing non-industial waste whereas the
Getlini -2 Ltd dealt with industrial waste, as wel as it controlled all the cargoes coming to the
4



GETLINI LANDFILL
Latvian Report
October 1996
landfill and it guarded the landfill, as well it started the improvement work of the ecological
situation.
The representatives of the both municipalities stressed that currently - since the joint venture
is running Getlini - the situation has considerably changed and improved.
"The situation has changed considerably, it has become better. Both the local
residents and the Environment committee admit it. At least nobody will say that it has
become worse. " (Representative of the Stopii self-government rural distict)
"We know it as a waste heap andfor the time being it has been notorious, though the
conditions have considerably improved and this joint venture works very well, thanks
to its energetic director, - concerning it, he is to be supported and praised A lot of
things are in a better order now than they were some time ago when the hosts were
the Conveniences Board and Hoetica " (Representative of the Riga Council)
The director of Getlini characterizes his work as follows: "Formerly it was a disposal
site, now - it's a proving ground"
The Getlini-2 Ltd starting the runuing of the landfill, changed the order of receiving and
storing waste, as well as it began sorting of waste and gathering, aranging and selling of such
recyclable raw materials as glass and metal for fiurther processing both for local industrial
enterprises, e.g., glass and for plants of foreign countries.
"Mainly we collect recyclable raw materials. For example, we gather about 150 tons of
glass pieces a month. They go to the Riga enterprise Grizinkalns-2 that mainly works
basing on the Getlini raw materials. The local market is finctioning. " (Representative
of higher institution, Getlini)
"The enterprise has done a lot to start sorting waste just on the spot - paper, glass,
metal. There is a press, the gathered paper is pressed with it and sold The enterprise
already has some profitfrom the waste. " (Representative of higher institution, Riga)
"Formerly the waste was not sorted, now it is sorted as metal, paper, glass, wood The
remaining waste is buried, as well as there are made roads upward, on the mountain of
the landfill. Thus, everywhere extra workers are needed." (Representative of higher
institution, Stopini)
Currently mainly non-industrial waste is brought to the Getlini landfill. According to the
Getlini director's calculations, it constitutes 85-87% of all the waste. There is very little of
industrial waste and mainly it is similar to non-industrial waste and it is strictly controlled.
Besides, since the staff workers of the Getlini-2 Ltd are residents of the Stopini rural district
and home guards guard there, all the coming cargoes are carefillly controlled even twice -
both entering the Getlini territory and when dumping it from trucks. But the main problem is
that the entemrpise is short of special facilities to identify dangerous waste - mainly it is done
basing on intuition, i.e., "having a look at i"'.
"Guards are from the Stopini home guards, thus it is much more difficult, almost
impossible to agree on something illegal since they're living there and feeling the
problems themselves. " (Representative of higher institution, Stopini)
"The military post down there - it is our image and work style. Here the discipline is
severe. " (Representative of higher institution, Getlini)
"Formerly there came both heavy metals and some other things since industrial waste
was also brought and stored and no alarm was raised Today, if there is one
S



GETLINI LANJDFILL
Latvian Report
October 1996
industrial waste, then it is similar to that of household and non-industrial waste, the
control there is strict. " (Representative of higher institution, Riga)
Along with the organizing of the direct activities and the development, Getlini-2 has also
done certain activities if not for the recovery of enviromment then at least - to protect it, i.e., a
melioration system has been formed.
"Together with the rural district we built the collecting ditch of the Getlini bog's
flowing waters - it gathers the water of the Getlini bog and does not allow it to mix with
the water of the landfill. " (Representative of higher institution, Getlini)
"From the landfill the waters mixed together with rain and snow waters andflowed to
the Daugava river, then we made a melioration system. It's hard to judge about
underground waters, I'm not an expert. But, in my opinion, the situation has
normalized since the rain waters are separately - they go to the Daugava but the others
are accumulating but not over-fill the facilities of the landfill." (Representative of
higher institution, Stopini)
"Today it's already much better, the situation has improved, there are ditches dug
around, there are no on-flowing waters. " (Representative ofhigher institution, Riga)
"In one hole, in the water there live beavers and green frogs, as well as grass snakes,
thus the situation is gradually impproving. Certainly, I don't drink the water."
(Representative of higher institution, Getlini)
None of the respondents could concretely say what in the environment (ground, water, air) is
polluted and with what (what lknd of harmful combmations) since, on the one hand, they do
not trust the former rather chaotically done tests but they are yet not aware of the results of the
recently done research.
"We asked to do tests with the vegetables from the kitchen gardens. People should be
told what they can and what they can't grow. I'm afraid that they grow some vegetables
and knowing that you may not grow them in the harmful zone, they bring them to the
market and sell, it can also happen. Four years ago nobody could do the tests."
(Representative of higher institution, Stopini)
"There have been done tests concerning the pollution level, the results must be in a day
or two. Maybe that will do to close Getlini." (Representative of higher institution,
Stopini)
"The objective measurements on the ecological situation - they are changing."
(Representative of higher institution, Riga)
But the fact that the local people have repeatedly complained for the quality of the drinkable
water and fires at the landfill was mentioned by all the respondents. Besides, they told how
these problems are being sold. To supply normal drinkable water for the local people, a new
water-supply has been installed, in the near fiture it will be connected up with the Riga city
water-supply. The currently functioning water-supply often gets out of order.
"Almost all the residents, some 50 houses, already have drinkable water, there are just
a few without it yet. We installed a city water-supply, we are grateful to Riga that it
allowed it. " (Representative of higher institution, Stopini)
6



GETULIN LAND FILL
Latvian Report
October 1996
"A new water-supply is being installed, it's city water. We help as much as it's
possible, we constantly repair the old water-supply, we repair and clean the roads,
cover the medicine expenses. " (Representative of higher institution, Getlini)
"Currently the local residents use the water from artesian well. Tests of this water have
been done, it's not polluted but it's brown - most likey with iron, and evidently the
people find it polluted" (Representative of higher institution, Riga)
Actually they have also coped with the fires since currently the waste is sorted, selected and
delivered for recycling, as well as several bore-holes have been made - with their help the
processes in depth are controlled. Currently these bore-holes are harmful to the enviromment
since the natural gas that arises as a result of decaying processes in various waste layers,
flows out in the air, spoiling the ozone layer since for the time being only various studies are
being done but this gas is not collected and used correspondingly.
"We don't know what's going on down there. Now there are 30 bore-holes and we are
also making some other so that we could control what's going on in each layer. It
must be done constantly. " (Representative of higher institution, Stopini)
"The local people's worries about the fires now are really much less serious. When
we came, there were two places with eternalfires, they had been burningfor decades.
Now we urgently react even noticing afire of a hand size, we smother it at once. But
sometimes we burn wood which is not worth burying." (Representative of higher
institution, Getlini)
"Mainly they complain that it's burning and smelling. The burning is stopped"
(Representative of higher institution, Riga)
"Methane gas that now flows out in the air, is one of the gases that stimulates the
tearing down of the ozone layer" (Representative of higher institution, Riga)
Concerning the local residents, there is another problem, i.e., the influence of the environment
on the residents' health condition. Two things were mentioned here, first, the compensations
for damage on health:
"People should have a compensation - either their passes to sanatoriums should be
covered or it should be done in some other way. Now we supply firewood - actually
it's free; we cover medicines expenses, it's harder to cover the expenses connected
with doctors' services but we try to settle these matters as well. " (Representative of
higher institution, Stopini)
"s The local residents want some compensation for living in this environment. Well,
now this environment is not too bright and pleasant. " "The number of the houses in
that zone is really tiny, they can demand compensations only for their past, maybe
sanatoriums and apartments, too. " (Representative of higher institution, Riga)
And second, the moving of the residents from the zone dangerous for health:
"The residents have expressed their discontent for a longer time - there's a water
problem, a soil pollution problem but regardless of them, as far as I know, formerly the
residents have been offered to move to another place but nobody has moved, they don't
want to leave. " (Representative of higher institution, Riga)
"There was a reseach on the environment. As a result of it it turned out that there are 12
houses where people shouldn't live. We conducted a survey and only 1-2 families wanted
7



GETLINILANDFILL
Latvian Report
October 1996
to resettle. No one will move to a Riga apartment or to Aluksne (a town far away from
Riga). They should be given plots of land in beautiful places. It's not pleasant for
anybody to resettle, especially for elderly people. " (Representative of higher institution,
Stopini)
Currently at the Getlini landfill along with staff workers there also work non-staff workers -
they sort the waste. Mainly they are so-called scavengers or people without a definite
residence (though it is not always true) and a work place. But unlike it was some time ago,
when a part of them also lived there, now their presence and work at the landfill is strictly
controlled and led by official employees of the Gedini-2 Ltd. Their number is also regulated,
i.e., how many of such workers can be simultaneously present at the landfill.
"Non-staff workers, i.e., scavengers, select usefid things from the waste but here also is
a certain order. " (Representative of higher institution, Riga)
"Now it has been settled Some time ago they were living there day and night, now
some 50-60 people a day come. Formerly they collected some items and brought them
to Riga to sell them but now they can do it right here. There are various categories -
they are industrious and honest, as well as less industrious and less honest. They have
permissions - you may be present at the landfill from till such and such time. In the
_future - either all of them will come as workers or there won't be any work at all."
(Representative of higher institution, Riga)
"People from aside is not a problem, I'm a problem for them. We have changed them,
transformed - they work for our country, gathering recyclable materials which
otherwise would do ecological harm when decaying here. Here they work, without this
place they wouldn't cope. It's not the best part of society but not the worst, either.
There are even such who transfer their earned money they to Children's Homes."
(Representative of higher institution, Getlini)
Concerning the future of the landfil, there are several serious problems, first, it is uncertainty
whether this landfill will continue its work in general. The latest official document that is at
the disposal of the Getlini-2 Ltd management, is the order of Nazarov, Chief doctor of the
Riga Sanitary Epidemiological station that the landfill must be closed on December 31, 1995.
Regardless of the fact, the Getlini-2 is fimctioning and willing in the future not only to gather,
sort and sell recyclable items but also to form and develop a waste-processing complex just in
the territory of the landfill.
"No one has told me how long I will have to work there. You don't know the date how
long this landfill will function. I work; do what's necessary for our life, we are not
experts of waste farming - we're trying... I consider that it's very valuable that here a
part of the usefid waste is changed into material values. If my intentions come true,
there could be some 1,000 or Z000 new jobs. " (Representatives of higher institution,
Getlini)
Second, it is a conflict between the owners of the Getlini-2, i.e., the Stopini self-govermnent
and the Riga Council on property rights or property shares in this enterprise in the fiture. The
Stopini rural district is not willing to change the currently existing ratio of shares (51/49)
whereas Riga would like to change the proportion in order to get the controlling interest
8



GETLINI LANDFILL
Latvian Report
October 1996
"The attitude of Riga is such - i/they have the controlling interest concerning Getlini,
then they take a credit. People are against it that Riga will be the master of Getlini,
they saw how Riga was working for 22 years, people have lost trust in Riga"
(Representative of higher institution, Stopini)
if we invest it, then it's quite natural that we cannot preserve the property rights
51/49. Since, if I take loans, no one will give them to me if I don't guarantee to return
them and I'm not going to give the money to others to run it and to squander it. And
there our relations get complicated, the rural district wants to preserve 51/49 but the
Riga city does not want to have such terms." (Representtaive of higher institution,
Riga)
The attitude of the management of the Getlini-2 is such, regardless of how the future of the
landfill will be solved - either it will continue functioning as a landfill or not, they will not
leave this place unarranged - as much as their possibilities allow.
"...the devastation has been for 25 years, if we are to leave, the changes and
improvement will be only relative. But let them not throw stones on us, we will leave a
beautifid, well-arangedplace, maybe a resort. We will grow it green with grass. Here
are enormous energetic resources. " (Representative of higher institution, Getlini)
Non-governmental nature protection organizations currently mainly deal with Latvian
countryside, sea coast and sea water pollution problems, besides the stress is put on educating
work and individual actions. With their help they tly to attract people's attention to the
current ecological situation, the development prospective in the future or to an extraordinary
event or situation connected with ecology. Regarding it, certainly, they also pay attention to
the matters of the collecting, sorting, storage and processing of non-commercial and
commercial waste.
"Glass actions - we organize trucks, there's a train that gathers all the stuff and
brings it to be processed at glass factory. " (Latvian Coalition for clean Baltics)
"Waste sorting should begin at apartment. Here neither laws, nor slogans will help.
Here you need a slowly educating workl It should be started at schools, with
children. " (Environment protection club)
Organizing actions 'for" and "against" the non-governmental nature protection organizations
pay a rather-great attention to the aesthetic design of these actions.
"Since everywhere you need informative materials, meetings. And you don't have to
start speaking about waste, maybe you should read a poem, organize an exhibition."
(Environment protection club)
"Waste is not too charming in such an attractive way. For example, the sea prayer, it's
such spiritual action, there you can put art, something else but just in such an exact
form of action like this waste... it is not anything clean, no one wants it." (Latvian
Coalition for clean Baltics)
The Riga city landfill at Getlini currently is not in the range of interests of non-governmental
nature protection organiions or, to be more exact, it is not of a prior importance.
9



GENIL WNDFILL
Latvian Report
October 1996
"Nature protection organizations are interested in everything but currently it's not
possible for us to invest time and energy on the level of a project. " "I don't know where
Riga waste goes to ". (Latvian Coalition for clean Baltics)
"We know what's going on at Getlini. They consider that they will cope having the
appropriate investment When we were there, the progress was rather serious. We
would like it to be more intensive but it's a matter offunds. The main thing is that now
will is on one side but we would leave this care and technological details for the
competence of the state since at this moment there is no mutual disloyalty between us
and the Environment ministy. " (Environment protection club)
Thus, the Riga city waste problem, as well as everything that is going on at the Getlini landfill
currently is mainly of interest only for the parties involved in this process, i.e., the Stopini
rural district's self-government, the Riga city Council, people working at Getlini and residents
of immediate vicinity.
10



GETLINI LANDFILL
Latvian Report
October 1996
3. Stakeholder Analysis
3.1. EVALUATION OF PRIMARY STAKEHOLDERS
As it was demanded in the research terms, all the primary stakeholders were divided into 4
groups:
1) Formally employed at Getlini (86 people) - 3 respondents,
2) Informally employed at Getlini (220 people) - 3 respondents,
3) Residents of immidiate vicinity (15 households) - 7 respondents,
4) Residents of Getlini neigboring vicinity (19 households) - 8 respondents.
Concerning the employees working at Getini, we must conclude that they are too large
groups of pe6ple (86 and 220 people) to have some conclusions from a few interviews on
what this group is like in general.
At the same time, we managed to conduct a sufficient number of interviews among the local
residents so that we could judge about the peculiarities of the group whose number of
members is not too large.
3.2. RESIDENTS - SOCIO-ECONOM[C CHARACTERIZATION
Division of the respondents according to their gender is as follows:
men       - 6
women    - 9
Representatives of various age groups were questioned, their age was 26-72, still it is evident
that the average age of the Getlini residents is about 50:
26-34    3 respondents
39-50    4 respondents
53-58    5 respondents
66-72    3 respondents
Concerning their marital status, we can see that the majority of the residents live along with
their family, only one respondent lives alone. But there are only 5 families having children
under 18 (and only one of the family living in the immediate vicinity). The other respondents
mention that they live together with their spouse or parents.
Since the majority of the respondents have been living there for more than 25 years (about
half of them - either for all their life or they have got married with Getlini residents) and
alnost all reside in private or family property hoouseswe can really believe what they all
maintain - that before the establishment of the lanfil (about 1971) it has been a very
beautiful and peaceful distict.
Taking into account the average age, it is not a surprise that almost half of the questioned
residents are pensioners. Two of the respondents are unemployed but those who are employed
mainly go to Riga. Only one of the respondents (and his spouse) are officially employed at
Getlini-2, there also a respondent's son works. Evidently, Getini as a potential work place is
not the most important argument to have a favourable influence on the residents but it can be
used if you speak about the unemployed.
11



GETL-INI LANIDFILL
Latvian Report
October 1996
Since the majority of respondents have been living here for more than 25 years
(approximately half - either have been living here all their lives or have been married here),
and almost all live in private or family houses, it is rather credible what they say - there has
been a very beautiffl and peaceful landscape before landfill (approximately 71').
Taking into account the average age, it is not surprising that almost half of questioned
residents are pensioners. Two respondents are unemployed, whereas those who work are for
the most part commuting to Riga. Just one respondent (also her spouse) are formally
employed at Getlini 2, another respondent's son is also employed there. Obviously, Getlini as
a potential employment place is not the most important argument, in order to dispose the
resident favourably, but it can be used, particularly when speaking with the unemployed.
As to incomes, 3 respondents estimate that their financial situation as slightly above average
if compared with other Riga residents, 5 said that it is slightly below average whereas 7
consider it similar with other Riga residents. Only one respondent (pensioner) estimates his
incomes as considerably below average.
Speaking with the residents who are formally employed ate Getlini 2 we found out that they
receive approximately 40 Ls a month, besides there is a possibility to receive additional
income collecting and delivering glass bottles in Getlini 2. (It constitutes about 30% of the
official wage).
These are the only people who are satisfied with their residence - they would not move to any
other place, they do not feel any ecological or health problems. It must be stressed, however,
that this family, unlike others, has been living here only for one year.
Still, so as not to make an impression that all the employees would willingly live near Getlini,
in order to be closer to work, it must be admitted that when asked a question whether they
would agree to live alone here, only one tramp said that possibly he would agree, because
then he would not have to go to Riga every day. All the others admitted that they would
definitely not agree to live in this area, because the fact itself that you live near a landfill is
humiliating, not speaking about such factors as environmental pollution and constant flow of
NORBA trucks.
The same could be observed when talking to other local residents - almost all surveyed people
expressed wish to move to another place, as a main reason for this mentioning that they do
not want to live near a landfill. Besides, everyone mentions that there are basically drawbacks
in living near a landfill and only one resident mentioned that there are some advantages as
well - e.g. one can find some food for cattle.
If on the whole, both the resident groups of the immediate vicinity and of the more distant
surroundings are rather similar, but you can notice differences concerning their attitude
toward the Getlini landfill. Those of the immediate vicinity mention very real problems that
they face personally (wandering scavengers, "waste rain" and smells when the wind is
blowing from the landfill), whereas the residents of the more distant surroundings are more
alienated and they speak about general things.
Still, all the residents are united conceming their worries about the polluted enviromnent that
has a real inpact on their life.
12



GETLINI LANDFILL
Latvian Report
October 1996
3.3. THE MAIN PROBLEMS FROM THE POINT OF VIEW OF RESIDENTS OF
IMMEDIATE VICTINITY
Ekological situation
Having interviewed the residents living next to the Getlini landfill, as well as those legally
and illegally working at the Getlini landfill we got to know a rather clear understanding of
the situation of each questioned group and their attitude toward it. During the research it
turned out that most painful is just the problem of the ecological situation of the Getlini
surroundings. And this problem is just the one that most directly applies to the people of the
neighbouring houses.
Of the respondents living in the houses next to the Getlini landfill, the majority of them have
been living in this region for more than 25 years, i.e., it is longer than the landfill has existed.
Most of the residents are engaged in a subsistence farming and thus the ecological situation of
environment has the most direct influence on the quality of products they grow. Though the
local inhabitants are well informed that vegetables and other products from lktchen gardens
are ecologically harmful, still, most often, if the products at least visually look edible, they are
also used as food. Contaminated is both the air, the soil and the water:
"Everything is contaminated - water, air, soil."
"Dirty water, dirty soiL, potatoes do not grow - they become completely black - that 's
due to the poisoned soil. "
"All the environment here is polluted - both air and water, soil is contaminated, we
grow vegetables andfruit in the gardent but most probably you must not eat them."
Everything suffers from environment pollution - stardng with potatoes and lettuce and ending
with the milk that is obtained from local cows:
"The food is pollute4 even the apples, lettuce, i.e., the plants growing on the ground
- since the air is also polluted"
"Water pollution contaminated food smoke, smell, polluted air, milk quality of
domestic cows as it pastures in the contaminated area "
The majonty of the questioned inhabitants live in pnvate houses where drinkable water is
taken from wells. But it is so polluted that actually you may not use it. Due to this reason,
several respondents employed in Riga bring water from the centre. Some time ago there has
been installed a water-supply from the Riga town for the houses next to the Getlini landfill
but it had actually functioned only for a few days since, according to the local people, the
water pressure has been too little to be sufficient for both the Getlini landfill itself and for the
inhabitants of the neighbouring houses. Thus this problem is still topical and unsolved:
"We were promised that drinkable water will be brought, they have installed a pipe-
line; aboutfor a week we used the water; then there came peoplefrom the landfill and
closed the water since at the landfill there was no water pressure - and the landfill let
us stay without drinkable water."
The health condition
The environment pollution problem is the main one that directly influences the inhabitants of
the Getlini surroundings. Their health condition is also connected with it. The majority of the
respondents have had problems with their health, and mainly their diseases have been caused
13



GETL IN! LANDFILL
Latvian Report
October 1996
by the polluted air and water. So, six respondents maintain that they often suffer from
respiratory illnesses - such as bronchitis, lung inflammation, as well as bronchial asthma:
"Hard to say whether all the diseases are caused by the landfill, but most probably
allergy and respiratory problems are."
Besides, several questioned residents and their family members suffer from chronical
diseases, such as - chronical bronchitis - 3 respondents, allergic eczema - 2 respondents. They
also mention such chronical diseases as allergic asthma, inflammation of lymphatic system,
tuberculosis, radiculitis. A respondent also mentions oncological diseases.
Several respondents suffer from a headache. Their problem is also tooth and gum
inxflammation that, in the opinion of the respondents, is caused by the dirty water:
"Tooth diseases - due to the water pollution. "
"The problems with gums were due to the dirty water."
On the whole, characterising their health condition, none of the respondents evaluate it as
very good or good. Eight respondents consider that their health condition is satisfactory, four
- that it is not too good but three people characterise it as bad.
But, concerning their family members' health, the majority of the respondents evaluate it as
satisfactory or not too good. Unfortunately the evaluation of children's health is just the same.
Asked about the illnesses the respondents have suffered during the last year, the majority of
them - 8 people - have had chill, 4 - bronchitis, angina or flu. Two people have had problems
'with stomach disorder. But such diseases as fibroma, mastopatia, erysipelas, gumn
inflammation, skin allergy and bronchial astima have been suffered by one respondent
respectively. There is only one respondent who during the last year has not been ill at all.
The family members of the questioned residents during the last year have also had chill - this
illness has been in seven families. In four households there have been cases of family
members having bronchitis, also in four families - flu, in two families - angina and in another
two - asthma. Besides, acute osteochondrosis has been mentioned once, as well as heart
disease and stomach diseases. Family members of the two respondents during the last year
have not suffered from any diseases.
Still, regardless of the many above-mentioned diseases, none of the 7 employed respondents
have not missed work due to their illness. One of them explains that he went to work being
ill.
On the whole, health condition is one of the problems that are topical for more than half of
the questioned residents of the houses near the Getlini landfill. Concerning medical treatment,
the leaders of the Getlini landfill are helpful - they cover expenses connected with treatment
and medicine. But at the same time, we should admit that it is a fight with the consequences
of ecological pollution while its causes are still topical.
14



GET INI LANDFILL
Latvian Report
October 1996
The closeness of the Getlini landfill is problematic for the local residents not only due to its
polluted environment. The majority of the respondents also mention the unpleasant smell that
is coming from the landfill in case the wind is blowing from that side:
"Smell, when the wind blowsfrom the landfill."
"It's unpleasant when the wind blows from the landfill - unpleasant smell."
Often the wind from the landfill is bringing various waste in the air, e.g., papers with which
all the surroundings are full in windy weather:
"When the wind is blowingfrom the landfill -plastic bags andpapers areflying."
Lately, according to the Getlini residents, the situation with smoke coming from the landfill
when the waste was buming has improved. Since at the landfill methane is forming as a result
of decaying of the waste, the temperature has reached even 80C, often there has been
kindling and as a result of it the smoke filled up the Getlini surroundings. Now the situation
has improved because the possibility of self-ignition at the landfill has been liquidated -
methane is directed from the waste heaps into the atmosphere. Thus, the local residents do not
have to breathe the smoke anymore. But for many years it has been a problem for the
residents:
"Now when the Getlini-2 has appeared they're doing everything possible to avoid
polluting air and water; but not long ago it was so that due to the smoke and bad
smell it was impossible to breathe. "
Still also now, as several respondents have told, the air is sometimes hard to breathe, it is
heavy:
"In the morning, when there isfog, the air is very heavy, it is hard to breathe."
The air is polluted also by the nunerous heavy trucks which are passing by in order to deliver
garbage to the landfill:
"Those big waste-trucks ("Norba") have a bad smell and spread out gases, there's
nothing to breathe."
Some are dissatisfied with the noise made by these trucks:
"The tracks make noise; going along the road they almost knock down pedestrians,
there is no place to go, it's impossible to go along the road"
The noise problem is particularly topical for the residents who live near the road. Others do
not perceive it as a major problem. Several respondents consider as a problem the people
passing by their houses towards the landfill. Sometimes they make big noise and rob local
gardens:
"They have trampled down the whole meadow, they burn fires; they steal from the
garden andfrom the green-house - tomatoes, cucumbers."
15



GETLINI LANDFILL
Lacvian Report
Octob.r 1996
"There is a lot ofpeople here passing along the house, which is not pleasant, they get
into the garden - steal the vegetables, once they even robbed the house. "
One respondent considers unpleasant the. fact that the trains are full of people making money
at the landfill, besides they are dirty, it is impossible to sit close to them:
"You can not even get on the train because of those crowds of tramps - they are dirty
and they stink it is impossible to sit by. "
At the same time there are respondents, who do not object to the fact that many people go to
the landfill in order to sort and collect garbage, considering it as a positive fact, because for
those desperately poor people Getlini landfill is almost the only means of survival:
"I think that these people should be allowed to work there - let them earn some money
for bread if this is the only place; some of them even live just near the landfill - in
wooden houses. They don't disturb us."
Only two respondents see some advantages in living near the landfill, both are connected with
the possibility to find something useful at the landfill. So one resident of nearby house makes
some money collecting and delivering various garbage:
"You can work there officially and also earn additionally - after work my husband
and I - we continue gathering glass, metals and we exchange them for money right
there - at the Getlini; it's an extra income to our official wages."
Also one more respondent uses Getlini landfill in order to find something useful there,
namely food for pets, as well as some other useful things:
"There is possibility to find bread and other food remains for domestic animals,
sometimes you canfind something usefulfor home as well."
However, none of the surveyed people except these two have not looked and do not look for
something at the Getlini landfill.
3.4. HOW TO CHANGE THE SITUATION
The majority of respondents are interested in positive changes at the site - namely, in
recovering the environment. How to carry it out and whether it is possible at all - the opinions
differ. Several respondents tiink that the only solution would be shutting down the landfill:
"This landfill should be closed"
"Process all this garbage and then close it down."
Moreover, some respondents do not see a way out at all:
"I don 't know, I'm not an expert but something should be done, this waste mountain
can't grow up endlessly. "
"I don't know, I'm an old man, I don't understand much of that but it should be so
that the landfill does not poison nature."
16



GETNILA ND FILL
Lan'ian Report
October 1996
It is also clear that garbage should be disposed somewhere:
"If it is closed now, then where to put all this waste?"
One respondent thinks that local residents should receive compensation for living close to the
landfill and suffer from pollution:
"The landfill should pat the residents who have most sufferedfrom the landfill being
so close - a compensation for those living there for longyears."
The majority have heard of some foreseen changes at the landfill. Most respondents look at it
hopefully, believing that the ecological situation would improve due to these changes, thus
the life of local people would also become better.
"Ecological situation will improve. "
"If they really process the waste, then the soil, the water and the air will be cleaner."
"Water will become cleaner andjfruit, vegetables and other plants won't sffer. "
"Health, milk quality of the cow will improve; the soil will become cleaner, thus the
food also won't be poisoned "
"Now vegetables have been tested and they say that you may not eat them; but we eat
all the things anyway but then we will know that we 're eating cleaner foodstus. "
However, not all the respondent are so optimistic about changes. Four people have neutral
attitude towards it, believing that it would have no impact on them. So one respondent is
thinking of moving to another place:
"I think in no way until everything is like now, I think we wouldprobably move out of
here. "
One more respondent is of an opinion that it is a long process to recover the environment, he
will most probably not experience it:
"Until all a processing plant is built and until all this garbage is processe, until the
soil and water becomes cleaner - it will take decades. "
Some other respondents think that situation will worsen and not improve. First of all, because
if some construction is canied out here, all the materials will be brought by the road along the
house, which means noise and dust:
"It will become even worse; if something is built there, then all the trucks with
building materials will pass by the house. But it again means noise and dust. "
Also the fact is mentioned - if a garbage processing plant is built, it will take long years to
finish it, therefore older respondent will not live up to it:
"It will get even worse, there will be more smell, when the wind blows from the
landfill, paper and other garbage is!flying in the area.  think we will not live up to the
time when they construct some processing plant."
17



GETLINI LANDFILL
Latvian Report
October 1996
The majority of respondents think that in case they would like to express an opinion about the
changes at Getlini landfill, the management would listen to their opinion, but it would not
change anything in reality - nothing would be done. Yet two respondents are sure that they
would not turn neither to the management of landfill, nor to any other public organisation in
order to express their opinion, and two more respondents are very optimistic, since they think
that their opinion would be definitely taken into account.
3.5. MEDIA IMORTANCE
Almost all respondents (except one) living near Getlini landfill regularly read vanous press
editions - basically newspapers. Most frequently read newspapers are Rigas Balss (12
respondents), Vakara Zinas (11), also LaukuAvize (9) and Diena (8).
As to radio stations, the overwhelming majority of the surveyed people listen to Latvia radio
I programme. As to TV channels, the most popular is Latvia TV Is' programme, which is
most often viewed in the evening - usually from 8 p.m.
It must be pointed out here that neither the press, nor radio or TV is not that source of
information, from which the local residents receive more information on the developments at
Getlini landfill and the surrounding area. All the information concerning Getlini is being
basically received from the local sources - friends, acquaintances. The meeting at Getlini has
also been mentioned, the local people were invited to this meeting and many residents
participated in it.
18



GETLINI LANDFILL
Latvian Report
October 1996
4. Description of Operations at the Getlini Landfill, from
the Perspective of Primary Stakeholders
4.1. STRUCTURE OF THE GETLINI MANAGEMENT
Currently 86 people are officially employed at Getlini. About 10 persons belong to
administration and management (including construction, mechanisation and assistant
managers. Other employees work:
* as guards (home guards),
* gathering raw materials, sorting waste (as supervisors),
* in the transport-mechanisation department,
* waste processing (paper press).
According to the information received from the management, employees of the Getlini
landfill are mainly the inhabitants of the Stopini rural district. Certainly, there are also people
who go to this work from Riga and Salaspils.
Concerning the informal employees, the director of the landfill mentioned that there are about
220 people who more or less regularly receive permission to sort waste in the territory of the
landfill. These people receive special distinction signs so that they could be distinguished
from those who try to gather something at the landfill illegally - without the leaders'
permission. Their work is co-ordinated by "brigadiers" - all the informally worling people are
divided into groups (about 20 persons) and they are brought to a certain place where waste is
dumped. Then the gathered materials are delivered to the collecting points just at the territozy
of the landfill. There are still some people who try to take out some glass bottles and to bring
them to city glass collection points. Certainly, that is not allowed and the people can have
problems when facing local guards.
Concerning the illegal visitors, the territory of the landfill is controlled rather strictly and it is
more and more difficult for those who have come there illegally (using paths). Still, there are
such people who do not wish to work, submitting to the "brigadiers"' leadership ("lonely
wolves"), though their number can be defined neither by the management nor buy the guards.
It is testified by the residents of the local houses who complain that scavengers are wandering
around the homes and even robbing their gardens and houses. The business of these people
also is glass bottles, besides, it is possible to find some more valuable things than can be sold
orjust something eatable.
During the research, after several visits made by our people to the landfill, we understood that
a general inspection actually does not allow to identify the size of each working group, thus
we presume that the data provided by the management are most credible.
4.2. DESCRIPTION OF INFORMAL EMPLOYEES
As it was already mentioned, informal employees represent rather different classes of society
- they are both chronical alcoholics and scavengers for whom the landfill is the only source of
income and their living can do just with a bottle of vodka and also pensioners and the
unemployed who are glad for any opportunity to receive an extra santim for their subsistence
minimnum. To define the size of each this group, there should be conducted extra studies. Still,
already now it is clear that as a result of the reconstruction and modernisation of the landfill
19



GETLIN LANVDFILL
Latvian Report
October 1996
the unemployed will be able to continue their work and they could also do more complicated
work operations. But pensioners are a problem on the state level and the fact that person
cannot do only with his pension - to eat and pay for his apartment, really is not to be solved
by the Gedini landfill.
"There is no escape, - no way out, otherwise no one would be doing here."
(Informal sector worker)
Losing job at Getlini could become an existential problem just for the scavengers since they
are the people who perceive the landfill as an inalienable part of their life.
"If there was no landfill, many people would not survive, for some it is the only means
of subsistence. " (Informal sector worker)
4.3. EVALUATION OF CURRENT SITUATlON
There is a difference in the information provided by the Getlini workers and that of the nearby
residents.
Changes at Getlini
When looking from within the landfill, i.e. from the point of view of formal and informal
workers, Getlini 2 positively differ from the former landfill, where there was no order at all,
where a stench could be felt in a large area. The current collection, selection and further
processing of garbage are being mentioned as positive changes (respondents mentioned the
collection and delivery of glass, paper and plastic).
"The changes take place, the garbage is now selected - papwer, glass and plastic
garbage is collectedforfurther processing, the rest is being levelled "
(Formal sector worker)
"Now the garbage is selected - glass, paper andplastic, the rest is left in the ground,
there are also places where you can deliver the glass and paper - so people can make
at least some money.
(Informal sector worker)
However, those who have greater work experience speak more about the changes, because
many tramps who have just recently started to come here can only speak about the past from
the stories of others.
"I do not see anything happening."                     (Informal sector worker)
Evaluation of management
Speaking about current management, positive assessment prevails:
"Many things have changed for the better, even during the 3 months I work here,
formerly the management did not care about anything."
(Formal sector worker)
"I think that management is looking for ways of solving the problems, clean-up of the
nearby waters and protection of the environment. I know that the management have
20



GETLIN LANDFILL
-.                       Latvian Report
October 1996
been abroad, they saw how the urban landfills operate in Western countries, they
gained experience. Alnyway, the management is trying to do scmething to improve the
situation."
(Formal sector worker)
"They are interested to change the situation for the better, that is good - they allow
people to make some money."
(Informal sector worker)
Besides rather positive assessment of the management, there are good and satisfactory
characteristics given to mutual relations of management and workers. Formal sector workers
motivate it by the fact that the management is ftying to improve the working conditions,
whereas informal sector workers say that the management does not care about scavengers
thereby allowing them to make at least some money.
"Management does no care much about the people, it is convenient for them that we
collect garbage, but they do not get involved - thanks them for that. "
(Informal sector worker)
Still, characterising the landfill management, the low collection rates of raw materials are
considered as a negative moment Although only one respondent considers the work of
management as bad, the majority of respondents are of an opinion that they management
make good money at the expense of workers (collectors), as it is quite obvious that the price
for one bottle is 4 times smaller than it is in Riga. Furthermore, the workers have no other
explanation to the physical reprisals of those who try to carry out the bottles from the landfill
area.
"People like us are volunteer working force, there is a very small amount of money
Paidfor the collectedpaper and glass; I think some people make good money on this -
I mean management, but there is no other way for us and they know it.,"
(Informal sector
worker)
"They make money on expense of other people - those who collect something and
deliver it (in the city you can receive 4 times more for bottles than here) - often those
who try to take out something from the landfill are caught and beaten up by the
guards, afterwards they make them to leave all they have collected "
(Informal sector worker)
Taking into account the intellectual level of people working here, it is understandable that
they see only simple arithmetic - they will carry out bottles until it is possible to find a hole in
the fence surrounding the landfill. At the same time it is to be admitted that physical reprisals
might appear most effective in this group, but it leaves a very negative impression about the
management worling methods - not only in those people who have come across these
reprisals themselves, but also in those who hear about those cases and see it personally
(formal workers and nearby residents). It should be taken into account when speaking with
people - forming a positive attitude towards the upgrading project of the landill.
However, when asked whether or not they have had a conflict with landfill management, all
residents gave a negative answer.
21



GETL INI LANDFILL
Latvian Report
October 1996
Changes necessary in the opinion of employees
Speaking about what they would like to change here, all respondents mention only the pay
raise or increase of raw material collection rates. Only one respondent mentioned that
something should be done to decrease environmental pollution.
The opinion of the local residents on the processesjtaking place at Getlini is mainly based
on the information that they have received at the meeting where all local residents have been
invited.
From what has been said at the meeting, almost all the respondents are aware of the fact that a
western company is interested to invest in the reconstuction of the Getlini landfill. Still, it is
not too clear what kind of company it is and what it is actually willing to do, as well as what
exactly is reformed or reconstructed. Some people also mentioned the name of the World
Bank.
"They're willing to do something together with some Western companies, but what
exactly - I don't know. "                                     (Resident)
"Yes, I heard that a foreign company is investing money to build a waste-processing
plant."                                                       (Resident)
"I have heard that there have been meetings, that some Western company has
expressed a wish to co-operate to reconstruct the landfill. "  (Resident)
"I do not know anything, there was a meeting - they spoke about the World Bank; as
if it would invest money, but I did not understand what they are doing there now or
about theirfuture plans. "                                    (Resident)
"As far as I know, negotiations are underway with the World Bank, which could
provide financial assistance for construction of clean-up facilities. "
(Formal sector worker)
The majority of the local residents we questioned mentioned that Gedini is going to establish
a waste-processing plant at the same place.
"I don 't kw  what's going on there now, I attended a meeting and heard that they're
willing to establish a waste-processingplant - together withforeigners ". (Resident)
"As if they're willing to establish a waste-processing plant and to prolong this
landfillfor the coming 60 years; to make a road here. "       (Resident)
"1 was at the meeting and I heard they want to install clean-up equipment or
processing equipment - I did not understand quite. "           (Resident)
"The landfill is expanded; now they are looking for someone to invest for
reconstruction, so as to be able to process waste."           (Resident)
"There will be joint-venture with Western companies, waste-processing plant will be
constructed I also know that they have made some holes (installed gas-pipes) so that
gas is extracted But I do not know where they use this gas. Probably it is done so as
the landfill would not burn from inside. Also I have heard that they have been taking
water and soil samples."                                       (Resident)
The local residents, like it was in the employee group, also as the greatest changes at Getlini
mention the fact that the sorting of waste has began. Some respondents also have heard
22



GETL NI LANDFILL
Latvian Report
October 1996
something about the project of collecting a gas - methane; this gas appears as a result of waste
decomposing.
"I heard that now they have started sorting the waste - glass separately, paper
separately, there is a place where they are exchanged for money and those who
gather glass, metals andpaper bring them just straight there. "  (Resident)
"The waste is sorted - some time ago it was not so. Separately paper, separately
glass, separately plastic; besides, there at the landfill they take receipt of glass and
metal beer cans - that's something new. "                     (Resident)
"I don't know what's going on there now. I heard that they have started sorting the
waste and they obtain a gas but I don't know anything exactly.  (Resident)
"I have heard that they will put up some gas pipes, they will extract gas (methane),
but ! do not know the particulars."                           (Resident)
However, all the respondents stress that they know quite little and they do not understand too
well what exactly is going on there. It can be seen from almost all the interviews, certainly,
with the exception of those who work at Getlini themselves. Besides, those who have looked
deeper in the Getlini problems, are also rather sceptical and they do not believe too much that
any of the described processes actually could influence their life since the environment
(ground, soil and water) pollution is so enormous that it would take many decades to change
the situation.
"I attended a meeting but, in my opinion, in the next 10 years there won't be any
changes, though they are willing to do something - somehow to process the waste. "
(Resident)
The only optimistically-oriented respondent was a pensioner who really is rather well aware
of the processes of sewage refining taking place at Getlini and he is sure that soon it will be
possible to drink water from wells and to use ecologically clean vegetables grown by himself
and others.
"The territory was levelled; a water-collecting canal was made, it collects dirty
water, a dike was made, another canal was made - it collects clean water. It's made
so that the dirt water wouldn 'tflow to the Daugava river"    (Resident)
23



.GETLINILANDFILL
Latvian Report
October 1996
5. Main Findings
1)  Those formally employed bave a favorable altitude toward any changes since they are
perceived as the improvement of the situation.
2) Local residents are victims of the landfill and they are willing to achieve an improvement
of the ecological situation.
3) Concerning the informally employed persons that could be influenced by the project when
liquidating their eamrungs, you cannot notice either any doubt, uncertainty for their future
or a negative attitude toward the processes going on at Getlini; many of them are people
who do not care for what is happening around.
Obviously Getlini project will have most impact on these workers. However, currently you
cannot observe any agitation or obscurity of the future. Answering the question on how the
changes at Getlini could influence each respondent personally, the people consider that
actually none of the processes will influence their life.
It must be admitted that none of the questioned formal and informal workers has a negative or
even sceptical attitude towards the changes taking place. The upgrading of the landfill is
rather perceived as a possibility to create new jobs, at least comparing the current situation
with the one before founding Getlini 2.
The formal workers of the landfill estimate the foreseen improvement of the environmental
situation as a positive fact. It is the main argument why the residents are in favour of the
project.
It is definitely worth talking with the local residents on the impact of the project on
environment since the majority of the Getlini vicinity residents hope that the situation will
change radically due to the project. It mainly refers to the solving of ecological problems
since it is absolutely important to decrease the water and soil pollution already today.
Though currently it is not too clear for the local residents what is going on what will take
place, still they are open for a positive attitude toward the project if only there is going to be
explanatory work where all the activities connected with environment recovery will be
stressed.
The local residents whose number is smaller than that of the officially employed Getlini
workers, actually are in a much more unenviable situation than the officially or unofficially
employed persons who can choose or change their work place. For the majority of the local
inhabitants these are their native homes and they had been living there long ago the
establishment of the Getlini landfill. They are people who are used to do with the products
obtained from their own farms and they still use the milk got from the cows pastured near the
landfill; they use vegetables growA in their kitchen gardens, etc. Still, asked whether they
would like to change their residence, almost all of them have a positive answer.
The fact that the local residents are the victims of the landfill is testified by their health
condition since almost all of the respondents regularly suffer from various respiratory
diseases, as well as from allergies.
24



GETLINI LANDFILL
Laivian Report
October 1996
That is why it would be very important to pay attention not only to the program of
environment recovery but also to provide possibilities for the local residents to move to a new
residence. Especially it should be taken into account concerning the youngest generation in
order to avoid further reproduction of ill children.
It can be said that opinions of residents (both living nearby and further from the landfill) and
formal workers are very much the same, whereas the opinions of informal workers differ
greatly. Definitely it can be explained by the differences in world and overall life perception.
For scavengers the landfill is the only means of survival. Along with chronic alcoholics, for
whom the bottle is the only value, there are also people who have either no other means of
sustenance, or it is very scarce - unemployed, retired etc. The respondents of these groups
admit that they have not felt any major changes, perhaps only that there is no smoke anymore.
All scavengers declare that the possibility to work on the landfill is absolutely essential for
them since it is the only means of survival, but at the same time they do not fear that in the
result of the upgrading project they could possibly lose these working opportunities. Thus,
this group of people also could not be a special threat to accept the project
25



APPENDIX



S~~~~~o >-i10                                                 .i X,   J..
"3   ,...I     ...                        . \  .-                              
:      D|-                s   - -- (-                                                             . t+   4\ e   $s -*-t  e.- 
74,
;_   >     5   * s @   ...   ,,w,.-t,   ........ .  r   v                .  .          .......  _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~......
-ALOOM                                                       K 0 d r a -A:s
Vizbuli    Mdtragasuve "I 
,. .........                               THAT WERE CHOSEN FOR INTERIEWS
*g   <  .....FURTER HOUSES>
HOUSES WHERE NTRVEWS WERE DONE
| .~~~~~~~~~~_               _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _



APPENDIX
RESIDENTS QUESTIONNAIRE
(Latvian and Russian)



BALTZJAS DA-TU NAMS                                             GETLU.ID
1996. gada oktobris             IEDZIVOTAJI
Interv6t&js:                                   Apliecibas Nr. I       I
INTERVIJAS PLANS
PAMATINFORMACIJA
Lddzam ierametos jautaiumus aizpildit, balstoties uz saviem novOrojumiem!
Respondenta dzimums
sieviete ...............17
vfrietis ................2
Jusu vecums? I        I pilni gadi
Kids ir Jusu gimenes stivoklis?.
dzivo viens    .       1
kopa ar gimeni    .    2
Ja dzivojat kopi ar gimeni, kadi vel gimenes locekJi dzivo kopa ar Jums?
dzvesbiedrs     .      1,
bmi .2,
vec&ki, vecvecki.   3,
citi .4,
Vai Juisu gimene dzlvo berni vecumi lidz 18 gadiem? Ja JA pajautafiet bemu
vecumus
1. i.     I gadi         5. l       I gadi
2. l      Igadi          6.1        I gadi
3. I   _  I gadi         7. I       I gadi
4.1       I gadi          8.1       I gadi citi
DZIVESVIETAS APRAKSTS
Ka Jds raksturotu vietu, kur respondents dzivo:
dzivoklis daudzdzivokju maja ......................1
individufil maja .......................................2
cits variants
Kada ir majokia kvalitate?
ar ertibam ..............1
bez ertibam.                             2
ar daf,ljam -ertlbam ............ ,. , . 3
Kads ir Jdsu iespaids par dzivokli?..
rCpigi iekArtots dzkivoklis ...................   -..-   ....v ,. i
mAiS nav dArgu-mantu, bet, valda -krtlba,.2 .................
dzivokl7ji2tamas trOkuma pazimes:- vecas nolietotas eles .-. 3 ,,
dzivokli-nekdrti,ba, -netiniba,,as -atgadina bormnamitni .................................4
cits varants_______________________
1



BALTIJAS DATU NAMS                                             GETLJ.ID
1996. gada oktobris            IEDZIVOTAJI
Val mdju (dzTvokli), kura JMs dzIvojat, Jus Irejat, val tas ir JOsu ipasums?
lre no pasvaIdibas (valsts ipaums) ........1
Tre no kada cita cilveka .........................2
Respondenta (gimenes) ipaums ...........3
Cik ilgi Jus seit dzivojat? (Ludzu ierakstiet)
NODARBOSANAS
Kida ir Jusu nodarbosanas? Ga stradA, ierakstiet arnprofes#iu un amatu)
Ja strada:
Kida ir JDsu darbavietes ipasuma forma?
Valsts uznemums .............. 1
Privitais uznemums .............. 2
Cits__
Kur atrodas Jusu darba vieta:
(piem, Riga, Teikas raj.)
Ja ir dzivesbiedrs:
Kada ir Jusu dzivesbiedra nodarbosanis? Oa strada, ierakstiet an profesiju un
amatu)
Ja strada:
Kada ir JOsu dz4vesbiedra darbavietas Ipasuma forma?
Valsts uznemums ....................1
Privatais uznemums .................... 2
Citsi
Kur atrodas Jusu dzlivesbiedra darba vieta:
(piem, Riga, Teikas raji.)
Pajautajiet ar* par citiem gimenes locekle#m un uzziniet, val-kads no viiiem nestradA
GETLIN,JU izgve.: rtrada, uzetiet-va -nodao no u  niecYba  pakapi
ar respondentu:-
(piem. virabralis -izgiztuves sargs,...)
2



BALTIJAS DATU NAMS                                           GEJLI.ID
1996. gada oktobnis           IEDZIVOTAJI
IENAKUMI
Kadi bija JUsu gimenes lenikumi, ril,dnot uz vienu gimenes locekil pagajusa
m6nesi (septembri) pec nodoklu atvilksanas? I          I
Ka Jus novertetu savas 4imenes ienakumu I nodrosinajuma limeni salidzinot
ar citiem Rigas iedzivotijiem?
Kretni labaks .............1
Nedaudz lab;ks .............2
Aptuveni tads pats ............. 3
Nedaudz sliktiks ............. 4
Krietni sliktaks .............5
Kadi ir galvenie JQsu gimenes ienakumu avoti?
Procentuali Oa visus lenikumus pielidzina 100 procentiem), apmeram, cik lielu
da!u veido katrs no Aiem ienikumu veidiem?
darbaalga .1  I__...                                       I
pensijae.. . . .                            2, I_ I
socialie pabalsti .3,  I__I
ienakumi no naturalas saimniecibas...       4,   i         I_._..
draugu un radu palidzba.                    5,   1         I
ienakumi no Getli:u izgaztuves .6,   1                    I
citi= I
Kas Jusu gimene dod lielako ieguldijumu gimenes budzeta, iztika?
(Svarigi zinat, val si loma ir Getlinos stradajosajam (formali /neformri) gvimenes
loceklim)
VESELJBAS STAVOKLIS
Ar ko saistitas galvenis problimas, kas Jus paslaik nomic?
ar darbu              .1
ar imeni .2,
ar materialajam grOtibm .3,
ar veselibu .4,
cits
Ka Jus novertetu savu veselibas stavokil?
loti labs             .1
labs   .2
apmierinoss             .3
ne visai labs.                         4
slikts               .5
3



BfALTIJAS DATU NAMS                                           GETUJID
1996. gada oktobns             IEDZIVOTAJI
Ka Jus novertetu savu gimenes loceklu veseribas stavokil
dzivesbiedrs   bemi     citi
loti labs ........1                   1         1
labs ........2                        2         2
apmierinoss ........3                 3         3
ne visai labs ........4               4         4
slikts ........5                      5         5
Vai kads no Jums cies no tidim hroniskam slimibim ka...
sirds slimibas                   1,
asinsvadu slimibas               2,
alkoholisms (atkanrba no alkohola)    3,
plausu slimibas (astma)          4,
nieru slimibas                   5,
citas
Kidas slimibas JOs esat izslimojis pedeja gada laika?
Kidas slimibas pedeja gada laiki ir izslimojusi Jusu gimenes locek!i?
Apmeram cik darba dienas Jus esat kavejis slimibas di! pedeja gada laiki?
ATTIEKSME PRET DZIVESVIETU
Ka Juis apmierina paireizj& dzives vieta?
Loti labi apmierina ..................................1
Diezgan labi apmierina ...........................2
Drizak neapmierina ................................3
Nepavisam neapmierna ........................4
Vai esat domaiis par dzives vietas maipu?
a .    1
ne  .2
Ja ja
Kapec Jus gribetu mainlt dzivesvietu?
4



BALT7JAS DATU NAMS                                             GETIJ.ID
1996. gada oktobris            STRADAJOMIE
p,OXO,Qbl
KaKOBbI 6binHl AOXOAbl Ha OAHoro 4ineHa BaueU CeMbl4 B npoLUMOM mecsnLe
(ceHTrs6pb) nocne Bbl4eTa HanOroB? I            I
KaK 6b1 Bbi OLIeHUnM YPOBSHb AOXOAOB / o6ecne4eHmR BalUeri CeMbl7 no
CpaBHeH1Io C ApyrfMm pM)KaHaMI?
3Ha'irTenbHO ny4we ..................... 1
HeMHOrO nyLwe ............................ 2
npiMBepHO TaKOe )Ke ..................... 3
HeMHOrO xy)Ke .............................. 4
3Haqt4Te)fbHO Xy)Ke .......................5
KaKoBbi OCHOBHbie NCTOLiHNKUf AOXOAOB Baweu ceMbH?
flpo4eHTyanbHo (npMpaBHuBaS Bce AOXOAbl K 100 npo4eHTaM), npuIMePHO,
KaKY1O 'aCTb COCTaBJSleT KaXMblb4 1H3 3STX LCTO4H1IKOB AOXOgOB?
.nnaTa 3a pa6oy .1, I    I
neHC14 ...........................................................  I  I
coL4IanbHbIe noco6mu .3, 1    1
jOXOJbI OT HaTypallbHOrO X03CTBa..            4,   1         1
nOMOLI6A py3eA U 3HaKOMbIX ........   ............ 5,   1    1
Apyrle gOXOJbl CO CBanKI4 Gettiii .6, i..... . 6
Apyri4e-
_ _  _  _  _   _  _  _  _   _  _  _  _   _ _      I        I
KTO BHOCUT CaMbIA 6onbwoU BKn8A B Baw cemeAH6iA 6iowKeT, nponWraHme?
(BaxHo 3HaTb, KaKoBa ponb Toro 4wneHa ceMbm, KOTOpbli pa6oTaeT B reTnLlHIl
(ocd/rnuanbHO/ HeOmmi4manbHO)
COCTOSHWIE 3JOPOBbq
KaK 6bl Bbl oLleHtIIK COCTOSiHe coerO 3AOpOBbSl?
oLleHb xopoWee..                        1
xopowee.                                2
YgOBJ1eTBOp&4TenbHoe ................ .   3
He oLeHb xopowee.                       4
nnoxoe.                                 5
KaK 6bl BbI oLIeHNflN COCTORHUe 30pOBbSb' 4neHOB BaweA ceMbu?
cynpyr(-a)    ge'rm      gpyrme
o'eHb xopowee ..............  1        1         1
xopowee ..............      2          2         2
YXOBneTsBOpMTenbHoe .................. 3  3      3
He oHeHb xopowee ..................  4  4        4
nnoxoe       .................. 5      5         5
5



BALTIJAS DAWT NAMS                                                GETLI.ID
1996. gada oktobnis             STRADAJOSIE
CTpaAraeT nu KTo-nm60 m3 Bac XpoHW4ecK1IMM 3a6oneBaHMUslm, T8KNMM KaK...-
6one3HM cepjgLAa                          1,
cocynucTmie 3a6oneBaHcs                   2,
aflKOrOMU3M (3aBMClcMOCTb OT anKOrOns)    3,
3a6oneBaHle nerKxX (acTMa)                4,
6oneSHuf nOLieK                           5,
gpyrue
LieM Bbi 6onenN B TeuLeHe npownoro roAa?
rAe Bbi nony4aeTe HeO6xOKMyio MeAmu yHCKYo nOMOU4b?
CBAJ1KA
L4acTo rOBOpgT, 'TO Ha CBaIlKe MO)HO Hai;TU MHOrO XOpOWI4X U nOfle3HbIX
3eu4eRi. nlpo6o0anm nu BbI KorAla-n60 oTTo-nm6o IICKaTb u YAaBanOCb Jim BaM
Mun  4neHaM Bauwei CeMbM TaM 4TO- nu6o HaIuTu?
HUKOrga Hi4Iero He mcKan(-a) ...............1
MCKaJn(-a), HO 6e3yCneWHO ....................2
KOe-4TO Haxopt4J(-a) ...........................3
Ecnu Kor/a-nkl6o ncK8a(-a)
LiTO Bbl MuM 4neHbi BaLue& CeMbm o6bl4HO mUtmTe?
npOpyKThJ .................................. 1
F1Ofe3Hble BeLUj AM X0359UCTBa ...........2
4To-To gns npoAa . .............................3
cneL2TuanbHO Hw'ero He 4uAy, 6epy,
ecnu eCTb LlTO-TO nOne3HOe ........ 4
KaK 6bi Bbl OLIeHmnti TO, KKOR BKfaA B AOMaWHee X039RCTBO BHOC5T BeUAN,
HaiAleHHble BaMm MIl 4neIHaMm Baweg CeMbM Ha csanKe (nonb3ysuCb Nnfi
npoAaBasi HaiieHeoe), no cpaBHeHHIO c Apyrumm  AOXORAM4 (c MecTa pa6oTbl;
noco6msy H T.A.)?
He3Ha4mTenbHb[A no cpaHeHM1o c qpyrMmm goXogqaMH ........1
MeHbwie, L4eM  gpyrme 9OXObl ....................... .......................2
TaKOA WKe, KaK u gpyue ,oxop,w ..........................................3
6onbwe, 4eM gpyrme  XoAbl .................................................4
noqTI eJlMHCTBeHHbliU UCTOYHUK AOXOAOB ............................5
CPEACTBA MACCOBOI4 IMHOOPMALtMM
KaKme 3RsaHmR npeccmi (ra3eTbi, )ypHaJbi) Bbi peryiigpHo 4'iTaeTe?
OT KyAa Bb. o6blLiHO nouyqaeTe MH4)OpMa4UMO  TeKyU4mX C06bITMSlX?
npecca ....................1
pagio ....................2
TV ....................3
OT ,qpy3eri, 3HaKOMbIX .................4
OT 41eHOB CeMbt .....................5
6



BALTIJAS DAU NAMS                                              GE7LJ.ID
1996. gada oktobns             IEDZiVOTAJI
Ka JDsu dz4vi ietekme tas, ka JOs dzivojat netaIu no izgaztuves?
neietekme .......... 1
ietekme pozitivi ..........  2
ietekme negaftvi ..........  3
Ja ietekmh, tad kas:
(piem., - negativie momenti: smakas, kJai9ojogi ciIveki, 'Norbas' utml.
- pozitivie momenti: iespeja tur stradat oficiali / iespeja tur kaut ko derigu atrast)
Vai esat cietis no vides piesdri?ojuma, ko radijusi izgaztuve? Ja JA, tad ka
tiesi:
(piem., netirs udens ak, smakas, putekli, di,mi)
Vai JOs kadrekz esat izjutui neertibas, ko sagada mailnas val ci1veki, kas
dodas uz izgaztuvi? Ja JA - aprakstiet, lQdzu, kadas?
Vai izgaztuves tuvums jebkad ir sagadajis veselibas problemas Jums vai Jusu
jimenes locekliem? Ja JA, kadas tiesi?
IZGAZTUVE
Biezi ir dzirdets, ka izgiztuves var atrast daudz labu un noderigu lietu. Val esat
kidreiz meginajis kaut ko meklet un vai Jums vai kadam no JO)su gimenes
locekiem ir izdevies kaut ko atrast?
nekad neesmu meklejis ...............................  1
esmu meklejis, bet bez panfkumiem ................2
ir gadijies kaut ko atrast ...............................  3
Ja ir kadreiz mekljis
Cik bieli JOs vai Jusu gimenes locekli dodaties uz izgiztuvi?
(atbil2u variantus nelasiet!)  gandriz katru dienu ...............  1
paris reizes ned&la ...............  2
reizi nedflA ...............         3
apmeram reizi menesT ...............  4
retak ...............                5
tikai tad, ja rodas konkreta nepieciesamiba 6
5



BALTIJAS DAT NAMS                                                            GETLI.ID
1996. gada oktobns                    IEDZIVOTAJI
Kida veida lietas Jus val Josu gimenes Iocekji parasti mekiljat?
partiku ....................................1
nodenigas lietas saimniecibai ...................................  2
kaut ko p&rdosanai ...................................  3
speciali neko nemeklju, Jlemu, ja ir kas nodenigs .......4
Ka Juis novertetu, cik liels ieguldijums majas saimnieciba ir tam, ko Jus, Jusu
gimenes locekii gust no izgaztuves (gan pasiem lietojot, gan pardodot atrasto)
salidzinot ar citiem lenakumiem (no darba vietas, pabalstiem utml.)?
niecigs saridzinajumrn  ar citiem ienakumiem .............. 1
mazaks saridzin&jumd ar citiem ienakumiem ............. 2
tikpat liels ka citi ienakumi ...................................     3
lielaks neka citi ienakumi ...................................   4
gandrnz vienigais ienakumu avots .............................. 5
IZMAINAS GETLINU IZGAZTUVE (autajiet visiem)
Val esat kaut ko dzirdejuii par iespejamam  izmainam Getlinu izgaztuve?
Ja Ja, pastistiet, ko Jus par to esat dzirdejusi:
No ki JUs esat dzirdejusi par izmaiiam Getlinu izgaztuve?
no preses ..............    1      (kadiem izdevumiem)
no radio ..............     2      (kadiem raidijumiem)
TV ...............        3        (kadiem raictijumiem)
no draugiem, pazilt&m ....4
no citiem avotiem_
Kada ir Jusu attieksme pret gaidamajam  izmaiQdm?
neitrala (uz mani tas neattiecas) ...................... 1
pozitiva ......................                   2 oK&pdc sada attieksme?
negativa ......................                   3
Ka, pec Jusu domim, tas ietekmes Jusu dz1vi?
6



BALTIJAS DATU NAMS                                              GETL.D
1996. gada oktobris             IEDZIVOTAJI
Kas, JOsuprit, bUtu jamaina Getliu izgiztuve?
Val, pec Jusu domam, kads uzklausitu Jusu domas saja jautajuma, ja Jus
grieztos pie Getlip,u izgiztuves vadibas, vieteja pasvaldiba, val kada
sabiedriskajs organizicija, piemeram, pie 'zalajiem", vides alzsardzlbas
departamenta.
(atbil2u variantus nelasiet)
nezinu, nekad nedomaju izteikt savas domas kadai no sim organizdcij&m ............1
dnizak neuzklausTitu ....................................................... 2
iespejams uzklausitu, bet nekas vienalga netiktu darits ......................... ................3
noteikti uzklausitu un Qemtu vera manu viedokli .................................................... 4
Val Juis spetu ietekmet si jautajuma risinajumu sev labveligi?
ja ..             I
ne ..             2
nezinu ..         3
MASU INFORMACIJAS LiDZEKLI
Ksdus preses izdevumus (taikrakstus, zurnalus) Jus Iasst regulri?
Kuru(s) preses izdevumu(s) Jus lasat visbiezak?
Kadas radio stacijas klausaties visbiezak?
Kadus TV kanalus skataties visbiezak?
Ludzu nosauciet savas miJakis TV raidijumu programmas (val laikus, kuros
parasti skataties TV)
7



BALTIJAS DATU NAMS                                                  GETLI.1D
1996. gada oktobns                IED[ZVOTAJI
mHTepBbioep:                                    Nr. yocroBepeHHq I         I
n1JAH MHTEPBbIO
OCHOBHAq 14H0OPMAUMI
Bonpocbl B paMKax 3anonHmTe, nomanyAcTa, ocHoBbiBaBcb Ha co6cTBeHH4x Ha6nImeHyRx!
non pecnoHe0HTa
xeHLUH a  ...... ...........1 .E-: .---...... . .:E 
MyXq;fHa .................... 2:.... 2..;
Baw 30o3paCT? I        I nOnHblx neT
KaKoBo Bawe ceMeuHoe nonoeiieHme?
)KI4BeT O14H ............... 1
)KKIBeT C CeMbeI ...............2
Ecnu )KMBeTe c ceMbel, KaKMe 4ineHbI ceMbu )IKlBTyT BM3ecTe c Bamm?
cynpyr(-a) .......................................................1
pogmTenJ/ 6a6yWKt4, AeQYWK4 ..........................x 3,
gpyrme ............................        4,
)KMByT nu B Baweii ceMbe A,eTm MonowKe 18 neT? Ecnu,AA cnpociiTe o Bo3pacTe
,geTe5i
1.1        IneT            5.1        IneT
2.         i neT           6.1        mneT
3.1        1 neT           7.1        lneT
4.1        I ieT           8.         l l neTqpyrnei
Ol4CAHI4E MECTA )KI4TEnbCTBA
KaK 6bl Bbl onucanw Mecro )KTrefibCTBa pecnoHAeHra:
KBapTUpa B MHoroaTaxo4omM  e ...........................1
oco6HRK       .2
.qpyrog sapuaHr
KaKoro KagieCTBO ioJ7bs?
c yIo6CTam..                               1
6es yEo6crB ..................2
C 'aCTNHwImsf yAo6cTBamMM-                 3
KaKoro BaweBneclaTneuNe o capM epe?"
UjaTre&nbHo: 6ycTpoeHHaR KBapTma ..                               ..
B KBaprTMpe HeT.AoporHx BeuJeilb' HO iapm.-nOp: ..OK.. 2LE.
B    KBpTipe   pH3aKBHeAcrarapS M6eO        ............................................. - .   
B KBapTMjW lpH3HaKM .HeA            JKSTK:cap~MHOIUeHaR me6efth..  ........
B Ksapfpe.6eopp4.T,rpHoanoMMaeT- e 6owia.. 4
Rqpyro EBH:BHTa                  - E,_'';'l-t;_,__ ,;;, ii_ 
1



BALTIJAS DA TU NAMS                                           GETULID
1996. gada oktobris            IEDZiVOTAJI
CHuMaeTe nfu Bbl 3TY KBapTKpy/ AOM  nui sTo Bawa co6cTmeHHocmb?
CHUMaeT y caMoynpaBneHMIr (rocygapcTBeHHaq co6cTBeHHOCT6) ............. 1
CHt4MaeT y qpyroro 4enoBeKa .............................. ......................... 2
Co6cTmeHHocTm pecnoHgeHTa (ceMbH) ........................................................ 3
KaK p,onro BbI 3Aech )KNBeTe? (HarmHumTe)
3AHIRTHE
KaKoBa Bawa npocIeccusi? (ecn;f pa6oTaeT, HanuwuTe npoifeccMio ifonxKHocTb)
Ecnu pa6oraeT:
KaKoBa cIopMa co6cTBeHHocm Bawero MecTo pa6oTbi?
rocyJqapcTBeHHoe npegnpi4mme.. 1
HLacTHoe npegnpuqTie ................2
Jlpyroe
rAe HaXOARITCs Bawe MeCTO pa6oTbi:
(HanpfMep, Pulra, paioH TeIIKM)
Ecnm ecTb cynpyrla:
KaKoBa  npocleccns  BaweW/ro  cynpyru/a?  (ecnu  pa6oTaeT, HanmuiHe
npotpeccklo m .qoaJHocTm)
Ecna pa6oTaer:
KaKoBa cjopMa Co6CTBeHHOCTI MecTa pa6oTbi BaweWro cynyrua?
FocyxnapcTseHHoe npemnp"me.. 1
HacTHoe npegnpis4me ................2
-    ,pyroe
rAe HaXOA"ITcsl MecTO pa6oTbi Bawei/ro cvnpyru/a:
(HanpuMep, Pmra, pa5oH TeOKH)
CnpocnTe raioKe o .pyrnx ineHax ceMbm u y3HaITe, He pa6oTaeT nu -Kro Hf6yLb U3
HHX Ha CBalnKe rET74HI. Ecnm pa6oTaeT, Hannummre ero npocPeccmio/Aon)KHocTb ji
YPOBeHb pOACTBa c pecnoHqeHToM:
- (- -.---XnpfepaT,    Mya --cTropOZ6a-CBaflKe,....)
2



BAL77JAS DATU NAMS                                            GETLI.ID
1996. gada oktobris            IEDZIVOTAJI
AOXOAbi
KaKOBbI 6bnm AOXOAbi BaweMi CeMbI B NnpoWnoM mecrnie (ceHTr6pb) nocne
Bbl4eTa HanoroB? I I
KaK 6bl Bbl oLIeHI4IN ypOBeHb AOXOAOB i/ o6ecne4eHmq Baueu CeMbH no
CP8BHeHHIO C ApyrUMU pIKaHaMM?
3Ha'MTenbHO nyLuie ...............1
HeMHOrO ny'4we ...............2
npMmepHo TaKOe )Ke ...............3
HeMHOrO xy,ne ...............4
3Ha4MTTenbHO xy)Ke ...............5
KaKoBbI OCHOBHbIe UCTOIHHUKU AOXOflOB Baweiu CeMbM?
nlpo4eHTyanbHo (npHpaBHHBaSl Bce AOXOAbl K 100 npoiAeHTaM), nplMepHo,
KaKyIo 4aCTb COCT8BlsieT Ka)KAbIgU 113 3TKX UCT04HHUK083 AOXOAOB?
3apnnaTa ................................ . .1,    I        I
neHC. .2, I  I
Co4LlanbHbie noco6m .3,   1                                 1
AOXOpbI OT HaTypanbHOrO Xo3s1CTBa .          4, 1           I
nOMOUb ,apyaeg i 3HaKoMbIX....................................... 5,     
OXoxobl Co CBsaIKK Getli;i ..                6,  1    1
gpyrme                                             I        I
KTO B Baweui ceMbe AaeT caMbli 6onbWoi BKnaA B ceMeuHbli 6to AeT,
nponfTaHue?
(BaYwHo 3HaTb, KaKOBa POnb Toro  IneHa ceMbM, KOTOpblU pa6oTaeT B reTn"HH
(ocPmrgfanbHo/ HeoLpbl4bfaI7bHo)
COCTO5IHUE 30,OPOBbSI
C LeM CBR3aHbi BawN OCHOBHiBie npo6neMbl?
c pa6oToii .........                    1,
c ceMbeA ......   .      .      .     .. 2,
C MaTepl4anbHbIMM TPYPHOCTqM. .3,
CO 31OpOBbeM. .4,
,xpyroe
KaK 6rbl Bbl oLleHiUlm COCTOgHUe CBoero 3AopOBbR?
o4eHbxopowee              .1
xopouwee               .2
ygoBneTsopuTe6Hoe ..3
He o0eHb xopowee           .4
nnoxoe    .5
3



BAL77JAS DATU NAMS                                            GEJTLI.D
1996. gada oktobris            IEDZIVOTAJI
KaK 6bl Bbi oL4eHJUIn COCTOsHBSHe AOpOB bsi LmeHOB Bawei ceMbI?
cynpyr(-a)    jqeTm     jpyru e
o4eHbxopowee ............... 1        1         1
xopowee ...............2              2        2
y,oBneTBop "TenbHoe ..............3   3        3
He oqeHb xopowee ............... 4    4        4
nnoxoe ...............5               5 - .5
CTpaAaeT nu KTo-1nm60 U3 Bac XpOHH4eCKNMN 3a6oneBaHHsMH, TaKuMM KaK ...
6one3HI4 cepg,Lta                      1,
cocygnicTmie 3a6oneBaHtr9             2,
anKoronil3M (3aBtuc4MocTb OT anKorons)  3,
3a6oneBaHt4e nenma (acTMa)             4,
6one3Ht4 no4eK                         5,
,qpyrie
L4eM BbI 6onenui B TeLiHMe npownoro roAa?
HeM 6onenu L4nefHbI Baweiu CeMbU B Te4eHue npownoro roAa?
nppuMepHo CKOnbKO pa6otnix AHeiu Bbl nponycTifnm N3 3a 6one3Hu B Te4eHHM
npownoro roAa?
OTHOWEHU1E K MECTY )K4TEJlbCTBA
B KaKOui mepe Bac ycTpausaeT HbiHewHee MecTo )KmTenbcTBa?
OqeHb ycTpauBaeT .................................1
BnonHe ycTpaluBaeT ...............................2
CKopee He ycTpausaeT ..........................3
COBCeM He ycTpa&iBaeT .........................4
IyMani nuN Bbl o cMeHe MecTa )KmTenbcTBa?
,qa .................................................1
HeT .................................................... 2
Ecr7;f pa
noLiemy Bbl xoTellU 6bl nlOMeHgTb mecTo XTeJlbCTBa
4



BALTIJAS DATU NAMS                                                GETLLID
1996. gada oktobnis              IEDZIVOTAJI
KaK Ha BaWy XKM3Hb BIIs9eT TO, 4To Bbi mBmeTe B611U3U OT CBaJKH?
He Bnt4.1eT ........1.........1
BJ1I154eT flOnO)KWTenlbHo    . 2
BnJI9eT OTpMLAaT14TbHO    .   3
Ecnm i3nmsieT, LiTO HMeHHO:
(HanpnMep, - oTpnHLaTenbHbe MoMeHThi3aanax, 6poqrn, TNorba" x Tn.
- nonoTenbHbwe MoMeHTbI: Bo3MO)KHOCrb pa6OraTh TaM oLpqnam7bHo /BO3MOYxHOcTb
HaiTq TaM Ta To-ro none3Hoe)
nlocTpaA,anm Ju  Bbi OT 3arpSi3HeHUiq OKpyKaloLLeu  CpeAbl, Bbl3BaHHOrO
CBanKOgi? Ecnu AA, KOK NMeHHO:
(Hanp;uMep, 3arpq3HeHWe Bobi B Kono,QIe, 3anax, nblfb, nbIM)
HYBCTBoBani1 nfu Bb1 Heyflo6cTBa CB.3aHHbie c Ma8WHaMm unfi nioAbmiM,
KOTOpble HanpaBflsioTcsl Ha cBanKy? Ecnu ALA, - CKaKMuTe, nowKanyAcTa, KaKl4e?
npw.iuHsJna nJu 6nJl3OCTb CBanKm BaM mnm 4neHaM Baweiu ceMbm npo6neMbl CO
3epopoBbeM? Ecnu AA, KaKuie MmeHHO?
CBAIIKA
HaCTO rOBOpSIT, 4TO Ha CBaMKe MO)HO HmaTM MHOrO XOpOWMX Uf nOne3HblX
selieil. npo6oBanl jim Bbl KorAa-nm6o wTo-ni60 McKaTb U yAaBanoCb nu BaM
MniM L4neHaM Baueii CeMbl TaM 4TO- nu6o HauTH?
HUKOrJa Hwqero He McKan(-a) ...............1
McKaJn(-a), HO 6e3yCfleWHO ....................2
KOe-LiTO Haxormn(-a) ............................3
Ecnf Kor,qa-uf160 bfcKan(-a)
KaK LaCTO Bbl MuM 4neHbl Baweii CeMbM XOAUTe Ha CBanlKy? (He ,TraJTe
BapnaHTbI OTBeTOB!)
nOHTU KaKbIl JeHb ..............................1
napy pa3BHe)enIo ...............................2
pa3 8 HeAeniO ........................................3
npMmepHo pS3 B MeCI4 ........................4
pe)Ke ........................................... 5
TOnbKO, ecnu1 noIBnSeTcC5
KOHKpeTHa.q HeO6xOAmMOCTb ......6
5



BALTIJAS DATU NAMS                                                  GELIUID
1996. gada oktobris               IEDzivoTAJi
HTo Bbi unu m nleHbi Bawe-e C8MbM o6bmH*o tuxuTe?
npoJIYKTbi .............................1
nofle3Hbie Beui4,anf xo3sscTBa ...........2
ITo-To Ans npogaxm .............................3
cneLl4anbHO H44erO He iUULy, 6epy,
ecnu eCTb HTo-TO nOne3Hoe ........ 4
KaK 6bk Bbl o4eHKIM  TO, KaKOr4 BMPg B AOMaWHee X03.RCTBO BHOCRT BeUpH,
HaK5AeHHbie BaMm mnu  qneHaMm Baweti CeMbI Ha CBaJ!Ke (nolnb3y9Cb unuM
npoAasasi HaAIeHHoe), no CpaBHeHIflo c ApyruHMM AoxoAaMu (c MecTa pa6oTbl;
noco6nsi u T.X)?
He3Ha4i4Ten6Hbig no cpaBH8HIlO C flpyrMm  goXoJqaMI4 .........1
MeHbwe, HeM gpyrne OXOgIbi .................................................2
TaKou WKe, KaK m qpyn4ejqoxogbi .............................................3
6onbwe, HeM ,qpyrue qoxogbi ....................................... 4
noLTh megMHCTBeHHbil HCTOQHHK  OXOOB ...............................5
nEPEMEHbi HA CBAJIKE GETLllIIf (cnpaLumBsaRiTe y Bcex!)
CJnlbwali nu Bbl qTO-JI6o 0 Bo3MOmbix nepemeHax Ha caanKe Getlini?
Ecnu AA, paccKa)KMTe, 4TO Bbl cnbIWIanI o6 9ToM:
OT Kyna Bbl y3HanJu o nepeMeHaX Ha cBafKe Getlinu?
npecca ...............1 i(KaKue 3,qaHM5).
paanio ...........2                 (KaKue nepelawf).       .     .
TV ...........3                     (KaKme nepeJaam)tu
OT Apy3eu, 3HaKoMbix .................4
npyrue WCTO*H1KM__
KaK Bbi oTHOCMTeCb K OxKUpAaeMbiM nepeMeHaM?
KegrTpanbHO (KO MHe 3TO He OTHOCTCi) ............. 1
nfO3MTHBHO .....................................  2   nlOHeMy TaKoe OTHOWeHIe?
HeraTABHO   ..........................................................
KaK, Ha Bawl B3rnsig, wTO noBuSeT Ha BaLuy )KH3Hb?
6



BALTIJAS DATV NAMS                                             GETLI.ID
1996. gada oktobris            IEDZIVOTAJI
'TO, no BaweMy, HaAo 6bl N3MeHKTb Ha cBaiKe Getlini?
KaK Bbi AyMaeTe, BbiCnyWanu nti 6bl BaLue MHeHNe no 3TOMy Bonpocy, ecinu
6bl  Bbi  o6paT4nICb  K  PYKOBOACTBY   CBhK    Getlini,  MecTHoMy
caMoynpaBfleHuIo, mm  B  o6u4eCTBeHHyIO  OpraHN3ai4INo, HanpnMep, K
"3eJeHbIM", B AenapTameHT OXpaHbi nlpipOAbl.
(He 4Hra&uTe BapmaHTbI OTBeTOB!)
He 3Hato, HUKOrga He gyMan(-!a) BbicKa3aTb CBOe MHeHHe KaKOr4-HM6ygqb
M3 3sTX opraHMmAmA .... 1
cKopee He BblCIIywaJln1 6bl ..........................................................................2
B03MO)KHO BbICflywanm 6bl, HO BCe paBHO HUwerO He c,enanu 6bl ...............3
o65I3aTenbHo Bblcnywanlm 6bl U npUHsflH 6bl B0 BHIMaHme moe MHeHUe .....4
CMOrJIU 6bl BbilnoBiMRTb Ha peweHe 3Toro sonpoca B CBoFo nOllb3y?
ga .....1
HeT .......  . 2
He 3Haio ......3
CPEACTBA MACCOBOU 14HOOPMALLMM
KaKUe H3gaHIs npeCCbl (raeTbl, )KypHalbl) Bbi perynsipHo 'MTaeTe?
KaKKe m3AaHKS npeCCbi Bbi LimTaeTe 4aLLe Bcero?
KaKMe paAtio CTaH iNU BbI cnywaeTe '4aue Bcero?
KaKHe TV KaHanbi BbI CMOTpHTe 4aute scero?
Ha3OBmTe, lO)KanyNCTa, CBOU nIo6mMbie TV nporpaMMbi (uinui BpeMSI, B
KOTOpOe Bbl o6blMHo CMOTpHTe TeneBN30p)
7



APPENDIX
EMPLOYEES QUESTIONNAIRE
(Latvian and Russian)



* BALTIJAS DATU NAMS                                             GETU.ID
1996. gada oktobns            STRADAJOSIE
I ntervetajs:                                Apliecibas Nr. I       I
INTERVIJAS PLANS
PAMATINFORMACIJA
Respondenta dzimums
sieviete .......................-
virietis...  .......................2
JOsu vecums? I       I pilni gadi
Kads ir Jusu gimenes stavoklis?
dzivo viens ............ 1
kopa ar gimeni ............2
Ja dzivojat kopa ar gimeni, kadi vel gimenes locekii dzivo kopa ar Jums?
dzlvesbiedrs ............ 1,
bemi ...........      2,
vecaki, vecvecaki ........... 3,
citi ........... 4,
Val Jusu 'imen# dzivo berni vecuma lidz 18 gadiem? Ja JA pajautijiet bemu
skaitu_
Ja ir dzivesbiedrs:
Kida ir JQsu dzivesbiedra nodarbosanis? (a stradf, ierakstiet an profesju un
amatu)
Ja strada:
Kada ir Jusu dzivesbiedra darbavietas lpatuma forma?
Valsts uznemums         .1
Privatais uznemums.               2
Citsi
Kur atrodas Juisu dzivesbiedra darba vieta:
(piem, Riga, Teikas raj....)
Pajaut4jiet ari par citiem gimenes locek/jem Un uzziniet, val kids no viem nestr.id
GETLINU izgN ztuve. Jafstrada, uzrakstiet U!M vioa nodarbo anos un a as pakipi
ar respondentu:
(piem., virabraiis -izgazuves sargs,...)
1



BALTIJAS DATU NAMS                                            GETIJJD
1996. gada olkobris           STRADAJOSIE
NODARBOSANAS
Kada ir Jusu nodarbosanas? (Oa oficiali nodarbinats - ierakstiet profes#ju un amatu,
ka art darba veidu, ja neoficifli - biju.o nodarbosanos, ka arn tagadejo statusu piem.,
pensionars, bezdarbnieks, ult)
Cik ilgi Jus seit stradajat?  I        f
Kada ir Jusu attieksme pret ieit notiekoso?
neitrala (uz mani tas neattiecas) .........................1
pozitiva ..................................  2 ,,,Kapec sada attieksme?
negativa ...................................3
ATTIECIBAS AR GETLII!1U IZGAZTUVES VIETEJO VADIBU
Kids ir Jusu viedoklis par Getliiu izgiztuves vietejo vadibu - ki Jus
raksturotu tis darbu:
loti labi ........   1
diezgan labi ............... 2
videji ...............  3
diezgan slikti ............... 4
loti slikti ...............     5
Kiapic?
Ki Jus raksturotu savas un Getlinu vadibas savstarpgjaisattiecibas
loti labas .1
diezgan labas    .     2
videjas.               3
diezgan sliktas  .     4
loti sliktas.          5
Val Jums ir bijusi kadi konflikti val savstarpeja nesapraianas ar Getlinu
vadibu? Ja JA, tad kadi un ka Jus tos atrisinajat?
2



BALTIJAS DATlJ NAMS                                                 GETIJ.ID
1996. gada oktobris              STRADAJOIE
IZMAINAS GETLIU IZGAZTUVE
Kas, Juisuprat, paslaik notiek Getlinu lzgiztuvb?
Jusuprit, vai paslaik Getlipu izgiztuve notiek kadas izmaitas? Ja ja, tad
kadas?
Ka JUs vertejat sis izmaipas?
Ka, pec JOsu domam, tis ietekmes Jusu dzivi?
Kas, Jusuprit, butu jimaina Getlinu izgiztuv?
Ja izmainas vajadzrgas
Vai, pec Jusu domim, kads uzklausitu JDsu domas saji jautijuma, ja Jus
grieztos pie Getliu izgaztuves vadibas, vietfjA pavadibA, val kada
sabiedriskaji organizacija, piemeram pie 'zalajiem", vides aizsardzibas
departamentA.
(atbilu variantus nelasiet)
nezinu, nekad nedomaju izteikt savas domas kadai no sTm organizacijam ............1
dnTzak neuzklausitu .......................................................2
iespejams uzklausItu, bet nekas vienalga netiktu danits .........................................3
noteikti uzklausitu un ,nemtu vera manu viedokli ....................................................4
Vai Jus spetu ietekmet si jautajuma risinajumu ti, ki JQs velaties?
jaR    ................   1   Ka
ne ....2
nezinu ....3
3



BALT7JAS DATU NAMS                                           GETUI.D
1996. gada oktobiis           STRADAJOSIE
DZIVESVIETAS APRAKSTS
Kur Jus dzivojat? (lerakstiet apdzivotas vietas nosaukumu, vai Rigas rajonu)
Sos jautajumus uzdodiet tiem, kas dzivo GetliQu tuvuma
Val mgju (dzivokli), kura Jus dzivojat, JUs irejat, vai tas ir Jusu ipasums?
Ire no pavaldibas (vaists ipasums) ........1
Ire no kada cita cilveka ..........................2
Respondenta (gimenes) ipasums ...........3
Cik ilgi Jos tur dzivojat? (Lddzu ierakstiet)
ATTIEKSME PRET DZIVESVIETU
Ka JOs apmierina pasreizeji dzives vieta?
Loti labi apmierina    .1
Diezgan labi apmierina   .2
Drnzak neapmierina      .3
Nepavisam neapmienna      .      4
Vai izgAztuves tuvums jebkad ir sagadajis veselibas probIlmas Jums val JCusu
gimenes locek!iem? Ja JA, kadas tiegi?
Jaufajiet tiem, kas nedzivo Getlinu tuvuma
Val Juis biitu ar mieru dzivot iaji apkaime?
ja        1
-ne      2
nezinu    3
Kapc?
Jautajumi visiem
Kadi varetu but trukumi dzivei izgfiztuves tuvuma?
Kadas prieksrocibas ir dzivei izgaztuves tuvuma?
4



BAL7IJAS DATU NAMS                                            GETIJ.ID
1996. gada oktobris           STRADAJOSIE
IENAKUMI
Kadi bija JUsu gimenes lenakumi, rWk,not uz vienu gimenes locekii pagajusa
menesi (septembri) pec nodok!u atvilksanas? I           I
Ka Jus novertetu savas gimenes ienakumu I nodrosinajuma limeni salidzinot
ar citiem Rigas iedzivotijiem?
Krietni labaks ................................1
Nedaudz labaks ...........................2
Aptuveni tads pats ............3..........3
Nedaudz sliktaks ..........................4
Krietni sliktaks ..............................5
Kadi ir galvenie JUsu gimenes ienikumu avoti?
Procentuali Oa visus ienskumus pielidzina 100 procentiem), apmeram, cik lielu
dalu veido katrs no siem lenakumu veidiem?
samaksa par darbu .1,  1I
pensija .2, 1   1
socialie pabalsti .3,  I__I
ienakumi no naturaIls saimniecibas .4,   I                  I
draugu un radu paldziba .5,                 11
citi ienakumi no Getli,nu izgaztuves .6,   1    1
citi_I   -                                                  I
Kas JQsu gimene dod lielako ieguldijumu gimenes budzeta, iztika?
(Svarigi zinat, vai ff loma ir Getliios stradajosajam (forrnmli /nefo/r7li) gimenes
loceklim)
VESELIBAS STAVOKLIS
Ka Juis novertetu savu veselibas stavokli?
loti labs             .1
labs   .2
apmierinos              .3
ne visai labs           .4
slikts               .5
Ka JQs novertetu savu aimenes loceklu veselibas stavokil
dzivesbiecdrs   bemi    citi
loti labs ........1                   1         1
labs ........2                        2         2
apmierinoss ........3                 3         3
ne visai labs ........4               4         4
slikts ........5                      5         5
5



BALTIJAS DATU NAMS                                             GETLU.ID
1996. gada oktobns             STFtADAJO!IE
Vai kads no Jums cies no tadam hroniskam slimibam kg...
sirds slimibas .........................     1,   plausu slimibas (astma) ... 4,
asinsvadu slimibas ......................... 2,   nieru slimribas .................... 5,
alkoholisms (atkanrba no alkohola) ... 3,   citas
Kadas slimibas Jus esat izslimojis pedeja gada laika?
Kur Jus sa,nemat nepiecieiamo medicinisko palitdzlbu?
IZGAZTUVE
Bieli ir dzirdets, ka izgaztuves var atrast daudz labu un noderigu lietu. Val esat
kadreiz meginajis kaut ko meklit un val Jums vai kadam no jOsu -imenes
locekliem ir izdevies kaut ko atrast?
nekad neesmu mekl6jis ................................1
esmu meklijis, bet bez panakumiem ................ 2
ir gadijies kaut ko atrast ........................,   3
Ja ir kadreiz mekiejis
K _da veida lietas Jis val Jsu ~irenes locekll parasti mekifjat?
partiku ........................        1
noderigas lietas saimniecibai .................. .2
kaut ko p&rdosanai .........            3
speci&li neko nemekleju, remu, ja ir kas noderigs    4
Ka Jus novertetu, cik [leis leguldijums majas saimnieciba ir tam, ko Jus, Jt:su
gimenes locek!i gust no izgiztuves (gan pasiem lietojot, gan pardodot atrasto)
salidzinot ar citiem ienakumiem (no darba vietas, pabalstiem utmi.)?
niecigs salidzinAjumd ar citiem ienakumiem ...... 1
mazaks saridzinajumi ar citiem ienakumiem ..... 2
tikpat liels ka citi ienakumi ................................ 3
lielaks neka citi ien&kumi ......................... 4
gandriz vienigais ienakumu avots ...................... 5
MASU INFORMACIJAS LiDZEKLI
Kadus preses izdevumus (Iaikrakstus, zurnalus) J0s reguliri lasat?
No ka Jus parasti gustat informaciju par jaunikajiem notikumiem?
No preses ..............   1,
No radio ..............  2,
NoTV ...............    ,
No draugiem paziiim ....... 4,
No gimenes locekliem ....... 5,
6



BALTIJAS DATU NAMS                                             GETLI.ID
1996. gada oktobnis            STRADAJOIE
MHTepBbl0ep:                                Nr. yAocToBepeHsi I      I
nfJAH I4HTEPBbIO
OCHOBHA5I L4HOOPMALIM
BonpOCbl B paMK3X sanonHtTe, nomKanyaCra, OCHOBbIBaRCb Ha cO6CTBeHHbIX Ha6nio0eHHRx!
17011 pP6cI7HAH
xKeHiL(jHa  ..................
my-wLjiHa......................
Baw Bo3pacT? I       I nOnHbIX neT
KaKoBo Bawe cemeuHoe nonoX(eHIe?
)IGIBeT OpI1H ........ 1....1
)KWBeT C ceMbem ...............2
Ecnu xNaseTe c ceMbeii, KaKue 4neHbl CeMbN )IHBYT BMecTe c BaMu?
cynpyr(-a)             .1
geTm .2,
povrTenW 6a6yWKM, gegyWK. .3,
pyrme. .4,
)KUByT Mn B BauweA ceMbe geTm MoRo)Ke 18 neT? EcJ7H ,A cnpocure CKoJnbKO
Ecnu ecTb cynpyr/a:
KaKoBa  npocpeccna  BaweWro  cynpyru/a?  (ecni7  pa6oTaeT,  HannuuTe
J7popeccH/o H ,qOJ7xHOcTr)
Ecni pa6oTaeT:
KaKoBa cOopMa co6CTBeHHiocT MecTa pa6oTbi Bawei/ro cynpyru/a?
rocygrapcTBeHHoe npeAnpl*ITme.. 1
4acTHoe npejrnpsiTme ................2
Llpyroe
rAe HaxoAmTcsi MeCTO pa6oTbl BaweW/ro cynRyru/a:
(HanpfMep, Pufra, pajqoH TeuK&i)
Cnpocsire TaloKe 0 ,Lp,.X'f7eHfax CeM..bH H y3wHaae, He pa6OmaerT 1uKrO HM6y: U3
HUIX Ha CB8anKe rETJ714Hk1. HEcn74 pa6do.Taet HaLTe.- ero npo0pecctfItJonYHocTb u
YPo&eHb po.qpcBa cpeioHaH      :-       '      ',' '
(Harps      op 6par myxKa;- cropozK.Ha-cBBanKe,...):
1



BALTIJAS DATU NAMS                                                                GET7ID
1996. gada oktobris                     STRADAJOSIE
3AHSITUE
i4eM   BbI 3aHMmaeTecbl LiTo  Bbl AenaeTe?  (ec7mf o(fH4UfafbHo  pa6oTaeT  -
Han1LulTe npopecciio n Rof)Hocrb, a TaioKe BH4q 3aHqTocTH, ecn  He o4,HLIMaflbHo
-  nocn7eqHee  Mecro  pa6oTmi H  HbiHeWHKfg  craryc,  Hanp;Mep,  neHcHoHep,
6e3pa6oLirnl sTn:)
KaK Aonro Bbi 3AeCb pa6oTaeTe?                      I          I
KaK Bbt OTHOCMTeCb K nlpoiCX4oA9sueMy?
HeiUTpanbHO (Ko MHe STO He OTHOCmTCI) ............1
lO3UT4TBHO ..........................................  2    noL4eMy TaKoe oTHoweHKe?
HeraTUBHO ....................................3
B3AMMOOTHOWEH145I C MECTHbIM YnPABJIEH&IEM CBAnKtI GETLINI
KaKoro Bawe MHeHue o MecTHoM PYKOBOACTBe CBanKM - KaK 6bI BbI
oxapaKTepu3Osanm pa6oTy ynpaBneHun:
O4eHb XOPOWO ...........................................   1
xopowo .................................... 2
*0qOBneTBOpMTenbHO ....................................3
n noxo  ...............................................  4
oqeHb nnioxo ......................................... 5
no4emy?
KaK 6bl Bbl oxapaKTepu3oBanm Bawe B30auMooTHOLeHuS1 c pyKoBoAcTBOM
GETLINI?
;HeHb xopowue ........................................ 1
xopowue  ............................................. 2
ygoBneTBopuTenbHbie ....................................3
nnoxue  ...............................................  4
oLieHb nnowue ......................................... 5
BbJmu nuM y Bac KaKme-nm6o KOH4)nMKTbi Hnu B3a14MHO8 HenOHuMMMle c
PYKOBOACTBom GETLItII? Ecnu AA, KaKme iUmeHHO ui KaK Bbl ux p83pewiunu?
2



BAL77JAS DATU NAMS                                             GE7LI,ID
1996. gada oktobris            STRADAJOtIE
nEPEMEHbl HA CBAJ1KE GETLINI
HTO no BaweMy, Tenepb npONCXOAlHT Ha CBanKe Getligi?
Ha Bawi 33rnsiA  nPo0CXOAqT nu ceu4ac KaKue- Mu60  3MeHeHHS Ha CBanKe
Getlini? Ecnu AA, TO KaKHe:
M KaK Bbi ix O4eHKBaeTe:
KaK, Ha Baw B3rnslA, 3TO noBnISeT Ha Bawy )KM3Hb?
4To, no BaweMy, HaAO 6bl N3MeHNTb Ha CBwJaKe Getlini?
KaK Bbi gyMaeTe, BbiCJIWyam 6bl Bawe MHeHHe no 3TOMY Bonpocy, ecnu 6bl
BbI o6paTifIIUCb K PYKOBOACTBY CBallKH Getlini, MeCTHOMY CaMOynpaBIIeHHlO,
mum B o6ULeCTBeHHyio opraHM3aLp41l, HanpUMep, K "3efleHblM", B AenapTaMeHT
OXPaHbi CpeAbl.
(He *rnaImT BapHaHTbi oTBeTOsl)
He 3Haio, H4KOr,a He 1yMan(-a) BbIcKa3aTb CBOe MHeHme KaKOA-H46yx1b
U3 3TUX OpraHMMAtig .... 1
cKopee He BbicnywanJ 6b1 ...................................................................     2
B03MO)KHO BbicnlywBJanm 6bl, HO BCe paBHO HUHqero He cqenanm 6bI ............... 3
o6513aTenbHO BblCnywafl4 6bl tU np4H.IlL 6bl BO BHMmaHle moe MHeHUe .....4
CMorJlm 6bi Bbl nOBflliSlTb Ha peiueHMe 3Toro sonpoca TaK, KaK Bbl KelnaeTe?
ga ....           1 KaKMM o6pa3OM?
HeT  ................ 2
He 3HaiO ......    3
3



BALTJAS DATUI NAMS                                              GETLJ.ID
1996. gada oktobris            STRADAJOSIE
OnUCAHL4E MECTA )KL4TEJ1bCTBA
r,Ae Bbi IU4BeTe? (3anrnrniTe MecTo ZxeTbcTa  unm pa5oH Purn)
CnMaywloUMe BOnPOCblJ PA  rex Kro YKMBeT B6J7MS3 Getlini)
CHIimaeTe nu Bbi 3Ty KBapTMpy//ROM unui 9TO Bawa co6ctmeHHocTb?
CHMmaeT y camoynpaBneHMu (rocygapcTBeHHas co6cTBeHHOcTb) ............. 1
CHIMaeT y npyroro  4enoBeKa  .................................................................  2
CO6CTBeHHOCTb pecnOHjeHTa (CeMbM) ........................................................ 3
KaK Aonro Bbi 3AeCb xKuBeTe? (HannurTe)
OTHOWEHME K MECTY )Ki4TEJIbCTBA
B KaKoi mepe Bac ycTpansaeT HbIHeWHee MecTo WKHTenbcT3a?
O4eHb ycTpaIiBaeT ............................1
Bno.nHe ycTpaI4BaeT .......................2..
CKopee He ycrpauBaeT .................. 3
COBCeM He ycTpauBaeT ..................4
flpuWrHsna nu 6nM3OCTb CBanKuK BaM unu LweHaM BaLiLeu ceMbm npo6neMbl co
3flopoBbeM? Ecnu A,A, KaKUe MMeHHO?
CnpausBaBRe rex, KTo He )KHBeT B6j7M3n GetiI?i)
5bJnu 6bI BbI cornaCHbl ZK4Tb B 3TOU MeCTHOCTI?
,D,a       1
HeT        2
He 3Haio  . 3
nfo'emy?
CpnawuMBa,fTe scex
KaKUe MOrnm 6bl 6blTb npemMyLLecTBa nlpOxKmBaHUs B6fU3M CBa3aKI1?
KaKUe MOrIiM 6bl 6blTb HeAoCTaTKH PO)KKBaHmsU B6JIU3U CBaIKUi?
4



APPENDIX C



APPENDIX C
Semi-formal Workers and Informal Waste/food Pickers Questionnaire
1. age
2. family information
3. How often do you come to site, how many hours do you spend?
4. For how long have you come?
5. What other sources of income do you have?
6. Where is your residence?
7. What is your health condition?
8. What do you do if you need health related assistance?
9. What do you look for at the site?
10. How many people do you estimate come here?
11. What sort of people: ethnicity, age gender?



APPENDIX D



APPENDIX D
Report on ecological survey of Getlini waste disposal site
and its surroundings
A report for Environmental Resources Management
8 Cavendish Square
London WIM OER, UK
Main habitat types and dominant plant species
The overview of flora was prepared after a study conducted in Getlini waste
disposal site and its surroundings during early September, 1996. From the floristic point
of view the territory of the waste disposal site itself can be divided into 3 parts:
1) An active part where waste is currently being disposed and there is almost no
vegetation;
2) Non-active part where specific adventive plant communities, normally occurring only
in such sites, were recorded. These include mostly different cultural plant species.
Panicum miliaceum, Atriplex nitens, Chenopodium album grow together with plants
from genus Cucurbita, Lycopersicon esulentum, Physalis sp., Nicandra physaloides,
Helianthus annuus. Several interesting adventive plant species for Latvia were
recorded here, for example, Panicum capillare. A weed Silene noctiflava was
recorded here; in Latvia this species has not been found in during the last tens of years
in ruderal sites.
3) The territory including roads, areas covered with sand and gravel, buildings and other
elements of suburban landscape. Dominant plant species here are Corispermum sp.,
Rumex maritimus and other both local and adventive species preferring dry soils.
The waste disposal site is surrounded by ditches and ponds. Mainly local species
are distributed in these sites, for example Epilobium hirsuaum, Bidens tripartita, Typha
ltfolia.
The Getlini raised bog is lying NE from the waste disposal site. In the part of the
bog (NE) peat extraction has been launched. In the rest of the bog area typical raised bog
plant communities have been recorded including Eriophorum vaginatum, Andromeda
poli#folia, Ledum palustre. The structure of the plant communities observed here is still
hardly affected by ongoing peat extraction, ditches of the waste disposal site and the bog
itself.



Following forest types were recognised in the surroundings of the waste disposal
site:
1) Forest hardly dominated by Scots pine Pinus sylvestris on peat soils. Found
SE from the waste disposal site. The forest is drained, young and very dense
with weakly developed undergrowth.
2) Forest dominated by Scots pine on dry sandy soil. Found W from the waste
disposal site. Typical local plant communities for such type of forest
(including Melampyrum pratense, Festuca ovina, Lerchenfeldia flexuosa)
were recorded here.
3) Forest dominated by birch Betula pendula on peat soil. The waste disposal site
in South meets young secondary birch forest with very dense bush layer,
mainly consisting of Frangula alnus, Rubus idaeus. In this forest in several
sites growths of Lycopodium annotinum (species included in the Red Data
Book of Latvia) were recorded. Unfortunately this forest is hardly polluted
with rubbish brought by wind from the top of the land disposal site.
Numerous sinantrophic species (for example Impatiens parviflora) were found
along the melioration ditch in this forest.
Ruderal wetlands are present in the territory as well. They can be divided by their
origin: 1) those formed due to overgrowing of sites where previous vegetation was
destroyed in course of waste disposal; 2) those left after the degradation of dry meadows
E from Rumbula railway station. Mostly local plant species are present here with
Potentilka argentea, Festuca rubra, Tnfolium arvense. Larger growths are formed by
Solidago canadensis.
Occasionally along the ditches as well as near the Rumbula railway station small
size wetlands occur. These are specific periodically flooded areas with growths of
Phragmites communis and high Carex species.
Quite significant part of the vicinity of Getlini land disposal site is occupied by
small farms with adjacent agricultural lands, gardens, sheds, warehouses and other
elements of urban landscape.
It should be noted that dispersal of the most characteristic adventive plat species
from the waste disposal site to surrounding more or less natural habitats has not been
recorded in our study. Even plant communities growing in ruderal sites does not differ
significantly from those observed anywhere else in Latvia.
Invertebrates
Data are available only on beetle Coleoptera fauna in Getlini waste disposal site.
The study has been carried out by entomologist Maris Cinitis 1993-1995. Most of
material has been collected by hand; due to specific situation in study area no standartised
methods of insect collection (traps, etc.) were applied. Most of collection was performed
in buffer-zone of the waste disposal area bordering with surrounding forest.



All collected material can be classified in 6 groups or species complexes:
1. Typical saprophytes (including complex of coprophagous beetles). Those include
saprophytes inhabiting animal excrements - Cercion sp., Aphodius sp., Geotrupes sp.
It should be noted that the latter are typical forest species as well, and they can be
considered as accidental vagrants.
2. Complex of necrophilous beetles - Silphidae, several Histeridae species, Korynetidae,
Dennestidae. These consume remains of dead vertebrates (mice, rats), also can be
found under the corpses of gulls, in excrements, rotten fungus and other substrates of
organic origin (for example keratin). Dominant species are Nicrophorus vespillo,
Nicrophorus vespilloides, Necrobia violacea, Necrobia rufipes, Dermestes frischi (the
latter is a rare species from faunistical point of view).
3. Lithophilous or secondary litophilous species dwelling under the stones and other
similar objects. Most of these species use as shelters different materials: tires,
concrete blocks, splinter piles.
4. Complex of predator beetles. This is the richest group by number of species
represented in the area. It mainly consists of several Histeriadae (genus Hister)
species, Staphilinidae and Carabidae. The Staphilinidae species has not been yet
completely identified, however, it can be concluded that the diversity of species is
much higher in the waste disposal site than in surroundings. This is determined by
abundance of food items: eggs, larvae, caterpillars of different insects and optimal
microclimate.
Main attention was paid to Carabidae as this family appears to be the last (or one of)
chain of trophic levels. 42 Carabidae species were recorded in the waste disposal site and (13%
of whole Latvian Carabidae fauna). Well represented is genus Amara - 11 species. Dominant
species are A. muicipalis, A. similata, A. ingenua. It should be noted that not all Amara beetles
are predators; part of them in imago stage feed on seeds of weeds and other vascular plants.
Other species estimated as dominants are Harpalus quadripunctatus, Harpalus latus,
Pterostichus melanarius, Pterosuichus oblongopunctatus (more in forest), Pterostichus aethiops.
In the surrounding forest and in the bordering zone dominant species are Carabus nemoralis,
Carabus granulatus (in wet sites), Poecilus cupreus. Few rare species have been recorded as
well: Pterostichus quadrifoveolatus, Dicheirotrichus ruflthorax. Raptor beetles are mostly active
during the night time. They spend daytime in shelters and these can be easily found in this
environment.
5. Adventive species complex include non-characteristic species for Latvian fauna. They
have been distributed by food and different materials. Most successfully introduced
species as a rule are cosmopolites, ecologically plastic species (for example
Dennestidae). Most of these beetles are sinantrophic, their development can normally
take place in buildings, greenhouses, etc. Phenology of these species hardly depends
on the microclimate of antropocenosis. It should be noted that in Getlini case a link
between appearance of adventive insect species and adventive plant species had not
been found.
6. Antophilous beetle complex include different species found on flowering plants; for
example Nitulidae and Anthicidae. Part of gathered Anthicusfloralis were found also



in rotten substances. In 1995, a new species for Latvian fauna Omonadusformicarius
was recorded in Getlini waste disposal site.
One species from the Red Data Book of Latvia - Oryctes nasicornis has been
recorded in the territory. Development of caterpillars of these species lasts 34 years in
different substrates.
In the investigated area the highest diversity of species can be observed in non-
active areas (where land surface has not been disturbed for a longer time). Here species
meet good feeding conditions and appropriate mycroclimate. From the abiotic factors, the
temperature seems to play main role. In the waste disposal site the temperature is
normally higher in rubbish piles as well as in land surface than in surroundings and this is
especially important for species wintering here as caterpillars. In general, numerous
species choose the waste disposal area as wintering site. It is remarkable that raptor
species are seen to be active in winter and this is not characteristic in natural habitats in
Latvian conditions.
Apart beetles, other dominant insects are Ectobius sylvestris, Blatella germanica,
Siphonoptera (distributed by semi-wild cats, dogs and rodents). Animal corpses and
excrements are densely inhabited by various Diptera of which the dominant are
Caliphoridae. Day butterflies Lepidoptera is scarcely represented because of shortage of
flowering plants in the waste disposal area.
Vertebrates
Data on vertebrate fauna were obtained during the survey of the territory in
September, 1996, as well as using existing references published before and making
enquiries among zoologists.
Amphibians are represented only by two species Rana temporaria and Rana
esculenta inhabiting ditches and ponds around the waste disposal area. From reptiles the
only representative found was Viper Vipera berus. One individual was observed on the
very top of waste disposal site, non-active part.
According to data published by V. Smislovs and A. Kurockins (1990), highest
numbers of birds, especially gulls, were recorded in Getlini area if compared with other
waste disposal sites in Latvia. Largest concentrations of birds have been observed during
winter, less in number in breeding season. Most abundant species regularly feeding in
waste disposal sites were Black-headed Gull Larus ridibundus, Starling Sturnus vulgaris,
Herring Gull Larus argentatus, Common Gull Larus canus, Jackdaw Corvus monedula,
Hooded Crow Corvus corone. During the winter for birds the most important are
unfrozen sites.
In wider context great importance has a fact that huge numbers of gulls (according
to estimations up to 10,000 individuals) migrate every day in the morning from Riga City
to Getlini and back in the afternoon. This happens because birds use to spend the nights
in city because of its microclimate: normally the air temperature here is higher for few
degrees than in surroundings. However, food abundance for such number of birds in the



city in not sufficient and they have to search for it in surroundings. It is possible that
similar migrations are characteristic for Corvids Corvidae but in smaller numbers. The
migration route follows the valley of River Daugava.
The territory of waste disposal area itself has no importance as a habitat for
breeding birds. Apparently only few most common passerine Passeriformes species breed
there. The vicinity has higher value, especially Getlini bog and adjacent woodlands. Here
2 threatened bird species have been recorded in recent years: Eagle Owl Bubo bubo and
Great Shrike Lanius excubitor. For the first time the nest of the Eagle Owl was found in
1989, about 2.5 km East from the waster disposal site. This breeding territory was
permanent until 1992. Later the site had not been visited, however, according to
unchecked information, even 2 breeding pairs can be present in the surroundings.
From the birds of prey the most common species is Goshawk Accipiter gentilis.
Even 3 individuals are seen hunting simultaneously. Several breeding territories are
known in surrounding forests. Quite interesting is extracted part of the Getlini peat bog.
Breeding of Lapwing Vanellus vanellus, Lesser Ringed Plover Charadrius dubius and
possibly Snipe Gallinago gallinago has been recorded. Other wader species like Golden
Plover Pluvialis apricaria and Wood Sandpiper Tringa glareola occur here during
migration.
Small wetland area lies approximately 0.5 km South East from the waste disposal
site, near Rumbula railway station. Here several pairs of Lapwing and Redshank Tringa
totanus are present at breeding. The latter species is threatened: included in the Red Data
Book of Latvia.
Eventually it can be concluded that the significance of described territory for birds
is only in feeding aspect. If there were no unlimited availability of various food items
brought as a waste from the city, no gulls or Corvids would settle here for feeding, at
least in such a large numbers. However, the presence of these birds, as well as the huge
numbers of rodents, attract different predators: Eagle Owl, Goshawk, Fox and others. The
phenomenon that such suburban environments as waste disposal sites attract quite
remarkable diversity of animals has been described before in different parts of the World.
Nevertheless it should be emphasized, that in these conditions all the wild sinantrophic
species are forced to dwell in not-typical, superoptimal (from the point of view of food
abundance) habitats where they are fully dependent upon human activity and the slightest
change can cause unpredictable consequences.
From the wild mammal species (the term 'wild' here is only relative) the
following species were recorded: hares Lepus sp., Red Fox Vulpes vulpes, Beaver Castor
fiber, Roe Deer Capreolus capreolus, Wild Boar Sus scrofa, American Mink Mustela
vison, possibly Lynx Lynx tynx and Wolf Canis lupus. Apart these species, the territory is
very rich in rats, mice and other rodents Rodentia as well as with semi-wild cats and
dogs. There is an information that Wolf - domestic dog hybrids have been observed in the
bog and forest area NE from the waste disposal site.
This report was prepared by Otars Opermanis
Riga, September 1996, Latvian Fund for Nature



Additional information on Ecological Survey report in Getlini
The rare adventive plant species were mentioned in the report not because they are
threatened (or they have some conservation concern) but they are remarkable from the
scientific point of view. They are rare and casually distributed not due to some negative
impact on them but they mostly inhabit limited territories - ruderal sites (vicinities of
roads, warehouses, industrial areas, waste disposal areas, etc.). Panicum capillare and
Silene noctf7ora were mentioned just as example of most frequently found species from
this group in the area. To these species we can add two more: Panicum miliaceum,
Hordeumjubatum. Obviously species composition of the ruderal communities in Getlini
is determined by the frequent presence of seeds in the waste.
In other words regarding this plant group the term 'rare' could be substituted by a
word 'interesting' or 'remarkable'.
The only actually protected plant species found in the territory was Lycopodium
annotinum. This is still quite common species in Latvia. It has been decided to include it
in the list of protected plants only due to excessive destruction by gathering for decorative
and medicine purposes and long development cycle. Most likely the improvement of
landfill will not affect the species.
Significant reduction of feeding objects, which will be obviously caused by a
improvement of the landfill, will certainly negatively affect the abundance or even
presence of raptor birds and mammals in the area. However, if we look in a wider Latvian
context no significant impact to mentioned species should be expected. I think that
majority of colleagues zoologists would agree with me. Recent estimates show that there
are 30 to 50 pairs of Eagle Owl breeding in Latvia and the population has been stable
over the last 20 years. This population is mainly constituted by a pairs breeding in their
natural habitats in contrast with those observed in Getlini surroundings. It is considered
that the Latvian population of the Eagle Owl (similarly as other threatened species) can
be successfully preserved in future only protecting their natural habitats. The adaptation
of breeding in or near such habitats of artificial origin as waste disposal sites can be
considered as dangerous trend to whole population. Waste disposal sites can be attributed
to so called 'ecological traps' firstly attracting birds with it's superabundance of food but
later forcing to leave due to change (as in our case) in it's characteristics. Recent decrease
in meadow bird populations due to change of human management is more widely
described phenomenon and it has many similarities with waste disposal sites. Of course,
the consequences for different species may be different. I think there is no doubt, that
ecologically plastic species as Goshawk, Fox and probably also Wolf (if they really
appear in the area) will most likely switch to other feeding possibilities (they all are
common species in Latvia). As in case of Goshawk: there are over 20 ! breeding pairs
around Riga; nests are found even in parks. The species show very different habits,
feeding objects (pigeons, gulls, corvids, thrushes, rats, etc.) and capability to switch from
one prey item to another.



The appearance of Great Shrike in Getlini bog apparently can be attributed to
occasional breeding, as Getlini bog does not differ from many other peatbogs (the typical
species' breeding habitat) in surroundings. In spite that it is known that this species
mainly feed on small rodents and passerine birds, we cannot be quite sure that it's
presence is determined by a proximity of waste disposal site. Therefore the upgrading of
landfill may even not affect this species at all. The estimate of Latvian breeding
population is 100-150 pairs.
It is very doubtful that the upgrading of landfill would affect the breeding of
Redshank in small wetland near Rumbula railway station. This species is in no way
connected with a proximity of the waste disposal area.
No any other vertebrate species mentioned in the report is included in the Red
Data Book of Latvia.



APPENDIX E
v



APPENDIX E - PUBLIC MEETINGS
Formal Public Meeting, Saturday 26 October at the Riga City Council Building, arranged by Riga
City Council and the World Bank
A public meeting was held Saturday morning, 26 October, at the Riga City Council building. The meeting
was held to present the initial results of the feasibility study and the enviromnental assessment. Maija
Grasse, from the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, also made an opening
presentation to explain the government's and the World Bank's decision to re-evaluate the Getlini site
instead of attempting to develop a new waste disposal site. The meeting was advertised through television,
radio and print media and flyers announcing the purpose, date, and time of the meeting were distributed in
the adjacent communities. Approximately 45 persons attended the meeting.
The meeting was chaired by Pavils Raudonis, Director of the Public Information Department of the
Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development and Vice President of the Environment
Protection Club, an NGO.
At the outset, a group of approximately 15 persons from Stopinu Pagast left the meeting. Their departure
was prefaced by a short explanation that they were protesting the project due to proposed changes in the
controlling ownership of the operating company Getlini-2, a joint venture between Riga City (49%
ownership) and Stopimi Pagast (51 % ownership). For various financial guarantee reasons the Ministry of
Finance and the World Bank had recommended that Riga City, as the borrower, should have controlling
interest in the operating company to guarantee the loan. (This issue was subsequently resolved in
December, 1996.)
A few questions were raised during the meeting and are summarised below.
Ruta Bendare, from the Latvian Solid Waste Association, an NGO, asked several questions about the
economics of landfill gas utilisation aspects of the project and remediation costs. These questions were
aswered to her satisfaction by Anders Halldin, World Bank task manager for the project.
Valdis Luksha, Director of Territorial Planning for Riga District, requested information on project impacts
on the current employees at the landfill, traffic and noise impacts, and resettlement of residents. Mr
Halldin answered these questions as follows. Net change in the number of full time employees is not
anticipated. There may be a reduction in the number of semi-formal workers over time as modern material
recovery operations replace current manual methods. Such decisions are the responsibility of the operating
company and are not project decisions. Traffic and noise should remain as is and then improve over time
as the waste hauling fleet is gradually upgraded. This, however, is not under project jurisdiction, but is
controlled by the private contractors who haul waste under contract to Riga City. There should, however,
be a reduction in noise at the site since conveyors will transport waste as opposed to trucks driving up the
waste mound to tip. No resettlement of any type is proposed or necessary since the project will not expand
the current footprint of the landfill.
Mr Luksha then asked if compensation for local residents would be included in the project. Mr Halldin
explained that the project cannot compensate for past grievances. The project will mitigate for project
related impacts only.
Formal Public Meeting, Saturday, 14 December 1996 at the Getlini-2 offices at the site, arranged by
the Rip City Council and the World Bank
A public meeting was held Saturday morning, 4 December, 1996 at the offices of Getlini-2 at the Getlini
waste disposal in Stopinu Pagast to present the final conclusions of the feasibility study and the
environmental assessment. The meeting was advertised through television, radio and print media and
1
Environmental Resources Management                                          The World Bank



flyers announcing the purpose, date, and time of the meeting were distributed in the adjacent communities.
Approximately 60 persons attended the meeting.
The meeting was chaired by Pavils Raudonis, Director of the Public Information Department of the
Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development and Vice President of the Environment
Protection Club.
The meeting began with an introduction by the chairman stating the purpose and agenda and an
introduction by Anders Haidin, Task Manager for the World Bank. This was followed by a presentation
of the project by SWECO and then a presentation of the results of the Environmental Assessment (EA) by
Environmental Resources Management. Handouts in Latvian of a project description and a summary of
the findings of the EA were distributed at the meeting.
The presentations were followed by several hours of questions and answers. A summary of the public
comments and questions and responses by the project team are listed below.
Post environmental impacts of landfiU
1. A resident complained several times about poor water quality in her hand dug well, which she uses to
irrigate her garden. She now has Riga City water, but it is too expensive for irrigation. Mr. Halldin
responded that the chemical analyses carried out by SWECO indicate quite strongly that the water
quality of the surface aquifer, while not desirable for drinking water, should be fine for irrigation
purposes. However, given the widespread concern over water quality, the World Bank will
commission a study to investigate well water quality for all concerned local residents. This effort will
be initiated in February of 1997.
2. The pollution from the landfill reaching the Daugava via the old, surface drainage ditches should be an
international scandal. Mr. Halldin responded that the SWECO study had studied the water quality of
the surface ditches and that the water quality was only slightly affected by the landfill leachate.
Furthermore, the project includes measures to prevent surface water contamination in the future.
3. What can the World Bank say about people living near a dump in such condition? Mr. HaUldin
responded that, unfortunately, there are many dump sites in the world where conditions are far worse
for the local residents. Gedini-2 should be commended for the improvements made to date, and
conditions should be further improved when the project begins.
4. What compensation will be provided for having to live near the dump site for the past 20 years? Mr.
Halldin responded that this issue is not part of the project but is a political quesdon which must be
resolved between Riga City and Stopinu Pagast. This project will improve conditions considerably but
cannot become involved in solving old grievances.
Remediation
1. How many wells were drilled in landfill and how deep? SWECO described the numbers of new and
old wells tested and sampled and illustrated plan views and cross-sections of drilling and sampling
program.
2. Why would clay be used for capping old landfill versus some higher technology? SWECO responded
that clay is the most widely used material for this purpose worldwide because it is more economical
and less difficult to install.
3. Where will clay come from? SWECO responded that there is a site 7-10 km away which is a
candidate site, but that the final site will be determined during the detailed engineering study.
4. Proposal is to reduce infiltration only by 50%, what about the remaining infiltration? SWECO
- responded that infiltration should be reduced from 105 mm/yr to 50 mm. A portion of the 50 mm will
be consumed by the vegetation planted on the cover material and the remainder will be consumed by
the methanogenesis process in the interior of the waste mound.
5. Unsubstantiated belief that the contamination plume extends to the northwest. SWECO responded that
the direction of ground-water flow is to the south/southwest, a large number of wells were sampled
2
Environmental Resources Management                                          The World Bank



surrounding the site in the ground-water investigation program, and that no northwestern extension of
the plume was detected.
6. How will the very large ditch at the southern edge of the site be remediated? SWECO described the
remediation program and the ground water pumping wells to be installed in this ditch.
7. Is it possible to protect the deeper aquifers? Mr. Halldin explained that it is and that remediation and
prevention of future aquifer contmination is one of the primary objectives of the project.
Landfill Design Issues
1. Wil extending the edge of the landfill cause increased odor problems? SWECO explained that the
footprint of the actual landfill is not expanding, that only ancillary operations such as stockpiling of
materials, the gatehouse, etc. will be moved closer to the edge of the site. Given the new operations
program, odors shall actually decrease over existing operations. And given that there are presently no
complaints regarding odor, none are anticipated in the future.
2. Why is a location for hazardous waste shown on the plan? SWECO explained that while the site will
not accept hazardous waste in pracdce, it is inevitable that some such materials (eg automobile and
truck batteries, motor oil, etc) will reach the landfill, and contingency for the secure, temporary
storage of such materials is standard international practice. These materials will nt be landfilled at
the site, but will be disposed of properly at an approved hazardous waste site.
3. Will the forest belt which screens the landfill from view be removed? SWECO responded that the
plan shown at the public was conceptual and a bit misleading. While small portions of the forests
may be cleared, a forest belt of some 20-50 metres will be maintained permanently to screen the site
from view and that additional trees will be planted in areas where the forests is sparse.
4. With the necessity to continually accept waste, how will the transition from existing conditions to the
proposed take place. Mr. Halldin explained that implementation is key to the successful transition,
and that SWECO has determined that this is entirely feasible and can be carried out successfully.
Polical Questions
There were a number of questions regarding the future ownership of the site, which is presently controlled
by a joint venture between Stopinu Pagast (51 %) and Riga City (49%), and the strained relations between
Riga City and the pagast govermuent. Mr. HaUldin explained that the Latvian Ministry of Finance and the
World Bank have stipulated that the new company will have to have Riga City as the majority owner in
order to qualify for the project loan. Mr. Halldin explained the reasons for this decision and attempted to
answer the concerns over this issue.
Other Public Meetings
Meetings were held over the course of the project with various NGOs to inform them of the project and to
garner information on potential concerns and issues. He following individuals/NGOs were met with during
the period September to December, 1996:
Environmental Protection Club
Ecological Centre of Latvian University
Erika Lagzdina/Regional Environment Centre
Helga Kurkure/CEC Bankwatch/Environmental Protection Club
I
In general the NGOs were supportive of the project as its goals were to resolve environmental problems at
the site and improve solid waste management in Latvia. One concern was the impact of the
project on the costs of solid waste disposal on the citizens. It was felt that any increase in disposal
cost would be difficult to bear for many citizens and could lead to illegal disposal of waste. It was
explained that one of the justifications for the landfill gas utilisation program was to increase
revenues at the facility to offset operaing costs and therefore avoid the necessity for increased
user fees.
3
Environmental Resources Management                                           The World Bank



Greater detail of the discussions with some of the NGOs are given in Appendix B..
4
Environmental Resources Management                                               The World Bank



