Report No. PIC2785
Project Name                Latvia-Municipal Solid Waste Management...
Project
Region                      Europe and Central Asia
Sector                      Environment/Urban Development
Project ID                  LVPA40553
Borrower                    Ministry of Finance
Riga Municipality
Implementing Agency         Riga City Council
Mr. Jekabs Raipulis
Chairman Steering Committee
K. Valdemara iela 3
LV-1539 Riga,
LATVIA
Phone:     371-2-610997
Fax: 371-7-220785
Date This PID Prepared      June , 1996
Projected Appraisal Date    November, 1996
Projected Board Date        April, 1997
Peer Reviewers              C. Bartone and V. Gouarne
Country and Sector Background
1.   Under the former Soviet regime, public administration and
management in Latvia was highly centralized. Since Latvia's
independence in 1991, there has been substantial progress in
decentralization of authority to local governments. Until recently,
there were three levels of local government: rural districts and small
towns (pagasts); regions (rayons) which include rural districts and
small towns on their borders; and seven major cities, including Riga,
which incorporate the functions of both pagasts and rayons. Recent
legislation has simplified the territorial administrative system to
include only two levels (26 regions and 600 municipalities) and has
clarified expenditure responsibilities for the two levels of
government. New laws provide for a stable and transparent system of
revenue assignment, formalizing intergovernmental fiscal relations
through allocations of tax revenues between the state and local
governments, and allowing for some revenue equalization among
municipalities. The current legislative framework will adequately
support the proposed project while allowing for longer-term reforms
and development of the sector.
2.   Today, local governments are largely responsible for the
provision of municipal services, including water, sewerage, and solid
waste collection and disposal. While service provision in most
sectors is at a high level, investments are still required for
rehabilitation of existing facilities, including improved



environmental management in the solid waste sector. Despite progress
in raising tariffs and moving toward cost recovery, local governments
and associated service enterprises have insufficient funds to
undertake such investments at present. Given fiscal constraints, the
central government also lacks sufficient reserves to fund major
investments from its state budget. The need for external financing to
support public infrastructure services and municipal governments has
been determined to be a priority in both the Government's Public
Investment Program and the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy.
3.         The problem of management (collection and disposal) of solid
waste is serious and pervasive in Latvia. Currently, no disposal site
fulfils the criteria for a sanitary landfill. As the economy grows
and is increasingly market-oriented, the problem with waste disposal
is likely to become worse. (Solid waste in this discussion is a broad
term covering municipal -- largely household and public building --
waste, industrial and hospital waste, as well as hazardous waste).
Data suggest that the Riga Region population each year generate a
total of 450,000-500,000 tons of solid waste, or 430-475
kg/inhabitant, of which about 280,000 tons are municipal solid waste.
While this is quite low compared with other European countries, it can
be assumed that the lack of a waste registration system and hence,
inadequate data, as well as illegal dumping, may explain part of the
discrepancy.
4.   The amounts of industrial waste, hospital waste, demolition
waste, and hazardous waste generated in the Riga Region is estimated
at 130000, 3000, 40000, and 44000 tons respectively. Although a small
amount of hospital and hazardous wastes are incinerated, the bulk of
all waste is dumped in largely unmanaged disposal sites. There are an
estimated 600 such sites across the country and many pose a serious
hazard to the local environment, municipal water sources, and public
health generally. The situation is most critical in Riga, which
accounts for approximately one third of the country's total population
of 2.5 million and accounts for an estimated 40t or more of the
nation's municipal and industrial waste.
5.   Although there are some 20 smaller disposal sites in the Riga
region, the largest by far is Getlini, situated southeast of the city.
It covers an area of about 87 hectares, is years old, receives a
mixture of industrial and municipal solid waste, and is equipped with
very limited environment mitigation measures, such as groundwater
protection. Getlini is inappropriately sited due to its geology and
high water table. There is no lining and the site does not have an
effective natural barrier to protect the groundwater against
percolating leachate. Through the continuous leachate generation, the
upper water table is clearly contaminated, even if the level of
contamination is still manageable. However, if no measures are taken
to reduce/or eliminate the threat of further percolation of leachate,
the lower aquifers, which are part of Riga city's water supply, are
at a serious and growing risk of also being contaminated. Initially
it was planned to close and remediate the Getlini site, and in
parallel to establish a new site in the vicinity of Riga.
6.    The risk of contamination in the lowest aquifer at Getlini has
- 2 -



been re-evaluated, and it is proposed to further explore if the
operation at Getlini can be contiued provided that adequate
environmental protection measures are introduced. A feasibility study
concerning the necessary mitigation measures to completely control
future groundwater contamination, remediation of the existing waste
pile and a proposal for a continued operation will be started mid-July
1996. Successfully implemented, the Getlini site could be used as a
model in Latvia and bordering Baltic countries, and serve as an
alternative to the major part of the municipal waste currently
disposed at the other 20 outdated disposal sites in the Riga Region.
Objectives
7.   The project aims to demonstrate self-sustaining modern waste
management of municipal solid waste through maximum collection of
generated methane, thereby reducing the greenhouse gases and creating
a revenue stream to partially cover investment cost, and fully cover
recurrent cost of the improved landfill. Other objectives are to: a)
simplify the separation of recyclable material; b) reduce the nuisance
for neighbors of a disposal site, and c) demonstrate how existing
outdated and obsolete disposal sites can be remediated and transferred
into sanitary landfills to enable continued operation.
Description
8.   The project will provide financing for the following:
(a)   remediation of the existing disposal site;
(b)   establishment of a modern waste management technology based
on energy cells for enforced degradation of easily
biodegradable waste;
(c)   collection of landfill gas (LFG) containing about 50t
methane, CH4;
(d)   distribution of the LFG to a boiler house for replacement of
other fossil fuels;
(e)   technical assistance through twinning arrangements to enable
the staff of the disposal site to efficiently operate the
waste processing system and achieve maximum revenues from
the generated and separated by-products: and
(f)   managerial assistance during the implementation period to
facilitate the future development of the company.
9.   The proposed technology for achieving the goals of modern and
environmentally sound waste management is based on energy cells,
providing the possibility of decomposing the municipal waste in a
period of 3-5 years instead of normally 20- years. The technology
includes recycling of the leachate to maintain a high moisture and
humidity in the waste and simultaneously maintain a temperature of
about 40'C. In such physical conditions the organic, easily
decomposable material, will generate substantial quantities of
-3 -



landfill gas, which will be collected and utilized as fuel at a boiler
house providing district heat, and to a large extent, as the process
is hydrogen consuming, consume the collected leachate. The
possibility of generating electricity based on the gas will also be
further explored, but is currently not regarded to be competitive.
10. After finishing decomposing the organic material, the cells can
be opened, and by-products such as compost and a combustible fraction
can be separated and further utilized as soil conditioner and fuel.
This possibility is not included in the project, but the process
provides for this opportunity, which, if explored, will reduce the
final volume to be disposed to about 20-t of the original waste
volume. In a longer perspective this possibility would enable the
operation to be largely prolonged without the necessity of expanding
the area.
Financing
11. Total project costs are currently estimated to be about US $13.1
million, including price and physical contingencies. A Bank loan of
about US $3.7-5.7 million is currently envisioned, and remaining
financing will be provided by Riga City Council, equivalent to US $3.9
million (grant), the Global Environment Facility, US $2-4 million
(grant), and the Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency
(Sida), US $1.5 million (grant). These estimates will be reviewed and
revised during preparation/pre-appraisal. Bilateral donors (i.e.,
Dutch, Austrian, Danish and Finnish) have either already been involved
in carrying out selected, but limited, studies of Latvia's solid waste
management sector and/or have expressed preliminary interest in
providing grant funds and concessionary co-financing for the project.
Grant funding for the technical feasibility study and the
environmental assessment has been secured from Sida and PHRD.
Additional bilateral support will be sought for technical assistance
concerning development of a business plan for the operating company
and twinning arrangements to facilitate the implementation phase.
12. For project investments, the Bank loan would be on-lent through
the national government to the participating municipality (Riga) and
its associated enterprise. Retroactive financing is not anticipated
at this stage, although it may be required later.
Implementation
13.        The project will be implemented by the Environmental
Protection Board within Riga City Council in close cooperation with
the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development. A
project steering committee has already been established, chaired by
Riga City Council, and a Project Implementation Unit within the
Environmental Protection Board is under creation. The project is
expected to be implemented over about five years (from late 1997 to
2003). The operating company Getlini-2 Ltd, is expected to be
involved in several activities during the implementation phase related
to necessary civil works within the existing site.
Sustainability
-4-



14. Financial: The project will strengthen the overall framework for
solid waste management in Riga and other cities, and promote full cost
recovery at affordable prices. Project financial sustainability would
be assured through a Take-or-Pay Contract for wholesale sale of
collected landfill gas to cover normal operating costs, depreciation,
and debt service, and through contacts between the city and private
disposal companies allowing periodic adjustment of price increases for
waste disposal.
15. Environmental: For many decades, the unmanaged practice of open
waste dumping and burning have had a heavy negative impact on the
nation's environment and the public's health. Sound solid waste
management is one of Latvia's top three priorities on its
environmental agenda. The combination of a modern, scientifically
engineered sanitary landfill in Riga, which serves one-third of the
country's population, with further support to already existing waste
separation and recycling program will be a valuable first step in
addressing the larger issues of sustainable resource management. The
development of a national solid waste management strategy will be
carried out in parallel with the project, to further strengthen
environmental sound waste management.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector
16. This is the first Bank project in the waste management sector in
Latvia, and it reflects the Bank's experience and OED analyses of
sanitation projects, indicating the need to develop managerially and
financially autonomous and decentralized public utilities as a basis
for sector reform, efficient operations, and investment. A similar
project based on sequestering of the generated landfill gas from
energy cells is currently under preparation/implementation in
Pakistan, after being stalled for over a year.
Poverty Category
17.        Investments and technical assistance to improve the
management of the Getlini solid waste disposal site without increasing
the disposal tariffs, may disproportionately benefit the poor since
they spend a larger share of total income on such services and may be
more vulnerable to the negative influences of unmanaged, uncontrolled
waste dumping (i.e. gardening societies, farming communities).
Environmental Aspects
18. The Project has an "A" rating. No resettlement will be
necessary. A full Environmental Assessment (EA) in accordance with
O.P. 4.01 will be conducted during July-October 1996, including a
strong focus on public participation (see below). If carefully
implemented, the remediation and continued operation of the existing
disposal site have positive environmental and public health benefits.
Environmental benefits include: (a) decreased risk of additional
future contamination of both upper and lower aquifers at Getlini,
possibly affecting drinking water supplies of Riga; (b) elimination of
discharge of polluted leachate to the river Daugava and the Baltic
Sea, thereby contributing to HELCOM's Baltic Sea environmental
- 5 -



program; (c) environmentally managed solid waste collection and
disposal to protect ecosystems, including soils and water courses,
from further pollution or degradation; (d) reduction of greenhouse
gases (GHG), through the collection of generated landfill gas
(containing 50% of methane); (e) utilization of the collected landfill
gas as fuel, thereby replacing imported fossil fuels; and (f)
increased and improved separation of recyclable waste at the site; and
(g) cost recovery through the sale of landfill gas.
19. As a result of the project's strong environmental advantages, the
Global Environmental Facility has found the project eligible for
financing of the incremental cost, which tentatively has been
estimated at US $2 to 4 million, because of the large reduction of GHG
that the project would accomplish. Furthermore, the Swedish
International Development Cooperation Agency, Sida, has indicated that
it would offer an investment grant of US $1.5 million, as the project
would result in reduced discharge of water pollutants to the Baltic
Sea
Local Consultation and Beneficiary Participation
20. Preparation of the project will have a strong participatory
approach. A first public meeting was held on May , 1996, with a wide
range of stakeholders, including local, regional and national
government project counterparts, NGOs, the media, affected communities
(including garden societies), and the operating solid waste management
enterprise. The meeting was recorded on TV, national and local radio,
and the larger news papers in Latvia. Similar meetings will be
repeated during each mission. The environmental assessment will
specifically address all social and environmental concerns among the
affected parties and the report will be provided to all interested
groups before the final appraisal takes place.
Benefits
21. The project would improve the operational efficiency of solid
waste management and demonstrate for both the country and the Baltic
Region, how modern technology can be implemented in an environmentally
sound way under favorable financial and economic conditions. The
project would provide adequate service and an improved environment to
the inhabitants of Stopinu Pagasts, where the site is located.
22.        The project would einate the waste disposal problem for the
Riga City, generating more tha 40% of the country's municipal solid
waste, during the next 40 years and could based on further utilization
of by-products substantially extend this period.
23. The existing company Getlini-2 Ltd, will be restructured to
enable it to become a main player for the future improved management
of waste generated in the Riga Region, as well as being prepared for
the future utilization of waste by-products. The company will also be
trained to be able to implement similar projects within the country
and in the Baltic Region.
24. Implementation of the project would eliminate on-going
- 6 -



groundwater contamination, stop the discharge of untreated runoff
water and leachate to the River Daugava, which falls into the Baltic
Sea, and reduce air pollution in the form of methane, and airborne
non-biodegradeable waste, dust, and odor from the disposal site. The
collection of methane would reduce the yearly import of fossil fuels
with about 13-19 million m3 of natural gas or 11,000-16,000 tons of
heavy fuel oil.
Risks
25. The technology involved in the investments required for solid
waste management is a modified standard concept and does not present
any unusual risk. However, given Latvia's typically high water tables,
adequate measures for control of future groundwater contamination are
necessary to minimize environmental risks. The main risks to the
project are: (a) local capacity to manage a sanitary landfill based on
energy cell technology; (b) willingness of the district heating
company to purchase the collected landfill gas at a price equal to
other fossil fuels; (c) unforeseen difficulties in safeguarding the
groundwater aquifers underlying the disposal site; and (d) unresolved
issues between Riga City Council and Stopinu Pagasts.
26. The above risks will be reduced through the design of the loan's
conditionality, the provision of substantial technical assistance and
training including the establishment of a business plan for the
operating company and a Take-or-Pay contract for wholesale sale of
collected landfill gas, scheduled negotiations between the Councils of
Riga City and Stopinu Pagasts, and close monitoring of the project.
Contact Point:                         Task Manager: Anders Halldin, EC4NR
Public Information Center
The World Bank                           (202) 473-8403(tel)
1818 H Street, NW                        (202) 522-1179 (fax)
Washington, D.C. 20433
(202) 458-5454 (tel)
(202) 522-1500 (fax)
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending July 15, 1996.
- 7 -



