Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 16363 LV
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF LATVIA
MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
February 2, 1998
Environment and Rural Development Sector
Latvia Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of December 1997)
Currency Unit   =    L.at
Lat I   =   US$ 1.85
US $1   =    0.54 Lat
WEIGHTS ANID MEASURES
Metric System
ha   =   hectare
kg   =   kiilogram
ton   =   metric ton
MW    =   megawatts
kWh   =   kilowatt hour
LATVIAN FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BDP  -  Business Development Plan
CH4  -  Methane
EA  -  Environmental Assessment
EBRD  -  European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ERR  -  Economic Rate of Return
EU (Tacis) - European Union Technical Assistance Program for the FSU
FAO  -  Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FRR  - Financial Rate of Return
FSU  - Former Soviet Union
GDP  -  Gross Domestic Product
GEF  -  Global Environment Facility
GHG  -  Greenhouse Gases
GLC  - Getlini-2 Ltd.
GLE  -  Getlini-Eco Ltd.
GOL  -  Government of Latvia
ICB  -  International Competitive Bidding
IS  -  International Shopping
LFG  - Landfill Gas
MOEPRD  -  Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development
MSDP  -  Municipal Services Development Project
NCB  -  National Competitive Bidding
NGO  - Non-governmental Organization
NPV  - Net Present Value
NRT  - Natural Resource Tax
NS  - National Shopping
PHRD  - Japanese Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
PPA  -  Power Purchase Agreement
PPF  -  Project Preparation Facility
PPU  - Project Procurement Unit
PSC  - Project Steering Committee
RCC  -  Riga City Council
SAL  -  Structural Adjusment Loan
SIDA  -  Swedish International Development Agency
SOE  -  Statement of Expenditure
SPC  -  Stopinu Pagast Council
UNFCCC  -  United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change
VAT  - Value Added Tax
Vice President                       Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Country Director                     Basil Kalvasky, ECCO9
Sector Director                      Kevin Cleaver
Task Manager                         Anders Halldin



REPUBLIC OF LATVIA
MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Loan and Project Summary ...................i
BACKGROUND  I. .
A. Country Context                        .I
B. Sectoral Context                       .2
C. Bank Strategy and Experience                 .6
2. THE PROJECT                                   ..9
A. Project Origin and Formulation               .9
B. Project Rationale .10
C. Rational for Involvement of GEF and Other Donors .10
D. Project Objectives .1
E. Donor and Public Participation during Project Preparation .1
F. Project Components and Description             .12
G. Project Costs .14
H. Project Financing Arrangements .15
I. Procurement .16
J. Disbursement .18
K. Environment Aspects .20
3;  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION    .                        .23
A. Background .23
B. Implementation .23
C. Organization and Management .24
D. Project Implementation Schedule and Supervision .27
E. Reporting Requirements, Accounts and Audits .27
F. Monitoring and Evaluation .28
4. FINANCIAL ASPECTS    ..29
A. Background .29
B. Tariff Levels and Affordability .29
C. Organization of and Financial Projections for Getlini-Eco .30
D. Past Financial Performance of Getlini-2 Ltd .31
E. Future Financial Performance .31
F. Organizational Issues .31
G. Financial Standing of Riga City .32
H. Financial Standing of Stopinu Pagast .33
5.    PROJECT JUSTIFICATION - BENEFITS AND RISKS   .             .35
A. The Without Project Case .35
B. Project Benefits .36
C. Project Economic Costs .38
D. Economic Rate of Return.                                      38
E. Project Risks and Sensitivity Analysis .39
F. Financial Retums for the Project .41



6.    AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ...................... 43
A. Agreements Reached During Negotiations ................................................. 43
B. Condition of Effectiveness ..................................   ... 44
C. Recommendations .................................................  44
ANNEXES
Annex 1  Description of the Physical Implementation of the Project
Annex 2   Bank Group Investments in Latvia
Annex 3   Financing Plan
Annex 4.1 Procurement Plan
Annex 4.2 Use of Funds for Different Procurement Packages
Annex 4.3 Procurement Information
Annex 5.1 Disbursements of Bank Loan and GE]F Grant
Annex 5.2 Detailed Disbursement Schedule for Bank Loan
Annex 6.1 Environmental Data Sheet
Annex 6.2 Summary of Environmental Assessment
Annex 7  Note on the Final Beneficiary - Getlini-Eco Ltd.
Annex 8   Project Implementation Arrangements
Annex 9.1 Supervision Plan
Annex 9.2 Monitoring and Evaluation
Annex 10 Financial Situation and Forecast - Riga City
Annex 11 Budget Information for Stopinu Pagast
Annex 12 Expenditure Accounts for Optional Investments
Annex 13 Economic Costs and Benefits for Optional Investments
Annex 14 Financial Returns of the Project



RE1PUBLIC OF LATA
MUlNCIPAL SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                        Republic of Latvia
Guarantor:                       Not Applicable
Implementing Agency:             Ministry of Finance
Beneficiary:                     Government of Latvia, Riga City Council, and Getlini-Eco Ltd.
Poverty:                         A poverty category is not applicable in this project
Amount:                          US $7.95 million
Terms:                           Payable in 17 years, including 4 years grace, at the standard
IBRD interest rate for variable LIBOR-based US Dollar single-
currency loans.
Commitment Fee:                  At the rate of 0.75% on undisbursed loan balances, beginning
60 days after signing, less any waiver.
Onlending Terms:                 It has been agreed with the Ministry of Finance that the Bank
loan would be onlent under a subsidiary loan agreement to the
Riga City Council, which in turn would pass these funds on to
Getlini-Eco Ltd. under a separate onlending agreement. Terms
would be similar to those obtained by Government of Latvia,
except for a markup of about 0.7% to Government overheads /
risks.
Financing Plan:
Loca1        Foreign       Total
------------ US $ million --------------
IBRD (loan)                3.32         4.63          7.95
GEF (grant)                2.98         2.14          5.12
SIDA (grant)               0.34         1.16          1.50
Riga City Council          2.54         3.46          6.00
Getlini-Eco Ltd,           2.00         2.64          4.64
Total Financing Required   11.18        14.03         25.21






ii
Project Objectives:
The proposed Project would demonstrate self-sustaining modem waste management of municipal solid
waste. This would be accomplished through maximum collection of generated methane, thereby reducing
greenhouse gas emissions and creating a revenue stream to cover capital and operational costs of the
improved landfill. Other objectives include: (a) simplifying the separation of recyclable material; (b)
reducing environmental disturbances for neighbors of the disposal site; (c) demonstrating how outdated
and obsolete disposal sites can be remediated and converted into sanitary landfills to enable continued
operation; and (d) arresting the ongoing contamination of groundwater. The Project would also
demonstrate the feasibility of developing the indigenous Latvian landfill gas as an energy resource. This
technique would mitigate an otherwise constant emission of methane into the atmosphere, and at the
same time, decrease the dependence on imported fossil fuel for electricity generation and/or heating
purposes.
Project Description:
The Project involves the remediation and continued operation of the Getlini waste disposal site,
comprising three integrated investment components and one technical assistance component. The Project
would include: (a) the remediation of the existing disposal site; (b) technical and operational
improvements to meet so-called sanitary landfill standards; (c) the establishment of a sorting line for
separation of recyclable materials and arranging separate areas for storing of separated material as well
as hazardous waste, which would be transported to another site; (d) the establishment of a modem waste
management technology based on energy cells for enhanced degradation of easily biodegradable waste;
(e) the collection of landfill gas containing about 50 percent methane, CH4; (f) the generation of
electricity at the site by use of gas engines with direct delivery to the grid; and (g) technical and
managerial assistance through twinning arrangements. These arrangements would enable disposal site
staff to (a) efficiently operate the waste processing system and (b) achieve maximum revenues from the
generated and separated by-products and (c) facilitate the future development of the company.
Project Benefits:
This Project would result in a number of environmental benefits. These benefits are: (a) remediation of
the existing Getlini site, thereby postponing the establishment of a new site located at least at four times
longer hauling distance; (b) collection of landfill gas from both already disposed waste and future waste
generation, thereby reducing the emission of methane; (c) recirculation of leachate, thereby reducing
treatment costs; and (d) demonstration of a technology that makes it possible to utilize other by-products
from the decomposition of the waste, thereby prolonging the lifetime of the site and increasing the
revenue stream. The Project would also cover its own costs, result in the cost-effective utilization of an
indigenous energy resource, and result in foreign exchange savings when importing electricity or fossil
fuel for heating purposes.
Environmental Aspects:
The environmental assessment results indicate that the Project would result in considerable
environmental improvements by reducing: (a) groundwater pollution, (b) surface water pollution, (c) dust
and air pollution caused by fires, (d) noise from site activities, and (e) odors from uncovered waste



iii
material. The project would also substantially improve the working conditions for individuals involved in
the separation and recycling of waste material.
Project preparation included a comprehensive environmental assessment consistent with the applicable
procedures of the Government of Latvia and the provisions of World Bank Operational Directive 4.01,
Environmental Assessment for a Category A project. Following this assessment, the project design was
changed from opening of a new landfill site some 40 kilometers outside Riga to the rehabilitation and
modernization of the existing site. Consequently, the environmental rating of the Project was changed
from A to B. The Environmental Data Sheet is presented in Annex 6.1.
Project Risks:
The technology introduced by the Project is considered to be manageable without requiring highly
specialized expertise. Owing to its comparatively recent development, practical applications are still
limited, mostly to Western and Eastern Europe. The investment would also change the character of the
existing operation in terms of commercial management. Managerial capacity therefore has to be
considered a project risk.
Other itechnical risks relate to the actual amount of waste, its composition and the resulting gas
generation, and timely and acceptable payment for the electricity delivered.
These risks will be mitigated through managerial and technical assistance provided under the project,
through local regulations requiring that all the municipal waste generated by Riga City be delivered to
Getlini, and by the signing of a power purchase agreement based on the current legislation for a period of
at least 10 years. It is furthermore assumed that Riga's decline in population will be offset by increasing
amounts of waste per capita. This will result in a constant, or even increasing, fraction of decomposable
waste.
During the final stage of project preparation, opposition to the project has been voiced by a small group
which opposes any changes in the management of the Getlini site. This opposition has attempted to stir
up fears among the public based on allegations of acceptance of hazardous waste at the site, reduction of
the current labor force, increased disposal fees, and involuntary resettlement.
The design of the project has taken all these issues into account: hazardous waste will not be accepted at
the site, but in case of accidental delivery provision has been made for a facility for temporary storage;
no reduction of the labor force is planned; there will be no increase in disposal fees as a result of the
project; and no resettlement will take place as the project will be implemented within the borders of the
existing site and does not require any additional land. The Ministry of Environmental Protection and
Regional Development is taking the leading role in conducting a dialogue with this group and in
conveying accurate information to the public at large.
A comparatively small risk remains that the Project will not succeed in arresting the ongoing
groundwater contamination. However, the groundwater flows and the geohydrological conditions have
been examined extensively. Because the Project will change the character of the existing landfill
operation, this risk is regarded as marginal.



1. BACKGROUND
A. Country Context
1.1   Latvia, a small country of 2.6 million people in an area of 64,600 square
kilometers, restored its independence in August 21, 1991. The country has a 500-
kilometer coastline on the Baltic Sea, along which lie the ice-free seaports of Ventspils,
Liepaja and Riga. Much of Latvia is a flat coastal plain. Nearly 43 percent of its surface
area is covered with forest, interspersed with small rivers and lakes. Almost half the
country is arable. The country has few natural resources and imports all of its natural gas
and oil products and half of its electricity needs.
1.2   Following independence, Latvia launched a comprehensive reform program to
transform its economy inte a market based system. Priced and foreign trade were
liberalized and the country pursued an independent monetary policy and a prudent fiscal
policy. As a result, the average inflation dropped from nearly 1000 percent in 1992 to 7.5
percent in 1997. Progress in structural reforms have also been significant. Privatization
of small businesses, agricultural land, and banking institutions has been almost completed
and privatization of apartments and large enterprises have shown remarkable progress
after a slow start at the beginning. The pension system has been reformed and serious
steps have been taken to reform health and education sectors. The fall in real GDP which
began with the independence came to a halt in late 1995. Since then the GDP grow by
2.8 percent in 1996 and is estimated to have grown by 4.5 percent in 1997.
1.3  In 1995, the economy experienced serious difficulties as a result of a banking
crises and the widening of the fiscal deficit to 3.3 percent of GDP. While the banking
crises began with the failure of Latvia's largest commercial bank, due to its poor
commercial practices, factors contributing to the rise in fiscal deficit included growing
wage payments and rising tax arrears. The Government's response to the crises was
impressive. The confidence in the banking system was restored through adopting a
number of measures to strengthen the prudential regulations and the supervision of the
banking system, including closure of banks not in compliance with laws and regulations.
To reduce the fiscal deficit, the Government began to reduce expenditures. Despite these
efforts the pressure on the budget continued, and to reduce this pressure on a sustainable
basis, the Government began a medium term process to reform key expenditure programs
and to strengthen the management of public resources. These measures which were also



2                                                                      Chapter ]
supported by the Bank Structural Adjustment Loan allowed the Government to reduce the
fiscal deficit to 1.3 percent of GDP in 1996 and to 1 percent in 1997. Fiscal deficit is
expected to drop further in 1997.
1.4    Under the former Soviet regime, public administration and management in Latvia
was highly centralized. Since independence, there has been substantial progress in the
decentralization of authority to local governments. Until recently, there were three levels
of local government: (a) rural districts and small towns (pagasts); (b) regions (rayons),
which include rural districts and small towns on their borders; (c) and seven major cities,
including Riga, which incorporate the functions of both pagasts and rayons. The GOL
has decided simplifying the territorial administrative system to include only two levels of
governments; the national government and the subnational government consisting of
cities, towns, small municipalities, and rural pagsts. It has clarified expenditure
responsibilities for the two levels of government. New laws provide for a stable and
transparent system of revenue assignment. They formalize intergovernmental fiscal
relations through allocations of tax revenues between the state and local governments,
and allow for some revenue equalization among municipalities. The current legislative
framework will adequately support the proposed project while allowing for longer term
refirms and the development of the municipal sector.
1.5   Today, local governments are largely responsible for the provision of municipal
services, including water, sewerage, and solid wastel collection and disposal. While
service provision in most sectors is at a high level, investments are still required for
rehabilitation of existing facilities, including improved environmental management in the
solid waste sector. Despite progress in raising tariffs and moving toward cost recovery,
local governments and associated service enterprises have insufficient funds to undertake
such investments at present. Given fiscal constraints, the central government also lacks
sufficient reserves to fund major investments from its state budget. The need for external
financing to support public infrastructure services and mnunicipal governments has been
determined to be a priority in both GOL's Public Investment Program and the Bank's
Country Assistance Strategy.
B.    Sectoral Context
1.6   Latvia's Public Expenditure Review, prepared in 1994, highlighted the need to
support priority investments in energy, transport and urban environmental services and to
establish economic charges and financing mechanisms to fund such investments. Latvian
authorities subsequently prepared a National Energy Strategy, which emphasizes use of
indigenous energy resources and diversification of fuel choice and supply, as far as
In this discussion, solid waste is a broad term covering municipal waste (largely household and public
building), industrial and hospital waste, as well as hazardous waste.



Background                                                                3
possible. In 1995, the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development
(MOEPRD) completed a National Environmental Policy Plan for Latvia, which was
subsequently accepted by the Cabinet of Ministers. Improved waste management is cited
in the Plan as one of the top five priorities for Latvia.
Environmental Priorities
1.7   Over the last four years, the major environmental priority for the country has been
the protection of drinking water supplies, largely supplied from surface waters. Latvia
has long suffered from a low level of wastewater treatment and an overload of existing
sewage treatment plants, particularly in the larger cities. Hence, attention has been
directed to securing funding for investments to rehabilitate and improve the country's
water/wastewater treatment plants. These efforts have been supported by a number of
bilateral donors, which have participated in the Baltic Sea Environment Programme, as
well as international financial institutions.  Hand-in-hand with efforts to prepare
investment projects has been technical assistance for municipal utility development, both
operationally and financially, recognizing the decentralization of responsibility for urban
infrastructure to municipalities. Fortunately, the major cities are now covered by ongoing
or upcoming projects that address these problems: Riga (an EBRD commitment);
Daugavpils (World Bank-financed Municipal Services Development Project); Liepaja (a
Bank-financed Liepaja Environment Project); and Ventspils (self-financing from special
hard currency payments for port use). The country therefore is now beginning to focus
on other needs and problems.
1.8   Several themes emerged from the recent National Environmental Policy Plan:
(i) continued encouragement and support to local authorities to mobilize resources
for environmental services and improvements, particularly developing a self-
financing capability within utilities;
(ii) the need to develop environmental policy and policy instruments, considering
the eventual harmonization with EU directives;
(iii) concurrently, the need to build up the regulatory infrastructure and programs
(including public information programs) and to train staff of the local
environmental committees, which will have the bulk of responsibility for "on the
ground" regulatory work in the future; and
(iv) attention to the following priority problems:  transboundary pollution,
eutrophication of water courses, risks from growth of economic activities, waste
management (both municipal and industrial), impact of agriculture, depletion of
biodiversity and landscape degradation, inefficient use of natural resources, and
low quality of drinking water.
1.9   MOEPRD has recently taken a number of steps to address these themes, including
launching programs to support water/wastewater treatment and waste management



4                                                                Chapter 1
services in small communities throughout the country. It is working with EU PHARE to
develop a new Environment Fund (Latvia Environmental Investment Fund, or LEIF),
through which some of the needed local investments could be financed. The country has
recently passed a Natural Resource Taxation Law, which will provide some of the
revenue for LEIF. For various aspects of institutional and regulatory development, it is
supported by several bilateral donors as well as EU PHARE and the World Bank (the
latter under an IDF program).
1.10 In 1995, the GOL ratified the Framework Convention on Climate Change and
later prepared the National Communication of the Republic of Latvia under the UN
Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC). The latter document presents an
overview of the existing situation, characterizes a set of policies and activities to reduce
greenhouse gases (GHG) emissions, and sets targets for the year 2000. Among the
imrportant issues raised in the document, of particular relevance to this Project, are waste
disposal sites -- one of the major sources of methane emissions in Latvia. The MOEPRD
has declared that "reduction and collection of methane from the solid waste disposal sites
is one of the Government's priorities for the reduction of greenhouse gases."
Waste Management Needs
1.11  Currently, all municipal solid waste is disposed of at the nearly 500 disposal sites
in various parts of the country, none of which is regarded as a well-designed sanitary
landfill. Many of the existing disposal sites also pose a risk to local groundwater
resources. The GOL has therefore started a program focusing specifically on upgrading
or closing all existing disposal sites. To support this program institutionally, it is
preparing a National Solid Waste Management Strategy, which is supported by Danish
grant financing and is expected to be finished in December, 1997.
1.12 It is expected that the minimum requirement for upgrading existing disposal sites
wouald be the implementation of mitigation measures to fulfill the environmental
requirements for sanitary landfills, such as groundwater protection, leachate treatment,
and. daily coverage of the waste. A draft law on Solid and Industrial Waste (December 3,
1996) also states two strategic goals: (a) recovery of waste material, recognizing the
scope for the increased separation and use of recyclable materials; and (b) maximum
utilization of the waste energy potential. At the enterprise level, greater operating and
finamcial accountability is needed to achieve operational efficiencies and a self-financing
capability.
1.13  Waste Management in Riga. The situation is most critical in Riga, which
accounts for approximately one third of the country's total population of 2.5 million and
for an estimated 40 percent or more of the nation's municipal and industrial waste. Data
for the Riga Region suggests that a total of 450,000-500,000 tons of solid waste, or 430-
475 kilograms per inhabitant is generated each year, of which about 280,000 tons are
municipal solid waste. While quite low compared with other European countries, it can
be assumed that the lack of a waste registration system and, hence, inadequate data as



Background                                                                5
well as illegal dumping explain much of the difference with other European rates.
Besides municipal solid waste, the Riga region generates the following amounts of waste
each year: industrial waste (130,000 tons), hospital waste (3,000 tons), demolition waste
(40,000 tons), and hazardous waste (44,000 tons). Although small amounts of hospital
and hazardous wastes are incinerated, the bulk of all waste, irrespective of its hazardous
nature, is dumped in disposal sites that are largely unmanaged.
1.14  Although there are some twenty smaller disposal sites in the Riga region, the
largest by far is Getlini, situated southeast of the city within the boundaries of Stopinu
Pagast, a village about 10 kilometers from the Riga City center. The Getlini site covers
87 hectares and is 25 years old. It receives a mixture of industrial and municipal solid
waste, and has limited environment mitigation measures, such as groundwater protection.
Getlini is inappropriately located due to its geology and high water table. The site does
not have an effective natural barrier or artificial lining to protect the groundwater against
percolating leachate. Through continuous leachate generation, the upper water table is
contaminated, although the level is still manageable. If no measures are taken to reduce
or eliminate the threat of further percolation of leachate, the lower aquifers, which are
part of Riga City's water supply, are at serious and growing risk of becoming
contaminated.
1.15 Recently, GOL declared this Project to be a national priority. The rationale is that
it will provide an environmentally sound solution to nearly 40 percent of the municipal
waste generated in Latvia. Furthermore, it will demonstrate state-of-the-art technology
for improved waste management, and it will have a positive impact on the country's
effort to reduce energy imports.
Technical Background on Waste Management and Energy Utilization
1.16 Based on environmental concerns, all modern disposal sites must adhere to
standards protecting the groundwater table and the treatment of leachate. There is also an
increasing demand for the collection of LFG generated during waste decomposition. Such
collection has been practiced since the 1 970s to reduce the risks for site fires and building
explosions in the vicinity owing to gas migration and to utilize the LFG's energy content.
1.17 Modern technology for LFG collection is simple and easily implemented. It
involves the placement of waste in small sealed cells, whereby the decomposition is
controlled by maintaining a constant temperature and moisture content, and collection
efficiency is maximized. The results of this improved technology, used since the end of
the 1 980s, are an increased collection of LFG and a reduced decomposition period, that is
from normally 20-25 years to less than 5 years. A detailed description of the technical
aspects and physical implementation of the Project is provided in Annex 1.
1.18 The use of landfill gas (LFG), collected during the decomposition of municipal
waste, can easily be utilized as a substitute for imported fossil fuels, required for either
electricity generation or district heating. The overall use of LFG in Latvia would result in



6                                                                  Chapter 1
an additional capacity of 50 MWThela]. The energy generated from the LFG would cover
about 1 percent of national heat demand or 2.4 percent of electricity consumption (1996
estimate). Technical coefficients based on the actual waste composition and waste
volumes generated in Riga City show that the LFG is sufficient to feed a 20 MW boiler,
or a 6 MW gas engine for electricity generation with methane captured under the
proposed Project.
1.1]9 Utilization of the LFG would result in a revenue stream that would cover capital
and operational costs. Thus, the proposed Project would create a technically,
enlvironmentally sound and financially self-sustaining acceptable solution for the
mumicipalities. It would be the first sanitary landfill in the Baltic States, and the first
project in the Baltic States where LFG is captured and then utilized as fuel for energy
production.
1.20 The optimal use of LFG entails connection with large energy suppliers, such as
district heating systems, power plants, combined heat and power plants, or for production
of electricity, delivered directly to the grid. The Project could serve as a demonstration
project and reference point for further improvement of the waste management sector in
the region. For instance, owing to the extensive use of dListrict heating systems in Eastern
Europe and the former Soviet republics, future use of waste management technologies
maximizing LFG collection is both attractive and feasible.
C.    Bank Strategy and Experience
1.21  The Bank's overall strategy in Latvia is to support the country's efforts to
accelerate structural reforms leading to a full transitionr to market-based economy and,
concurrently, to support efficient investments in high-priority sectors to facilitate
economic growth. A list of Bank Group's investments in Latvia are provided in Annex 2.
1.22 The Bank's strategy concerning environmental issues is to support a limited
number of priority investments that have significant impact in terms of achieving
operating efficiencies and reducing pollution. The Bank seeks to develop projects which
can also mobilize resources from other international financial institutions, bilateral
donors, and nongovernmental organizations; it is also concerned with introduction of
appropriate new technologies. The Bank strategy also recognizes the need to support
policy and regulatory measures. In this regard, MOEPRD has received an IDF grant last
year to revise air quality standards and related regulatory programs, considering in
particular its interest in harmonizing with European Union (EU) environmental
directives, and meeting other international commitments. This work will be coordinated
closely with a Danish-supported program to build local capacity for "integrated pollution
prevention and control" (IPPC), based on a new EU environmental directive.



Background                                                            7
1.23  With this proposed Project, the involvement of the Bank and the Global
Environment Facility (GEF) would provide an opportunity to support Latvian efforts to:
(a) find a sustainable solution for a cost-effective treatment of municipal solid waste;
(b) reduce the emission of greenhouse gases and groundwater contamination; and
(c) reduce the dependence on imported energy and fossil fuels for electricity and heating
purposes. Project preparation has brought to Latvia new technologies to which it would
otherwise not have had access.
1.24 Already, this involvement has resulted in the decision to establish a new company
with the intention of adopting an entrepreneurial and commercial approach to the
exploitation of the new technologies and expanding implementation to other sites. It has
also resulted in the preparation of a business plan for the company's involvement in the
further development of cost-effective waste management and generation of energy from
municipal waste.  The technology introduced under the Project allows for quick
recuperation of its own costs, both capital costs and recurrent costs. Thus, private sector
interest may develop in the future at similar sites elsewhere in the region.






2. THE PROJECT
A.   Project Origin and Formulation
2.1   The Municipal Solid Waste Management Project was originally a component of
the Municipal Services Development Project (MSDP), but as the identification of a new
disposal site would have delayed the finalization and implementation of the MSDP, it
was delinked. The original project concept was based on the development of a new
location for the future management of the Riga City waste, given preliminary indications
that the groundwater was threatened by the leachate emanating from the Getlini disposal
site.
2.2   However, there was also evidence that groundwater contamination was restricted
to the most shallow aquifer, which was not a key water supply resource. A study3
financed by the Swedish government was made of the different aquifers underlying the
disposal site and the potential for remaining at the Getlini site.
2.3   The study found that the contamination of the groundwater was limited to the
most shallow Quaternary aquifer, while the more important and deeper aquifers, the
Plavinas and Amata, used as resources for the water supply to Riga, had not yet been
contaminated. The study also forecasted that the Plavinas aquifer would show signs of
contamination about the year 2002, and the Amata aquifer about year 2020. The study
concluded, however, that with the benefits from the Project, the water supply could be
saved from further risks of leachate contamination. A more detailed description of the
geohydrological conditions is presented in Annex 1.
2.4   The study also indicated that operation of the Getlini site could continue for an
additional 50 years. With further utilization of by-products, the lifetime of the site would
be 100-200 years. Finally, the study concluded that investments based on the collection
of LFG to generate electricity would provide a cost-effective and sustainable solution to
the current waste management problem for Riga City.
2  Loan No. 34584-LV.
3  Feasibility Study and preliminary Design of Remediation and Continued Operation of the Getlini Site,
carried out by Sweco, during August 1996-January 1997.



10                                                               Chapter 2
B.   Project Rationale
2.5  In view of the large number of disposal sites that need to be either remediated and
closed, or remediated for continued operation, Latvia has a large investment program
ahead. Given that improved waste management normally results in a substantial increase
of the disposal fee, the development of improved waste management will need to be
phased in gradually to make the improvements affordable to consumers.
2.6   The proposed Project would provide a solution to meet western sanitary landfill
standards without requiring a necessary increase in disposal fees, thereby demonstrating a
replicable technology and reducing the current waste management problems in a cost-
effective way.
C.   Rationale for Involvement of GEF and Other Donors
2.7   The involvement of the Bank/GEF in the proposed Project would provide an
opportunity to support Latvian efforts to improve solid waste management, reduce
dependence on imported energy, and improve global environmental quality through the
reduction of GHG. In the absence of Bank/GEF involvement, it is unlikely that the
country would be able to mobilize the technical assistance and financial resources
required to implement a project of this nature.
2.8   The Project is consistent with the guidance for accessing the Climate Change
short-term window of the GEF Operational Strategy, in that: (a) it is technically,
environmentally, and socially sustainable; (b) it is a national priority in the National
Climate Change Mitigation Plan (1995) as well as in the Environmental National Policy
Plain; (c) it provides the means of abating GHG at a cost of US $3.41 per ton of carbon,
which is below the maximum acceptable US $10 per ton carbon; (d) it includes an
essential transfer of technology through twinning arrangements and managerial assistance
during project implementation; and (e) it would develop the current emission of methane,
a potent greenhouse gas, into an indigenous energy resource.
2.9  In addition, the Project would provide a mechanism for the GEF to support the
development of a cost-effective waste management technology as a means of reducing
greenhouse gas emissions. With successful implementation, the Project could serve as a
paradigm for most of the municipalities in the Baltic Region, all of which face the
requirement of improving the management of solid waste. The high potential for
reducing greenhouse gases has lead the GEF Council to approve a grant equivalent of US
$5.12 million.
2.10 The Swedish International Development Agency (SIDA) has declared its
willingness to support the Project with a US $1.5 million investment grant. The rationale



The Project                                                            11
is that the Project would eliminate the ongoing discharge of untreated leachate and
polluted runoff water from the Getlini site to River Daugava, a tributary to the Baltic Sea.
Baltic Sea cleanup has become an environmental priority for Sweden.
D.   Project Objectives
2.11  The Project would introduce modem, self-sustaining management of municipal
solid waste to Latvia. This would be accomplished by the maximum collection of
generated methane, thereby reducing greenhouse gas emissions and creating a revenue
stream to cover capital and operational costs of the improved landfill. Other objectives
include: (a) simplifying the separation of recyclable material; (b) reducing environmental
impact for neighbors of the disposal site; (c) demonstrating how outdated and obsolete
disposal sites can be remediated and converted into sanitary landfills to enable continued
operation; and (d) arresting the ongoing contamination of groundwater. The Project
would develop the indigenous Latvian LFG into an energy resource, thereby mitigating
an otherwise constant emission of methane into the atmosphere, and at the same time,
decreasing the dependence on imported fossil fuel for electricity generation, heating
purposes, or both.
E.   Donor and Public Participation during Project Preparation
2.12  The project has received broad media coverage because of its innovative aspects.
A first public meeting was held on May 25, 1996. It was followed by another public
meeting on October 26, 1996, and a third public meeting on December 14, 1996. In
attendance were a wide range of stakeholders, including affected communities, local,
regional, national, and international government project counterparts, the media, NGOs,
and the currently operating solid waste management enterprise. The meetings were
broadcast on television as well as national and local radio, and covered by major
newspapers in Latvia. In addition, there have been several meetings with the inhabitants
of neighboring communities to ensure that their concerns relating to the Project are
addressed.
2.13  During the public meeting in December 1996, the results from the draft feasibility
study and the draft environmental assessment were presented. The participants clearly
expressed an interest in the implementation of the Project, because it would reduce noise,
odor, and safeguard existing job opportunities for the regular staff at the site. Especially
important to meeting participants is the arrest of the contamination of the most shallow
aquifer, which is frequently used for irrigation purposes. The environmental assessment
as well as the feasibility study were made available in several local public institutions to
enable the local people to read the reports and provide comments to the Bank and RCC.
SIDA representatives have participated both in public meetings and in Project
preparation.



12                                                                         Chapter 2



The Project                                                               13
F.    Project Components and Description
2.14  The Project is directed toward the remediation and continued operation of the
Getlini waste disposal site. The Project would finance the following activities:
(a)   remediation of the existing disposal site;
(b)   technical and operational improvements to meet western sanitary landfill
standards;
(c)   establishment of a sorting line for separation of recyclable materials and
arranging separate areas for the storage of separated material as well as
hazardous waste, which would later be transported to another site;
(d)   establishment of a modern waste management technology based on energy
cells for enhanced degradation of easily biodegradable waste;
(e)   collection of LFG containing about 50 percent methane, CH4;
(f)   site generation of electricity by use of gas engines with direct delivery to
the grid;
(g)   technical assistance through twinning arrangements to enable the staff of
the disposal site to efficiently operate the waste processing system and to
achieve maximum revenues from the generated LFG and separated by-
products: and
(h)   managerial assistance during the implementation period to facilitate the
future development of the company.
2.15  The aforementioned activities would be grouped in three integrated investment
components and one technical assistance component:
(a)   remediation of the existing site to meet environmental requirements in
regard to leachate treatment and to avoidance of future groundwater
contamination;
(b)   technical and operational improvements to meet western sanitary landfill
standards, and arrangements for improving the separation of recyclable
materials;
(c)   establishment of energy cells for enhanced degradation of easily
biodegradable waste, collection of landfill, and generation of electricity;
and
(d)   technical and managerial assistance through twinning arrangements.



14                                                                        Chapter 2
2.16   The proposed Project would remediate the existing waste pile covering about 35
hectares to arrest ongoing groundwater contamination. It would utilize the remaining area
of about 52 hectares to establish special waste cells for enhanced decomposition of the
future waste to be disposed at the site. The remediation will ensure that the current
uncovered pile of waste will be totally covered and sealed against infiltration of rain
water, thereby minimizing the future generation of leachate. The remaining area will be
prepared to completely fulfill modem sanitary landfill requirements to avoid future
neglative environmental impacts. Landfill gas will be extracted from both the existing
waste pile and the new cells. A more detailed description of the necessary measures to be
undertaken during the Project implementation is presented in Annex 1. To ensure that
leachate is not reaching the groundwater, separate ditches around the waste pile will be
established, and groundwater wells will be established downstream to control penetration
of leachate into the groundwater. Energy cells for enhanced degradation of easily
biodegradable organic content will be established within the remaining area (52 of 87
allocated hectares). After decomposition, the waste will be either further separated into a
compost fraction or a fuel fraction, or disposed of on top of the existing waste pile. When
this; pile has reached its final height (currently estimated at 45 meters), energy cells will
be located on top of this pile, and the area initially occupied by the energy cells would
then begin to be filled up.
2.17   Recyclable materials are currently separated by semiformal workers,4 who sift
through the refuse as soon as it has been delivered to the waste site. Under this Project,
this activity will be transformed to achieve less hazardous working conditions. The
workers will be organized to remove recyclable materials5 from a conveyor belt at the
waste receiving point, instead of working directly on top of delivered waste, with
consequent reduction in accidents. After this separation, the remaining waste will be
shredded and further transported on a conveyer belt to the energy cell area, thereby
avoiding unnecessary traffic within the disposal site. The recyclables will be awaiting
transport and sale to other companies. Hazardous waste might by mistake be transported
to the site, and therefore the Project also includes a facility to enable temporary storage of
that type of waste.
2.1 8   It is anticipated that the National Waste Management Strategy and new
regulations will lead to an improved "quality" of the raw waste entering the site resulting
in acceptable levels of heavy metals. To maximize the collection of LFG, about two or
three cells will be established each year. The limited size and the short lives of the cells
will allow the cells to be opened after about five years and the decomposed material to be
moved to another facility for processing as compostable waste. At the site, it is presently
These employees have been termed semiformal workers because they are not formally employed by
GLC, the current management company.
Current separation of recyclable materials includes paper and board, bottles, cans, aluminum, metal
scrap, wood, tires, batteries, etc.



The Project                                                                    15
possible to separate a fuel fraction from the decomposed waste, and use this in a boiler
constructed for coal, wood chips, and peat briquettes. In the near- or long-term, it should
be possible to utilize up to 80 percent of the original waste volume after compacting.
Thereby, the lifetime of the Getlini site could be 200 years. In the Project scenario, these
possibilities have not been included, and the lifetime has been calculated to about 50
years.
G.    Project Costs
2.19   The total cost of the Project is estimated to be US $25.21 million or Ls 13.61
million equivalent, including contingencies, recurring costs during project
implementation, and interest during construction. The estimated costs for the project
subcomponents is shown in Table 2.1.
2.20   The base investment cost is estimated at US $16.49 million and the base for
recurrent costs at US $3.79 million, resulting in a total base cost of US $20.28 million.
Physical contingencies are estimated at US $1.06 million. Price contingencies between
January 1, 1997 and December 31, 2001 would amount to approximately US $2.65
million,6 or 12.4 percent of total base cost plus physical contingencies.  Total
contingencies represent 18.3 percent of the base cost. The foreign exchange component
is estimated at approximately US $14.31 million, including contingencies and interest
during construction, or 56 percent of the total project cost.
6   Assumptions
Local inflation: 1997 = 9.8%; 1998 = 9.0%; 1999 = 7.0%; 2000 = 6.0%; 2001 = 6.0%
International inflation: 1997 = 1.7%; 1998 = 2.2%; 1999 = 2.6%; 2000 = 2.8%; 2001 = 2.6%



16                                                                                                        Chapter 2
Table 2.1: Project Cost Summary by Project Sub-Component
No.  Description                                                   Lats '000                 US $ '000
Local   Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign    Total   Main Financier
I     Material (incl. Transport Clay and Sand                  569      142    711   1054       263      1,317 GEF
2      Earth Works/Remediation                                 232       58    289    429       107        536 GEF
3      Machinery/ Equipment/Building                            22       18      39     40       33         73 IBRD
4      Groundwater ControltLeachate Treatment/Monitoring        123     366    489    227       678        905 SIDA
5      Detailed Design                                          68      270    338    125       500        625 IBRD
6     Civil Works/Buildings/Technical Improvements             339      277    616    628       513       1141 GEF
7      Earth Works/Improvements                                859      215   1074   1591       398       1989 RCC
8      Weighbridge/Registration                                   9      34      43     16       63         79 IBRD
9      Sorting Unit/Shredder                                    181     724    905    335    1341         1676 IBRD
10    Container/Oil Tank                                         2        6      8       3       12         15 IBRD
11    Wheel/Track Loader                                        79      318    397    147       588        735 IBRD
12    Maintenance Bridge                                          1       5:      6      2        9         11 RCC
13    Earth Works/Gas                                          276       78    354    512       144        656 RCC
14    Gas Extraction Piping                                     52       43     95      97       79        176 IBRD
15    Civil Works/Leachate Water                               262      214    476    485       397        882 RCC
16    Regulation Station                                         8       32     41      15       60         75 IBRD
17    Junction Manholes                                          0        2      2       0        3          4 IBRD
18    Collector Well/Pumping Boiler                             60      241    302    112       447        559 IBRD
19    Electricity Generation Facility                          410    1642   2052    760    3040         3800 GEF/IBRD
19A   Local Staff Salary                                       197        0    197    365         0        365 RCC
20    International Procurement Specialist                       16     146    162      30      270        300 IBRD
21     Twinning Arrangement                                     32      184    216      60      340        400 SIDA
22    Office Equipment                                            5      14      19      9       26         35 SIDA
22A   0 & M Project Support Unit                                 16      49      65     30       90        120 RCC
23     Vehicle                                                    3       8      11      5       15         20 GEF
Total Recurrent Cost                                    846    1199   2046   1567    2221          3788
Total Base Cost                                        4667    6285  10952   8642   11639    20,282
Physical Contingencies                                  316      256    572    586       473       1059
Price Contingencies                                    1056      375   1431   1956       694       2650
Total Project Cost                                     6039    6915  12955  11184   12806         23990
Bank-Financed Interest during Construction                       659    659             1220       1220
Total Financing Required                               6039    7574  13613  11184   14026         25210
H.   Project Financing Arranigements
2.21   The proposed Bank loan of US $7.95 million would cover approximately 31.5
percent of total required financing, including interest during construction of US $1.22
million. The loan would finance both foreign and local costs, in the proportion described
in para. 2.41. The loan would be made under the standard terms for a LIBOR-based
single currency loan, and be repaid over a 17-year period, including 5 years of grace, at
the standard IBRD variable interest rate and commitment fees.
2.22   Co-financing of the Project has been arranged, with grants from SIDA (US $1.5
million) and GEF (US $5.12 million) for a total of US $6.62 million (26.3 percent of
project costs). These grants would be provided to GOL, which would pass them to the



The Project                                                            17
final beneficiary Getlini-Eco Ltd. (GLE) in grant form. RCC would contribute US $6
million equivalent, partly in equity and partly as a separate, interest-free, loan to GLE.
The loan, US $4 million, would be repaid over 17 years after 5 years grace. The balance
of US $4.64 million, (the recurrent costs during project implementation), would be
financed by GLE from the cash flow generated by the Project. A more detailed
description of the financing plan is provided in Annex 3.
2.23  It has been agreed with the Ministry of Finance that the Bank loan would be
onlent under a subsidiary loan agreement to RCC, which in turn would pass these funds
to GLE under a separate onlending agreement. Terms would be similar to those obtained
by GOL, except for a markup of about 0.7 percent for the government. An interest rate of
8 percent has been used in the calculations. GLE would carry the foreign exchange risk
associated with the Bank loan.
2.24 Execution of subsidiary loan agreement between GOL and RCC and GLE is a
condition of loan effectiveness.
I.    Procurement
2.25  Table 2.2 summarizes the procurement arrangements.  A  more detailed
presentation of procurement arrangements can be found in Annex 4.1, Procurement
Plan, and in Annex 4.2, Use of funds for Different Procurement Packages over the
Implementation Period, and in Annex 4.3, Procurement Information. The General
Procurement Notice was published on March 31, 1997. During negotiations, agreement
was reached that all the procurement funded by the Bank and GEF would be carried out
in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits (January 1995, revised January and August 1996), and Guidelines for Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency
(August 1981).
2.26 Procurement under parallel cofinancing arrangements would be carried out
through tied procurement in accordance with the regulations of the Government of
Sweden.
2.27 Contracts earmarked for financing from RCC funds would be procured following
national procedures, which are acceptable to the Bank.
2.28  Procurement Management. Responsibility for procurement (and disbursement)
will be with the Project Procurement Unit (PPU) to be set up under the RCC, and located
at the offices of RCC (see Annex 8). This unit will be assisted by international
consultants with experience in Bank procurement, disbursement and reporting
requirements (for details see paras. 3.8 - 3.11). The project launch workshop is planned
for July 1998.



18                                                                                       Chapter 2
Table 2.2: Procurement Arrangements
Project Element                   iCB             NCB              Other      NBF        Total Cost
Civil Works
2101                        4765       6866
145                                    145*
1607-                                   1607**
Equipment
7381           1623              547         944      10495
5136*                            498*                  5634*
2117**         1375**             21*                  3513**
Consultant Services
314       1038        1352
314*                   314*
PPF - Design                                                  637                     637
637*                   637*
Total Procurement
TOTAL 7381            3724             1184       6747       19350
Bank 5136*           145*            1135*                  6730*
GEF 2117**          2982               21**                 5120**
ICB = international competitive bidding;
NCB = national competitive bidding;
NBF' = not Bank financed
* Bank Loan Financed Procurement
GEF Financed Procurement
NQtet: Consulting Services for project design (estimated to cost US $673 thousand) PPF funding, and advisory services
(US $314 thousand) will be procured in accordance with Bank Guidelines for Use of Consultants (August 1981).
International Shopping is estimated at US $400 thousand, and National Shopping is estimated at US $50 thousand.
2.29 Civil Works (US $1.8 million). All civil works would be procured through
national competitive bidding (NCB). These civil works are mainly labor intensive, that
is, earth works and construction. The Borrower would be using bidding documents for
NCB contracts developed for the ECA region.
2.30 Goods and Material (US $9.2 million). All Bank-funded contracts (with the
exception of the procurement of clay and sand) valued at more than US $300,000 would
be procured under International Competitive Bidding (ICB). The borrower would use the
Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for Goods. Procurement of sand and clay
(estimated to cost US $1.6 million) would be done in accordance with NCB procedures.
There are more than ten local suppliers able to provide clay and sand at competitive
prices. The bidding documents would be based on the Standard Bidding Documents for
Procurement of Commodities. International Shopping (IS), based on comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers from two eligible countries, will be used
for procurement of small specialized equipment estimated to cost less than US $300,000
withl an aggregate amount of US $500,000. National Shopping (NS), based on the
conmparison of price quotations from at least three eligible suppliers, will be used for



The Project                                                                  19
procurement of office equipment and furniture estimated to cost less than US $50,000
with an aggregated amount of US $50,000.
2.31   Consultant Services These would consist of consultant contracts for detailed
design (US $0.6 million) and for the consultant support for the PPU (US $0.3 million).
Potential firms would be shortlisted and selected on the competitive basis according to
Bank Guidelines.  Given the circumstances that: (i) the shortlists and Terms of
References for the consultant services were prepared and approved in the beginning of
March; and (ii) the use of the new Guidelines for Procurement of Consultant Services in
practice would delay the physical project implementation with one year and increase the
project cost with about US $1 million, the Bank, in consultation with the Chief
Procurement Advisor, agreed to exempt the Project from following the new guidelines.
2.32   Preference for domestic manufacturers will be granted in accordance with
standard Bank procedures.
2.33   Procurement Review. All packages procured through ICB, the first two packages
procured through NCB, and the first packages procured through IS would be subject to
the Bank's prior review and approval. For consulting services, prior review is required for
all contracts with individuals exceeding US $50,000, all contracts with consulting firms
exceeding US $100,000; and terms of reference are required for all consultants' contracts
irrespective of the contract value, and including the proposed twinning arrangement.
Other procurement would be subject to the Bank's post review during supervision of the
Project in accordance with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines.
2.34 Procurement Plan and Monitoring. Procurement data will be collected and
recorded by PPU.   The Borrower will prepare quarterly progress reports on the
procurement of goods and services under the Project.
J.    Disbursements
2.35   The proposed Project is expected to be disbursed over a period of six Bank fiscal
years (1998-2003) with an estimated closing date of July 31, 2003. Disbursements per
Bank fiscal year are shown in Table 2.3. Table 2.4 shows the disbursement, for fiscal
year, of all the financier's contributions for the project. Descriptions of all the Bank loan
and GEF grant proceeds and forecasts of expenditure and disbursement for the proposed
Project are shown in Annex 5.1. The disbursement schedule is shown in Annex 5.2.
Table 2.3: Project Disbursement by Bank Fiscal Year (in Millions of US $)
Year                1998        1999       2000       2001        2002       2003
Annual               0.2         5.68       9.06       4.36       3.84       2.07
Cumulative           0.2         5.88      14.93      19.30      23.14      25.21
Cumulative %           1          23         59         77         92         100
of Total



20                                                                           Chapter 2
Table 2.4: Financing Plan by Bank Fiscal Year (in Million US $)
Financiers           1998      1999      2000     2001      2002      2003      Total
Riga City               0       1.23     1.85      1.17      1.12      0.63      6.00
World Bank           0.20      1.56      2.74      1.73      1.12      0.60      7.95
GEF                     0      2.44      2.57      0.10      0.00      0.00      5.12
SIDA                    0      0.25      0.97      0.11      0.11      0.06      1.50
Getlini-Eco Ltd.        0      0.20      0.92      1.25      1.49      0.78      4.64
TOTAL                0.20       5.68     9.06      4.36      3.84      2.07     25.21
2.36   The pace of the estimated disbursement for the Project is somewhat advanced
compared with the standard Bank disbursement schedules for the sector. The necessity of
safeguarding the groundwater from  further contamination and of enabling an early
revenue stream to cover recurrent costs during implementation makes it crucial to
implement heavy investments during the second year of the implementation period.
Furthermore, the substantial technical assistance (through an international procurement
specialist and through twinning arrangements) serves as a guarantee for timely
implementation.
2.37   It is expected that first disbursements will be made against the SIDA and GEF
grants. This sequence will minimize interest payments during construction. The RCC
equity contribution of US $0.6 million will be paid over the five years, at US $0.12
million a year. The RCC equity will be disbursed over four years, from 1999 to 2003; in
this way, the overall contribution of RCC will be spaced over time so as to avoid liquidity
problems for the city administration.
2.38;  Appendix 2 of Annex 7 shows the estimated disbursement schedule for the entire
funcling package, including GLE's contribution from its own funds. The Bank loan will
be disbursed starting in 1998, and the final disbursement is foreseen for the year 2002.
2.39   The disbursement schedule for RCCfinance and details on opening of bank
account(s) were agreed upon during negotiations. A separate financing agreement
betwteen RCC and GLE is a condition for loan effectiveness.
2.40   The proceeds of the Bank loan and the GEF grant would be disbursed against:
(a)           For goods: 100 percent of foreign expenditures, 100 percent of local ex-
factory expenditures and 80 percent of local expenditures for other items
procured locally;
(b)           For works: 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 82 percent of local
expenditures; and



The Project                                                            21
(c)         For consultancy services: 100 percent of expenditures for project design,
technical assistance and training.
The proceeds of the GEF grant would be used for 100 percent of all types of
expenditures, except local taxes. All cofinancers would manage their own disbursements.
2.41  Disbursement requests would be prepared and submitted to the Bank by the PPU
to be established with the RCC. It is expected that the PPU staff would attend
disbursement training courses organized by the Bank (see para. 3.8 - 3.11).
2.42 Disbursement would be made against standard Bank documentation. The
documentation to support these expenditures would be retained by the PPU for review by
Bank supervision missions and verification by external audits. Disbursement requests
would be fully documented except for expenditures under contracts for goods and
equipment and consultant services valued at less than US $250,000 equivalent, where
statements of expenditure (SOE) would be used. The minimum size of the application for
direct payment from the loan account and issuance of a special commitment is 20 percent
of the current deposit to the special account.
2.43  To facilitate Project implementation, the Borrower would establish a Special
Account in one of the major foreign commercial banks on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank to cover the Bank's share of expenditures. The authorized
allocation would be US $790,00, representing about four months of average expenditures
made through the Special Account. During the early stages of the Project, the initial
allocation to the Special Account would be limited to US $500,000. However, when the
aggregate disbursement under the Bank loan has reached the level of US $2,000,000, the
initial allocation may be increased to the authorized allocation of US $790,000 by
submitting the relevant application for withdrawal. Applications for replenishment of the
Special Account would be submitted monthly or when one third of the amount has been
withdrawn, whichever occurs earlier. Documentation requirements for replenishment
would follow the standard Bank procedure as described in Chapter 6 of the Disbursement
Handbook. In addition, monthly bank statements of the Special Account, which have
been reconciled by the Borrower, would accompany all replenishment requests. During
negotiations, the terms and conditions of the establishment and operation of the Special
Account were set forth.
K.   Environmental Aspects
2.44  The results from the environmental assessment indicates that the Project would
result in considerable local environmental improvements by reducing: (a) groundwater
pollution; (b) surface water pollution; (c) dust and air pollution caused by fires; (d) noise
from activities on the site; and (e) odors from uncovered waste material. The Project
would on the national level substitute either import of 6 MW power or fossil fuels
imported to generate that capacity at domestic power plants, and it would on the global



22                                                               Chapter 2
level contribute to a cost effective reduction of GHG; US $3.4/ton of carbon (see para
2.8).  The Project would also substantially improve the working conditions for
individuals involved in the separation and recycling of waste material.
2.45  Project preparation included a comprehensive  environmental assessment
consistent with the applicable procedures of GOL and the provisions of World Bank
Operational Directive 4.01, Environmental Assessment (EA) for a Category A project.
The EA also included a social assessment of the situation for neighbors, employees at
GLIC, semiformal workers, and food- and waste pickers. Following this assessment, the
design of the Project was changed from opening of a new landfill some 40 kilometers
outside Riga to the rehabilitation and modernization of the existing site, and it was not
until the feasibility study was finished it became clear that a B-rating for the Project
better reflected the circumstances. The Environmental Data Sheet is presented in Annex
6.1.
2.46  The sole negative impacts associated with the Project consist of exclusion of
semiformal workers and food- and waste pickers at the site. Semiformal workers receive
pay3ment by the kilogram or volume of recovered recyclable materials, and in many cases,
do not come to the site every day for work. This group is estimated to number
approximately 220. Food- and waste pickers are defined as those individuals who visit
the site illegally to gather food items and items of possible value. Exact numbers of this
group are unknown and are very difficult to estimate, but current estimates range from 50
to 50D0.
2.47'   Covering the existing waste pile and off-loading waste into a confined,
controlled, and safe manner in keeping with modem waste management practices will
exclude both of these groups. This impact is considered potentially significant given
Latvia's transition economy. However, picking waste at a waste site is neither a safe nor
healthy means of earning, or supplementing, an income.  International practice
universally recommends excluding all but management company employees from
municipal waste disposal sites for reasons of health and safety. Considering human
safety and health risks, the use of the Getlini site as a temporary remedy for social and
employment problems is not appropriate. The national and municipal governments of
Latvia have established a social safety net for the unemployed and destitute. A summary
of the entire environmental assessment can be found in Annex 6.2.
2.48 Food- and wastepickers will be informed through a public information drive about
the consequences of project implementation and the date from which there will be no
furthier access to the site. A special office will be set up within RCC, where food- and
waste-pickers will be provided guidance regarding existing social welfare provisions. The
semiformal workers will be offered the opportunity to be employed on a contractual basis
to continue to separate waste along a picking belt. The number ofjob opportunities for
this purpose has not yet been defined, but is expected to be about 30-40.



3. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Background
3.1   Currently, the disposal site at Getlini, located in the Stopinu Pagast, is operated by
Geltini-2 Ltd (GLC). GLC is jointly owned by the Riga City Council (RCC) (49 percent
of the shares) and the Stopinu Pagast Council (SPC) (51 percent of shares). This
company started operation on July 1, 1995. In order to implement the Project, RCC and
SPC decided to establish a new company, Getlini-Eco Ltd. (GLE), in which RCC would
have 60 percent of the shares and SPC would have 40 percent of the shares. Until the
Bank loan is repaid, however, GOL through the Ministry of Environmental Protection
and Regional Development (MOEPRD) would buy 5 percent of the shares from both
RCC and SPC, resulting in an initial owner structure in which RCC owns 55 percent,
SPC owns 35 percent, and GOL owns 10 percent. Initially, GLC was planned to be a
wholly owned subsidiary of GLE in order to continue operating the site. However,
during negotiations the parties declared that instead GLC would remain as an independent
company and that the operation would be tendered on an open competitive basis. The
company GLE was registered as a joint stock company on November 21, 1997.
3.2  In accordance with the Business Development Plan for GLE, it would be
developed into a leading waste management entity in Latvia, and be involved in
replicating the proposed technology at other sites. Furthermore, GLE is expected to
expand its involvement into other waste management related activities.
B. Implementation
3.3   RCC would have overall responsibility for project, through the already constituted
Project Steering Committee (PSC). While RCC would supervise implementation, the
actual realization of the investments would be delegated to the new company, GLE. The
company would have a management structure that would facilitate the remediation efforts
of the existing landfill and allow it to oversee the production of LFG. Proposals for
management and technical assistance are contained in Annex 7. The actual operation of
the landfill would be delegated to the external contractor through a management contract.
A detailed schedule for activities up to the estimated start of the physical implementation
is presented in Annex 8. The schedule for the physical project implementation is



24                                                               Chapter 3
presented in Annex 4.1. Agreement on implementation schedules was reached during
negotiations.
3.4   To assist with procurement and disbursements, a Project Procurement Unit (PPU)
will be set up as a separate unit within RCC, under a unit head who reports directly to the
chairman of the PSC. Furthermore, to assist the Steering Committee to supervise project
implementation during the first two years, an international and a local Project Adviser
will be employed. Their role will be to make sure that all necessary documents are
prepared and permits required to maintain the project's implementation schedule.
3.5   The technical assistance required for the physical project implementation has been
included under project costs, and will be provided through twinning arrangements under
the SIDA grant. The proposed twinning agreement would provide expertise to both GLE
and the contracted company for operation of the energy cells. The terms of reference for
the twinning arrangements was discussed and agreed upon at negotiations. Several
suitable counterparts have already been identified
C.   Organization and Management
P-roject Steering Committe
3.6   The PSC consists of members of RCC, SPC, and the Ministries of Environmental
Protection and Regional Development, Economy, and Finance, and Riga Region
Environmental Board. The Managing Director of GLE is also a member of the
comimittee. The PSC is chaired by a member of RCC, and the head of the PPU is its
Secretary. During negotiations agreement was reached concerning the composition and
responsibilities of the PSC, and that the RCC budget wouldfinance PSC activities.
3.7   The PSC is anticipated to meet at least once a month during the first 2 years of
project implementation and thereafter every third month to maintain close monitoring of
the Project and to help resolve any outstanding issues. In, particular, its functions would
include:
-   ensuring that Project implementation is on schedule;
-   resolving any issues likely to delay realization of Project objectives;
-   liaising between representatives of GLE, PPU, GOL, RCC and SPC;
-   providing a focal point for the Bank and other donor agencies
concerning the Project; and
-   assisting the PPU and GLE in any day-to-day issues that may arise
during implementation of the Project.



Project Implementation                                                 25
Project Procurement Unit
3.8   The PPU would be created to be in charge of all procurement and disbursement
under the Project. It would be a separate unit within RCC, and its staff would be hired
under normal Government salary conditions, supplemented by a premium. The head of
PPU, a Latvian national, would be appointed by RCC for the duration of project
implementation. The Bank would be consulted before this appointment is made.
3.9   The responsibilities of the PPU would include: (a) preparation of a standard set of
bidding documents (both for World Bank, other donor finance and locally financed
contracts); (b) submission of bidding documents together with technical specifications to
the Bank for no objection; (c) publication and dispatch of invitations to tender; (d)
evaluation of bids and recommendation for award; (e) all procurement and disbursement
related to the Project; and (f) maintenance of the Project accounts. The preparation of
technical specifications for all contracts will be the responsibility of the consulting firm
chosen for the detailed design. A Letter of Invitation has been submitted to short listed
consultants for detailed design and preparation of tender documents, and the award of a
contract for these tasks is planned for March 1998. The PPU would also be responsible,
under the PSC, for maintaining relations with the Bank and other donors regarding all
procurement and disbursement matters.
3.10 In addition to the unit head, PPU would have two local professionals, a
procurement specialist and an accounting/disbursement officer, as well as one
driver/messenger and one bilingual secretary. An external IBRD procurement specialist
would be engaged (full-time for the initial year and part-time thereafter) to assist in
preparing necessary procurement documentation, as mentioned in para 3.9 above, and to
train staff in Bank procurement and disbursement procedures. The external specialist,
hired under Bank Guidelines for Use of Consultant Services (1981), would also provide
on-the-job training of local staff and organize, together with the Bank, a local seminar
for all project staff concerned.
3.11  Up to loan effectiveness, the operational and equipment costs of the PPU would
be financed from a Japanese grant from the Policy and Human Resources Development
Fund(PHRD), for which the agreements have been signed. Thereafter, transportation and
operating expenses would be financed by the Project. The RCC would make available
suitable office space and furniture. During negotiations all aspects (number of staff,
salary levels, operating expenses, office space, etc.) relative to the PPU were agreed on.
Getlini-Eco Ltd. (GLE)
3.12 The new company, GLE, to be established under the Project would be jointly
owned by RCC, SPC, and GOL, see para 3.2. This company would be directly
responsible for the implementation of the Project and its operation thereafter. The
proposed key staffing is as follows:



26                                                                 Chapter 3
*  Managing Director, a Latvian national of sufficient experience and stature
to guide the new company, to supervise implementation of the Project and
to control the operations of the wholly owned subsidiary, GLC. The Bank
has been consulted on the appointment of the Managing Director of GLE.
.  Manager of Technical Department, a Latvian national with extensive
industry experience, to oversee technical implementation and to supervise
the project. All environmental matters would also be dealt with by the
Technical Department. The manager would be assisted by an expatriate
consultant engaged on a part-time basis. There would also be a junior
engineer to assist the manager in the day-to-day tasks.
.  Manager of Finance Department, a Latvian national, who would be
responsible for all financial and commercial aspects of the project and the
accounting and budgeting of the company. The manager would be
assisted by an accountant.
3.13  In addition, there would be one bilingual secretary and a driver/messenger. The
GLE would have an office in Riga. The operational costs of this office, including staff,
has not been included in the Project cost because this new company is an additional
structure recommended by the GOL to ensure a smooth implementation of the Project.
However, it is foreseen that the additional operational cost would be financed from
Government's 30 percent share of the Natural Resource Tax.7 This would be confirmed
during negotiations. After Project completion, all costs relative to the new company
would be financed from its revenues. During negotiations, MOEPRD confirmed that
GOL('s share of the National Resource Tax would remain at GLE to cover its
administrative costs.
3.14 The proposed twinning arrangement would be made with GLE. This would be of
great assistance to the new company and instrumental in getting the project off to a timely
start. This arrangement is expected to be made with a waste management company in
Sweden complemented by consultants with large experience in business management and
practical implementation of waste management technologies.
3.15  Company revenues would be derived from the waste disposal fee and from the
sale of recovered materials and of electricity generated from LFG.
Operating Company
Disposal of all waste requires the payment of a Natural Resource Tax (NRT), which will be shared by
the national government (30 percent), the regional government (30 percent), and the municipality
where the disposal site is located (40 percent). The NRT is anticipated to be used for environmental
improvements, with specific emphasis on waste management.



Project Implementation                                                  27
3.16 Under the agreements between GOL, RCC, and SPC made on December 18, 1996
and January 7, 1997, the ownership of the existing GLC would be transferred to GLE,
and GLC would become a wholly owned subsidiary of GLE. However, as previously
mentioned, para. 3.1, this transfer will not take place, and instead the operation of the
site will be contracted, and the operating company will be selected on an open
competitive bidding for the operation of the new landfill (based on the energy cell
concept) and gas extraction from the old landfill. As a condition for the successful
realization of these tasks, the actual management would need to be strengthened. The
details of this technical assistance would need to be worked out in the context of the
proposed twinning arrangement agreed upon during negotiations.
3.17  GLE would enter into a contractual arrangement with the operating company,
initially for a two-year period and to be reviewed annually thereafter. The contractor
would be paid a fee for receiving and processing the waste, based on the quantity of
household and industrial waste delivered to the site, estimated at a total of 250,000 tons
per year.
D. Project Implementation Schedule and Supervision
3.18  Preparation  for Project implementation  would  start immediately  upon
negotiations, while the physical implementation of the project would be realized over
four calendar years, starting early 1999 until the end of 2002, with an additional six
months for the payment of financial obligations entered into prior to project completion.
The PPU and the GLE will be assisted by international consultants to support preparation
of technical specifications, bidding documents, and supervision of civil works and
equipment installation.
3.19  The proposed Project would be supervised by the Bank from both headquarters
and the Riga Regional Mission for the Baltic Countries. Representatives of SIDA would
also participate in supervision missions. A proposed supervision plan is presented in
Annex 9.1.
3.20  Recognizing that the proposed Project would be the first Bank project in the
region involving establishment of innovative, revenue-generating waste management
technology, it might require significant supervision (about 20 staff weeks a year). This
supervision would be particularly intensive during the first two years when considerable
input would be required for engineering and procurement aspects. A mid-term review is
scheduled in August 2000.
E.   Reporting Requirements, Accounts and Audits
3.21  The PSC  staff would have overall responsibility for monitoring project
implementation. It would call on PPU and the new company GLE to complete the
detailed schedules required by the Bank. During negotiations, an understanding was



28                                                                 Chapter 3
reached on the scope ofreporting financial, managerial and technical matters pertaining
to GLE in general, and the Project in particular. In particular GLE is expected, with the
support of the PSC, to submit to the Bank semi-annual progress reports on each Project
subcomponent, estimated and revised costs, schedule, objective and activity.
3.22  To record project expenditures, separate accounlts would be kept by the PPU in
accordance with international accounting rules. These accounts would be audited
annually by a certified accounting firm acceptable to the Bank.
3.23  In addition, modem accounting methods would be introduced for the accounts of
GLE. These accounts would also be audited by certified accountants acceptable to the
Bank.
3.24 To monitor the financial performance of GLE, assurances were obtained during
negotiations that: (a) it will submit on a semi-annual basis financial progress reports in
which the actual results would be compared with the Budget's; and (b) it will appoint
independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank to audit its accounts on an annual basis,
and the audit reports will be submitted to the Bank within four months of the end of the
fiscal year. GLE also agreed during negotiations to submit Progress Reports and
Completion Report in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
F. Monitoring and Evaluation
3.25  In order to enable monitoring of key development indicators throughout the
project cycle some essential commercial, operational, financial, and environmental
indicators have been developed. These are further explained in Annex 9.2. Agreement
on these monitoring indicators was reached during negotiations.



4. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
A. Background
4.1   RCC will be the subborrower of the Bank loan, through GOL, with proceeds to be
onlent to GLE. In addition, RCC will make US $6 million available for the Project, part
as equity and part as an interest-free loan. To ascertain whether RCC will be able to
assume these financial charges, an analysis has been made of its present and future
financial position. Details are in Annex 10. The analysis shows that RCC would be able
to provide the US $6 million contribution from its own funds, spaced over five years, as
well as to repay the Bank loan in the (unlikely) event that GLE would not be able to
service that debt.
4.2   The final beneficiary of the project, as well as its primary implementing agent,
will be the new enterprise, GLE, to be founded in 1997, when it will formally start its
operations. To prepare the company for the project implementation, technical assistance
is required. This assistance would be largely defined in the context of the Business
Development Plan (BDP), to be formulated by Bank consultants by early 1997. It will
most likely take the form of:
* a twinning arrangement with an experienced foreign company; and
*  the constitution of a technical department with specialized staff (some short-term
foreign staff).
4.3   The final BDP was presented in March 1997. It includes the Articles of
Association, the Shareholder's Agreement, the slate of the Board of Directors, job
descriptions, company strategic plans, as well as a draft Power Purchase Agreement
(PPA) between GLE and Latvenergo. The BDP and modifications of proposed major
documents included in the BDP were discussed during negotiations. Submission of a
signed Power Purchase Agreement is a condition of loan effectiveness.
B.    Tariff Levels and Affordability
4.4   Charges for household waste collection are fixed by the RCC. The annual charge
for each inhabitant is at present, Ls 2.35 per m3 (with the average waste per year
calculated at 1.30 m3 per person for an annual charge of Ls 3.05). The charge is based on:
(a) a disposal fee payable to GLE of Ls. 0.40/mi3; (b) collection and transportation fees of
Ls 1.30/mr3; (c) replacement of containers Ls 0.40/m3; and (d) a Natural Resource Tax of



30                                                                 Chapter 4
Ls 0.25/m3 . The latter is distributed to GOL (30 percent), the Riga District (30 percent),
and SPC (40 percent). Charges for industrial waste vary by type of waste, between Ls
0.85 and Ls 1.06 per m 3.
4.5   It is difficult to assess the affordability of the waste disposal fee because it is
levied on the inhabitants as part of an overall charge that includes rent and utilities, i.e.,
water, heat and electricity. For the newly urban poor, elderly and unemployed persons,
these charges are too high and arrears are substantial. However, for those with a steady
income, the fee structure is quite affordable. Moreover, the financial analysis shows that
the Project can be financed and implemented without an increase in disposal fees.
C. Organization of and Financial Projections for Getlini-Eco
4.6   GLE would be incorporated in late 1997 as a limited liability company with three
shareholders: RCC (55 percent), Stopinu Pagast (35 percent) and GOL (10 percent). GLE
would be responsible for project implementation. Details are presented in Annex 7.
4.7   GLE would have a relatively small staff (its organization is discussed in para.
3.12), but its quality needs to be high in order to coordinate and supervise project
implementation. For this reason, the managing director must be selected carefully and
foreign expertise made available. The proposed twinning arrangement would be crucial in
this; regard. GLE would be responsible for continued operation of the project and
expansion of the company's activities as proposed in the BDP.
4.8   Prospects of the new company are good; the cash flow projections are favorable
and with the acquisition of modem waste management technology, GLE is set to become
the country's leader in this field (where much remains to be done). Future cooperation
with other Baltic or other former Soviet Union states could also be developed.
4.9   The main revenues for the company are the disposal fee for the received amount
of waste and the sale of electricity to Latvenergo. In addition, further improvements in
waste separation would lead to additional revenues from the sale of compost and a fuel
fraction based on the nondegraded organic waste material. The Project also guarantees a
substantial amount of energy, heat not recovered during the generation of electricity,
which can be sold to either a district heating company oI to industries. A separate study
will be carried out under the Project to identify possible arrangements for using this
resource. However, these arrangements will not be included in the Project. The sale of
electricity to Latvenergo would be crucial to maintain a financially viable enterprise. The
sale will be regulated through a PPA between GLE and Latvenergo, as mentioned in
para. 4.3. A draft Power Purchase Agreement has been submitted and presents a
purchase price acceptable to safeguard the financial sustainablity of GLE.
4.10  A detailed profit and loss statement and cash flow projections have been made for
the company, both in constant terms and adjusted for inflation are presented in Appendix



Financial Aspects                                                           31
4.10   A detailed profit and loss statement and cash flow projections have been made for
the company, both in constant terms and adjusted for inflation are presented in Appendix
3 to Annex 7. The assumptions are listed in Annex 7. The projection with "constant
1996 prices" indicates that cash flow during the years of project implementation is
adequate to cover recurring costs as well as interest during construction (which in fact is
earmarked for Bank financing). The cash flow, in the first year after project completion,
rises from 28 percent of revenues to 50 percent toward the end of the loan repayment
period. Cash flow is in fact more than adequate to cover loan repayments; the ratio of
loan repayment over the cash flow (debt-service ratio). The debt service ratio is about 30
percent for the first 6 years, and then rises to 59 percent in the last repayment year, due to
falling electricity production. Finally, the cumulative cash flow after loan repayment rises
from US $5.4 million in the first year after project completion, to US $18.6 million in the
year 2019.
4.11   The results for the "inflation adjusted" projection are more favorable--for
example, the debt-service ratio is 27 percent in the first year of repayment (2004) and
rises to 29 percent in the last year. The cumulative cash flow after loan repayment goes
from US $6.7 million in 2003 to US $38.4 million in the last year of the projection.
Furthermore, the debt-service ratio (cash flow after tax over interest and principal from
the year the loan will start to be repaid, 2004) is above two.
D. Past Financial Performance of Getlini-2 Ltd
4.12   GLC started operations in July 1996 and has therefore only a brief financial
history, with audited accounts for 1995 and nine-month figures for 1996. These figures
(presented in Appendix 4 of Annex 7) show that the company is profitable, indicating
that the disposal tariff now in force (see para. 4.3), and set by Riga City, is adequate to
cover the company's current expenditures and to provide a reasonable return on invested
capital. The retained net profit during 1995 is 15.9 percent and from January to
September 1996, 9.9 percent. The main sources of revenue are the disposal fee and
income from the sale of recyclable materials. For details, see Annex 7.
4.13 The company's accounting system should be modernized by adopting
internationally accepted accounting standards
E. Future Financial Performance
4.14  Cash flow projections for GLE (Appendix 3 of Annex 7) indicate that the
company would be able to cover loan repayments, while continuing to generate surpluses
for future investment. The inflation-adjusted figures are even more favorable. For details,
see Annex 7.



32                                                                  Chapter 4
4.1 5  For GLC, as an example of an operating company, cash flow projections have
been presented in Appendix 6 of Annex 7, while the text of Annex 7 contains detailed
comments.
4.16      The projections, based on nine-month figures for 1996, show that the
company will be able to generate a solid cash flow (above 16 percent as a percent of net
turnover and calculated on constant streams), part of which will be transferred to GLE.
These calculations have been made using the present disposal tariffs; therefore, the
implementation of the overall investment program does not require any tariff increases.
F. Organizational Issues
4.17 There are three components to be considered: (a) organization and management of
the new company GLE; (b) creation and staffing of the PPU within RCC; and (c)
teclnical assistance to Getlini-2. The BDP Consultancy would propose detailed
recommendations for points (a) and (c), respectively. These recommendations, once
approved by RCC and SPC, would be incorporated into the onlending agreement between
RC'C and GLE, and implemented at an early. PPU staffing is discussed in paras. 3.8 -
3.11, with details in Annex 8.
G.   Financial Standing of Riga City
4.18  Riga is Latvia's largest city with an estimated 826,000 inhabitants, as well as the
country's capital, its major port and the principal commercial and cultural center. Since
the decentralization introduced in 1991, local municipal government has become
increasingly independent from central government, with the right to manage its affairs
autonomously through local democratic representation. As a result, the municipal
authorities have a responsibility, often shared with the central government, for providing
inter alia territorial infrastructure, environmental protection and municipal services
(water, heat, sewerage, waste collection and disposal). Municipal authorities are also
responsible for the educational, cultural, health and social welfare needs of the
inhabitants. This Project therefore falls under the responsibility of Riga City.
4.19 Local government finance is based on the concept of autonomy linked to
accountability. To reinforce this link, collection of tax revenue from personal income --
but not the setting of rates -- has been delegated to the rnunicipal level. For Riga City,
these taxes represented almost 80 percent of total revenues budgeted for 1996. Land and
property taxes are set and collected by the state and then redistributed to the
municipalities and the districts. Their share of revenues was about 18 percent in 1996.
Government also contributes directly to the city's revenues, but with decentralization,
these subsidies have become insignificant.



Financial Aspects                                                             33
4.20   Among the principal 1996 expenditure items for the Riga City are health care
(about 30 percent); education (26 percent); housing and sanitation (13 percent); and
welfare (9 percent). Capital expenditures, estimated at less that 5 percent of the 1996
budget, are included with recurrent expenditures.
4.21   The city's budget is prepared by its finance department, in close cooperation with
the Ministry of Finance. Municipalities report monthly to the Ministry of Finance on the
execution of their budgets, followed by a detailed annual report. These and other
reporting requirements of the municipalities are regulated by laws on local government
budgets and on budget and financial management.
4.22 The normal budget for 1996 shows net revenues of Ls 68.5 million; expenditures
are budgeted at Ls 59.0 million, plus debt service of Ls 9.5 million. This leaves the
budget balanced, which is a legal requirement. Any borrowing, local or foreign, has to be
approved by Government.
4.23   The 1997 budget had not yet been prepared. To assess the ability of the city to
contribute to the Municipal Solid Waste Management Project, as currently foreseen, a
budget projection for the period 1997-2005 has been prepared. In fact, RCC is scheduled
to fund US $6.0 million or almost 24 percent of investments, in addition to its other
engagements under the Water Supply and Municipal Services projects.8 Furthermore, the
city would be the borrower of IBRD's proposed US $7.95 million loan to the Municipal
Solid Waste Management Project. These funds would be onlent, and hence repaid, by the
final beneficiary, GLE, but Riga would be the guarantor for repayment in the event the
company would not be able to do so.
4.24   The projections are presented in detail in Annex 10. They are based on
assumptions made by the RCC forecast regarding revenue increases of 11 percent in 1997
and by 10 percent in 1998, with the increase tapering of to 5 percent by 2003 (basically in
line with the inflation forecast) and expenditures (constant annual growth of 3.5 percent
in real terms). The forecasts indicate that the city generate surpluses going from Ls 8.1
million (US $15.0 million) in 1997 to Ls 18.6m (US $34.4 million) in 2000, then
decreasing thereafter to LS 9.5 million (US $17.6 million) by 2005. After taking account
of Riga's aforementioned commitments (water supply and municipal services projects),
the forecast confirms its ability (a) to make available US $6 million over the period 1998-
2001, as well as (b) to assume repayment of the Bank loan, for which it is the guarantor,
in the event of default of the final beneficiary, GLE.
8   It has been assumed that the EIB and IBRD loans taken on by Riga city for respectively the Water
Supply and Municipal Services projects will be onlent, and hence repaid, to the respective enterprises.
Riga City would therefore only be the guarantor of these loans and for this reason their repayment has
been excluded from the projections.



34                                                                Chapter 4
H. Financial Standing of Stopinu Pagast
4.25  The Getlini site is located within the boundaries of Stopinu Pagast, a village at
about 10 kilometers from the Riga City center. The mumicipality adjoins Riga City to the
south; is lightly populated, with some 7,170 inhabitants by end-1996; and is largely
forested and agricultural with little industry.
4.26  Budget information (see Annex 11) provided for 1995 (actuals) and 1996 confirm
the small size of the municipality compared to Riga City. While SPC's 1995 revenues
and expenditures amounted to Ls 630,000, those of Riga City were about Ls 60 million.
The municipality has no loans outstanding. As for Riga, the main revenue categories are
Income Tax (directly received by the municipality), Property and Land Taxes, and its
share of the Natural Resource Tax. Expenditures consist primarily of Housing and
Utilities; Social, Educational and Cultural Activities, and Public Administration.
4.27  From the above, it is clear that Stopinu Pagast lacks the monitary resources to
contribute to the financing of the Project or to put up its share of the proposed US $1.0
million share capital of the new company GLE. For this reason, it has been decided to
estimate the value of the land, occupied by the Getlini site to US $400,000 to equalize the
part of Stopinu Pagast's contribution of GLE equity.



5. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION - BENEFITS AND RISKS
5.1   The Riga Solid Waste Management Project is aimed at establishing an
environmentally safe and cost-effective system of waste disposal for Riga City,
representing 45 percent of the waste volume generated in Latvia. The Project would: (a)
remediate the existing waste disposal site at Getlini and arrest the ongoing contamination
of groundwater and discharge of untreated wastewater, including leachate, to the river
Daugava; (b) improve the technical and operational situation on the existing site also
leading to an increased separation of recyclable materials; (c) use the LFG for energy
generation purposes, thereby creating substantial financial revenues as well as
environmental benefits by reducing the emission of methane, a potent greenhouse gas;
and (d) assist in the structural and managerial development of the existing company in
charge of the site to a profit-oriented enterprise.
5.2   The Project would result in the first sanitary landfill in Latvia and the entire Baltic
region to reach international standards, The revenues generated by the use of the LFG
would strengthen the financial replicability of the proposed Project and make investments
in environmentally sound waste management more attractive and feasible. The Project
would also demonstrate a cost-effective and affordable solution for meeting sanitary
landfill standards, which are expected to be a mandatory requirement in the near future as
a result of the National Waste Management Strategy, currently under preparation.
A. The Without Project Case
5.3   Not taking any action in the current situation would lead to leachate
contamination of the two aquifers (Plavinas and Amata) underneath the most shallow
groundwater layer of quaternary sand. According to hydrogeological projections by Geo
Konsultants Ltd., the involved consulting company, the upper part (Plavinas) and lower
part (Amata) of the Dolomite aquifer would be affected by leachate from the landfill
starting in 2002 (Plavinas) and 2020 (Amata), respectively. Because the contaminant
plume would move to the river Daugava, the surface water quality of this river. Since
rehabilitation of contaminated groundwater layers is usually connected with prohibitive
costs, even if technically feasible, the contamination would have to be interpreted as
irreversible. The GOL is currently investing in improving the water quality of the
Daugava River, and under HELCOM, the quality of the Baltic Sea. Therefore, any
additional sources of pollution would counteract the effects of the current efforts.



36                                                                          Chapter 5
5.4    Without the project, the remaining lifetime of the landfill would be about ten to
fifteen years, depending upon the amounts of waste disposed of and the height of the
waste pile. Another solution for Riga's solid waste would have to be found well ahead of
the end of the lifetime of the landfill. This would make necessary the identification of a
suitable site, with its inherent additional costs for investment, and in finding a publicly
accepted solution. At the same time, the landfill would go on being a source of ground-
and surface water contamination, which most likely would force the site to be cleared
even earlier. No solution to the need for a regular landfill could also lead to illegal
dumping of waste in potentially sensitive areas with the associated environmental costs.
5.5         Based on the groundwater problem mentioned in para. 5.3, the Project was
originally designed to: (a) remediate and close the existing Getlini site, (b) identify and
establish a new site in the Riga area, and (c) strengthen bridges and up-grade access roads
to the new site. The investment cost for that project wEts estimated at US $30-35 million,
and would have resulted in an increase of the disposal fee with about US $21 per ton, and
an increase in the hauling cost with about 400 percent. The preparation of the Project
shows that the operation at Getlini can continue, and that a much more cost-effective
solution can be implemented.
B. Project Benefits
5.6    For assessing the project's economic viability, four options will be compared. All
of them are based on the continued use of the existing waste disposal site. Option I
would include environmental remediation only, without technical and operational
improvements. Option 2 consists of environmental remediation, technical and operational
imjprovements, leading to a sanitary landfill in compliance with international standards.
Options 3 and 4 comprise of environmental remediation, technical and operational
improvements as well as LFG collection, but differ in the use of the gas (district heating
for Option 3, and electricity generation for Option 4). In both of the last two options,
managerial assistance would be provided to the company running the landfill (Table 5.1).
Table 5.1: Options for Project Economic Viability
Option 1               Option 2               Option 3              Option 4
Environmental          Sanitary Landfill      Gas for Heating       Gas for Electricity
Reniediation
Continued Disposal    Continued Disposal     Continued Disposal     Continued Disposal
Leachate Control/      Leachate Control/      Leachate Control/      Leachate Control/
Treattment/ Remediation   Treatment/ Remediation   Treatment/' Remediation   Treatment/
Remediation
Technical/ Operational    Technical/ Operational    Technical/ Operational
Improvements          Improvements           Improvements
Gas Collection        Gas Collection
(conventional and energy  (conventional and Energy
cells)                Cells)
Managerial Assistance    Managerial Assistance



Project Justification - Benefits and Risks                                         37
5.7    Only parts of the project benefits can be readily quantified. These are revenues
from gas collection, incremental revenues from improved waste sorting, and recycling
and global environmental benefits from reduced emissions of methane. Gas collection
revenues are calculated by using international prices for electricity (US $0.034 per kWh)
and natural gas (US $107.41 per 1000 mi3). The projected gas amounts are the sum of the
methane production of the existing waste plus the projected gas generation from an
annual waste disposal of a conservatively estimated 200,000 tons. The waste amount is
assumed to be constant over the project period of 25 years, a declining population of Riga
is expected to compensate for increasing per capita amounts of waste in the course of
economic development. For the calculation of the produced electricity, an efficiency
factor of 35 percent is used for the gas engines transforming gas into electricity. The
incremental revenues from sorting and recycling are estimates by the director of GLC.
Values for the global environmental benefits are derived by using internationally
accepted monetary values for carbon dioxide emissions and converted into methane
equivalents by using a factor that reflects the respective impacts of the two as greenhouse
gases.
5.8        Apart from  the tangible benefits, substantial unquantified benefits are
associated with all project options in terms of ground- and surface water protection,
through occupational safety and health improvements for existing company staff as well
as positive aesthetic and odor impacts through covering of the site for the residents living
close to the landfill (Table 5.2).
Table 5.2: Calculation of Project Benefits
Option 1          Option 2            Option 3            Option 4
Economic       Remediation          Sanitary        Gas for Heating    Gas for Electricity
Benefits                            Landfill
Electricity                                                           Product of:
Gas/ Conversion
Factor Electricity/
Efficiency
Factor/International
Price
Heating                                           Product of:
Gas (amount), int.
Price, seasonal
adjustment
Recycling                      Incremental        Incremental revenues   Incremental
revenues                               revenues
Environment                                       Product of:         Product of:
al Benefits                                       Gas (amount),       Gas (amount),
(Global)                                          Monetary value for    Monetary value for
methane emissions    methane emissions



38                                                                           Chapter 5
C. Project Economic Costs
5.9    All investments as well as operating and maintenance costs were provided in a
feasibility study by technical consultants (SWECC), Sweden) and processed under
domestic costing. Adjustments were made for VAT (imported goods will be VAT
exempt) and a social welfare tax for the salaries (Table 5.3).
Table 5.3: Economic Cost for Project Options
(in Thousands of US Dollars)
Option 1         Option 2          Option 3           Option 4
Remediation    Sanitary Landfill  Gas for Heating    Gas for Electricity
Investment Cost          2,588             9,402           12,916                15,773
Recurrent Cost             619             1,978            3,435                 3,854
Total                    3,207            11,380           16,351                19,627
5.10   Total investment (in economic terms) for the four project option varies between
US $3.2 million for Option 1 (Remediation only), US $11.4 million for Option 2
(Sanitary Landfill), US $16.4 million for Option 3 (gas for district heating) and US $19.6
million for Option 4 (gas for electricity generation).
o Investment costs include physical contingencies and technical assistance (for Options 3
and 4). For a cost summary of the project components for the four options, see Annex
14.
* Recurrent Costs include operation and maintenance as well as incremental salaries.
D. Economic Rate of Reiturn
5.11        Table 5.4 compares the base case economic rates of return as well as net
present values (NPV). These are based on the costs and benefits indicated in the previous
tables. Annex 13 provides more detailed information.
Table 5.4: Economic Rates of Return for Project Options
(NPVIO in Thousands of US Dollars)
Option 1       Option 2         Option 3          Option 4
Remediation  Sanitary Landfill  Gas for Heating  Gas for Electricity
NPV wl global                NA               NA             4,082              4,719
benefits
NPV w/o global             -3,627          -10,697          -5,820             -5,200
benefits
EIRR w/ global               NA               NA                15                 15
benefits
EIRR w/o global              NA               NA                 1                  4
benefits
Note:  NPV2O Assumes a 10 percent discount rate.



Project Justification - Benefits and Risks                                    39
5.12   Option 4 (use of collected LFG for electricity) shows slightly better rates than
Option 3 (gas for heating), and Option 4 is the best of all four alternatives. As mutually
exclusive options, the higher NPV is the crucial performance indicator. For both options,
global environmental benefits have a strong impact on internal rates of return and NPV.
As will be seen in the sensitivity analysis, the decisive factor for the electricity and the
heating option are the prices for natural gas and electricity. For the gas, the European
price for natural gas has been used plus 10 percent for transport and losses.9 The
electricity price for the economic analysis was derived from the boarder price for
electricity imports from Lithuania.
5.13   The remediation-only scenario produces only negative net benefits; therefore, no
internal rate of return can be calculated. This option would have to be justified by the
unquantified environmental benefits for ground- and surface water, odor aesthetics, and
occupational safety and health improvements. The annual benefits after project
implementation for these unquantified benefits would have to be in the range of US
$495,000 to produce a zero NPV. The same is true for Option 2 (the sanitary landfill)
with even higher required unquantified benefits of US $1.45 million annually for a zero
NPV.
E. Project Risks and Sensitivity Analysis
5.14   The technology introduced by the project is considered to be manageable without
requiring specialized expertise. Owing to its comparatively recent development, practical
applications are still limited, mostly to Western Europe and North America. The
investment would also change the character of the existing operation in terms of
commercial management. Managerial capacity therefore has to be considered a project
risk. Other risks relate to the actual amount of waste, its composition and the resulting gas
generation. Projections for natural gas predict stable prices, but rates for imported
electricity are expected to increase. It is assumed that Riga's decline in population will be
offset by increasing amounts of waste per capita with a constant fraction of decomposable
waste. The groundwater flows have been examined extensively.
5.15   A comparatively small risk remains that the project will not succeed in stopping
the contamination of further aquifers underneath the landfill. Because the project will
change the character of the existing landfill operation, currently informally employed
food and waste pickers on the site would only partly be able to stay working on the
landf .ll under the changed operational conditions that would result from the project.
9World Bank Quarterly, Commodity Markets and the Developing Countries, Nov. 1996



40                                                                             Chapter 5
Table 5.5: Sensitivity Analysis: Net Present Values for Different Scenarios
With and Without Global Environmental Benefits (in Thousands of US Dollars)
Option 1          Option 2          Option 3          Option 4
Remediation    Sanitary Landfill  Gas for Heating  Gas for Electricity
NPV w/o NPV w/ NPV w/o   NPV   NPV w/o   NPV   NPV w/o   NPV
GEB        GEB   GEB          w/   GEB          w/   GEB          w/
GEB               GEB               GEB
Basic Model                       NA                NA       -5,820    4,082   -5,200    4,719
Price:                            NA                NA       -6,944    2,959   -6,724    3,195
Gas/
Electricity- 10%
Price:                            NA                NA        -4697    5,206   -3,677    6,210
Gas/
Eliectricity +10%
Gas Amount                        NA                NA       -6,382    3,521   -5,863    3,621
-5%
Gais Amount                       NA                NA       -6,944    2,959   -6,525    2,540
-1(%
Investment Cost +10 %             NA                NA       -7,078    2,816   -6,641    3,261
Intestment Cost +20 %             NA                NA       -8,353    1,549   -8,082    1,821
Gas Revenue:                      NA                NA
Delayed by 1 year                 NA                NA       -6,568    2,676   -6,214    3,030
Delayed by 2 years                NA                NA       -7,508     908   -7,488       927
Note: Assumes a
discount rate of 10
p,ercent.
Table 5.6: Sensitivity Analysis: Rates of Returm for Different Scenarios
With and Without Global Environmental Benefits (in Thousands of US Dollars)
Option 1        Option 2         Option 3          Option 3
Remediation   Sanitary Landrill  Gas for Heating  Gas for Electricity
IRR w/o  IRR  IRR w/o  IRR   IRR w/o   IRR  IRR w/o   IRR
GEB       w/  GEB         w/   GEB          w/  GEB           w/
GEB             GEB               GEB               GEB
Basic Model                     NA               NA            1      15        4       15
Price:                          NA              NA            -1      14        1       13
Gasl
Electricity
-10%
Gas/                            NA              NA             3      16        6       16
Electricity + 10%
Gas Amount:                     NA              NA             0      14        3       14
-51%
Gas Amount:                     NA              NA            -1      14        2       13
-10%
Investment Cost + 10 %          NA              NA             0      13        2       13
Investment Cost +20 %           NA              NA            -1      12        1       12
Gas Revenue:
Delayed by 1 year               NA              NA             1      13        3       13
Delayed by 2 years              NA              NA             0      11        2       11
Note: Assumes a
discount rate of 10%.



Project Justification - Benefits and Risks                                 41
5.16  Scenarios for the sensitivity analysis have been derived from discussions with
experts from the Riga City Council, SWECO (the consulting company responsible for the
feasibility study), the local authorities and the current management of the landfill, to be as
close to reality as possible. As in the base case, Options 1 and 2 (only remediating and
modernizing the landfill) do not produce positive benefit streams in any project year
without taking into account the unquantified environmental benefits. Because methane
emissions are assumed to be only reduced by negligible amounts, no global
environmental benefits would occur.
5.17 Option 3 produces positive NPVs under all scenarios with global environmental
benefits included. Without the global environmental benefits, the gas use for heating is
consistently producing negative NPVs and rates of return of I percent for the base case
going down to -1 percent for gas use reduced by 10 percent or Investment Costs up by 20
percent. Option 4 results in positive NPVs for all sensitivity scenarios including the
global environmental benefits. Rates of return are ranging from 15 percent in the base
scenario down to 11 percent in case of a delay in gas use by two years for electricity with
global environmental benefits. For the base case, Option 4 produces a better NPV than
Option 3 but is more sensitive to cost increases and revenue decreases. Without the global
environmental benefits from the methane not emitted, the benefits resulting from the
groundwater protection efforts of the project have to be taken into account to justify it
from a national perspective (like all other project options). Under both Options 3 and 4,
the Project is clearly sensitive to cost increases and delays in creating revenues. These are
Project risks that have to be taken into account during implementation.
F. Financial Returns for the Project
5.18  From a sustainable perspective, Option 4 (generation of electricity) has been
regarded as the most attractive. The reason is that there would not be any disruption in
the energy generated to the grid. In the case of delivery of gas for heat generation, the
project would be dependent on the operating capability of the receiving boiler house,
which has to be closed down for maintenance and repair several months a year.
Furthermore, it was clearly expressed by the receiving company, Latvenergo, that
electricity was the preferred option. Finally, according to current legislation, small
electricity producers (below 12 MWE) are currently given an attractive tariff for the sale
of electricity.
5.19  Based on the investment costs calculated by the Sweco consultants adjusted for
physical contingencies, and recurrent costs during project implementation, costs for the
Project Procurement Unit, Technical Assistance provided under Twinning Arrangements,
and projected revenues from the sale of electricity and recyclable materials, the Project
receives an FIRR of almost 10 percent, which should be regarded as very satisfactory for



42                                                                   Chapter 5
an environmental protection project without including any increase of the disposal fee or
the waste management tariff.
5.20  A sensitivity analyses shows that in the worst case scenario, a reduction in
electricity sales by 15 percent and a delay of revenues for one-year yields an FIRR of
5.34 percent, which still should be regarded as acceptable for a municipal services
project. However, in such a case, an increase of the disposal fee would be considered to
protect the company's cash flow. A more detailed description of the financial return
calculations and the sensitivity analyses is provided in Annex 14.



6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND
RECOMMENDATION
A.   Agreements Reached During Negotiations
6.1   The following agreements were reached during negotiations:
(a)   All procurement funded by the Bank and GEF would be carried out in accordance
with the Bank Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD loans and IDA Credits
(January 1995, revised January and August 1996), and Guidelines for Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency (January 1981), (para. 2.25);
(b)   The disbursement schedule for RCC finance and details on opening of bank
account(s), (para. 2.39);
(c)   The terms and conditions of the establishment of and operation of a special
account, (para. 2.43);
(d)   Agreement on implementation schedules, (para. 3.3);
(e)   The terms of reference for the twinning arrangements, (para. 3.5);
(f)   Composition and responsibilities of the Project Steering Committee, (para. 3.6);
(g)   Financing of PSC activities from the RCC budget, (para. 3.6);
(h)   All aspects relative to the PPU (number of staff, salary levels, operating expenses,
office space, etc.), (para. 3.11);
(i)    GOL's share of the National Resource Tax would remain at GLE to cover its
administrative costs, (para. 3.13;.
(j)    Details of technical assistance in the context of the proposed GLE twinning
arrangement, (para. 3.16);
(k)   The scope of reporting financial, managerial, and technical matters pertaining to
GLE in general, and the Project in particular, (para. 3.21);



44                                                               Chapter 6
(l)    Monitoring of the financial performance of GLE will be provided through: (i)
submittance on semi-annual financial progress reports in which the actual results
would be compared with the budgets; and (ii) audit of GLE's accounts on an
annual basis by independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank, and submittance of
the audit reports to the Bank within six months of the end of the fiscal year. GLE
will also submit progress reports and a Completion Report in accordance with
Bank Guidelines, (para. 3.24); and
(ni)  Key monitoring indicators, (para. 3.25).
B.   Condition of Effectiveness
6.2   Conditions of Loan Effectiveness would include:
(a)   Execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between GOL and RCC and GLE,
(para. 2.24).
(b)   Execution of a separate financing agreement between RCC and GLE (para. 2.39).
(c)   Submission of Power Purchase Agreement signed by GLE and Latvenergo (para.
4.3).
C.   Recommendation
6.21  With the above agreements and conditions, the proposed Project would be
suitable for a Bank loan of US $7.95 million equivalent to the standard variable interest
rate with a maturity of 17 years, including 5 years grace period. The Borrower would be
the Republic of Latvia.



LATVIA
MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
ANNEXES
February 2, 1998
Annex 1    Description of the Physical Implementation of the Project
Annex 2    Bank Group Investments in Latvia
Annex 3    Financing Plan
Annex 4.1   Procurement Plan
Annex 4.2   Use of Funds for Different Procurement Packages
Annex 4.3   Procurement Information
Annex 5.1   Disbursements of Bank Loan and GEF Grant
Annex 5.2   Detailed Disbursement Schedule for Bank Loan
Annex 6.1   Environmental Data Sheet
Annex 6.2   Summary of Environmental Assessment
Annex 7    Note on the Final Beneficiary - Getlini-Eco Ltd.
Annex 8    Project Implementation Arrangements
Annex 9.1   Supervision Plan
Annex 9.2   Monitoring and Evaluation
Annex 10   Financial Situation and Forecast - Riga City
Annex 11   Budget Information for Stopinu Pagast
Annex 12   Expenditure Accounts for Optional Investments
Annex 13   Economic Costs and Benefits for Optional Investments
Annex 14   Financial Returns of the Project






LATVIA
MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
ANNEX 1
PROPOSED TECHNOLOGY AND DESCRIPTION OF THE
PHYSICAL PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION






ANNEX 1
PROPOSED TECHNOLOGY AND DESCRIPTION OF THE PHYSICAL PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION
Different technologies for landfill gas extraction
The basic technique used for gas extraction is to cover the waste body area with a number of gas
wells. The wells are equipped with pumping devices, which create a sub-pressure in the waste body,
andenable collection of the generated landfill gas.
There are different conditions and techniques of implementation of gas generation and extraction
systems. The general techniques presentedbelow are gas extraction system from existing landfills
and/or from new constructed landfills, and gas extraction from new constructed landfills with energy
cells (enhanced anaerobic digestion).
Landfill gas extraction systems in existing landfills and new constructed landfills
In existing landfills, gas wells are drilled vertically into the landfill body. The well is constructed
with perforated pipes with a total length which is almost the same as the depth of the waste pile. If
the landfill is under construction, the gas wells or horizontal gas drains can also be constructed
during disposal of waste.
Each gas well is connected to a gas regulation station where the gas from each well can be regulated
and condensate removed. The regulation station is connected to a central pumping station by main
pipes which provides a sub-pressure in the landfill body and recover the generated landfill gas.
Landfill Gas Extraction System Using Energy Cells
General
The degradation process which is presented in the previous section can, by implementation of
appropriate technology equipment, be enhanced. Instead of traditional disposal in a huge landfill
body, the waste is disposed in separate cells, called energy cells.
In the energy cell, the decomposition is performed under enhanced anaerobic conditions. In order
to accelerate the anaerobic decomposition process suitable conditions for bacteria growth are
created. By control of, among other things, waste particle size, humidity, acidity, temperature
and possible relation between coal/nitrogen the forming of methane gas and the decomposition of
refuse is accelerated. The aim is to reduce the decomposition period from normally 20-25 years
to about 5 years in an energy cell.



Annex I
Page 2 of 19
The process which we include in the expression energy cell can shortly be described as follows:
-     the refuse is shredded and placed in a closed space, the energy cell - where free supply of
oxygen is prevented
-     the generated gas, is extracted continuously
-     the leachate collected is reinjected into the cells in order to stabilise the humidity of the
waste at a high level, about 70%, enhancing the degradation process
-     the energy cell is supplied with heat via a leachate water system to receive an optimum
temperature in the refuse, about 37. The energy for this is acquired by eg heat
exchanging from the gas pumping station and/or an internal gas engine using extracted gas
for electricity generation
the cell is excavated after completed decomposition and the residues are sieved in two or
three fractions. At this stage the residues can be divicded into the following rest products:
* extracted gas      20% of weight
* soil               30-35% of weight
* combustible materials 30-35% of weight
* inert material     10-20% of weight
Technique
An energy cell can be laid on natural ground or filled up ground, in the same way as ordinary
refuse deposits. The bottom is levelled, slightly sloping towards a low point and sealed with a
layer of fine earth compacted with a roller or a sleigh. In the low point, a plastic drainage pipe
is laid in a shallow, open trench.
The heating system is a closed circuit and designed for supplying enough energy to keep the inner
part of the cell at a temperature of about 37C.
The refuise must be fragmented, particularly the domestic refuse, before being disposed at the
finished bottom layer. This is best achieved by a shredder. The shredded refuse is carefully spread
in layers on the finished bottom surface. Further compaction besides that of moving vehicles is
not needled.
The cell should be covered by a imperneable layer. This layer will be established during
construction of the cell. An example of layer design is a loose layer of second-rate peat about 0,3



Annex 1
Page 3 of 19
m with an additional top layer of about 0,3 m with rather impermeable earth (such as fine till).
The peat layer will, apart from reducing the infiltration together with the top layer, have an
important function of insulation of the cell. The surface is slightly compacted.
Pipes (perforated steel pipes) for gas extraction and leachate water injection are installed in the
cell from its surface and each type of pipe is connected with flexible plastic tubes and a connection
pipe to the gas pumping station and the leachate collection pond respectively. From the gas
pumping station the gas is sucked from the cell with a slight sub-pressure.
In order to reach a maximum rate of decomposition in an energy cell during anaerobic conditions
it is necessary that
*     the refuse is shredded
*     the relation between available carbon and nitrogen is about 60/1 or less
*     the refuse moisture is high
*     the pH value is about 7
*     heat is added for control of the cell temperature, normally 37C.
Summary of conditions at Getlini
Gas pumping tests
Gas pumping tests carried out during September and October in 1996, shows that the gas generation
follows the extraction estimated from theoretical calculations.
Waste amounts and composition
Each year, approximately 205 000 tonnes of municipal waste is received at Getlini. In addition,
about 45 000 tonnes of industrial waste is also delivered at the site.
The dry substance content in municipal waste is estimated to be 62%. The corresponding organic
content is estimated to 39% of the total waste (or 63% of dry substance). Of the organic content,
62% is considered to be biodegradable (or 24% of total weight).
The potential landfill gas production from industrial waste is basically related to the content of
paper. The paper is estimated to have a dry substance content of 95% and a corresponding organic
content of 90% of total amount (ie 95% of dry substance content). Biodegradable part is estimated
to be 72% of total amount (ie 80% of organic content).



Annex 1
Page 4 of 19
Lifetime of the site
An important information for the decision of the waste management method to use is the lifetime
of the site, and to what extent different systems affect the total duration of the operation at the
specific location.
The lifetime of a site depends of various factors as operation methods, local regulations, etc. Below,
the lifetime of the site for some different alternatives has been simulated. The motives for these
figures are not to show an exact figure for the lifetime of the Getlini site but do illustrate how
significant the choice of operation method is for the lifetime of the site.
Regulatory factors
Today there are no local regulations that limit the height of a landfill. The current highest point of
the landfill is about +38 metres above sea level. Thus, it has been assumed that future alternatives
for the rnaximum height is +45, 50 or +55 metres above sea level. The physical maximum height
equals 4-62 m above sea level.
The available volumes that can be disposed at the landfill in accordance with the regulation factors
presented above, have been calculated for different landfill altitudes are presented below:
Maximum height             Available volumes for disposal (in
(above sea level)                  million ml)
+45 m                              8.5
+50 m                              9.6
+55m                               10.4
+62 m                              11.3
The precondition used for the estimate of available volumes is that the landfill slope is 1:3.
Simulated alternatives
Two main alternatives has been investigated:



Annex 1
Page 5 of l9
- Alternative A, where the current operation continues without any changes in general disposal
technique
- Alternative B, where the general disposal technique is changed to energy cell technique
Overall conditions, such as incoming amounts of waste etc. is assumed to in accordance with results
presented in section 3.
For alternative A, 10 % of incoming waste is assumed to be sorted out as recovered material before
disposed in the landfill.
For alternative B, the full operation of new disposal technique is assumed to be implemented after
2 years. Until then the conditions are the same as for alternative A. After full implementation 20 %
of incoming waste is assumed to be sorted out. During the decomposition 20% of the material is
converted into landfill gas which is extracted.
After 5 years, the energy cells is considered to be excavated. The fraction of the remaining cell
residue that will be disposed in the landfill can vary from 20% (best case) - 80% (worst case)
depending of the recovery possibilities.
Results
Below, the comparable results from the simulations are presented in a matrix form. The alternatives
+40 metres and +62 metres above sea level has not been further simulated.
Regulated        Lifetime          Lifetime          Lifetime
maximum height.  altemative A (no   alternative B -  altemative B -
(m above sea     change of current   worst case (energy  best case (energy
level)           conditions)       cell + 80%        cell + 20%
disposed at      disposed at
landfill)        landfill)
+45              22 years          50 years          180 years
+50              24 years          56 years          206 years
The results give the following conclusions:
*      current operation practise results in a shorter lifetime of the landfill



Annex 1
Page 6 of 19
*     the energy cell technique makes it possible to extend the life time of the site for at least
another 50 years
It should again be emphasised that these figures just show an example in order to indicate the
difference in life time using different techniques.
Implernentation of the recommended system at Getlini
Existing landfill
The proposed concept assumes that the existing landfill pile will be penetrated by gas extraction
wells. Thus, the proposed landfill gas extraction system may comprise up to 200 gas extraction
wells. However, areas where the waste pile is less than 5 m deep and in areas which today are paved
and used for other operation activities will not be included in the extraction system. The landfill gas
system will be constructed integrated with the covering activities.
The we]lls are drilled vertically into the landfill. Each well has an estimated circular reception area
of about 1250 m2, which equals a radial distance of about 20 m from the gas well. The gas
extraction well is constructed of perforated steel pipes with a total length of the waste pile's
thickness.
The gas well is connected to a gas lateral-pipe which conveys the gas to a control station, where the
gas flow from each well can be controlled and condensate removed. All pipes will be laid in
common pipe trenches. A main gas pipe is leading to the gas pumping station.
In general, collected leachate water is injected into the pile in order to enhance the degradation of
waste. UJnder the existing circumstances where the ground water table is located a few metres above
the waste bottom, the moisture content in the waste is normally sufficient and a leachate water
injection system is not necessary.
Energy cells
Each cell includes waste generated from about half a year, ie two cells are constructed each year. The
estimated volume of domestic waste (depending on the sorting results) is 105 000-120 000 m3 (with
a compaction level of about 800 kg/m3) each 6 months.



Annex 1
Page 7 of 19
The height of each cell is about 12 m and the area is 95 - 180 m, including earth walls and covering.
The cell is sloping 1:7 from the top meeting the cell walls which are sloping 1:2.
The natural ground is levelled and compacted and a sealing layer of clay is applied. The thickness
of the bottom layer will vary from 0.2 to 0.4 metres when the permeability of the sealing material
varies from 10-11 m/s to 10-'rm/s. The bottom is sloping towards one corner.
When the cell is filled to the top it will be covered with a soil layer. This layer shall be 0.3 m thick
and comprise of soils with a permeability of I0O- rn/s or less. The surface is lightly compacted by
a tracked vehicle.
Gas is extracted via perforated steel pipes driven into the waste pile and connected via a pipe system
with gas pumping station. In the gas pumping station a compressor sucks gas from the cell with
a slight under-pressure.
Leachate water from energy cells
Leachate water is proposed to be circulated through the cells to maintain the moisture content and
keep temperature at a suitable level of 37 C in the decomposing waste. Recirculation of leachate
water also prevents loss of organic substances. The circulation system is closed outside the cells also
to prevent uncontrolled pollution of other waters.
Pipes for leachate water injection are installed in the cell from its surface. The leachate water is
collected in the energy cell watertight bottom at the sloping by a perforated drainage pipe. The
drainage pipe discharges by gravity into a watertight concrete well containing a heat coil. The
leachate water is heated up to some 42C. It is then pumped back to the cells for injection at the top
of the cell. The water is trickling through the waste to the bottom to start another circulation cycle.
The water temperature would then be some 32C.
The total quantity of circulating leachate water is decided by the energy that is required to keep a cell
at 37C. The heat required for heating of the leachate water is generated with an internal heat coil
with the extracted gas as fuel. If the main gas boiler or power station utilises all extracted gas, the
leachate can be heated by the surplus heat from these facilities.
When the digestion is completed in a cell the gas extraction and leachate water circulation is ended.
The pipe and well system of the cell will be removed. The cell will then be excavated and its content
can be sieved to separate soil from non digested waste.



Annex 1
Page 8 of 19
Benefits from chosen system
From the general technique used, the site can be in operation for many years in the future. As
indicated in section 6.3, the lifetime of the site is, at worst case, limited to about 50 years but is most
likely significantly longer than that due to two reasons:
*     the disposal area can be extended another few hectares and still be within the borders of the
site (how much is to be discussed in the future)
the residues from the excavated cells will at least into some extent, most likely be possible
to use for other purposes that to be disposed at the lanidfill
Both these reasons makes it most likely that the operation of the site can continue for another many
years, probably 50 - 70 years.
During the operation, gas will also be extracted. In figure 6.2 below, the accumulated extracted
energy content in extracted gas from now and in the future are presented, assuming a continuous
extraction.
Esdmated accumulated gas extraction in UWh
5000
4oo
4000
3500
3000
2000
1500
1000
50
XO/~~                      ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I '. 0  ' :,
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~Yu
Y ar
'Figure 6i.2 Accumulated landill gas production in GWh for suggested system until year 2025.



Annex 1
Page 9 of 19
Basic conditions for future activities
The proposal for future operation of at Getlini is based on the following:
the environmental impacts from the landfill will be minimized. The main measures undertaken
is covering of the existing landfill area, implementation of gas extraction system, collection and treatment
of polluted leachate water and establishment of a hydrological barrier in the groundwater aquifer to
control the infiltrated leachate and future infiltration of leachate into the aquifers
*     the site will be equipped with an efficient biogas extraction system both in the existing landfill
and in the future extended area. Landfill gas extraction will reduce the environmental impacts from the
site and generate revenues to the operation of the landfill
*     no unsorted waste is supposed to be disposed at the landfill. Thus, central sorting activities will
be implemented. These activities will extend the life span of the site (since less material is disposed),
generate revenues to the operation of the landfill, and will decrease the environmental impacts from the
landfill
the operation has to be monitored from different points of view. Of special interest is
groundwater quality monitoring programme
quality of surface runoff and treated leachate water discharged into
River Daugava
registration of delivered waste with respect to content, classification
and amount
the operation of the landfill should be possible to extend for a many years in the
future,through all activities and measures undertaken
for years to come landfilling will be restricted to wastes which cause minimal harm to
environment. Municipal wastes will, after sorting, be digested in energy cells for approximately 5
years. After fulfilled digestion, the cell will be excavated and a new cell be constructed on the samne
base. The residue can be separated by sieving and separated into 3 fractions. The rest fraction could
be sold or stored as inert waste at the landfill area. The compost fraction can be used as covering
material on site or sold as compost while the fuel fraction can be used as fuel for eg district heating.
the site will not accept any hazardous waste mixed with other wastes. At the site,
temporarily storage, but no treatment, of sorted hazardous waste is available. However, the site is not
designed for treatment or storage of special hazardous waste such as radio active wastes, toxic wastes
or hospital waste (sharp and sticking materials, infectious wastes etc). These types of wastes should



Annex 1
Page 10 of 19
insteacd be sorted at source and be directed to assigned plants for appropriate treatment.
Overview of area and the daily operation
The fuiture operation of the landfill site to be implemented is hereafter briefly presented. In the
presentation, each activity refers to different areas at the site. The proposed location of different
activities are shown in Attachment I (with area notation A to H).
For specific systems chosen, detailed discussions and analyses are presented in previous sections on
remediation activities, sorting facilities, and gas extraction systems.
The proposed operation at the landfill can shortly be described as follows:
incoming waste is weighted and registered (area A),
municipal waste is unloaded at a central sorting area where recyclables is sorted out both
by mechanical sorting devices and manually by hand (area B),
industrial waste is unloaded at a sorting area where the waste is sorted, mainly by
mechanical sorting devices (area C),
*          other sorted material (such as filling, compost etc.) is directed to separate areas where the
material is used or treated for future use such as composting, covering, access roads etc (area D&H),
*          recycled material is stored in separate areas awaiting delivery to consumer/recycling
facility. Other materials sorted out, such as hazardous waste, are also stored for future delivery to
treatme:nt or recycling facilities (area D),
*          gas extraction system is constructed both in the existing landfill as well as in the new
extended energy cell area (area F &G),
*          sorted domestic waste is shredded and disposed in energy cells. The energy cells are
constructed aiming at a forced degradation and maximised landfill gas production under controlled
circumstances (area F). After the degradation is finished, the cell is excavated and the material is
sieved and utilized and/or disposed at the landfill,
sorted industrial waste is considered to be mainly inert and is disposed at the existing
landfill, used for filling or construction of track roads (area G),



Annex 1
Page 11 of 19
to collect water generated at the site, new ditches are constructed and old ones are
restored. Leachate from landfill is collected, stored, and treated in leachate ponds within the area (area
H). Leachate from the energy cell area is collected separately, heated and reinjected into the energy
cells to enhance the biogas production. Non polluted surface runoff water is collected and passing
settling ponds before discharged into surface ditches, connected to Daugava River, surrounding the
site
*         the existing landfill and energy cells are covered with suitable material (such as clay or
sandy clay) in order to minimise the infiltration of precipitation and to enhance the gas generation and
extraction conditions (area F & G),
the whole area is fenced.
Implementation program
General discussion
A major demand for the implementation and construction works is that the daily operation of Getlini
must be possible to continue. The implementation of all proposed activities is proposed in different
phases so that daily operation may continue with minimal disturbance.
Therefore, the construction of different activities and facilities will require a relatively long time. As
a rough estimate the new systems can be in full operation in 2003.
It is assumed that the implementation of the proposed technologies and facilities will start as soon as
possible. Hence, the following time schedule is estimated as basis for the proposals:
Construction year    0
-   Executive implementation decisions          In 1998
-   Detailed design                             Completed end of 1998
Construction year    1
-   Tender activities                           Beginning of 1999
-   Construction works, 1st implementation phase  During 1999
Construction year    2
-   Start of new Operation System               Beginning of 2000
Construction year    3 - 6



Annex 1
Page 12 of 19
-   Implementation of additional facilities      Year 2001 - 2004
and e]lements of the proposed system and
development of the operation
Implementation activities
In this section, activities suggested for each year of implementation are presented. In the
implementation layout, which is presented in reduced scale in Attachment 2, activities undertaken
each year are summarized in a drawing.
Construction year 0
This year will be assigned for executive implementation decisions and detailed design of the activities
and facilities proposed for Getlini Waste Disposal Site.
Municipal wastes are continued to be disposed at the existing landfill.
It is important that these disposal activities is in line with the future operation activities. Thus, the
design iteam and Getlini 2 Ltd should have a frequent contact also during the design period in order
to reach an efficient waste disposal.
Construction year 1
During this year the construction works will start and the remediation of the existing landfill will be
completed.
* Municipal wastes are continued to be disposed at assigned areas at the existing landfill.
* The landfill gas system will be constructed simultaneously with the covering of the existing
landfill. The time estimated for this work is about one year. These activities include;
-      provision of materials as gas wells, injection water wells, hoses and valves etc,
-      installation of wells,
-      assembling and laying of pipe system,
-      ftransportation of covering material,
-      grading and compaction of waste and cover material



Annex I
Page 13 of 19
* At the end of the year, the paved area for the gas plant is prepared. The prefabricated gas pumping
station will be provided and installed. 4 blowing machines will be installed. Installation of gas boiler
or power generation station.
* The existing landfill must be slightly shaped since slopes are 1:2. To secure the future landfill slopes,
a recommended general slope is 1:3. These slopes should be shaped before the covering and gas
extraction works start.
* Construction of the ground water control system.
* The leachate water pond will be constructed and treatment equipment installed. The bottom will be
sealed by clay or sandy clay with a pernmeability of <1 0-9 mis. Some of the pumping equipment will
be installed. These activities include;
- stripping of top soil
- grading excavation,
- lining/sealing of bottom and walls.
* Relatively large amounts of site materials, mainly sand, will be redistributed among different areas
at site. Surplus soil from excavation works needed for the leachate water pond will be used as filling
material for existing ditches and pools.
Preparation of bottom for cell IA and IB will be carried out during this year so that municipal waste
could be disposed in energy cells from the very beginning of construction year 2. This activity
includes; stripping, grading, compaction and sealing.
* Laying of energy cell main pipe system, gas pipes, and leachate water injection- and drainage pipes
in trenches. This activity include;
- provision of material,
- excavation, preparation of pipe beds,
- backfilling and compaction.
Installation of junction manholes (area F) for the energy cell gas pipe system. In these, pipes are
connected (the gas pipes, water injection pipes and drainage pipes) and the gas controlled. This
activity include;
-   provision and installation,
-   excavation,
-   preparation of bed,



Annex 1
Page 14 of 19
backfilling and compaction of prefabricated concrete rings,
assembly of wells and valves.
* Installation of prefabricated gas control stations for the landfill gas system. This activity include
assembly and connection of pipes.
* The area for unloading, sorting and shredding municipal waste will be prepared. Includes;
preparation of surface, excavation, levelling and paving of natural ground,
p:rovision of roof and walls,
rinstallation of conveyor belts to cell I A+B.
* Surface runoff water ditches around the site is excavated ancl the water is directed to the existing
ditch outside the site area for fturther transportation to the Daugava River.
* The entrance area with weighbridges, gates and fence are prepared to be able to start weighing and
registration of waste from construction year 2. A new administration building and a parking area will
be built near the entrance. The surface will not be paved but compacted.
* Provision and installation of a prefabricated septic tank. This activity includes; excavation,
preparation of foundation, backfilling.
* A smaller section (about 25%) of the total area intended for temporary storage and treatment of
recoverable wastes is prepared. The surface will be compacted, containers for glass provided and an
access road built.
Preparation of storage area for metals. The surface will not be paved but compacted.
Foundation for hazardous waste area will be prepared. A roofed storage building for hazardous waste
will be constructed.
Maintenance bridge is provided to the workshop building. Pressurised fresh water is connected.
The fence including gates will be constructed.
Total area that will be paved year 1 is 31 000 rn2.
Total area that will be compacted year I is 19 000 in2.
Equipment that will be provided year I are presented in Table 1 below.



Annex 1
Page 15 of 19
Table J; Equipment andfacilities provided during construction year I
Equipment                                Nos of units
* Weighbridge and registration utilities              2
Shredder                                             2
* Wheel loader, front                                  1
* Mobile excavator with gripping device                1
* Track loader                                         1
* Belt conveyors                                       1
Maintenance bridge                                    1
Regulation station                                   3
* Junction manholes                                    3
* Gas pumping station                                  1
* Blowing machines                                    4
In addition to the equipment presented in Table 1, a number of containers for transport and storage
of waste is required.
Construction Year 2
* The construction of energy cells by disposal of sorted municipal waste will start. Within five years
the energy cell is expected to give the designed amount of landfill gas.
* Two energy cells will be constructed during this year and gas extraction will start both from energy
cells and existing landfill. Starting this extraction requires the following main activities during
construction year 2: provision of materials as gas wells, injection water wells, valves, installation of
wells, and assembling and laying of pipe system for the energy cells.
* Modernizing of workshop building and provision of adequate machinery.
* The old registration building and weighbridges will be demolished (and reused as much as possible)
A system for leachate water recirculation will be constructed in form of a collector well with heating
coil. This activity includes; concrete well cast in situ. Excavation, installation and backfilling.
Provision and installation of the leachate water pump and prefabricated heating coil.



Annex 1
Page 16 of 19
* The bottom of cell II A+B will be prepared.
The area for sorting of industrial waste will be prepared and paved.
The preparation of the area for sorting of municipal waste will be completed by installation of a
picking belt facility, including the sorting device together with feeders, containers, and picking and
transportation belt,
The area for treatment and storage of recoverable wastes as glass, plastics, papers tyres and wood
will be extended as much as needed along with a track road. So0ne sorting of garden waste will start
as well at the assigned area where the natural ground is levelled and compacted.
* The staff building will be modernized and extended.
Total area that will be paved year 2 is 9 000 m2.
Total area that will be compacted year 2 is 6 000 min.
Equipment that will be provided year 2 are presented in Table 2 below.
Table 2; Equipment andfacilities provided during construction year 2
Equipment                               Nos of units
Containers                                  (nos to be decided)
Wheel loader, front                                :
*Sortinl3 unit                                      2
Mobile excavator with gripping device              2
Track loader                                       1
Gas boiler
Construction year 3
* Dismounting and mobilization of the mobile part of the conveyor belt so that sorted municipal waste
can be transported to the cells II A and B.
Two cells, II A+B, will be built up during the year and the bottom of cell III A+B prepared.
* The area for treatment and storage of recoverable wastes as glass, plastics, papers, tyres, and wood
will be extended in accordance with the needs. An access road to the areas are also included.



Annex I
Page 17 of 19
* The area for garden waste will be extended if needed.
Total area that will be compacted year 3 is estimated to 7 000 m2.
Construction year 4
* Dismounting and mobilization of the mobile part of the conveyor belt so that sorted municipal waste
can be transported to the cells III A and B. Two cells, III A+B, will be built up during the year and
the bottom of cell IV A+B prepared.
* Installation of another 2 blowing machines in the gas pumping station.
* The area for treatment and storage of recoverable wastes as glass, plastics, paper, tyres, and wood
(as well as the access road) will be extended in accordance with the expected requirements.
- The area for garden waste will be extended in accordance with the expected requirements.
- A recovery station for public use will be built near the entrance and visible from the administration
building. The area will be fenced in to prevent unauthorized vehicles to enter the site. Height of fence
about 3 m and length about 200 m.
Total area that will be compacted year 4 is estimated as 4 000 m2.
Construction year 5
- Only the stationary part of the conveyor belt is needed to transport sorted municipal waste to the
cells IV A and B. Two cells, IV A+B, will be built up during the year and the bottom of cell V A+B
prepared.
* The area for treatment and storage of recoverable wastes as glass, plastics, papers, tyres, and wood
as well as composting of garden waste will be developed in accordance with the required needs
(including access road).
Construction year 6
* Only the stationary part of the conveyor belt is needed to transport sorted municipal waste to the
cells V A and B. The two cells V A+B will be built up during this year and the bottom of a new cell
prepared.



Annex I
Page 18 of 19
After year 6, the first energy cell can be excavated. Thus, if considered as required (economically
feasible), the sieve can be purchased and installed.
Groundwater contamination
Type znd intensity
The groundwater investigation confirms that groundwater in the quatemary aquifer is seriously
contamainated. In the core of the contaminant plume dry residue reaches 11 g/l due to NaCI content.
Concentrations of the remaining components exceed the background concentrations hundreds of
times. The major contaminants and contamination indicators are: chloride, Na, Total N, ammonia,
COD-Cr, BOD and Cr.
Hydro chemical and geophysical information confirms a wide-spread contamination ofthe Quatemary
aquifer in the area. The contaminated area is 1.5 km2 and the groundwater volurne within the contour
of the contaminant plume is about 4.5 million rn3.
The contamination is highest in the lower part of the Quaternary aquifer. There is a dilution of the
plume mainly due to infiltration from above. The uppermost layer in the Quatemary aquifer is
practically unpolluted close to the edge of the plume and the real volume of contaminated water is
about 3 million rn3, rather that 4.5 million ni3 as earlier stated.
It can also be concluded from the results of the hydrogeological modelling, that an important influx
of contaminated water into the Quatemary aquifer is due to the dleepened channels at the landfill site.
These channels, especially the one south of the pond, have been the source for gravel/sand excavation
and in this a direct contact with more permeable layers within the Quatemary aquifer have been
established.
Contaminant distribution in the Plavinas aquifer
The conitaminant distribution in the Plavinas aquifer is, compared to Quatemary aquifer, much less
known. Limited contamination ofthe Plavinas aquifer (groundwater samples) was found in two wells:
No 7b and No 2. The contamination may, however, be explained by problems with the casing during
drilling. These two walls were established in 1995.



Annex 1
Page 19 of 19
Contaminant distribution in the Amata and Gauja aquifers
It is unlikely, that the Amata aquifer is contaminated by the leachate from the site, because the lower
part ofthe Plavinas- and the upper part of the Amata formations (found in all wells in the area) consist
of low permeable sediments.
Even less likely is contamination of the Gauja aquifer - the main aquifer, situated more that 100 m
below surface, used for water supply. The two wells producing from this aquifer (well Nos. 5814 and
6632) never show any sign of contamination. The last sampling took place in March 1996 within the
Latvian - Danish project.
Historical extent of the contaminant plume
Contamination of groundwater was determined already in 1978 when the first monitoring wells were
drilled. The extent of the plume was small, and the front was less than 400 m from the edge of the
waste disposal area. Monitoring data showed, that the contaminant plume was moving towards SW
along the main direction of groundwater flow with average velocity of 50-60 rn/year.
Concentrations of the different contaminants in the centre of the plume increased until end of 1980s.
From this time the concentrations stabilised. It is possible, that there is a kind of equilibrium between
the flux of contaminant from the waste disposal site and dilution/degradation processes in the core
of contaminant plume.
Prediction of the future extent of the contaminant plume
One ofthe tasks performed within this investigation was hydrogeological modelling of the Getlini site,
inclusive simplified simulation of a future behaviour of the contaminant plume.
Under the assumption that the input of leachate continues without stop in the future several scenarios
were calculated and the results can be summarised as follows, see Attachment 3:
* Year 1996: contaminant plume occupies large part of the Quatemary aquifer and
infiltration of contaminant to the low penneable layer gQ has began
* Year 2002: contaminant infiltrates into the upper part of the Devonian aquifer sequence
and reaches river Daugava
* Year 2020: massive contamination of the upper part of the Devonian aquifer sequence
sporadic intrusion of contaminant into the low permeable layer D3pl21






-el H*IMq I__ ^., 
eBe>>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1                                                 -4 set,eIg
sas~~~~~~ < Zo' p
am e~~~~~ad - -' AAWfltN ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~     NWm 
215 VA '1W
'-4     SlID AOWU UX-VI~~~~awlIW
I                         ,           <   _          I          .           . I           ._ E   11
IL ~ ~ ~ ~ L,
-1--~~~~~~~~~~V






:. .. - .j , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IC-. 






1996                2002                 2020                  2050
P.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
VERTICAL70
PLAN
VIEW                                                         /  ii
__~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 2
rlt
0 0.5 1 1.5 2 km
Legend                                                           rt
1                    2
landfill   -Quatemay aquifer D  -a d  D3pl,43 aquiwe;, D2D3p. l aquifer
Figure 4.9   Simulated progression of the contaminant plume in the three affected aquifer; 1996 - 2050



I



LATVIA
MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
ANNEX 2
BANK GROUP INVESTMENTS IN LATVIA






Annex 2: Bank Group Investments
Page I of 1
MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS, IBRD LOANS,
AND IDA CREDITS IN THE OPERATIONS PORTFOLIO
IBRD in                  Difference between
million USS                   expected
Project       Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                     and actual
ID         Credit No.   Year           Borrower                    Purpose               Original  Undisbursed  disbursements'
LV-PE-35807      L41540    1997  REPUBLIC OF LATVIA           WELFARE REFORM                    18.10        17.11       2.70
LV-PE-44123      L41260    1997  REPUBLIC OF LATVIA           SAL                               60.00        34.00      42.24
LV-PE4532       L41450      1197  REPUBLIC OF LATVIA         HIGHWAY                           20;00        17.89       1.69
LV-PE-345S4      L39640    1996  REPUBLIC OF LATVIA           MUNICIPAL SERVICES                27.30        17.94      10.04
LV-PE-8526      L38900    1995  REPUBLIC OF LATVIA           JELGAVA DIST. HEAT                14.00         6.18       .80
LV-PE4533       L38140    1995  GOVT OF LATVIA               LIEPAJA ENVIRONMENT                4.00          .55       -.30
LV-PE4529       L37961      1995  GOVT OF LATVIA             ENTERP. FINANC. SECT               5.00          .86       13.20
LV-PE-8529      L37960    1995  GOVT OF LATVIA               ENTERP. FINANC. SECT              10.00         5.90       13.20
LV-PE-8529      L37950      1995  GOVT OF LATVIA             ENTERP. FINANC. SECT              20.00         6.29      13.20
TOTAL                                                                                        178.40      106.72      96.77
Active Loans              Closed Loans        Total
Total disbursed'                                           62.32                      66.86       129.18
(IBRD and IDA)
of which repaid                                           0.00                       0.00         0.00
Total now held by                                         178.40                      66.86       245.26
IBRD and IDA
Amount sold                                                 0.00                       0.00         0.00
of which repaid
Total undisbursed                                                                                                               106.72
'intended disbursements to-date, minus actual disbursements to-date as projected at appraisal.
Not: Disbursement data are updated at the end of the first week of the month.
STATUS OF IFC OPERATIONS
Committed                                                    Disbursed
IFC                                                IFC
FYApproval         Copany                               Loan       Equity    Quasi        Partic          Loan        Equity       Quasi      Partic
0/95               Lartelekom SIA                        5.39       13.67      0.00        0.00            2.86        13.55        0.00       0.00
1996               Vereinsbank Riga                     0.00        6.05       0.00        0.00            0.00         6.05        0.00       0.00
1996               Vika Wood                            4.00        0.00      0.00         0.00            4.00         0.00        0.00       0.00
TOTAL PORTFOLIO                      9.39       19.72      0.00         0.00           6.86         19.60       0.00        0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan      Equity     Quasi       Panic
1996               HEBEDA - LATVIA                      0.00        0.00      2.00         0.00
TOTAL PENDING                        0.00        0.00      2.00         0.00
COMMITMENT






LATVIA
MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
ANNEX 3
FINANCING PLAN






ANNEX 3
FINANCING PLAN
1.        Project costs of US $23,990.00 as presented in the COSTAB tables comprise: a)
design and technical assistance; b) capital investment; c) capitalized recurrent costs; to which
are added, d) physical contingencies, followed by, e) price contingencies. To these costs
have to be added Interest during Construction, estimated at US $1,220,000 in Annex 7,
Appendix 2.
2.        The total costs so calculated amount to US $25.21 million (Ls 13.61 million) as
shown below, together with the Financing Plan.
PROJECT COSTS                               FINANCING PLAN
usd m     %                          usd m    usd m        %
Basic investment       16.49   65.4    Grants                          6.62    26.3
Recurrent costs         3.79   15.0    -- SIDA               1.50              (6.0)
sub-total        20.28   80.4    -- GEF                5.12              (20.3)
Physical contingencies  1.06   4.2    Eciuitv (RCC)                    2.00     2.4
Price contingencies     2.65   10.5    Loans                           11.95    52.9
sub-total        23.99   95.2    -- RCC                5.40              (21.4)
IBRD               7.95              (31.5)
Interest during         1.22   4.8     Getlini-Eco   own               4.64     18.4
construction                           funds
TOTALS           25.21  100.0         TOTALS                     25.21    100.0
3.        The Finance Plan consists of:
-    Grants: earmarked by SIDA, US $1.5 million and by GEF, US $5.12
million, for a total of US $6.62 million; this source covers 26.3% of total
costs. These funds would be shown on the balance sheet of Getlini-Eco
Ltd. as quasi-equity.
Equity : the creation of Getlini-Eco's share capital of the equivalent of US
$1.0 million, would be financed by RCC from the US $6 million
earmarked for the Project. The equity injection represents 2.4% of totalI
costs.
Loans: there will be two loans, one from RCC and one from IBRD, for a total of US $13.35
million or 52.9% of project costs. The RCC loan would amount to US $4 million; it would be
an interest free loan, lent to Getlini-Eco, 5 years grace and 12 years repayment. The loan
from IBRD would be signed with Government, which would onlend the proceeds to RCC,
which in turn would onlend the funds to Getlini-Eco. The interest rate payable by Getlini-



Annex 3: Financing Plan
Page 2 of 2
Eco would be 8%, including a guarantee fee of 0.7% for Government. Repayment would be
over 12 years, after a 5 year grace period.
Getlini-Eco's own funds: The cash flow generated as a result of the Project would
enable the company to contribute to the finance plan; it would cover both recurrent
expenditures, as well as the interest payable during the construction period. The total
contribution would be US $4.64 million equivalent to 18.4% of project cost.



LATVIA
MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
ANNEX 4.1
PROCUREMENT PLAN






Procurement Plan: Latvia - Municipal Solid Waste Management Project
1                            2              3                 4                 5                                 6
Estmated Schedule
No.slices/items/    Estimated        Procurement    Document    Invitation to   Contract    Contract
Description'                                     Type2       subpackages3           Cost4           Methods         Preparation          Bid         Signing    Completion
fNVRONMENTAL REMEDtATIn
mateal, Inrl Trar  CMy and Sand                                                          S1,623       NCB^              Oct-98          Nov-98        FeF99          Oct-oo
Earth WAslRemediatiDn                                              S4 66                              NG                Oc9             Nov-98        Feb-9c0
Ma-hineiy equ print uilding -                                       1      'S7                                          ot-s8           NOV-98        Dec-96          eW9
Groundoater Cono                                     W159                                              NBF             Nov-98           Jan-99        Mar;99         Jul-99
Leacha_e- TramUMnoIng                     ~                                          = 1  -   614                  Nov-98           Jan-99        Mar-99        May-99
Transrdssion of surlac Water                        '           SF                                                     Nov-98           Jan-99        Mar-99 M
TECHIAOERTOA  IMPROVEMENTS__
Fenng, gal, sep  tank construcon                                    2     -487                        NCB              Nov-99           Jan-o         Mar-99          un0
tiuildings, Tecnical improvements                                  8267                               NCB-             Jan-99           Mar-99        Jun-99         Mar4
Earth Works, improvements                                           I          ------'          ----M y F                  M     ar                       99         Mar-02
Weigjhbridge and Registration                        G              1 -                    $88         I               Jan-99           Jan-99        Mar-99         May-99
siof,ing UnitUShreder                     S,742                                       IB  S                              ep-9           Nov-99        Oec-9   9      Apr-00
Container,Oill Tank                                 ~~' G                                  $1 1 - 7    NS              Jan-99           Jan- gg M              ar-99  May-99
WMheevTrack Loader                 ~                 G              2                                             --r32    IC  Nov-98   Jan-99    7  Mar-99          May-93
3elt Conveyor -                                      G                                     147          I              Jan-99           Jan-99        Mar-99          ia-
uaTrinenance Brid(e               S                                                                                       -n012  F      Jan-99   -9 9Mar-99  M        ay-99
GAS GENERATION AND ENERGY PROOUCTIO
Earth VWMrks for Gas Uzaiar-99                                                                                                                        Ju             Mar-02
Civil Works Leachabe Water                                                              $FMar99m May99                                                J             Mar-02
Gas Extraction Piping Energy Cells              U1                                                     NBF SMar-99   May-99   J                    u -9             Mar-02
ias ELxraction Piping, Landfill                                    I1              I      i8            I              Mar-99           May-99         JiWul-        Mar-02
Regulation Stabion                                                  I                                   is          1_ 8 _Jan-99        Jan-99        Mar-99        May-99
Juncion Manholes                  5                                 i   -5                             NS              Jan-00           Jan-oo        Mar-99        May-00
Col tor Well, Pumping Boiler                                       -1          S650                          IC Novg-997                Jan-0o        Mar-99      JuT-00
citry Gernration Fa ciliy                                           f                                S4,157 ICtM'-9                                   Ju            Mar- 02
MANAGeRLAkL IMPROVEMe-NTS                                                                                              Ja_9            Ja_9       -V--               a-
Labort y Equipemnent                                                      f      S129 NBF Jan-                     9 9                 Jan-99        Mar-99 May-  99
Salary      Local Stan                             O                             1                     NF
ntem. Prourement Spealist                                                                  314         SLF             Sep-98       -                 Nov-98        Jun-00
rwinning Arrangement                       S4                                 4     2 N _44
iice Equ',pment                    _                                1                _S3B                F '           Oct-98                   -     Nocv-98       Nov-98
& M_PIU                                                       -S13                9  NB F _-
VehiCe                                           ---___    -                                       098 R~                               Oct-98        Nov-98        Dec-98
tailed Design' 1                                                               5637                   S        L        eXF      '      Mar-98 Ar-   99              Oct-98
TOTAL Investnt COST                                                                     S19,350
Total Reccusrent Cost                                                                    S4,640
Intest During Construction                                                                1,220
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                                                      $25,210
NoTES:
Funded by GEF
Funded by GEF and VWorld Bank
'Name of Packege
2lndicate CW (for civil works); S&I (for supply and install); TK (for tumkey); CF (for consultant firms): Cl (for Individual consultants); TR (for training).
The type Is related to the use of the relevant standard bidding documents.
"If known, Indicate number of slices, major items or subpackages In the package
'Expressed In US$1000
'Indicate ICB, LUB, NCB, IS, NS, DC (for direct contracting), FA (for Force Account), MW(for Minor works), SLF (for short-listing of consultant firms); SLI (for short-listing of Individual consultants);
SSF (for Sole sourcing of consulbnt firms); SSI (for sole sourdng of individual consultants)
Other (for recurrent costs procured on the basis of administrative proceduresbased on a schedule and budget acceptable to the Bank);






LATVIA
MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
ANNEX 4.2
USE OF FUNDS FOR DIFFERENT
PROCUREMENT PACKAGES






Pmcuremnent: Environmental Remediaton
Toals Inluding Contingecies CW)                                                            Prec.   Pack.
Unit UrCost                     1998                    19992000                                        2001                    2002            Total  Procedure   No.
R     I    G     S    R            G    S    R       I    G      S     R      I    G     S    R            G     S
B    E           I    I    B    E           I       B    E       I    I    B       E     I     i    B    E       I
G   R   F  D  G   R   F  D  G   R   F  D  G   R   F  D  G   R   F   D
A  D  _A  A  D                           A           D D         A   A  D                A  A  D                  A
investment Coats
A. Soil MaterialII                                                                                             II
Material, ind. Transport Clay and Sand  m3            8        =248                               1,375              =1623    NCB 
B. Eartb Works 
Coveng of Landflll                     m2             4                                  38 71    74              .                                                                       183
Excavation and prep. for leachate pond  m2            5                                  29       160             .                                                                       189
Ditches for surface run-off water       m             4                                  16                       .                                               .                        16
Dams and Ponds /a                    Lumpsum                                             42       230                                                             .                       272
Subtobl Earth Works                                                                       125   71  464              I                                                                      660    NCB          2
C. Buildings-                                                           -     -      _-_                                                                                                       _   _   _        _
Machinery equipment building/b         m2           290        -      =    =     =       13 74                                                                                             8;'    IS
0. ConstrucUon                                                                                                                                                                               39
Groundwater Control/pumps            Number    16,100                                                     39                                                                               39
Groundwater Control/wells            Number    14,700                                                     35                                                                               35
Groundwater Controlpipes                m            17                                                    40                                                                              40
Groundwater ControlTextile              m             4                                                    11                                                                             11
Groundwater Control/Soil               m3             4                                                    10                                                     .                        10
Groundwater ControlRegulation        Lumpsum                                                               16                                                                              16
Groundwater Control/installation Wels  Number     3,300                                                     8                                                                               8 _  _  ___
Subtotal Consmuction                                                                                        159        _                       _                                            159    NBF          4
E. Equipmt                                                                                                                                                                                                   _
Transmission of Surface Wter/wells   Number       7,300                                                                            16                                                      16
Transmission of Surface Water/pipes     m             4                                                                             2                                                       2
Transmission of Surface Water/installation Number  7.300                                                                           16                                                      16
Transmission of Surface Water/pumps  Number       6,700                                                                            1      -                                                15       _
Subtotal                                                                                                                             49                                                      49    NSF          4
Heating of leachate water for treatment   lumpsum                                                         177                       -              _                                      177
SBR Aeration/c                       Number    22,100                                                      48                                                                              48
SBR Blowing Equip.                   Number    14,700                                                      48                                                                              48
SBR Decant Equip.                    Lumpsum                                                               24                                                                              24
SBR Instrument Equip.                Lumpsum                                                               24                                                                              24
SBR Dosing Equip./Chemicals          Lumpsum                                                               24                                                                              24
SBR Motor valves                     Lumpsum                                                               36                                                                              36
SBR Shutters                         Lumpsum                                                               36                                                                              36
Electricity/Regulation /d            Lumpsum                                                              140                                                                             140
Heating, Water and Sanitation /e     Lumpsum                                                               40                                                                              40
Transmission pumps If                Number       7,400                                                    40                                                                              40
Compacted area /g                       m2           15                                                     8                                                                               8
Installation well /h                 Lumpsum                                                               16                                                                              16
Installation well /i                 Lumpsum                                                                8                                                                               8
Groundwater Monitoring Well          Number         700                                                     5                                                                               5-
Groundwater Monitoring Equipment     Lumpsum6 9                                                                                                                                        8      N           4
Subtotal Equipnent                                                                                          684  =__         =                                        =6                            NBF         4
F. Design1_                                                                                                              _i_B_ 
Detailed Design                     lumpsum                           141                                                                                                                 141    ICB           .
Total Investnrit Costs                                              =145 1,39  843                                                     49     -                                              3,403



Procurement: Technical/Operational Improvements
Latvia
Rip. Solid Wase Management Pro)ect
Dealiled Costs
ILJ~~~~at                      ____________________ ~~~~~~~~~~~~Totals Including Contingencies Co00                                                   ___c_Pack
Unit  Unit Coa          1998                    1999                    2000                   2001                    2002             Total   Procedure   No.
R     I    G     s    R            G     S    R      I     G    S    R       I    G     s     R      I    G     S
I    B    E      I    I    B    E        I    I    B    E       I    I    B       E     I     1    B      E     I
G   R       F    D    G      R    F    D    G        R    F    D    G       R     F    D    G       R    F    D
A D0A I0                                     A D   AAD    A A D0 
Investment costs
A. Civil Works
Fence                              m          23      -107                                                                                          7                         114
Entrance Gate                    Number   7,400                                          a 8                                                                                    8
Fresh water pplng               Lumpsum               -26                                                                                                                      26
External ilhtnings and power outlets Lumfpsum         -168                                                                                                                    168
Septic tank                      Numiber  17,700      -20                                                                                                                      20
Foundation oil tank                m2          7      -50                                                                                                                      50
Roofed Storage                     m2         15      --       -     -101                                                                                     -                0NO1
Subtotal Civil Wolrks                                                      1731          407                                                          7                         487 NCB 
S. Eainth Works
Compacted areas, bitunmenus        m2         22      -838                                         262                                                                      1,100
Comipacted Areas                   m2         15      -344                                         232                    265                     494                       1,336
Invternal roads, bitumenus         m2         22      -20                                           44                     15                      16                          96
Intemal roads,city sand            m2         15                            14                      29                     10                     I11                          64
Open storage areas                 m2          2                             0                       0                      0                                                     01
Subtotal Eaith Works                                    -        -     -    216,                     56--                   291  211 2,594 NBF7
Administration building            m2        551                                       2371                                                                                   237
StaffBuMiding                      m2        588      -351                                                       -                                                            3511
Wfrkshop, rehabilitation           -n        221      --                                                       2441                                                           244
Hazardous waste storage building   m2        290      -35                                                        -35
Subtotal B3uildIngs                                                           95,        528        362         208867NCB6
0. Equlpnien
Welghbridge and registration /a  Number  39,700                                   68      -          -    -                                                                    88 is 
Roollng/Sheltetirig Sorting unit   mn2       177      -                                              -213                                                                     213
General Installations Sorting Ungt   lumpsum                                        -     -- 35                                                                                35
Picidng Bets Wd. staff working bridge  number  60,900                                     -         28   158                                                                  1e6
Shredder                         Number 588,200       -1,307                              -             -                                                                   1,307
Beltcowveyor                        m        220      -147                                --    -                                                                             147 _____
Subtotal: SorlIng UnitlShredder                                                 1,454  -28 4061,889_B                                                                                            91
Cont`a-iner,oil tank            Lurnpsum                                          17      --                                                                                   lN                10
~Meel loader                     Number 220,600                                     45-254
Trackloader                      Number 147,100       -163                                               16933____
Subtotal: Wheel/Track Loader4 02 332OBT
Maintenance bridge              Lumpsum               I     I     1         12  ~                           l      -                    : --                           -       12 NBF       T 12
Subtotal EquIpment                                     .J      j12 1982 830-                                                                                                  2,838* 
LDesaignosg                       upu               -      3 9                                                   --                                                                             5
DealdDesign                     LumpsumJ-                                                   -     --                                                                           39O
Total Investmet costs                                         3               139 30 98   ~      -    ~                                               2                         ~ 



Procurement: Gas Generation and Energy Production
tvia
ga Solid vVade Management Projed
tailed Costs
S$)                                                                                              Totals Including Contingencies (000)                                                      Proc.   Pack.
Unit   Unit Cost         1998                   1999                   2000                    2001                   2002            Total  Procedure  No.
R     I    G    S    R       I    G    S    R       I    G    S    R       l    G    8    R       I    G     S
I    B    E         I I    B    E       I    I    B    E       I    I    B    E       I    i    B    E       I
G   R   F  D  G   R   F  D  G   R   F  D   G   R   F  D  G   R   F   D
A   D            A   A   D              A   A   D              A   A   D              A   A   D              A
Irmestnent Costs
A. Earth Works                            m2
Excavation and Prep. of Energy Cells  Lumpsum         5                           139                   148                     157                    165                        609
Redistribution of filling material      m2                                         9                                              -                                                 9
Soil Covering Energy Cells                            2                                                  85                     90                      94                        269
Subtotsl Earth Works                                                                148                   234  =                 246   =                 259                        886 NBF           13
I. Civil Works                          lumpsum
Gas extraction piping, landfill         m2           47      .                     28  15t  _              .186 ICB                                                                               14
Gas extraction piping energy cells       m                                  -      33              _          _                                                                    33
Leachate injection water piping          m            10                           7                                                                                                7
Leachate water main drainage pipe        n            15                           11                                                                                              11
Leachate water perforated pipe        Number          18                -                                 8                       8                      8                         24
Manufacture and instal gas wells, landfill  m       882                          211                                              -                                               211
Establishment or energy cell gas wells  m2            6      -                                          222                     232                    242                        696
Establishment of injection wells, energy cells        2                                                  56                     59                      61                      1,7 NBF          1_
262                 1286                      299      1              111 1,158 NBF                               15,
Subtotal Civil Works                      No.                                                     I                                        I                I                 I
C Regulation station                    Number    25,000                                  83                                           83 1S                                                         16
Junction manholes                     Lumpsum      1,470  =     =     -    ==                                 3                                                                       NS            17
Collector wel with pump and heating coil    Lpsum                                      _                       33                                                                  33
Gas pumping station                   Lumpsum                                                                 322                                            108                  431
Gas boiler with heat exchanger       lumpsum                                _                                 187              _                               -                  187       _
Subtobl: Collector Wll. pum ping, boiler                                                                  83  459              _                        17  91                    650 ICB           18
Electricity Generation Facility la _  _                                          -         2.117        _    658                     680                     702                4,15'IB             19
=____________________________  _. _.  _    =  83 2,117    -  _ 1,205        680-                   810                 4,895      _
SubtotalEquipment                       lumpsum                      17
D Detailed Design b                                               1 = 157 --                                                                  -                                     15' IB          _
= = = 437 nii 2,117 = 6~~-60    1,122                          ==60==587                        ==7,28 =
Tobal
t a TurnKey, kiluding design
I b Excluding Design for Electricity Generation Facility
X c 50% d fuel consumption
X d 50% of Electric Power Corsumption



Procurement: Managerial Improvements
Latvi
Rig ab 8Wtad Managemet Prfeet
Do'd Cost
(USS)                                                       ________________                     Totals IncluTding Contingesnciess  0 ee_                                                  proe.   Pack.
Unit   unit Cost          1999                   19M9                   20D0                   2001                   2002            Total   Procedure   No.
R     I    G    S R          I    G    s    R       I    G    s    R       I    G     S    R      I    G    S
I    B    E      I     I    B    E      I    I           E     I    I           E     I    I    a    E       I
G   R   F  o   G   R   F  0   G   R   F   D   G   R   F   D   G   R   F   D
A D    A~A D    A  A D -A A   D   AA   D    A
A.                                                                        ___uidpare_t
AAS                                 Number    50.000                                                                      e 58                                                   58
Auto litator                        Number    20.000       .          .                      .           .               23                                                      23
ph-Meter                            Number       5,000                                                                    6                                                       6
Potable Laboratoty                  Number       7,000                                                                    8                                                       8
Hood                                Number    10,000                                                                     12                                                      12
Glas Vqmres                         Lumpsum                                                                              12                                                      12
Chemicals                           Lumpsum                .          .                                                  12                                                      12
Stiota Equiprment29129 NBF                                                                                                                                                                          41
IL Project suppot Unit
Satafycost ocal staff                 USS                49                     83                     96                    108-  _                 120 _                               -F
Intern. procurement specialist       month      25,000         76  -157                                      81                                                                 31' 5BCS          20
Twinning Arranrement /a             LumPsum                                                                -             9                    112                    116       442 NBF           21
Office equipment                    Lumpsum                                           37                                                                                       37 NBF           22
0& MPSU                             Lumpsum              26                     27                     28                                             3                             NBF
Vehicle (4-wheel-dnve)              Lumpsum                          21                                                                                                                           2 21 IS
Tdasl                                                                                      7      1 =      124   81         2    13 =              112  150 |___ 1,53!
la InxluI  12 parson months of technical supervision (at US$25,000) and training
Sunay nTable
RanudlatJol                                                *141             -  386  145 1.839  843       -          -   49                 -  -        -    -    -    -    3,403
Tecdal" Invmpnr                                           0  339    0    01396 1968 935    0  630 830  208               0  291    0    0    0  528         0    0    0       7125
GOasc 11clonandElectr. Generation                        0  157    0    0  437  241 2117    0  603 1122    0    0  545  680    0    0  587  793    0    o                    7282
MImgaaeinlprovements                                     75   76   21   37  110  157             105  124   81          238  137      -    -  112  150       -    -  116    1,539
19,350
Total Le of Fdas for In_estments                                                                                                                                                        Target
RGA                        75                   2,330                  1,357                   973                   1.265                      6000        6000
ISM)                            713                  2.511                  2,033                    680                    793                 6730       6730
GEF                                   21                  4.891                    208                                                         5120        5120
Sida                                        37                    949                    287                    112                    116      1500       1500
19350      19350



LATVIA
MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
ANNEX 4.3
PROCUREMENT INFORMATION






Latvia: Municipal Solid Waste
Procurement Information
Section 1: Procurement Review
Element (Goods/Works)                 ICB              NCB                IS                NS                Other methods
1. Procurement method thresholds      goods $300,000   works $1,000,000   < $300,000        < $50,000         prior approval of annual
works n.a.      goods clay&sand                                        budget for recurrent costs
2. Prior Review                        all ICB          first two packages   first package  first package     yes
Element (Consultant Services)         QBCS             QBS                Sole Sourcing     Minor Contracts   Other methods
3. Procurement method thresholds       $200,000         n.a.              n.a.              n.a.              n.a.
4. Prior Review                        yes              yes               yes               yes               yes
5. Ex-post Review: contracts not subject to  Explain briefly the ex-post review mechanism: Ex-post review will be done in accordance with Appendix I of the
the prior review                       Guidelines for Procuremet under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits
Section 2. Capacity of the Implementing Agency in Procurement and Technical Assistance requirements
6. Brief statement: Primary responsibility for overseeing implementation of procurement procedures will rest with the staff of the PIU. Its capacity will be
strengthen by procuremnt consultant.
7. Country Procurement Assessment Report or Country Procurement Strategy Paper status:  8 Are the bidding documents for the procurement actions of
Country Procurement Strategy Paper was finalized in July 1995.                     the first year ready by negotiations?          Yes
-                  ~~~~~~Section 3. Training, Information and Development on Procurement
9. Estimated date of Project Launch  10. Estimated date of    1 1. Indicate if contracts are subject  12. Domestic  13. Domestic Preference
Workshop: Jul. 1998                General Procurement Notice  to mandatory SPN in Development  Preference for     for Consultant Services:
publication May 1997       Business:       Yes (every      Goods/Works:Yes/No  Yes
consultant assignement above
$200,000)
14. Retroactive financing No                                                      115. Advanced Procurement       No
16. Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System and Information System:
In addition, the PIU will develop a monitoring/reporting system for timely implementation of procureemnt. The reports will be submitted to the Bank montly.
Section 4. Procurement Stafring
17 Indicate nane of Procurement Staff as part of Project Team:                     Sector Unit: ECSRE              Ext. 32182
Snezana Mitrovic, Procurement Analyst, x32182, with back-up from Sergei Popov, Consultant
I8. Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in Procurement:  Field Office will provide back-up on procurement issues to project team.
19. Procurement Audit Planned: NO






LATVIA
MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
ANNEX 5.1
DISBURSEMENTS OF BANK LOAN
AND GEF GRANT






ciob. VWB-GEP
I                                      I      M~~~~~~~~*ISBURSMENT OF WRDANK4.LA1Y AND GEF4RNT FOR INVERTUE
I                                                20 M~-                                                                          - 
Y"                                                                                                           2~~~~hg  1l ~ L  01~002          TOTAL        j    FIN'ANCIERPS
SewttF_          Fw          Secaond         FWnt        Secon           Firs        Second_         Fkvt  I_   Second           Fwt Seeo d                       v       %    GEF    %    Riga
-  -- --   -  -   -  -   +          total        itotal         total         total         total        ,total   _____ total ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~totaltotl____
- cvlWorks and                                  --'w                                                                                                                              -       --                          35    8
-  ESIUl                       ~~~~~       ~        ~ ~~~Local  df            1?4l]          24--                                                                        -2
E__ __      -aI,ow-*dWd-o-Forei                                                  330      371115'                                                                                                                       464     9.
_____                 ~~~~~~~Local                                                                                                                                                                                - a            ~--125
CiiWorselwl4*I19a Te Iwd   mp oren   Forig                8-480   47                      63     82     12 1122         2 10 -                                     7      4                                       1 143   2.3
Local                                                                                    is -~                                                                                               07.
6;;t-4unWShm-   Fredgn727   n727    772727.                                                       1      08 27   208                            -                              _ __          1'860   27.6 _
______________  Local  r-                                              14            1~~ ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~4- -_ _                                                     _               28
-  _____            log                                               771~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 40  1221  2i  2.2                                                              832_12_
Is  W~H, otvlj~N  E!R~r           Lorae                                                              271   230:2711   22v                                  -.5         8      4     45     .     550    8.2
4i :~j       42~                                         81 ]          9~        .
le    Ee8lctGnroFaII    -                    Fri8159 ...9 II".                                         . 06     32      329'   329   329830         30      4      4     381    351'   9      351'          2040   30.3  2117 --41.1
3  MacIm-yeq---~.ntbtII6n~ib   - Fo!eign                                           85                 -        8- I-874    1 .1
Local              .8             -      -~1 
6  Woighb~~. and Regletrateon  Foreign      8                 as    eel                                 - as                                                                           68    1.3
14     -i_                                                                                   74  ;1                               -      --          -I-----  ---             ___
Foreign    ~ ~ ~        ~       ~ ~ 1__   __8                                        -----83 _1.22
Local                                      -    - -8--
17    J.mclion-Manholas           For~~~t?eign                     2                                          5                                                                                                  21 0.1
-Cenovit.n Services                     4o37 -2>.2                                                             -                                  :--~
D_______Design        _____20C                                           3767                                                                                                                                    .5_
o.taaedDeugn                  -.~~~~~"Ig  - 
20    tnte.n.PmaiwroanA 'eilat   __     oeg                      6     7_7            9       97           41  41  41           4                                                           _         3`14    47_          -
LOCal       I       --                  I               -       -      --                                    -- ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Total    6730    100   51201  11.    78t
DIM MFEN-f    W0UDANK LOAPIY          _-                         -                                                                                                  ____-r                     -
--  _______          I~~~~nvestmnl       _        2001          513           90'-         1522          10191         1013           340i          340 -    3971                39   673-
- --  intere1t~~~~~~~~~Min9constludiOn              i            39          7~~~~~"--O ,r __  1 N  0    19             22'14---Il5                                208- 122-
Total             0    200             0          1029'I    0  1601        0 -Tiil1         117M            5                           596    71                    -- -
--   DRtYWoeldBonk(tndlnterest)  --            ~~~~         ~~200  528 -   02            1601          1138          11I53545260I911 --                                                                         --
28    -    242l1:'        24-             li4          1041      I120                                                                             _____
Page I






LATVIA
MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
ANNEX 5.2
DETAILED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE FOR BANK LOAN



I



Annex 5.2
Page 1 of 1
DETAILED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE FOR BANK LOAN
Estimated Schedule for Disbursement  __j
(US $ million)          !
Loan Disbursement                      Disbursement Profiles
Quarter; :This       Cumulative  'Cumulative  All Regions  All Regions tAll Regions  ECA Region ECA Region
Since Approval; Semester                 Total %     Invest. Loan Sector    Sector     jSector     Sector
FY 1999   December, 1998!        0.73i        0.73 ;        9%           0           0           0          0:          0
June, 1999      1.03            1.761        22%           3           3'          3!         3i          3
FY2000   December, 1999,          1.6         3.36         42%           6                       o 10       6          10
June, 20001        1.14 i       4.5          57%          10I         10          18:         6          18
FY2001   December,2000!          1.17, i      5.67         71%           18         18'         26,         14i        26
'    June,20011         0.56 i       6.23.        78%           26         261         42          18.        46
FY 2002   December, 2001' I      0.52      6.75' i         85%          381         38    i    541          26'        54
'I~                     I              .   -                                          , 
.    June, 2002i        0.59 I       7.34 '       92%           S0;        50          66j         30'         70
FY2003   December, 2002i !        0.6:        7.951       100%          62          58    !    781         50 ;    90
June, 20031 '         ,              !                    70          66          86!        58'         94
LoanClosingDatej I           I July31 2003 i                                   !
ASubsector Set - Environmental Control  I         i !_                         __!_                           I
-SubsectorSet-Energy    j_|_._                                                 __   __  __   __   ___i__        __   __






LATVIA
MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
ANNEX 6.1
ENVIRONMENTAL DATA SHEET
.






ENVIRONMENTAL DATA SHEET FOR PROJECTS
in the IBRD/IDA Lending Program
Country:                               LATVIA                        Project ID No:      LV-PA-40533
Project Name:                          Municipal Solid Waste         Total Project Cost:  $25.1 million
Management Project
Appraisal Date:                        March, 1997                    Task Manager:      Anders Halldin
Board Date:                            May, 1997                      Sector:            Environment and Energy
Managing Division:                     EC4NR                          Status:            Preparation
Lending Instruments:                  IBRD                            Date Assigned:      February 10, 1997
Date (est) for receipt of EA by Bank:  January, 1997
EA Category (A/B/C):                   B
Date Sheet Prepared/Updated            February 10, 1997
(Please do not leave any items blank: use *N/A' or 'To be developed' when appropriate)
Major Projed Components: (presents description of project components)
The project would consist of: (a) remediation of the existing disposal site; (b) technical and managerial improvements in order to increase separation of
recyclable materials; (c) establishonent of energy cells for enforced degradateon of easily biodegradable waste; (d) collection of landfill gas (L vG)
containing about 50% methane (CH4); (e) co-generation of electricity aGd heat based on the collected LFG thereby replacing other fossil fuels; (f)
technical assistance through twinning arrangements to enable staff to operate the waste processing system efficiently and achieve rnaximum revenues
from the generated and separated by-products: and (g) managerial assistance during the implementation period to facilitate the future development of the
cornpany.
Major Environtnental Issues: (describes miajor envirounmental issues identified or suspected in project)
Major positive environmnental results would be obtained through: (a) efficient remediation of the existing Gelliri Disposal site; (b) rneasures to safe
guard the aquifers from future addifional conamnimadon from percolating leachate; (c) treatrnent of polluted surface water before its discharge to River
Daugava; and (d) reduction of greenhouse gases through the collection of LPG.
Other Environmental Issues: (describes environmental issues of lesser scope associated with project)
Posiive: (a) Improved management and separation of recyclable material; (b) utilization of by-products as a result of the waste processing technology;
and (c) substantially prolonged lifetime of the disposal site at Gedini.
Negative: Currently, there are a number of serni-formal workers involved in recycling activities and food-pickers looking for food wastes and cloths.
The implementation of the project would not allow the food-pickers to be inside the area at all, and would also result in a reduced number of semi-formal
workers.
Local Consultation and Beneficiar Participation: A strong participatory approach has been adopted from the early beginning of project preparation.
due to the sensitive socio-political nature of a landfill project. Three public meetings have been held (on May 25, October 26, and December 14, 1996),
with the participation of all major key stakeholders in the project, including affected communities, garden societies and inhabitants close to the Getlini site,
mass media, Riga City Council, Stopinu Pagasts Council, regional and natioral government officials, NGOs, and the operating waste management
enterprise. The meetings as well as the development of the project during the preparation phase have been widely recorded in TV, radio, and newspapers.
Major concern among the affected parties has been to assure that the groundwater would be improved and possible to use for irrigadon purposes. In
order to evaluate the actual problem the Bank has initiated a separate investigation of all private wells in the area, which results are expected to be
available before end of March 1997.
Proposed Actions: (describes actions proposed to mitigate environmental issues described in project)
Based on the technical feasibility study and the environmental assessment, it is evident that the project would result in a number of beneficial measures.
However, the social impact mentioned above would be mitigated through creation of new job opportunities for some of the semi-formal workers. The
food-pickers would be informed, well in advance, that their access to the site would cease. There is, however, a social safety net in place which would
require food-pickers be registered.
A Monitring Plan would be created in agreement with the environmental authorities - Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development
and Riga Region Environmnental Board - in order to provide all stakeholders continued information about the project
Justification/Rationale for Envirornental Category: (reasons for enviromnental category selected & explanation of any changes from inital
The proposed project would present a state-of-the-art solution for more than 40% of the municipal solid waste generated in Latvia, and would continue
to use a site which would otherwise be forced to shut down, causing considerable extra expense. Originally, the project was supposed to identify and
establish a new disposal site, and include the means for closure of the existing site. However, the feasibility study including comprehensive groundwater
investigadons show that the actual groundwater contamination can be arrested and the opeFation can be continued through investments in modern waste
management technology. TIh imnplementation of the project would result in a number of positive environmental impacts: (a) elimination of groundwater
contamination; (b) reduction of surface water contamination; (c) improved living conditions for the neighbors through reduction of noise and odor; (d)
reduction of greenhouse gas emissions through collection of the landfill; and (e) reduction of imported fuel and other greenhouse enissions through
utilizing the landfill gas for electricity generation and heat production.
Status of Category A Erivironmental Assessment: (presents EA start-up date, EA first draft, and current status)
An environmental assessment in accordance with OD 4.01 has been carried out and presented to the Bank in January 1997.
Complete government approved EA: February, 1997.
Remarks: (gives status of any other environmental studies, lists local groups and local NGOs consulted, tells whether borrower has given permission to
Active NGOs: Environmental Protection Club, Latvia Grerns
Partial list of prior studies: (i) Riga Regioil Solid Waste Plan, Carl Bro 1993 and 1994; (ii) Landfill Siting Study, Carl Bro Sept. 1994; (iii)
Hydrogeological Sna 'on Getlini, Bal   1994 and 1995; (iv) Closure and Remediation Options for Getlini, Baltec, 1995; (v) Preliminary EA for two
proposed sites, C    Bro Sept. I99'4.
Signed  :    /                                                        Signed by:
,,z5e1frey Fox, Chic, C4NR  7-vT-7                                    Anand Seth (EMTEN), Regional E9tornent Division Chief






LATVIA
MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
ANNEX 6.2
SUMMARY OF ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT






ANNEX 6.2
SUMMARY OF ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
Introduction
Environmental Resources Management (ERM) was commissioned by the World Bank to
prepare an Environmental Assessment (EA) report of the proposed remediation extended
operation of the Getlini waste disposal site, Riga, Latvia. The project has been
classified as Category A and a full EA is required in accordance with World Bank OD
4.01 and applicable Latvian legislation (eg the Law on State Ecological Expertise). The
EA work was carried out in parallel with a technical feasibility study, conducted under a
separate Terms of Reference (ToR) by SWECO of Sweden.
The EA project commenced on 26 August 1996, and was carried out over a period of
approximately four months, with a Final Report in January, 1997.
The Setting
The Getlini waste disposal site is located approximately 12 kilometres south-east of the
centre of Riga City in Stopini Pagast (1). Getlini is situated in the Daugava River basin
approximately 1.7 km north of the river on the right bank.
The site is located in a level plain where sandy, glacial sediments form a sandy surface
aquifer. This unconfined surface aquifer is not locally imnportant for drinking water
supply, because its water quality is affected by a large peat bog and ground-water
pollution from the Getlini disposal site; however, there are a number of shallow wells in
the vicinity used primarily for irrigation purposes. Underlying the surface aquifer are
deeper aquifers which represent an important, regional water resource. Contamination
has not yet reached the deeper aquifers, but hydrogeologic modelling indicates that it
eventually will unless remedial measures are carried out.
Adjacent to the waste disposal site territory are 54 permanent households with a resident
population of 117 people of which 14 households are in close proximity to the site.
The dominant land use in the area has for centuries been agriculture and to a lesser
extent forestry. The surrounding landscape consists of a matrix of agricultural fields,
pasture, forest, and bogs or other wetlands. The local population consists mainly of
unskilled labourers and pensioners who supplement their income with agricultural
produce from garden plots. Also there are groupings of small garden plots which are
essentially the gardens of Riga residents and are a source of food for many city
households and additional income for many families.
Getlini Bog borders the site to the north and east. There are narrow belts of forest
along the western and southern edges which block the waste pile from view. Larger
") A Pagau is local municipal district.



Annex 6.2
Page 2 of 6
tracts of forest border the eastern and northern edges of Getlini bog and block view of
the site from these directions.
The Getlini Waste Disposal Site
The Getlini Waste Disposal Site is a Soviet era municipal waste dump serving Riga City
and the surrounding area. The site has been in use since 1973 without benefit of
modern sanitary landfilling practices. Conditions in the recent past were quite poor,
with continual open fires and poorly controlled access. In mid 1995, a new company,
Getlini-2, jointly owned by the local municipality and Riga City, took over daily
management of the site. Getlini-2 has significantly improved management at the site,
reduced some of the minor, negative environmental impacts such as fires and
uncontrolled dumping, and instituted a manual materials recovery program at the tipping
face. However, contamination of the surface aquifer by leachate from the waste pile is
ongoing and no effective measures have been implemented to abate this problem.
Moreover, while the landfilling operations are better controlled, they consist simply of
waste tipping on a large waste pile without benefit of datily covering or compaction.
Landfill gas is not collected or managed in any way.
The site is 87 hectares in area of which approximately 36 hectares have been covered
with deposited waste. The waste pile is approximately 24 metres in height at its highest
point with an estimated total volume of waste of 3.7 million m3. The site presently
receives approximately 205,000 tonnes of municipal waste per year and 45,000 tonnes
of industrial waste for a total of 250,000 tonnes/year. The bulk of the industrial waste
consists of concrete rubble and other inert materials.
Project Description
The project proposes to remediate environmental pollution and modernize the Getlini
site to intemational good practice standards. The resulting environmental benefits
include abatement of ongoing ground and surface water contamination which will result
in improved ground and surface water quality, improved site management and control to
assure receipt and handling of appropriate waste only, general improvement in site
appearance, and management and control of landfill gas and utilisation for energy
production.
The project will meet these objectives through the following proposed works on the
original site area:
capping or covering of the existing waste pile with a layer of soil material to
significantly reduce the infiltration of precipitation and therefore leachate generation;
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOuRCEs MANAGEMENT                                    WORLD BANK



Annex 6.2
Page 3 of 6
removing contaminated water by installing wells to capture leachate and
contaminated ground water, and construction of a surface drainage control system to
capture surface runoff;
* construction of water treatment facilities to treat the contaminated waters prior to
release to the River Daugava;
establishing an efficient management and waste control system at the site in line with
good international practice; and
* construction of gas collection and pumping facilities to control and utilise landfill gas
for energy production.
Public Consultation
Consultation was carried out in accordance with World Bank policy and guidelines.
Furthermore, stakeholders were identified during the course of a social assessment to
identify in particular those members of the general public whose environrnental or social
situation might be materially affected by the project. Key consultation activities
included:
meetings with public authorities, key NGOs, current site management and other
institutional stakeholders;
* public meetings at which stakeholders were brought together and encouraged to
discuss issues in general session facilitated by a member of the Environmental
Assessment team; and
a series of interviews with randomly selected members of the local community, site
workers, and informal waste/food pickers (scavengers) at the site.
In addition, information has been made available to the Latvian media throughout the
development of the project and will continue to be disseminated during the construction
and operation phases.
In response to the findings of the consultation, chemical analyses of soil from
surrounding agricultural lands were carried out to determine if there had been pollution
caused by previous landfill activity, and operational improvements have been
recommended for the future management of Getlini-2. Measures to address the
remaining minor concerns of stakeholders were also developed and incorporated into the
site Environmental Management Plan (EMP).
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT                                    WORLD BANK



Annex 6.2
Page 4 of 6
Potential Impacts
E.RM conducted a preliminary assessment of potential impacts of the proposed project
and the likely significance of the impacts, and recommended measures to manage and
monitor envirornental effects. As the project proposes to remedy past environmental
degradation, the predicted impacts are overwhelmingly positive in terms of the local
environment. However, all engineering projects also have the potential for adverse
effects on local and social conditions. The EA indicates the types of impacts expected
and the types of mitigation measures likely to be necessary and presents these in an
outline Environmental Management Plan (EMP). After the detailed engineering design
is; completed, a revised EMP should be produced containing a timetable and costed
proposals for implementation.
Issues/impacts known to occur in landfill development and of most concern to
stakeholders were identified during an August-September 1]996 scoping exercise and fell
into eight areas:
social, socio-economic and cultural;
hydrogeology, hydrology and water quality;
health and safety;
air quality;
noise;
* ecology;
off-site traffic; and
visual/landscape.
Most significant of these were social impacts, including the loss of income for the semi-
formal waste workers and the loss of access to the waste for the informal waste/food
pickers. In both cases the impact is associated with the economic difficulties of the
transition economy, and may dissipate if the Latvian economy improves. Semi-formal
workers are those who benefited from the manual materials recovery/recycling program
initiated by Getlini-2. Effects on this group may be mitigated by phasing the
modernisation of the materials recovery operation such that there are continued, if
decreasing, collection and recycling opportunities over the next one to three years.
The informal waste/food pickers' practice of scavenging food from the waste pile poses
health and safety risks and is clearly undesirable. The only feasible measure to reduce
the impact of the opportunity loss is to make sure that the affected people are wamed in
advance about the coming management changes and the implications. The exclusion of
this group is an inevitable consequence of capping the existing waste pile which is a key
EDMRONMENTAL RE5OURCES MANAGEMENT                                     WORLD BANK



Annex 6.2
Page 5 of 6
component of the ground-water remediation program, and which will have long term
environmental benefits for the locality and region.
Discharge of the treated effluent is unlikely to have an adverse impact on the water
quality of the Daugava and the Gulf of Riga. However, there is some concern that local
effluent standards may be inappropriately stringent, as they were intended to apply to
domestic wastewater and not landfill leachate. Agreement on appropriate treatment
levels for the landfill effluent, and hence quality standards, must be reached between
Latvian environmental authorities, the World Bank, and the project design engineers.
Mitigation and Environmental Management
The benefits of the project will be fully achieved only if the landfill is operated
properly. The necessary engineering measures and operational practice will be built
into the design of the project. Additional measures to ensure the findings of the EA are
implemented are summarized in the following table.
ENVIRoNMENTAL RESOURCEs MANAGEMEN                                     WORLD BANK



...............................-............'-..............-...........................................'.............-.....-. ..............................-...................... I..........-...................-..
Q~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0
o    Ap                           3                b                                         bO'c*.D                                                         . bl)-
..........  ..............................  ......................................
4-o ~~~                                                                                       ~,r    
0~~~~~~~~ |-  |ccEe =o-e<O                                                                                                                                                                                                             
b~~~~                                                                                                                           ~~~~~~ =                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
>   *m               . 5                                         . @5                                                           .                                                                                                               , < f                                                      H~~
. . . . . . . .                     . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            .. . . . ..........         ..........................         .. . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . .              .. . . . . . . . .      . . . . .   . . . . . . . .        .. . . .. . . .. . . .
..... ...



LATVIA
MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
ANNEX 7
NOTES ON THE FINAL BENEFICIARY: GETLINI-ECO LTD.






ANNEX 7
NOTE ON THE FINAL BENEFICIARY: GETLINI-ECO LTD.
A. GENERAL BACKGROUND
1.        Following the agreement signed in December 1996 between Government, Riga City
Council and the Council of Stopinu Pagasts, a new company - Getlini-Eco Ltd. - would be established
to implement and operate the project, at least until final repayment of all loans. The existing Getlini-2
company would become a fully-owned subsidiary of the new company; it would be responsible for the
reception and processing of household and industrial waste at the Getlini site, operating as a contractor
for Getlini-Eco Ltd..
2.        This annex will cover, firstly, the proposed organisation, staffing and financial structure of
the new company Getlini-Eco Ltd.; in addition, a financial cash flow projection has been made over a
20-year period. In addition, details of the currently operating company, Getlini-2 Ltd. will be presented
as an example of the expenses of an operator.
B. GETLINI ECO LTD
Identity
3.        Getlini-Eco Ltd. would be a "municipality" enterprise under Latvian law, to be
incorporated as a limited liability company. It would remain operational at least until final repayment of
all loans, after which the company could be wound-up and the shares restituted to the present owners
MOEPRD, Riga City Council, and Stopinu Pagasts.
Capital and Shareholders
4.        Getlini-Eco Ltd.'s share capital is proposed to be set at US $1 million (LVL 540,000),
which is to be paid up over four years. Capital will be held for 55% by Riga City Council; for 35% by
the Council of Stopinu Pagasts; and for 10% by Government (Ministry of Environmental Protection and
Regional Development - MOEPRD).
Activities
5.        The company would be responsible for implementation of the Project and supervision of
the continued operation of the landfill (with new technology), including more extensive selection and
sale of recoverable waste. Physical management of the landfill and the new energy cells would be
carned out by an external contractor under a management contract.



Annex 7
Page 2 of 9
Staff
6.        The organigramme and staffing of the new company would be as follows:
-    Managing Director, a Latvian national of sufficient experience and stature to guide
the new company, to supervise implementation of the project and to control the
landfill operations carried out by the contracted company.
-    Head of Technical Department, also a Latvian national with extensive experience
in industry; responsible for the technical implementation and supervision of the
project. In addition, all environmental matters; would be covered by this department.
The Head would be assisted by an expatriate consultant engaged on a part-time
basis. There would also be a junior engineer to assist the Technical Director in the
day-to-day tasks.
-    Head of Finance Department, a Latvian national, who would be responsible for all
financial and commercial aspects of the project, and for the accounting and
budgeting of the company. He would be assisited by an accountant.
In addition, there would be one bi-lingual secretary and a driver/messenger. Getlini-Eco Ltd. would
have an office in Riga Part of the operating expenses of the new company are included under the
Managerial Improvements under project Costs, including the Twinning Agreement. In addition,
Govenmnent has proposed that its share of the Natural Resources Tax (see para. 10) over the project
implementation period would be earmarked for covering the operational expenses of the new company.
Management
7.        The company's management would consist of the M[anaging Director and the Heads of the
Technical and Finance Departments. Under the Project it would be necessary to extend technical
assistance, in particular regarding the new technology being introduced, management of a multi-million
enterprise and accounting. The proposed twinning arrangement could fulfil all of these requirements.
Position in the Sector
8.        The Getlini landfill is the only major disposal site in the County of Riga (and in the
country); it receives close to 40% of all domestic waste generated in the country, as well as an unknown
share of' the country's industrial waste (of which part is toxic). With the introduction of new waste
processing technology, Getlini-Eco Ltd. could well become the country's leading waste processor, in
part by attracting more waste to the Getlini site, in part by taking over for management other disposal
sites in the country.



Annex 7
Page 3 of 9
Operations and Revenues
Volume of Waste
9.        Total waste received at the site has been estimated at over 1.3 million m3 per annum',
equivalent to around 250.000 ton. Of this quantity about 80% is household waste, with the remainder
industrial waste. No hazardous waste is accepted or stored permanently at the site.
Tariffs
10.       For household waste collection the charge per year and per inhabitant is at present Ls 2.35
per m3 (with the average waste per year calculated at 1.30 m3 per person for an annual charge of Ls
3.05); charges are fixed by the RCC. The charge is based on: (a) a disposal fee payable to Getlini-Eco
Ltd. of Ls 0.40/m3; (b) collection and transportation of Ls 1.30/m3; (c) replacement of containers at Ls
0.40/m3; and, (d) the Natural Resource Tax of Ls 0.25/m3. The latter is distributed to Government
(30%), Riga District (30%) and the Stopinu Pagasts (40%). Charges for industrial waste vary by type
of waste, between Ls 0.85 and Ls 1.06 per m3.
Revenues
11.       In addition to the disposal fee, the new company would also receive sales proceeds from
recovered waste materials and electricity sales to Latvenergo. Details are in the cash flow projections
(see Appendix 3).
Financial Structure
Balance Sheets
12.       Appendix 1 illustrates the future financial structure of the company after project
implementation, at the end of 2002. Assets would consist of: a) intangibles (design, supervision,
consultants) for US $1.85 million (9% of the balance sheet); b) buildings, machinery and equipment,
valued at US $17.50 million (81% of balance sheet totals); and current assets, estimated at 10% of the
balance sheet. On the liabilities side, Net Worth, or shareholders' equity, consists of US $1 million
share capital and US $6.62 million of grants, shown here as quasi-equity; total Net Worth is around
40% of the balance sheet. Long term debts represent lending from the World Bank and Riga City
Council, for a total of US $11.95 million or around 55% of the balance sheet, while current liabilities
have been estimated at 5% of the balance sheet.
The preliminary figure for 1996 is 1,227 thousand m3.



Annex 7
Page 4 of 9
Prospects
Forecalst Operating Results
13.       The 20-year projection consists of two parts; the first in constant terms, based on revenue
projections and estimates of recurrent costs prepared by the Consultants. The second projection
incorporates an inflation correction; recurrent costs have been increased with the projected GDP
deflator, while the same deflator has been applied to revenues, but lagged by one year. Revenues
include sale of electricity and of incremental recovery of waste materials. The disposal fee has not been
incorporated in the analysis, as it will basically be used to compensate the contractor for its operations
on the site.
14.       Recurrent or operational costs include provisions for maintenance and replacement of spare
parts; in addition, depreciation has been added, equivalent to 5% of the total investment, including
conting;encies (physical only for the projection in constant terms). Interest charges have been derived
from the projected inflows of the World bank loan, as the RCC loan has been taken as interest free, but
repayable over 12 years (see Appendix 2). After deduction of :25% company tax the retained earnings,
together with depreciation, constitute the Project's cash flow available for coverage of recurrent costs
during project implementation (the company's contribution to the project's finance plan) and of loan
repayment. Application of the GDP deflator at 100% on costs, amd lagged by one year on revenues and
depreciation, improves the generated cash flows substantially. The results are shown in Appendix 3.
15.       The projection without inflation correction indicates that the cash flow after loan repayment
remains positive throughout the period, and that the company is able to cover recurrent costs during
project implementation. The cumulative cash flow shows substantial positive balances, at around US
$4.2 million by 2003, rising to US $15.1 million by the year 2019. This surplus would be available for
dividend payments to shareholders and/or the financing of further investments.
16.       The inflation corrected cash flows are even more favourable.
17.       A ratio-analysis has also been carried out (see Appendix 3). In the projection in constant
terms, the cash flow as a percentage of revenues rises from 28% after project implementation to around
42% after 5 years, to reach 50% towards the end of the projection. The Cash flow after loan repayment,
as a percent of revenues, amounts to 17% in the first year of loan repayment, rises to 26% in 2005 to
then drop gradually to 12% in the last year of loan repayment. The debt-service ratio, taken as a ratio of
loan repayment over cash flow after interest payment rises from 49% in the first year of loan repayment
to 72% in the last year, 2015. These ratios indicate that the company/project is able to meet its debt
repayment obligations comfortably. The results of the inflation corrected analysis are even more
favourable.
Tariff Adjustments



Annex 7
Page 5 of 9
16.       The cash flow projections discussed above indicate that the Project is financially attractive.
For this reason there is no need for tariff increases.
Long-Term Perspectives
17.       As shown in the previous sections, the outlook for the company for the next 15 years is
quite good, with cash flows accumulating rapidly after loan repayment has been completed. As the
Project would increase the economic life of the site considerably, by up to 100 years, without additional
investments, the long term perspectives of Getlini-Eco Ltd. appear excellent.
Risks
Managerial
18.       The new management would need technical assistance in order to supervise project
implementation, as well as the efficient operation of a modem, multi-million landfill operation. This
technical assistance would be provided in the context of a twinning arrangement with an experienced
Swedish company. If the proposed twinning arrangement does not work out, there would be a risk of
sub-optimal returns, and hence a shortfall in the cash flows to repay the loans.
Technical
19.       The new technology has only been tried out in a limited number of landfill operations in
Sweden. There is therefore a risk in its efficient application in Latvia, where the business environment is
quite different. Technical assistance in this area would be important for the correct implementation of
the new technology and the financial success of the Project.
C. GETLINI- 2 COMPANY LTD.
Identity
20.       "Getlini - 2" Ltd. (GLC) is a "municipality" enterprise under Latvian law, incorporated in
1994 as a limited liability company.
Capital and Shareholders



Annex 7
Page 6 of 9
21.       GLC's share capital was initially fixed at Ls 100, but was increased in 1996 to LVL 2000.
It is held for 51% by the Stopinu Pagasts Council and for 49% by the Riga City Council. Under the
agreement signed in December 1996 between Government, Riga City Council and Stopimu Pagasts
Council, the shares would be transferred to the new Getlini-Eco Ltd., and Getlini-2 would thus become
a wholly owned subsidiary.
Activities
22.       The company was set up in 1994 to take over the landfill activities at the Getlini site from
one of the major waste collection companies in Riga, which had been responsible for managing the site
since its inception in 1973. However, this take-over became effective only in July 1995.
23.       Present activities include receiving waste, overseeing its deposit on the landfill, as well as
selection and sale of recoverable waste. Physical management of tlhe fill is also an important activity and
includes construction of access roads to the top of the landfill, some 30 m above the surrounding area.
The company has provided for a minimum of protection against pollution from the waste pile, primarily
by digging drainage ditches around the site.
24.       Under the new arrangement, GLC or another company will be hired under a management
contract to continue operate the site, as well as implement the new energy cell technology on the site,
under supervision of Getlini-Eco Ltd.. This operation should be formalised in a contract, initially for 2
years and to be renegotiated regularly thereafter.
Staff
25.       At present some 85 staff are on the company's payroll, of whom 13 in administration. In
addition, between 250 to 400 persons work on an irregular basis and informally employed on the landfill
as scavengers, engaged in waste selection for sale to the company. The informal workers will, however,
no longer be allowed on the site once the new technology has been implemented; a limited number may
well be engaged to work on the waste recovery line.
Management
26.       The company's management consists of the managing-director, who is very dynamic, and a
deputy with poorly defined tasks and few obvious responsibilities. The director has been able to
transform a poorly organised waste dump into a well-run landfill operation. While he is a good
organiser, he is also autocratic and reluctant to take advice. Under the Project it would be necessary to
extend technical assistance, in particular regarding the new technology being introduced, management
of a mulli-million enterprise and accounting. The proposed twirming arrangement could fulfill all of
these requirements.



Annex 7
Page 7 of 9
Operations and Revenues
Volume of Waste
27.       Total waste received at the site has been estimated at over 1.3 million m3 per annum,
equivalent to an estimated 250.000 tons, of which over 80% household waste.
Revenues
28.       Accounts indicate that for 1995 revenues of Ls 347,723 consisted of Ls 310,317 (89.2%)
in disposal fees. The sale of selected waste materials, which started only when the new management
took over in mid-1995, accounted for Ls 35,332 (10.2%), while sale of firewood and other represented
the final 0.6%. For the first 9 months of 1996 overall revenues were Ls 501,670, of which Ls 87,564
(or 17.5%) represented the sale of selected waste materials.
29.       In future, the contractor would no longer receive the disposal fee from waste haulage
companies, but would be paid a fee by Getlini-Eco Ltd.. The sale proceeds from recovered waste
materials would also accrue directly to Getlini-Eco Ltd..
Profitability
Cash Flow
30.       Appendix 4 shows the Profit and Loss accounts for 1995 and the first 9 months of 1996.
The data indicate that the cash flow for 1995 amnounted to Ls 60,643, equivalent to 17.4% of net
revenues. For the first 9 months of 1996 the approximate cash flow is Ls 49,700, or only 9.9% of net
revenues; the reasons for this decline are not clear. As the time series is short and the data is rather
limited, there seems little point in calculating ratios.
Comments
31.       The accounts have been audited by a recognised local firm. However, accounting methods
at GLC are not entirely clear and would need to be improved. For example, depreciation are included
under operational expenditure; overheads have not been indicated separately, and "social" expenses
have been classified as production costs.
Financial Structure
Balance Sheets
32.       Appendix 5 illustrates the financial structure of the company at the end of 1995, as well as
after the first 9 months of 1996. For 1995 net fixed assets consist of land, buildings and equipment,
valued at Ls 47,339 (32.2% of the balance sheet totals). Current assets of Ls 99,662 (67.8%) consisted



Annex 7
Page 8 of 9
primarily of cash and debtors. On the liabilities side, there are no long term debts, but creditors of Ls
86,259 represented 59% of the balance sheet. Net worth, or shareholders' equity of Ls 60,742
accounted for 41%.
33.       The 9 months figures for 1996 show a substantial increase in the balance sheet totals
(+59.30/4), reflecting a build-up of assets, primarily current assets, and on the liability side an increase in
Net Worth and in the creditors position.
Sources and Uses
34.       The company derives its financial revenues solely from collection of disposal fees and sale
of selected waste materials. For 1995 it is impossible to discuss sources and uses, as the comparative
balance sheet for 1 994 is not available. For the first 9 months of 1.996 the cash flow amounted to around
Ls 50,000, reflected in the increase of net worth, to which should be added the rise in creditors for total
additional resources of around Ls 87,000.
35.       Regarding uses, a list of investment items approved for expenditure during 1996 of around
Ls 500,'000 had been signed by only one of the shareholders, while its financing was left unclear.
However, the provisional balance sheet for the first 9 months of 1996 indicates that only a modest
amount of fixed asset formation has so far taken place (Ls 14,802 in fixed assets and in current
equipment), with the balance retained primarily under "cash and banks." The increase in debtors
accounts for the balance of uses.
Comments
36.       The accounts indicate that GLC has a solid financial base, with net worth representing at
the end of the first nine months of 1996 over 47% of the balance sheet, against 41% at end-1995.
Accounting methods need to be improved.
Prospects
Forecast Operating Results
37.       A projection of future cash flows has been made, assuming that revenues would be
maintained at the 1996 level. The results are shown in Appendix 6 in constant 1996 Lats.
38.       The projection, based on the 9-months' figures of 1996, assumes a stationary situation,
which is a conservative hypothesis because there are possibilities for increased revenues through better
waste selection (estimated at Ls 100,000 net per year by management) and for reduced costs, primarily
by cutting back on staff (it is estimated that a similar landfill operation in Sweden would require only
half the present staff). The annual cash flow in constant Lats would be around Ls 115,000, or 16.3% of
net revenues. Application of the GDP deflator at 100% on costs, and lagged by one year on revenues
and depreciation, would improve the generated cash flows substantially; this has however not been
calculated.



Annex 7
Page 9 of 9
Tariff Adjustments
39.       The cash flow projection discussed above indicates that GLC is financially viable and that
there is no need for tariff increases.
Risks
Managerial
40.       Present management, while dynamic, is not well prepared to operate a modem, multi-
million landfill operation. If the new arrangement with Getlini-Eco Ltd. and/or the proposed twinning
arrangement do not work out, there would be a risk of sub-optimal returns, and hence a shortfall in the
cash flows to repay the loans.
Technical
41.       As was already mentioned under the section on Getlini-Eco Ltd., the new technology has
only been tried out in a limited number of landfill operations in Poland and Sweden. There is therefore a
risk in its efficient application in Latvia, where the business environment is quite different. Technical
assistance in this area would be important for the correct implementation of the new technology and the
financial success of the Project.






Annex 7 - Appendix I
Page 1 of I
Getlini-Eco Future Balance Sheet
ASSETS                                        LIABILITIES
________________________  (US  $'000)        _ /e__                    (US $'000)  | _%
Intangible assets (1)               1 850   9   Share capital                      2 000    9
Quasi equity (grants)             6 620    31
Fixed assets (2)                   17 500   81   Shareholders' funds               8 620   40
Current assets (3)                 2 150   10  World Bank                          7 950   37
(cash, spare parts, debtors)                    Riga City Council                  4 000    18
Long term loans                  11 950   55
Current liabilities                 930    5
TOTALS                   21 500  100           TOTALS                    21 500|  100
(1) intangibles include detailed design and supervision (US $637,000),
national (US $457,000) and international consultants (US $756,000).
(2) fixed assets are total project costs, minus intangibles and capitalised
recurrent costs (23,990 - (1,850+4,645) = US $17,495,000.
(3) estimated at around US $2,150,000



I



Annex 7 - Appendix 2
Page I of 2
Schedule of Interest and Loan Payments
(US $O000)
|Assumptions:    Project costs, including physical and price contingencies is US $23.99m; interest during construction is estimated at US $1.22 million.
Grants and loans will cover US $19.35 million, while Getlini-Eco will contribute US $4.64 million, which represents capitalised recurrent costs.
Interest during construction on the WB loan of US $1.22 million would be covered from the IBRD loan..
Source           Financing           Purpose and Terms
Getlini-Eco      4640                To cover recurrent costs during project implementation, capitalised under the Project.
Grant - GEF      5120                To be used for Remediation, Technical Improvement and Electricity Generation. Disburse first if possible
Grant - Sida     1500                To be used for Environmental Remediation and Managerial Improvements.
RCC              6000                To be used for creation of share capital of Getlini-Eco of US $2 million,
including shares of Stopinu Pagasts and Govemment. The balance of
US $6 million - $2 million = US $4 million will be an interest free loan, 5 years grace, 12 years repayment
IBRD             7950                For imports and Interest during Construction. Terms 7.3% IBRD + 0.7% GoL = 8%. Grace period 5 years, repayment 12 years
TOTAL COST       25210
1998   1999   2000   2001   2002  cumulative
Required funding   Project costs (rounded)    850  11150   5150   3150   3690    23990
Interest during Consl     0      0    250    440    530       1220
Total costs/finance     850  11150   5400   3590   4220    25210
cumulative              850  12000  17400  20990  25210
Drawdown         Getlini-Eco               0    450   1270   1390   1530       4640
Grant - GEF              20   4850    240       0      10     5120
Grant-Sida               40    950    280    110    120       1500
RCC - equity             75    150    150    150       75      600
RCC-loan                  0   2350   1060    820   1170       5400
IBRD - project          715   2400   2150    680    785       6730
IBRD - interest(rounded)  0      0    250    440    530       1220
sub-total IBRD          715   2400   2400   1120   1315       7950
Total disbursed    annual                850  11150   5400   3590   4220    25210
cumulative              850  12000  17400  20990  25210



Annex 7 - Appendix 2
Page 2 of 2
Schedule of Interest and Loan Payments
(US$'000)
1998   1999   2000   2001   2002    2003    2004   2005   2006   2007   2008   2009   2010   2011   2012   2013   2014   2015
RCC loan         drawdown                   0   2350   1060    820   1170
cumulative                0   2350   3410   4230   5400        5400
(pm item) annuity 12 yrs/10%  not used in the calculation                       793    793    793    793    793    793    793    793    793    793    793    793
actual repayment 12 years       0      0       0       0      0         0    450    450    450    450    450    450    450    450    450    450    450    450
loan outstanding          0   2350   3410   4230   5400        5400   4950   4500   4050   3600   3150   2700   2250   1800   1350    900    450              0!
interest payrnent (0%)    0       0      0       0       0        0       0       0      0       0      0       0       0       0      0       0      0       0
IBRD loan        drawdown                 715   2400   2400   1120   1315        7950
cumulative              715   3115   5515   6635   7950
annuity 12 yrs/8%                                                       893    893    893    893    893    893    893    893    893    893    893    893
repayment 12 years        0       0       0      0       0        0    257    278    300    324    350    378    408    441    476    514    555    599
loan outstanding          0   3115   5515   6635   7950        7950   7693   7415   7116   6792   6442   6064   5657   5216   4740   4226   3671   3072
interest payment (8%)     0       0    249    441    531        636    636    615    593    569    543    515    485    453    417    379    338    294
Interest payment   IBRD                     0      0    249    441    531         636    636    615    593    569    543    515    485    453    417    379    338    294
Loan repayment   sum RCC and IBRD           0      0       0       0      0         0    707    728    750    774    800    828    858    891    926    964   1005   1049
Total debt service                          0      0    249    441    531         636   1343   1343   1343   1343   1343   1343   1343   1343   1343   1343   1343   1343



Annex 7 - Appendix 3
Page 1 of 4
Getlini-Eco Ltd. - Projected Profit & Loss, and Cash Flow Statements
(US$OOO)
1999     2000     2001      2002     2003      2004     2005      2006     2007
CASE A: constant streams, no Inflation correction
Profit & Loss Statement
Revenues, incremental (1)   electr @ USD 0.048148/kWh+waste separati     0     2023     2796      3224     3468      3608     3690      3575     3474
Operational Costs         capitalised during the project period (2)      0        0         0        0    -1453    -1453    -1453    -1453    -1453
Gross Operating Margin Project                                           0     2023     2796      3224     2015      2155     2237      2122     2021
Depreciation                see footnote (3) below                       0      -556     -785     -918    -1067    -1067    -1067    -1067    -1067
Net Operating Margin Project                                             0     1467     2011      2306      948      1088     1170      1055      954
Interest on IBRD Loan      see Appendix 2 of Annex 7 (4)                 0        0         0        0      -636     -636      -615     -593      -569
Contribution to profits from Getlini-2                                 100      100       100      115       120      120       120      120       120
Profit before Company Taxes                                            100     1567      2111     2421      432       572      675       582       505
Company Taxes               25%; tax holiday on Project for 5 years      0        0         0        0         0     -143      -169     -145      -126
Retained Profit            for loan repaymentUdividends/investments    100     1567     2111      2421      432       429       506      436       379
Cash Flow Adiustments
Depreciation                see above                                    0      556       785      918      1067     1067      1067     1067      1067
Cashflow from Project, in constant terms                               100     2123      2896     3339      1499     1496      1573     1504      1446
Contribution to investments                                              0        0         0        0      -544     -373         0        0         0
Contribution to project costs    recurrent costs (total USD 3.963m) (2)  -100    -1000    -1400    -1463       0        0         0        0         0
Loan Repayment              see Appendix 2 of Annex 7                    0        0         0        0         0     -707      -728     -750      -774
Cashflow after Loan Repayment available for investments or dividends     0     1123      1496     1876       955      416       845      754       672
Cumulative Cashflow after Loan Repayment                                 0     1123      2619     4495      5449     5866      6711     7464      8137
RATIOS
1 - cash flow as percentage of revenues                             n.a.      n.a.     n.a.     n.a.      43%      41%       43%      42%       42%
2 - cash flow after loan repayment, as percentage of revenues       n.a.      n.a.     n.a.      n.a.     28%      12%       23%      21%       19%
3 - debt service ratios, gross operating margin over sum of interest cost and loan repayment cost         3.17     1.50      1.54     1.47      1.41
3 (a) - interest payment over cash flow, before debt service payments  n.a.   n.a.     n.a.     n.a.      30%      30%       28%      28%       28%
3 (b) - loan repayment over cash flow, before debt service payments  n.a.     n.a.     n.a.     n.a.      0%       33%       33%      36%       38%
4 - depreciation as percentage of cash flow                         n.a.      n.a.     n.a.     n.a.      71%      71%       68%      71%       74%
5 - gross margin as percentage of revenues                          n.a.      n.a.     n.a.     n.a.      58%      60%       61%      59%       58%
6 - working ratio, operating costs over revenue                                                           42%      40%       39%      41%       42%
7 - operating ratio, operating costs + depreciation + interest over revenues                              91%      87%       85%      87%       89%
(1) Electricity producton taken from Halidin, plus 15% for the base case, valued at Latvenergos purchase price.
(2) Incremental recurrent costs, including physical conbingencies only.
(3) Depreciabon has been included under recurrent costs, in the form of a percentage on investments for high-level maintenance. In addition.
a seperate depreciation allowance has been introduced in this cash flow at 5% of the overall investment, including physical contingencies only
(4) Interest during Construcion would be covered by the IBRD loan.



Annex 7 - Appendix 3
Page 2 of 4
Getlini-Eco Ltd. - Projected Cash Flows
(US$'OOO)
2008      2009      2010     2011      2012      2013      2014      2015      2016      2017      2018      2019
3386      3308      3240     3179      3125      3077      3034      2995      2960      2929      2901      2875
-1453    -1453    -1453    -1453    -1453    -1453    -1453    -1453    -1453    -1453    -1453    -1453
1933      1855      1787     1726      1672      1624      1581      1542      1507      1476      1448      1422
-1067    -1067    -1067    -1067    -1067    -1067    -1067    -1067    -1067    -1067             -1067    -1067
866       788       720      659       605       557       514       475       440       409       381       355
-543      -515     -485      -453      -417      -379      -338      -294         0         0         0         0
120       120      120       120       120       120       120       120       120       120       120       120
443       393       355      326       308       298       296       301       560       529       501       475
-111       -98      -89       -81       -77       -74       -74       -75      -140      -132      -125      -119
332       295       266      244       231       223       222       226       420       397       376       356
1067      1067      1067     1067      1067      1067      1067      1067      1067      1067      1067      1067
1399      1362      1333     1312      1298      1290      1289      1293      1487      1464      1443      1423
0         0        0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0
0         0        0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0
-800      -828     -858      -891      -926      -964    -1005    -1050           0         0         0         0
599       534      475       421       372       326       284       243      1487      1464      1443      1423
8736      9270      9745    10166    10538    10864    11148    11391    12878    14342    15784    17208
41%      41%        41%      41%       42%       42%       42%       43%       50%       50%       50%       50%
18%      16%        15%      13%       12%       11%       9%        8%        50%       50%       50%       50%
1.36     1.31       1.26     1.22      1.19      1.15      1.12      1.09      n.a       n.a       n.a        n.a
28%       27%       27%      26%       24%       23%       21%       19%       0%        0%         0%        0%
41%       44%       47%      50%       54%       58%       62%       66%       0%        0%         0%        0%
76%       78%       80%      81%       82%       83%       83%       83%       72%       73%       74%       75%
57%       56%       55%      54%       54%       53%       52%       51%       51%       50%       50%       49%
43%       44%       45%      46%       46%       47%       48%       49%       49%       50%       50%
90%       92%       93%      94%       94%       94%       94%       94%       85%       86%       87%



Annex 7 - Appendix 3
Page 3 of 4
Getlini-Eco Ltd. - Projected Profit & Loss, and Cash Flow Statements
(US$'000)
WITH PROJECT
1998     1999     2000      2001     2002     2003      2004     2005      2006     2007
CASE B - with inflation correction
GDP deflator                as %                              9.8        9        7         6        6         5        5         5        5         5
Inflation corrector, cumulative   see GDP deflator above              1.11      1.18     1.26      1.33     1.40      1.47     1.54      1.62     1.70
Profit & Loss Statement
Revenues                    10% inflation corrected, 1 year lag          0     2239      3311     4048      4614     5041      5413     5507      5620
Operating Costs             100% inflation corrected, same year          0        0         0        0    -2030    -2132    -2238    -2350    -2468
Gross Operating Margin, Project                                          0     2239      3311     4048      2584     2910      3175     3157      3152
Depreciation                from above with one-year lagged inflation    0      -615     -929    -1152    -1420    -1491    -1565    -1644    -1726
Net Operating Margin                                                     0     1624      2382     2895      1164     1419      1610     1513      1426
Interest on Project Loans   see Appendix 2 of Annex 7                    0        0         0        0      -636      -636     -615     -593      -569
Contribution from Getlini-2  increase by 5000 each year after 2000     100      100       110      115       120      125       130      135       140
Profit before Taxes                                                    100     1724      2492     3010       648      908      1125     1055       997
Company Tax                 25%; 5 year tax holiday                      0         0        0        0         0      -227     -281      -264     -249
Retained profits           for loan repayment/dividends/investments    100     1724      2492     3010       648      681       844      791       748
Cash Flow Adiustments
Depreciation                from above                                   0      615       929     1152      1420     1491      1565     1644      1726
Cashflow from Project       inflation corrected                        100     2339      3421     4163      2068     2172      2409     2435      2474
Contribution to investments    inflation corrected                       0        0         0        0      -760      -547        0        0         0
Contribution to Project Costs   recurrent expend, incl price contingencies  -100    -1500    -1500    -1544    0        0         0        0         0
Loan Repayment              see Appendix 2 of Annex 7                    0        0         0        0         0      -707     -728      -750     -774
Cashflow after Loan Repayment for dividends/investments                  0      839      1921     2619      1308      918      1681     1685      1700
Cumulative Cashflow         after loan repayment, inflation corrected    0      839      2760     5379      6687     7604      9285    10970    12670
RATIOS
1 - cash flow as percentage of revenues                             n.a.     104%     103%      103%      45%      43%       45%      44%       44%
2- cash flow after loan repayment, as percentage of revenues        n.a.     37%       58%      65%       28%      18%       31%      31%       30%
3 -debt service ratios, gross operating margin over sum of interest cost and loan repayment cost          4.06     2.00      2.15     2.15      2.16
3 (a) - interest payments over cash flow, before debt service       n.a.      n.a.     n.a.     n.a.      24%      23%       20%      20%       19%
3 (b) - loan repayment over cash flow, before debt service          n.a.      n.a.     n.a.      n.a.     0%       33%       30%      31%       31%
4 - depreciation as percentage of cash flow                          0%      26%       27%      28%       69%      69%       65%      68%       70%
5 - gross operating margin, as percent of revenues                  n.a.      n.a.     n.a.      n.a.     56%      58%       59%      57%       56%
6 - working ratio, operating costs over revenue                                                           44%      42%       41%      43%       44%
7 - operating ratio, operating costs + depreciation + interest over revenues                              89%      84%       82%      83%       85%
(1) The Bank loan is at variable interest rate; however, variations cannot be projected and the payment has been kept constant for this reason.



Annex 7 - Appendix 3
Page 4 of 4
Getlini-Eco Ltd. - Projected Cash Flows
(US$'OO0)
2009     2010       2011      2012      2013      2014      2015      2016      2017      2018      2019
4         4         4         4         4         3         3         3         3         3         3
1.77      1.84      1.91      1.99     2.07      2.13      2.19      2.26      2.33      2.40       2.47
5751      5844      5951      6073      6209      6357      6456      6565      6684      6812      6948
-2566    -2669      -2776    -2887    -3002    -3092    -3185    -3281          -3379    -3480      -3585
3185      3175      3175      3186      3206      3265      3271      3285      3305      3331      3364
-1812     -1885     -1960    -2038    -2120    -2205    -2271         -2339    -2409    -2482       -2556
1372     1290       1215      1148      1086      1060      1000       946       896       850       808
-543     -515      -485      -453       417       -379     -338      -294         0          0         0
145       150       155       160       165       170       175       180       185       190       195
974       925       885       855       834       851       837       832      1081      1040      1003
-244      -231      -221      -214     -209       -213     -209       -208     -270      -260       -251
731      694        664       641       626       638       628       624       811       780       752
1812      1885      1960     2038       2120      2205     2271       2339     2409       2482      2556
2543      2578      2624      2680      2746      2843      2899      2963      3220      3261      3308
0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0
0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0
-800     -828       -858     -891      -926       -964    -1005      -1050        0          0         0
1743      1750      1766      1789      1820      1879      1894      1913      3220      3261      3308
14413    16163      17930    19718    21538    23417    25311    27224    30444    33705            37013
44%      44%       44%        44%       44%      45%        45%       45%       48%       48%       48%
30%      30%        30%       29%       29%       30%      29%        29%      48%       48%        48%
2.19     2.19       2.20      2.21      2.23     2.27       2.28      2.29      n.a       n.a.      n.a.
18%       17%       16%       14%       13%       12%       10%       9%        0%        0%        0%
31%      32%       33%        33%       34%       34%       35%      32%        0%        0%        0%
71%      73%       75%        76%       77%      78%        78%      79%        75%       76%       77%
55%      54%       53%        52%       52%      51%        51%      50%       49%       49%        48%
45%      46%       47%        48%       48%      49%        49%       50%       51%       51%       52%
86%      87%       88%        89%       89%      89%        90%      90%        87%       88%       88%



Annex 7 - Appendix 4
Page 1 of I
GLC - Profit and Loss Accounts
For the year 1995 and first 9 months of 1996
( in LVL rounded)
1995           as %         9 months 1996      as %
Net turnover                    347723    100.00%               501670    100.00%
Production costs (1) - (2)     -265427    -76.33%               -430241    -85.76%
Gross Operating Margin           82296     23.67%                71429      14.24%
Depreciation                     -5404    -1.55%                   n.a.      n.a.
Net Operating Margin             76892     22.11%                71429      14.24%
Interest income                   2074      0.60%                   160     0.03%
Extraordinary income              1780      0.51%                     0     0.00%
Social expenses                  -7401     -2.13%                 -4982    -0.99%
Other taxes                      -1693    -0.49%                   -297    -0.06%
Profit before Income Tax         71652     20.61%                66310      13.22%
Income taxes                    -16413     -4.72%                -16652    -3.32%
Net profit retained (3)          55239     15.89%                49658      9.90%
Depreciation                      5404      1.55%                   n.a.     n.a.
Cash flow for the period         60643     17.44%                49 658     9 90%
(1) - the "production costs" shown by the company include: i) all administrative overheads, as well as
ii) depreciation and iii) so-called social expenditures.
(2) - the increase in these costs in 1996 reflects increased buying of selected waste from scavengers.
(3) - net profit retained on the balance sheet is shown as LVL 57577.






Annex 7 - Appendix 5
Page I of I
GLC - Balance Sheet
By end-1 995 and by 30.09.96
( in LVL rounded)
ASSETS                     end - 1995            30.09. 1996       LIABILITIES                end - 1995               30.09. 1996
Fixed assets (net)                                                 Equty
land and buildings         5985                  5985              share capital                100                   2000(2)
plant and machinery       41354                 50506              legal reserves                33                      667
sub-total                            47339                 56491   other reserves              3032                     4990
32.20%      0.00%    24.17%   retained profits (3)       57577                   102218
Current assets                                                     sub-total                               60742                 109875
cash and banks            48295                 78229                                                     41.32%                 46.93%
debtors (1)               36223                 80028
raw materials              1815                     0              Lonq term debt                 0            0           0          0
fixtures, equipment       13329                  18979
sub-total                            99662                177236   Current liabilities          385                      397
67.80%               75.83%   creditors, goods           14195                     1950
income taxes due          71679                   121905
Intangible asets              0          0        400        400   other creditors (4)
0.00%                0.00%   sub-total                               85874                 123855
58.57%                52.99%
TOTALS                              147001                233727   TOTALS                                 146616                 233730
(1) debtors includes large outstanding amounts due by Hoetica,     (2) the increase of share capital was finance through a transfer from retained
one of the larger waste collecting firms in Riga.                  earnings of 1995.
(3) retained profits shown in the P&L accounts is LVL 55240.
(4) creditors includes a large amount due as Natural Resource Tax.






Annex 7 - Appendix 6
Page I of I
GLC - Projected Cash Flows
in '000 LVL
OBSERVATIONS
Constant streams. no inflation correction                                 1995       1996       1997            1998      1999    2000 to   2017
(actuals)  (9 months)  (estimate)   %
Nt tumn-over                       dump fees; sale of recovered waste       347.72    501.67    702.34 100.00   705.00
Production costs (1)               ind office overheads, purchase waste     265.43    430.24    542.10  77.19    545.00
Gross Operating Margin (2)          23.67%of1995netturover                   82.29     71.43    160.24  22.81    160.00    160.00   16000   160.00
Depreciaton                        based on 1995 figure                      -5.40     -5.50     -6.00  -0.85     -6.00
Net Operating Margin               23.18% of 1995 net tumover                76.89     65.93    154.24  21.96    154.00    154.00   154.00   154.00
Interest and other income           inci extraordinary income 1996            3.85      0.16      1.75
Social expenses                    for employees, community                  -7.40     4.98    -10.00             -8.65
Miscellaneous taxes                                                          -1.69     -0.30     -1.50       1
Proft before company taxes                                                   71.65     60.81    144.49  20.57    145.35
Company taxes                       22.9% rate paid in 1996; 25% in future  -16.41     -16.65    -36.12  -5.14    -36.35
Net profit retained                                                          55.24     44.16    108.36  15.43    109.00    109.00   109.00   109.00
Depreciation                       from above                                 5.40      5.50      6.00   0.85      6.00
Cash low available for investment   in constant terms                        60.64     49.66    114.36  16.28    115.00    115.00   115.00   115.00
as % of net tum-over                                                      17.44      9.90       16.28   16.28   16.31     16.31     16.31    16.31
(1) The accounts provided by Getlini-2 Ltd do not allow seperation of direct productive expenditures from administrative overheads.
(2) Forhis projecion the Gross Operating Margin has been assumed fixed at the 1997 level. This is a conservative assumpton as there are opportunities to increase revenues
(better waste selecton) and in particular to reduce operating costs, eg by cutling back on staff.






LATVIA
MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
ANNEX 8
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS






ANNEX 8
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
A. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Background
1.        The Project would be realised over 5 years, from 1998 to 2002, with preparation of
implementation to start immediately after negotiations. Remediation of the existing landfill will start
early 1999 and extraction of landfill gas from the existing landfill is expected to commence towards the
end of 1999. The establishment of the first two energy cells would be initiated already during 1998,
after which the old landfill will be definitively closed and sealing completed. It is envisaged to establish
two energy cells per year for 5 years in order to reach a steady state production level of landfill gas.
Installation of the gas turbines for electricity production is planned for the second half of the year 1999,
so that generation could commence in the year 2000.
2.        Overall responsibility for Project implementation would lie with the Riga City Council
(RCC), and more particularly with its Environmental Protection Board; for this purpose a Project
Steering Committee (PSC) has already been established, chaired by RCC. In addition, a Project
Procurement Unit (PPU) would be created, within RCC, to be responsible for all procurement under the
project, as well as disbursement and project cost accounting. Actual physical implementation of the
Project would be the responsibility of the new company, the Getlini-Eco Ltd. Ltd.
Project Steering Committee (PSC)
3.        The PSC consists of members of Riga City Council, Stopinu Pagasts, Ministries of
Economy, Environmental Protection & Regional Development and Finance, and Riga Region
Environmental Protection Board; the Managing Director of Getlini-Eco Ltd. would also be a member of
the committee. The PSC is chaired by a member of RCC; the Head of the PPU would be its Secretary.
4.        The PSC would meet at least once a month at RCC offices to maintain close monitoring of
the Project and to help resolve any outstanding issues. Its functions would include in particular:
-    ensure that Project implementation is on schedule;
-    resolve any issues likely to delay realisation of Project objectives;



Annex 8
Page 2 of 5
liaise between Getlini-Eco Ltd., PPU and representatives of Government, RCC and
SP;
provide a focal point for World Bank and olher donor agencies concerning the
Project; and
assist PPU and GETLINI-ECO LTD. in any day-to-day issues that may arise during
implementation of the Project.
Project Procurement Unit (PPU)
5.        A PPU would be created to be in charge of all procurement and disbursement under the
Project; it would be a separate unit within RCC and its staff would be hired under normal Government
salary conditions, supplemented by a premium. The Head of PPU, a Latvian national, would be
appointed by RCC for the duration of project implementation. The World Bank would be consulted
before making this appointment.
6.        The responsibilities of the PPU would include: i) preparation of a standard set of bidding
documents (both for World Bank, other donor finance and loc,ally financed contracts); ii) issue of
bidding documents together with technical specifications to WB for" no objection"; iii) publication and
dispatch of invitations to tender; iv) valuation of bids and recommendation for award; v) all
procurement and disbursement related to the project; and vi) maintaining the Project accounts.
However, the preparation of technical specifications for all contracts would be completed by outside
consultants who would start their work in March/April 1998.The PPU would also be responsible, under
the PSC, for maintaining relations with the World Bank and other donors regarding all procurement
and disbursement matters.
7.       In addition to the Head of the Unit, PPU would have two local professionals, a
Procurement Specialist and an Accounting/Disbursement Officer, and one bi-lingual secretary. In order
to train staff in World Bank procurement and disbursement procedures an external IBRD procurement
specialist (International Supervisor) would be engaged, for the initial year and part-time thereafter, to
prepare necessary procurement documentation, as mentioned above. He would also provide on-the-job
training of local staff and organise, together with WB, a local seminar for all project staff concerned. To
reduce the costs of this international consultancy an effort will be made to attract the procurement
specialist from neighbouring countries in the former Soviet UInion. The World Bank would be
consulted before making this appointment.
8.        Up to loan effectiveness the operational and equipment costs of the PPU would be financed
from a Japanese grant (PHRD), for which the agreements have been signed. Thereafter, transportation
and operating expenses would be financed by the Project. The RCC would make available suitable
office space and office furniture.



Annex 8
Page 3 of 5
GETLINI-ECO LTD.
9.        The new company to be established under the project would be jointly owned by Riga
City (55%), Stopinu Pagasts (35%) and Government (MOEPRD for 10%). This company would be
directly responsible for the implementation of the project and its staff would therefore need to be
qualified to carry out this task. The proposed organigramme and staffing is as follows:
-    Managing Director, a Latvian national of sufficient experience and stature to
guide the new company, to supervise implementation of the project and to control
the operations of the wholly-owned subsidiary, the Getlini-2 Company.
-    Head of Technical Department, also a Latvian national with extensive
experience in iisdustry; responsible for the technical implementation and
supervision of the project. He would be assisted by an expatriate consultant
engaged on a part-time basis. There would also be a junior engineer to assist the
Technical Director in the day-to-day tasks.
-    Head of Finance Department, a Latvian national, who would be responsible for
all financial and commercial aspects of the project, and for the accounting and
budgeting of the company. He would be assisted by an accountant.
In addition, there would be one bi-lingual secretary and a driver/messenger. The Getlini-Eco Ltd.
would have an office in Riga, but not located within the RCC complex to underline the private sector
orientation of the new company. The operational costs of this office would be borne by the project
until 2001, and by the company thereafter.
10.       The proposed twinning arrangement would be made with GETLINI-ECO LTD.; this
would be of great assistance to the new company and instrumental in getting the project off to a
timely start. The World Bank would be consulted before making the appointment of the
Managing Director of Getlini-Eco Ltd.
11.       Revenues of the company would consist of the waste disposal fee, sale of recovered
materials and of electricity generated from landfill gas. A major expenditure item for the new
company would be the waste processing fee payable to the contracted operating company, on the
basis of tonnage of waste received on site.
B. Implementation schedule
12.       Preparation of project implementation would start immediately after negotiations, while
the physical implementation of the project would be realised over 4 years, starting early - 1999 until



Annex 8
Page 4 of 5
of 2002, with an additional 6 months for the payment of financial obligations entered into prior to
project completion. The PPU would submit a Procurement and Disbursement Report by the middle of
2003. The Getlini-Eco Ltd. would submit an Implementation Comipletion Report by the end of 2003. A
detailed P'roject Implementation Schedule is attached.
C. Project Reporting
13.       The PSC staff would monitor project implementation; it would call on the PPU and the
new comjpany Getlini-Eco Ltd. to complete the detailed schedules required by the World Bank. Semi-
annual reports would also have to be submitted to World Bank and other donors. A mid-term review by
World Bank staff would take place no later than June2000.
D. Project Supervision
14.      In addition to above mentioned reporting, World Bank staff would be closely following the
Project's progress through regular supervision missions. A plan for such supervision is included in the
attached Project Implementation Plan.



Annex 8
Page 5 of 5
Detailed Implementation Schedule to start of Project, January 1998
1-PROJECT PROCESSING                AGENCIES                        TARGET DATES
negotiations                        WB/GovernmentJRCC/Getlini-Eco  November1997
Ltd.
loan/grant approval                 WB/GEF/SIDA                     February 1998
govermment approval                 Council of Ministers            March 1998
establishment PPU by RCC            RCC                             Jan 1998
establishment of GETLINI-ECO LTD.   RCC/Stopinu Pagasts/Govt        November 1997
loan/grant effectiveness            WB/GEF/SIDA                     March 1997
2 - PROJECT LAUNCH                                                  JULY 1998
3 - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
detailed design preparation         by consultants                  from early 1998 onwards
bidding documents                   idem                            idem
twinning/techn assistance           Swedish company/consultants      August 1998 onwards
training staff, start of            consultants                      September 1998
start of tendering                  consultants/PPU                 Nov. 1998
4-START OF CONSTRUCTION                                              EARLY 1999






LATVIA
MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
ANNEX 9.1
SUPERVISION PLAN






Sheetl
Supervision Plan during Implementation of the Municipal Solid Waste Management Project,
Approx.  Activity            Organization                     Involved Specialist- Staff Weeks                       Total
Date                                     TM         Fin. Anal   Econom    Waste Spec Energy Spec Proc. Spec  Disb Spec
F     Jul-98 Supervision 1    Head Quarter       2         1                                          1         1         5
Y            Project Launch   Res. Mission                                                 1                              1
9                                      Sida                               1
9
Oct-98 Supervision 2    Head Quarter       3         1    1                                     1                   5
Res. Mission            ._____.                                              i              0
Dec-98 Supervision 3    Head Quarter       2                         i          :                      _ !          2
Res. Mission             I                                   1          1     _             2
Sida                              1                      i     _  I                    1
.   I                        !         j~~~~~.              I          i_ _i
Apr-98 Supervision 4    Head Quarter       2         1                                          1         1         5
Res. Mission
Sida                    _         1
F    Aug-99 Supervision 5    Head Quarter        3    :                         1                     1                   5
Y                            - Res. Mission                                                                               I _   1  1
O                                                    I          I
0    Dec-99 Supervision 6    Head Quarter        3    j  __; _                                                            3
Res. Mission   _                             :_ _            1    j                         1
_  _,   _        i         Sids           ._ _               1                      i                             1
Apr-99 Supervision 7    ;Head Quarter      3                                                                        41   T  __ _  4
-Res. Mission                                                                i
F    Aug-00 Supervision 8    Head Quarter        4         2    1   2           2          2         2    i   1           15
Y           jMid-Term Review,Res. Mission    _                   i                         1     j  _                      1
o                                      Side           :                                _ 1  . _            I                   1
1           1_                                           _ _ I_            _    _ i_I_i_;_
Dec-00 Supervision 9    Head Quarter       2    1                    i           _          _         i              2
_ Res. Mission   _         __       i _      |_              1               !               1
May-01   Supervision 10  !Head Quarter        2      __     !                       _  _           1                    3
Res. Mission                                                                                1
F Sep-01    Supervision 11   HeadQuarter         2    i     1    :         ,                     ,   1 1        1          5
Y                             Res. Mission             I
2 Jan-02   iSupervision 12   Head Quarter        2    !          i                  _            '    _                   2
Res. Mission                                                 1               I              1
FJul-02    Supervision 13  'Head Quarter         2         1                    1                     1         1         6
Y                             Res. Mission                                                 1                               1
O           j                ,     . 0                                                           .
3 Dec-03   Supervision 14   Head Quarter         2          1                   1          1        I1                    6
'Res. Mission                                                1                               1
*         Sida   -
*Impl. Completion
Feb-03  ,Report Prep.    Head Quarter         4         2          2         1                       1       1         11
'rRes. Mission                                                I I  i                         1
Sida           i                  11         .                                         1
Page 1






LATVIA
MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
ANNEX 9.2
MONITORING AND EVALUATION






ANNEX 9.2
MONITORING AND EVALUATION
A. Actions to Monitor Development Objectives
1.    Project monitoring indicators were developed during appraisal in order to enable
tracking of Project inputs on key development objectives throughout the Project cycle.
At the mid-term review, the need to fine-tune or restructure the Project design will be
based on the data received from these indicators.
B. Project Indicators
2.    Given the essential role of the program monitoring and evaluation play in
determining the impact of a given intervention on development objectives, a number of
indicators will be used to monitor and evaluate progress during the implementation of the
Municipal Solid Waste Management Project. However, the progress of these indicators
would be evaluated in relative, not absolute terms. During supervision, a selected number
of commercial, operational, financial and environmental indicators would be monitored in
accordance with project objectives.
(a)   Commercial and Operational indicators
-     JGeneration of LFG from both the existing waste pile and the new
energy cells are crucial for project sustainability, and has been
conservatively estimated. The amount of collected LFG from both gas
streams will be monitored and recorded as both streams will have a clear
impact on the sale of electricity. The quantity LFG from the existing waste
pile will decline over time, while the LFG quantity from the energy cells
would reach a steady state after 5 years. The expected LFG amounts from
the two streams are shown in Table 1.
-     The quantity of waste received at the disposal site/month divided
in different types of waste. The ratio of extracted gas/ton of waste is
essential for evaluating the efficiency in gas collection as well as in regard
to gas production. At a steady state, reached after approximately five
years, this production should be at least 175 m3/ton.
-     The quantity of LFG from the two streams should be monitored
automatically in the gas pumping station, and the content of methane
should be analyzed on a monthly basis. The methane content should be in
the range of 45-55%, and the amount of collected LFG should not be less
than 26 million m3/year after year 2001.



Annex 9.2: Monitoring and Evaluation
Page 2 of 3
-     The amount electricity produced should not be less than 39
GWh/year after year 2001.
(b)   Financial indicator.
In addition to the internal rate of return calculations the following
standard financial indicator would be monitored:
*     A Debt Service Coverage Ratio (the extent to which the
intemal cash generation covers total debt services) not to
fall below 1.5;
(c)   Environmental indicators
-     Amount of methane captured, which should not be less than 13
million Nm3/year after year 2001. The amount of methane should be
converted into carbon dioxide by use of conversion factor of 21.
-     Quality of groundwater should be monitored on a yearly basis, and
the results compared to the results reflecting the current situation in order
to evaluate if the remediation measures have had expected effect on
arresting the ongoing groundwater contamination.
-     Monthly recording of separated waste, temporarily stored
hazardous waste, and expected trends.



Annex 9.2: Monitoring and Evaluation
Page 3 of 3
Table 1: Expected Amounts of Landfill Gas
Landfill   Energy Cells    Total Gas Production
nm 3        nm3             nm3
2000    20876174            0          20876174
2001    18450355     10402326          28852681
2002    16361191     16914071          33275262
2003    14556383     21229482          35785865
2004    12992314     24244972          37237286
2005    11632545     26448190          38080735
2006    10446592     26448190          36894782
2007     9408905     26448190          35857095
2008     8498033    26448190           34946223
2009     7695935     26448190          34144125
2010     6987398     26448190          33435588
2011     6359576     26448190          32807766
2012     5801594     26448190          32249784
2013     5304221     26448190          31752411
2014     4859606     26448190          31307796
2015     4461055     26448190          30909245
2016     4102842    26448190           30551032
2017     3780059     26448190          30228249
2018     3488487     26448190          29936677
2019     3224489    26448190           29672679
2020           0    26448190           26448190
2021           0    26448190           26448190
2022           0    26448190           26448190
2023           0    26448190           26448190
2024           0    26448190           26448190
2025           0    26448190           26448190
2026           0    26448190           26448190






LATVIA
MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
ANNEX 10
FINANCIAL SITUATION AND FORECASTS - RIGA CITY






ANNEX 10
FINANCIAL SITUATION AND FORECASTS - RIGA CITY
A. BACKGROUND
1.        Riga is Latvia's largest city with an estimated 826,000 inhabitants (down from 912,000 in
1990); it is the country's capital, as well as one of its major port and the principal industrial/cultural
centre. Trading therefore is well-developed, while industry includes ship building, manufacturing of
electrical equipment and pharmaceuticals, processing of food and wood products. The services sector
is well represented with a number of quality hotels and restaurants, a symphony orchestra, an opera
and several theatres, as well as museums. The city is also the seat of the University and the Latvian
Academy of Sciences. Finally, the restored mediaeval city centre and its fine 19th century
architecture are beginning to attract increasing numbers of tourists.
2.        Government in Latvia consists of three levels: central, regional and municipal. Since
1991 local government has become increasingly independent from Central Government, with the
right to manage their affairs autonomously through local democratic representation. As a result, the
municipal authorities have power to form municipal enterprises, take part in joint stock companies,
acquire and dispose of assets, as well as to introduce local duties and taxes. Tax collection has also
been decentralised and municipal budgets are independent of Central Government; however, by law
these municipal budgets must be balanced.
3.        Municipalities have a responsibility, often shared with Central Government, for
providing: a) municipal services (water, heat, sewerage, waste collection and disposal); b) territorial
infrastructure (roads, public lighting, cemeteries, industrial waste collection and disposal); c)
environmental protection; d) education and culture; e) health care; f) social welfare; g) social
housing; h) public order and various less important tasks. It is intended that health care will pass
entirely to the Central Government in 1997, with the municipalities continuing to contribute to this
budget, but the modalities of this change have not yet been worked out.
B. RIGA CITY COUNCIL
4.        The present City Council or Dome was elected in 1994 and consists of 60 councillors,
who elect a Chairman (equivalent to a mayor) and Deputy-Chairman. Total staff of the Council and
its constituent departments numbered 1331 at the end of 1996, excluding the municipal institutions
and enterprises.
5.        The Dome has among its duties the approval of the budget, imposition of local taxes and
setting of fees for services, as well as managing the municipal institutions and enterprises. The
municipal institutions do not generate income and need to be financed from the budget; they include



Annex 10
Page 2 of 4
schocils, libraries, museums and hospitals. On the other hand, the municipal enterprises are expected
to be self-financing, and perhaps even to contribute to RCC's revenues; among them are the tram and
trolley-bus, the water and the sewerage companies, other enterprises, primarily in the services sector,
may in future be privatised. In addition, the RCC has entered into a number of joint ventures with
private entrepreneurs; however, it is the intention to dispose of these share holdings in future.
C. The Budget
6.        The City's budget is prepared by its finance department, in close co-operation with the
Minisitry of Finance, and is submitted to the Dome for approval, normally in November for the
following year's budget. At the end of 1996, however, the draft budget for 1997 had not yet been
prepared. Municipalities report monthly to the Ministry of Finance on the execution of their budgets,
followed by a detailed annual report; this allows for close supervision by the Ministry of Finance.
These and other reporting requirements of the municipalities are regulated by law (On Local
Government Budgets and On Budget and Financial Management).
7.        The normal budget for 1996 shows gross revenues of Ls 89.7 m and net revenues of Ls
68.5m after deduction of Riga's contribution to the Tax Equalisation Fund. Expenditures are budgeted
at Ls 59.0m, plus debt service of Ls 9.5m; this leaves the budget balanced, However, it appears that
tax collection is running below budget and expenditures will have to be adjusted accordingly.
8.        In addition to the normal budget, each City Department prepares a Special Budget, which
consists of minor, department-related income and expenditures. These budgets are not part of the
normal budget exercise and for this reason the Special Budget does not appear in the table; the total
amount: of this Special Budget is estimated at Ls 3.5m for 1996.
D. Revenues
9.        Local government finance is based on the concept of local autonomy linked to local
accountability. To reinforce this link, collection of tax revenue from personal income - but not the
setting of rates - has been delegated to the municipal level. Riga city, which has above average levels
of wages and employment, contributes a share of its revenues from income taxes to an Equalisation
Fund, which benefits poorer municipalities. In 1996 the City's contribution was 28.7%, while a figure
of 30% appears likely for 1997 and beyond. For 1996 net income tax revenues represented 77.8% of
budgeted overall revenues. There appears to be room for increasing the tax base through more
stringent tax collection, in particular of the independently employed, and this source is therefor likely
to remain the dominant income item for the foreseeable future.
10.       Land and property taxes accounted for 17.4% in the 1996 budget; these are set and
collected by the State and redistributed to the municipalities and districts. There is scope for
increasing these revenues, as properties are being revalued from previous very low levels as part of
privatisation; restoration would also increase these real estate values. Government contributes



Annex 10
Page 3 of 4
directly to the City's revenues, with Ls 2.4m or 3.5% of 1996 revenues, while remaining tax
categories added 1.3% to budgeted revenues for 1996.
E. Expenditures
l1.       Among the principal expenditure items for 1996 are health care (29.4%); education
(25.6%); housing and sanitation (13.4%); and welfare (9.4%). Capital expenditures, estimated at less
that LS 3m in 1996, are included with recurrent expenditures in the budget.
12.       There is also a capital budget, but this does not form part of the main budget. It is
primarily a shopping list of investments likely to be realised only as funds become available.
F. Budget
13.       In the absence of any forecast prepared by the City, the mission has made a budget
projection for the period 1997 to 2005. This exercise is primarily intended to assess the ability of the
City to contribute to the Solid Waste Management Project as currently foreseen (almost 23% of
investments or USD 6.0m), in addition to its other engagements under the Water Supply and
Municipal Services projects'. Furthermore, the City would be the borrower of IBRD's proposed USD
9.Om contribution to the Solid Waste Management Project. These funds would be onlent, and hence
repaid, by the final beneficiary, Riga District Waste Processing Company Ltd., but Riga would be the
guarantor for repayment in the event the company would not be able to do so.
14.       The attached 2-page table shows the 1995 actual figures, the 1996 budget, as well as the
projections for 1997-2005 using assumptions detailed below.
G. Revenues
Personal Income Tax
15.       There appears to be scope to enlarge the tax base through more stringent tax collection
and inclusion of independently employed not now covered by this tax2. Also, wages and salaries are
likely to go up with inflation, even though lagged and perhaps not to the full extent. A negative factor
is the slow decrease of the City's population. All in all it has been assumed that revenues would go up
It has been assumed that the EIB and IBRD loans taken on by Riga city for respectively the Water Supply and
Municipal Services projects will be onlent, and hence repaid, to the respective enterprises. Riga city would
therefore only be the guarantor of these loans and for this reason their repayment has been excluded from the
projections.
2 Progressive inclusion of the "shadow economy", estimated at between 10% and 15% of GDP, would also
increase receipts from personal income tax.



Annex 10
Page 4 of 4
by 11% in 1997 (the RCC forecast), and by 10% in 1998; the increase would then taper of to 5% by
2003.
16.       These revenues are gross, that is, the City's contribution to the Tax Equalisation Fund
needs to be subtracted. The % contribution in 1996 was fixed at 28.7%, while the prognosis for 1997
is 30%; this figure has been used throughout the projection.
Property and Land Taxes
17.       There is good potential for a strong increase in these taxes, which are to be combined in a
single real estate tax. The reason is the current low historical value of properties, which would be
increatsed to more realistic levels with privatisation and restoration. It has been assumed that after the
11% increase budgeted for 1997 these tax revenues would go up by 15% in 1997, 20% in 1998 and to
decrease thereafter to 5% by 2005.
Other Taxes and Intergovernmental Revenues
18.       To these revenue categories the WB GDP deflator forecast for 1997-2001 has been
applied, for want of another indicator; it has been assumed that inflation would decrease to 5%
thereafter. These revenues would thus be fixed in real terms.
Expenditures
19.       The assumption is a simple one: constant growth of 3.5% pa real terms. This implies that
the WB's GDP deflator forecast has been used up to 2001, with an inflation of 5% thereafter, plus a
3.5% increase.
H. Conclusion
20.       The figures appear to indicate that the City would be able to generate surpluses going
from Ls 8.1m in 1997 to Ls 18.6m in 2000, decreasing thereafter to LS 9.5m by 2005. After taking
account of Riga's earlier mentioned commitments under already signed projects (Water Supply and
Municipal Services), as well as the Solid Waste project, the forecast confirms its ability to assume
repayment of loans for which it is the guarantor, in the event of default of the final beneficiaries.



IATV4A: U     kW       _     r.
A_ ID. P  r * Fi_ t - i Si.w     d rs .mu
AlGA City Council  1995  1996  1997 1998 1999 2000                                                                                                                  Page 2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P*e 
RIGA Ciii COn               -                   1995         19S6         1997       1998       1W9         2000       2001       2002      2003      2004       2005                           Assumotions
FinancW  forecasts (in 000 LVL)                actual       budget      projectons  >>>>>       >>>>>                    >>         >         >
REVENUES
Gwth asUpon  Pesnal ncm  Tax (-)                 na          32%          1t%        10%         9%          8%          7%        6%        5%        5%         5%      improved collecion; growth of ncews deckining population
Idem-PropwtyandLandTaxesa()                      na          11%          15%        20%         20%        15%         10%        8%        7%        6%         5%       revauationotproperty
Idem - AN Mur taxesrlevesn(%)                    na          18%          10%         8%         7%          6%         6%         5%        5%        5%        5%       follow WS GDP deflator rates
Personal ime tax                                  56666         74741       82963      91259      99472      107430      114950   121847    127939    134336    141053   apply growth assumption above
Proprty andland taxes                             10415         11928       13717      16461      19753       22716       24987    26986    28875       30808     32138   apply growth assumpton above
Olher taxes                                         407           431         474        512         548        581         616       646       679       713       748   apply WB inflabon assumption
Intergovrnmental reveues                           1760          2400        2640       2851       3051        3234        3428      3599      3779      3968      4167   apply WS inflabon assunption
Miscelaneous                                        452           223         200        200         20         200         20Q0       M        200       200       200   PM item
sub-totals                      69700         89723       99994     111283      123023     134160      144181   153279   161472    169825    178306
Deduct Tax Equaisation Fund                        926.5        21243       24         2 2        2942        32229       34485    36554    33I2    40301         42316
(% of personal income tax)          16.40%       28.69%       30.00%     30.00%      30.00%     30.00%      30.00%     30.00%    30.00%    30.00%    30.00%
Total rwt revenue                                 60435         68480       75105      83905      93182      101931      109696   116725   123091    129524    135990
(nraseoverprevlousyear)                             n.a.       13.31%       9.67%     1t72%       11.06%      9.39%       7.62%     6.41%     5.45%     5.23%     4.99%
EXPENDITURES (recutrent and capital (1))
Apply AB GP deflator rates (%)                                           10.00%      9.00%      7.00%      6.00%       6.00%      5.00%     5.00%     5.00%     5.00%      WB GOP deRator forecast
Add 1% rut growth of expenditures                                        3.50%       3.50%      3.50%       3.50%      350%       350%      3.50%     3.50%      3.50%     real orowth rate
total %  owthi of expenditures                                           13.50%     1250%       10.5D%      9.50%      9.50%      8.50%     8.50%     8.50%     8.50%      total increase of expenditures
General government (RCC)                           3838          4835
Heatth care                                       17706         17354
Education                                         14304         15116
Housing and saniWon                                9575          7899
Wefar                                              5223          5531
Ctul                                               2507          2407
Transportation                                     2151          1508
PLlicsa fty                                        1337          1381
Environental Prolecion                             1016           707
Otr expenditure                                    1191          2272
Total Expenditure                   58848         59010        976       L5u4g      76140       83373       91293    99053   107473    116608    126520   apply WB GOP deflator 3,5% real growth in expenditures
sueh6 Cwref 3uda                                   1587          9470       S129        887       17142        85588      18402    17672    15S1t       12916      9471   Currnt surplus
as % of revenues                                  2.63%        13.83%      10.82%     10.20%      18.29%     18.21%      16.78%    15.14%    12.69%     9.97%     6.96%
Fkancial COMMnens
*) Ddt rspnaynt posstloans                            0          9462           0           0          0           0          0         0         0          0         0
b) Water SW*pE FtI
RCCcontrbution. LVL10.5rmoverSyrs                     0              0       1500       2500        3500       2000         1000        0      -1050     -1050     -1050   negativefigure denotesrepaymenttoRCC
c) Muridpe Serde Deveopent
RCC celttUin (USD I.9mLVL 1.O5m)                      0            50         250        350         300        100           0       -105      -105      -105      -105   kdem
d) SolideV s Management Project
ROC eolbuAon (30% of LVt 10.7mx3.2m)                  0             0           0       1000        1500        700           0       -300      -300      -300      -300   idem
ToI   CA" Conrto RrCC                                 2          9512        175n       3850        S300       2eo0        10         40s5    Aj455                 14555   A55   idur
SURPLUS ale cital conttbufton  2t                  1587            -42       6379       471r       11742       15768       17402    1877     17073      14371     10926   surplus after capital Contrlbiitions
Accumulasted mipIus                                 1587          154       7924        12638      24373       40131       67533    76610    S2643    107084   117980   cumulative surplus
Footote 1: capial expenditures included in the Wget afounted to less than LVL 3m in 1996.
Footnote 2: aespue or deficts am accounted for in a reserve fund






LATVIA
MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
ANNEX 11
BUDGET INFORMATION FOR STOPINU PAGAST



I



Stopinu Pagasts Municipality-
(in '000 LVL)
1995                199
REVENUES                            actual              budget
Individual income tax               376.0                445.3
Natural resource tax                110.1                156.5
Tax Equalisation Fund (1)             52.0              -125.9
Property & Land taxes                45.6                113.0
Other duties and revenues             1                   73.8
sub-total                           594.6                662.7
Balance at start of year             515.2
Total Resources                     645.9                677.9
EXPENDITURES
Housing and Utilities (2)           292.4                299.1
Social, Education, Cultural         256.8                214.0
Public administration                74.1                105.0
Other miscellaneous                   714                 17.9
Total expenditures                  630.7                636.0
Balance end of year                   15.2                41.9
(1)In 1995 SP received a subsidy
to this fund, reflecting the large
(2) Under Housing & Utilities are
drainage ditches -- which have






LATVIA
MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
ANNEX 12
EXPENDITURE ACCOUNTS FOR OPTIMAL INVESTMENTS






Annex 12
Page 1 of 4
Latvia
Riga Solid Waste Management Project
Expenditure Accounts by Years -Totals Including Contingencies
Economic Costs (US$ '000)
Option 1:                                            Economic Costs
Remediation                          1998    1999    2000    2001    2002   Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil works
Earth works                           -    483         -       -        -    483
Construction                          -    211         -       -        -    211
Design and Supervision              138        -       -       -        -     138
Subtotal Civil works                  138     694        -       -        -    832
B. Equipment                            -    531       38        -        -    569
C. Covering Material                    -   1,188        -       -        -   1,188
Total Investment Costs                  138   2,412       38        -       -   2,588
II. Recurrent Costs
A Salaries                              -       8        8       8       8       33
B. Operation and Maintenance
civil works                           -      23       37      40      42      142
equipment                             -        -     146     149     149      444
Total Recurrent Costs                     -      31      191     197      199     619
Total PROJECT COSTS                     138   2,444      229      197     199   3,207



Annex 12
Page 2 of 4
Latvia
Riga Solid Waste Management Project
Expenditure Accounts by Years - Totals Including Contingencies
Economic Costs (US$ '000)
Optioni 2                                          Econotnic Costs
Sanitairy Landfill                  1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil works
Earth works                          -   1,378     388     189     322    2,277
Construction                         -   1,042     402        -       4    1,449
Design and Supervision             471       -                -       -     471
Subtotal Civil works                 471   2,420     790     189     326    4,197
B. Eqiuipment                         76   2,427     737      25      25    3,290
C. Covering Material                   -   1,188       -        -       -    1,188
D. Specialist Services
Inteirnational Consultants          75     200     125      50      50      500
National Consultants                29      45      48      51       54      228
Subtotal Specialist Services         104    245      173     101      104      728
Total Investment Costs                 651   6,280   1,700     315     455    9,402
11. Recuirrent Costs
A Salaries                             -      21      29      29       29      107
B. Operation and Maintenance
civil works                          -      23      55      58       60      196
equipment                            -    179      497     500      500    1,675
Total Recurrent Costs                    -    222      580     587     589    1,978
Total PROJECT COSTS                    651   6,502   2,281      902   1,044   11,380



Annex 12
Page 3 of 4
Latvia
Riga Solid Waste Management Project
Expenditure Accounts by Years -Totals Including Contingencies
Economic Costs (USS '000)
Option 3                                              Economic Costs
Gas for Electricity                   1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    Total
1. Investment Costs
A. Clvil works
Earth works                           -   1,486      550      350     483     2,869
Construction                          -   1,380      608      206     210     2,403
Design and Supervision              625        -       -        -        -      625
Subtotal Civil works                  625    2,866    1,157     556     693     5,897
B. Equipment                           76    3,619    1,066      25     118    4,903
C. Covering Material                     -   1,188        -       -        -    1,188
0. Specialist Services
Intemational Consultants             75      250     175      100     100       700
National Consultants                 29       45      48       51      54       228
Subtotal Specialist Services          104      295     223      151     154       928
Total Investment Costs                  805    7,968    2,446     732     964    12,916
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Salaries                              -      33      50       50      50       182
B. Operation and Maintenance
civil works                            -      23      61       67      71       222
equipment                              -     357     889      893     893     3,031
Total Recurrent Costs                      -     413    1,000    1,009    1,013    3,435
Total PROJECT COSTS                      805    8,381    3,446    1,741    1,977    16,351
Page 1



Annex 12
Page 4 of 4
Latvia
Riga Solid Waste Management Project
Expenditure Accounts by Years - Totals Including Contingencies
Economic Costs (US$ '000)
Option 4                                            Economic Costs
Gas for Electricity                 1998    1999   2000    2001    2002    Total
I. lnvestmnent Costs
A. Civil works
Earth works                          -   1,486     550     350     483    2,869
Construction                         -   1,380     608     206      210    2,403
Design and Supervision             625       -       -        -       -      625
Subtotal Civil works                 625   2,866   1,157     556      693    5,897
B. Equipment                          76   4,506   1,836     625     718    7,760
C. Covering Material                   -   1,188       -        -       -    1,188
D. Specialist Services
International Consultants           75     250     175     100      100      700
National Consultants                29      45      48      51       54      228
Subtotail Specialist Services        104     295     223  _ 151       154      928
Total Investment Costs                 805   8,855   3,216   1,332   1,564   15,773
II. Recurrbnt Costs
A Salaries                             -      33      50      50       50      182
B. Operation and Maintenance
civil works                          -      23      61      67       71      222
equiprnent                           -    357      979   1,032   1,083    3,450
Total Recurrent Costs                    -    413   1,089   1,148   1,203    3,854
Total PROJECT COSTS                    805   9,268   4,306   2,481   2,767   19,627



LATVIA
MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
ANNEX 13
ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS FOR OPTIMAL
INVESTMENTS






Annex 13
Ria Solid Waste Management Project                                                                                                               Page  I of 8
Option 1: Renedbation only
Economk Costs and Benefts                               Economic Costs
(US$ 000)                              1998     1999    2000    2001    2002      2003     2004      2006     2006      2007     2008      2009     2010
LlnvesbtmenCosts                         138    2412       38        0       0
U. Recurrent Costs
A. Salaries                               0       8        8       8        8        8         8        8         8        8         8        8         8
B. Operation and Maintenance
clil works                              0      23       37      40       42       42        42       42        42       42        42       42        42
equipment                               0       0      146     149      149       149      149      149       149      149       149      149       149
TotalRecurrentCosts                         0      31      191     197      199      199       199      199       199      199       199      199       199
TOTAL ECONOMiC COSTS                      138    2444      229     197      199       199      199      199       199      199       199      199       199
Economic Beneffts 4US$ W00)                            Economic Benefits
1998     1999    2000    2001    2002      2003     2004      2006     2006      2007     2008      2009     2009
1. Electricity
II. Heating
Iil. Recyding
IV. Environmental Benefits (Global)
TOTAL ECONOMIC BENEFiTS
NET BENEFITS                             -138   -2444    -229    -197    -199        -199      -199     -199     -199      -199     -199      -199     -199
Disconted Benefits                       -125   -2020    -172    -135    -124        -112     -102      -93       -84      -77       -70      -63       -58
necessary annual env. benefits
sating 1999 for 0 NPV                     495
Paraneters
Natural Gas (mro. cub. metres)
Elecicy Revenue
Heaing Revenue
Recycli Revenue
Environmental Benefit (Methane not emitted)
hi US$ per 1000 m3
Convesion
Energy Content                  GJil 000 m3    MWh1000nm3
Natural Gas                            34           9.4452
LandAU Gas (Methane 50%)               17           4.7226
Effkency Factors
Boiler House (Heatng)                90%
Gas Enghe (Eectrity)                 35%
Market Prices
Natural Gas ($11000m3)              94.73
Ekdlricity ($lkvWh)                 0.034



Annex 13
Page 2 of 8
20m1     2012     2013      2014      2015     2015     2016      2017     2018      2019     2020      2021
B        8        8         8         8        8         8        8        8         8         8        8
42       42       42        42        42       42       42        42       42        42       42        42
149      149      149       149       149      149       149      149      149       149       149      149
199      199      199       199      199       199       199      199      199       199      199       199
199      199      199       199      199       199       199      199      199       199      199       199
2010     2011     2012      2013      2014     2015     2016      2017     2018      2019     2020      2021
-199     -199     -199      -199      -199     -199     -199      -199     -199      -199      -199     -199
-52      -48      -43       -39      -36       -33       -30      -27      -24       -22       -20      -18



Annex 13
Latvia                                                                                                                                            Page 3 of 8
Rigs SoUdWse Msgn    Projet
Option 2: Sanilary LandAiU
Economic Cost and Benefits                            Econonic Costs
C000 US Dolars)                       1998    1999    2000    2001    2002       2003      2004     2005     2006      2007     2008      2009     2008
L lnvmslmnt Costs                       651    6280    1700      315      455
IL Recurrnt Costs
A. Salaries                             0       21       29      29       29       29       29        29       29        29       29        29       29
B. Operation and Maintenance
chvl works                            0       23      55       58       60       60       60        60       60        60       60        60       60
equipment                             0      179      497     500      500       0       500       500      500       500      500       500      500
Total Recurrent Costs                     0      222     580      587      589      589      589       589      589       589      589       589      589
TOTAL ECONOMIC COSTS                    651    6502    2281       902    1044       589      589       589      589       589      589       589      589
Economic Benelits (US$ '000)                          Economic Benefits
1997    1999    2800    2001    2002       2003     2004     2006      2006     2007     2008      2009      2010
I. Eericy
11. Heating
Ill. Recycling                                            100     150     200       200      200       200      200       200      200       200      200
IV. Environmental Benefits (Global)
TOTAL ECONOMC BENEFITS                                    100      150     200       200      200      200       200      200       200      200       200
NETBENEFITS                             -651   -6502   -2181    -752    -844        -389     -389      -389     -389      -389     -389      -389     -389
Discounted menefs                       -592   -5374   -1638    -514    .524       -219      -199     -181     -165      -150      -136     -124      -113
Discount Rate                           10%
necessamy anna env. beefis
sitig 1iN  for 0 NPV                   1,450
P  s
Nal Ga (nle. ctb. meies)
Eecdi Reveu
ting Reveu
Recychi Revenu                                            100      150     200       200      200      2         200      200       200      200       200
Ewne lNO Bew  (Mebthn not entd
h US, per 1000 m3
Enwg Coeiu                      GJI1000m3   WVi 000m3
Naturl Ga                             34           9.4462
Land  Gas (MeOtne 50%)                17           4.7225
Efficncy Factors
Bohr House (Heading)                90%
Gas Engie (Electricity)             35%
Market Pices
Nabal Gas ($11000m3)               94.73
Electricity (ShWh)                 0.034



Annex 13
Page 4 of 8
2690    2011      2012     2013     2014      2016     2016     2017     2018      2019     2020     2021
29       29       29       29       29        29       29       29       29        29       29       29
60       60        O0      60        60       60       60       60       60        60       60       60
500      500      500      500       500      500      500      500       500      500      500      500
589      589      589      589      589       589      589      589       589      589      58       589
5we      59       5W9     589       589       8       58       SW       589       589      589      589
2011    2012      2013     2014     2016      2016     2017     2018     2019      2020     2021     2022
200      2D0      200      200       200      200      200      200      200       200      20       200
200      200      200      200      200       200      20       200      20D       200      200      20D
489      488       3B9      3B9     489       489      469       389       B9      -369     389      -39
.102      83       .85      -77      -70       .64      -58      -53       48       -43      439     -W36
210      200      200      200      200       200      200      200      200       200      200      200



Latvia                                                                                                                                            Annex 13
Riga Solid Waste Management Project                                                                                                             Page 5 of 8
Option 3: Gas for Heaffng
Econonic Costs and Benefits                            Economic Costs
(US$ 000)                             1998    1999    2000    2001    2002        2003     2004      2005      2006     2007      2008      2009
L Investment Costs                      805    7968    2446        732     964       435      287
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Salaries                              0       33       50      50       50       50        50        50       50        50       50        50
B. Operation and Maintenance
civil works                            0       23      61       67       71       71        71       71        71       71        71        71
equipment                              0      357     889      893      893      893       893      893       893       893      893       893
TotalRecurrentCosts                        0      413    1000    1009    1013       1013      1013     1013      1013      1013     1013      1013
TOTAL ECONOMIC COSTS                     805    8381    3446    1741    1977        1,448    1,300     1,013     1,013    1,013     1,013     1,013
Ec .oiomic Benefits (US$ '000)                        Economic Benefits
1998    1999    2000    2001    2002       2003      2004     2005      2006     2007      2008      2009
I. Electricity
11. Heating                                               995    1,375    1,586     1,705    1,775     1,815     1,759    1,709     1,665    1,627
Ill. Recyding                                             100      150      200      200       200      200       200       200      200       200
IV. Environmental Benefits                                 668     923    1064       1144     1191      1218      1180     1147      1117      1092
TOTAL ECONOMIC BENEFITS                                   1,763    2,448    2,850   3,049    3,166     3,233     3,139    3,056     2,983     2,919
NET BENEFITS                          -805.37    8381   -1684       707     873      1601     1866      2219      2126     2043      1969      1906
Discounted Benefits                   -732.15   -6926   -1265      483      542      904       957      1035      901       788      690       607
Discount Rate                            10%
Parameters
Landfill Gas replacement of
Natural Gas (mio. m3, total) min. case                   10.44    14.43    16.64    17.89    18.62     19.04     18.45    17.93     17.47     17.07
Natural Gas (mio. m3, otal) basecase                     12.01    16.59    19.14    20.57    21.41     21.90     21.22    20.62     20.09     19.63
Natural Gas (mio. m3, total) max. case                   13.57    18.76    21.63    23.26    24.21     24.75     23.99    23.31     22.71    22.19
available for heating (seasonal shutdown)                10.51    14.52    16.74    18.00    18.74     19.16     18.57    18.04     17.58     17.18
(mio. cub. metres, 87.5 % of base case)
Electricity Revenue                  Gas*CFElectricity efficiency*Price
Heating Revenue
Recycling Revenue                                          100      150     200       200      200       200       200      200       200       200
Env. Benefit (Methane not emitted)   55.61
in US$ per 1000 m3 derived from C02 value:CO2/ton (USD2.72,-)'Conversion Factor CH4/CO2 (21)*Conversion Factor Cubic Metres
Conversion
Energy Content                   GJ/1 000 m3   MWh/1000m3
Natural Gas                           34            9.4452
Landfill Gas (Methane 50%)            17            4.7226
Efflciency Factors
Boiler House (Heating)              90%
Gas marketable for Heating          88%
Gas Engine (Electricity)            35%
Market Prices
Natural Gas ($1I 000m3)*            94.73
Electricity ($/kWh)-               0.034



Annex 13
rage 6 (if 8o
2010     2011      2012      2013     2014      2015      2016     2017      2018      2019     2020      2021      2022
50       50        so        50       S0        50       5Q        50        50        50       50        50        50
71       71        71        71       71        71       71        71        71        71       71        71        71
893      893       893       893      893       893       893      893       893       893      893    _893         893
- 1013     1013      1013      1013     1013      1013      1013     1013      1013      1013     1013      1013      1013
1,013    1,013     1,013     1,013    1,013     1,013    1,013     1,013     1,013    1,013     1,013     1,013     1,013
2010     2011      2012      2013     2014      2015      2016     2017      2018      2019     2020      2021      2022
1,594    1,563     1,537     1,514    1,492     1,473     1,457    1,440     1,427    1,415     1,260     1,260     1,260
200      200       200       200      200       200       200      200       200      200       200       200       200
1069     1049      1031      1016     1001       988      977       966       957      949       845       845       845
2,863    2,812     2,767     2,729    2,693     2,661     2,634    2,607     2,584    2,564     2,306     2,306     2,306
1850     1799      1754      1716     1680      1648     1621      1594      1571     1551      1293      1293      1293
536      474       420       373      332       296       265      237       212       190      144       131       119
16.72     16.4    16.12      15.88    15.65     15.45    15.28     15.11     14.97    14.84     13.22     13.22     13.22
19.23    18.86     18.54     18.26    18.00     17.77    17.57     17.38     17.22    17.07     15.20     15.20     15.20
21.74    21.32     20.96     20.64    20.35     20.09     19.86    19.64     19.46     19.29    17.19     17.19     17.19
16.82    16.50     16.22     15.98    15.75     15.55    15.38     15.20     15.06    14.93     13.30     13.30     13.30
200      200       200       200      200       200      200       200       200      200       200       200       200



Annex 13
Latvia- 
Riga Solid Waste Management Project                                                                                                           Page 7 of 8
Optlon 4: Gas for Electricity
Economnic Costs and Benefits                         Economic Costs
(USS '000)                          1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003       2004     2006     2006      2007     2008     2009     2010
1. Investment Costs                    805    8855    3216    1332    1564       435      287
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Salaries                            0       33      50      50      50        50       50       50       50       50        50       s0       50
B. Operation and Maintenance
civil works                          0       23      61      67       71       71       71       71       71        71       71       71       71
equipment                            0      357     979    1032    1083      1083     1083     1083     1083      1083     1083     1083      1083
Total Recurrent Costs                    0      413    1089    1148    1203    1,203    1,203    1,203    1,203    1,203    1,203    1,203    1,203
TOTAL ECONOMIC COSTS                   805    9268    4306    2481    2767    1,638    1,490    1,203    1,203    1,203    1,203    1,203    1,203
Economic Benerits (USS '00)
Period    1      2        3       4       6        6        7        8        9        10       11        12       13
1997    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004       3006      2006     2007     2008    2009       2010
1. Electricity                                        1,349   1,865   2,151     2,312    2,407    2,461    2.385    2,318    2,258    2,206    2,161
11. Heating
Ill. Recycling                                          100     150     200       200      200      200      200      200       200      200      200
IV. Environmental Benefits (Global)                     668     923    1064      1144     1191     1218      1180     1147     1117      1092     1069
TOTAL ECONOMIC BENEFITS                                2,117   2,938   3,415    3,657    3,798    3,879    3,765    3,664    3,575    3,498    3,430
NET BENEFITS                           -805  -9,268   -2,189     457     648    2,018    2,307    2,676    2,562    2,461    2,372    2,295    2,227
Discounted Benefits                    -732  -7,659   -1,644     312     402    1,139    1,184    1,248    1,086       949      831       731      645
Discount Rate                          10%
Parameters
Landfil Gas equivalent to
Natural Gas (mio. m3, total) min.case                  10.44   14.43   16.64    17.89    18.62    19.04    18.45    17.93    17.47    17.07    16.72
Natural Gas (mio. m3, total) base case                 12.01   16.59   19.14    20.57    21.41    21.90    21.22    20.62    20.09    19.63    19.23
Natural Gas (mio. m3, total) max. case                 13.57   18.76   21.63    23.26    24.21    24.75    23.99    23.31    22.71      22.19    21.74
Electricity Revenue                 GasCFElectricity'efficiency*Price
Heating Revenue
Recycling Revenue                                       100      150     200      200      200       200      200      200      200       200      200
Environmental Benefit (Methane not emitted) 55.61
in USS per 1 000 m3                C02/ton (USD2.72,-)-Conversion Factor CH4/CO2 (21 )Conversion Factor Cubic Metres
Conversion
Energy Content                 GJ/1000 m3   MWfh1000m3
Natural Gas                         34            9.4452
Landfill Gas (Methane 50%)          17            4.7226
Efficiency Factors
Boiler House (Heafing)             90%
Gas Engine (Electricity)           35%
Market Prices
Natural Gas ($/1 000m3)           94.73
Electricity (S/kWh)               0.034



Annex 13
Page 8 of 8
2011     2012     2013     2014     2015     2016     2017     2018    2019       2020     2021     2022
50       50       50       50       50       50       50       50        50       50       50       50
71      71        71       71       71       71       71       71       71       71        71       71
1083     1083     1083     1083     1083     1083     1083     1083     1083      1083     1083     1083
1,203    1,203    1,203    1,203    1,203    1,203    1,203    1,203    1,203    1,203    1,203    1,203
1,203    1,203    1,203    1,203    1,203    1,203    1,203    1,203    1,203    1,203    1,203    1,203
14       16       16       17       18       19       20       21       22       23        24       25
2011     2012     2013     2014     2015     2016     2017     2018      2019     202      2021     2022
2,120    2,084    2,053    2,023    1,997    1,975    1,953    1,935    1,918    1,709    1,709    1,709
200      200      200      200      200      200      200      200       200      200      200      200
1049     1031     1016     1001      988      977      966      957      949      845       845      845
3,369    3,315    3,268    3,224    3,185    3,152    3,119    3,092    3,067    2,754    2,754    2,754
2,165    2,111    2,065    2,021    1,982    1,949    1,916    1,889    1,864    1,551    1,551    1,551
570      505      449      400      356      319      285      255       229      173      157      143
16.4    16.12    15.88    15.65    15.45    15.28    15.11    14.97    14.84    13.22    13.22    13.?2
18.86    18.54    18.26    18.00    17.77    17.57    17.38    17.22    17.07    15.20    15.20    15.20
21.32    20.96    20.64    20.35    20.09    19.86    19.64    19.46    19.29    17.19    17.19    17.19
200      200      200      200      200      200      200      200      200      200       200      200



LATVIA
MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
ANNEX 14
FINANCIAL RETURNS OF THE PROJECT






ANNEX 14
FINANCIAL RETURNS OF THE PROJECT
A. COSTS
1.        Total project costs have been derived from estimates made by SWECO Consultants
responsible for the preparation of the Project; they consist of investment costs, capitalised recurrent
costs during implementation, as well as the cost of detailed design and managerial improvements,
including the twinning arrangement. Costs for a separate Procurement and Disbursement Unit have
also been included. Subsequently, physical contingencies have been applied, in consultation with the
Engineer, followed by price contingencies, calculated on base costs plus physical contingencies.
Price contingencies are projected GDP inflation rates as indicated by the Country Economist.
2.        Recurrent costs have also been calculated by the Consultants; however, their estimate of
labour costs has been reduced, as the actual staffing of the Getlini company already far exceeds
normal levels. The details of investments, recurrent costs and contingencies are presented in Annex
4.2 and in Table 2.1 see para 2.19 in the Staff Appraisal Report.
B. REVENUES
3.        The Project's revenues consist of the sale of electricity, generated from the recovered
landfill gas, and incremental sales of recovered waste materials; the latter has been entered as a
modest amount of US $200,000 at full production, which may well be an underestimate of the true
potential. The disposal fee payable to the landfill operator has been excluded from the revenue
stream, as it is expected that the volume of waste delivered to the site would not increase over time.
4.        Electricity sales have been calculated on the basis of estimated landfill gas production,
converted into electricity using standard conversion factors. This production has been valued at the
current rate per kWh paid by Latvenergo, the national electricity company; the rate of US
$0.048148/kWh is 34.15% above the import price of US $0.035889/kWh..
5.        Finally, the residual or salvage value of the investment has been taken at 15% of the
investment, including contingencies. This percentage is justified in that substantial provisions for
maintena-ce and replacement for machinery and equipment have been included under the recurrent
costs.
6.        The attached 3-page table summarises the cost and benefit data, shows net cost-benefit
streams and indicates the results of the two rate of return calculations.



Annex 14
Page 2 of 4
C. THE FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN (FIRR) CALCULATION
7.         The FIRR calculation for the Project follows the standard procedure of confronting
outflows, consisting of total Project costs and post-implementation recurrent expenditures, with
inflows consisting of revenues and, at the end of the Project's life, any residual or salvage value of
the investment. The resulting net cost-benefit flows, when discounted to zero, give the interest rate at
which outflows equal inflows.
8.         The results of the analysis for the base-case scenario show a FIRR of almost 10%, which
is quite satisfactorily, considering that this is an environmental protection project and that no increase
in tariffs or disposal fees is required to achieve this return.
9.         A sensitivity analysis has been carried out to test the robustness of the Project against
variations in costs and benefits; the results are summarised in the table below.
Table 1. FIRR Calculation
..................................................... REVENUE ...................
COSTS                Revenues- 15%           Base Case            Revenues + 15%
Investment +10%                    5.61%                  8.46%                 11.66%
Recurrent: costs + 10%             5.88%                  9.08%                 12.64%
Base Case                          6.84%                 9.92%                  13.38%
Revenues delayed t year            5.34%                  7.91%                 10.73%
10.       In the base-case scenario the delay in electricity revenues by one year has the biggest
impact on the FIRR, reducing it from 9.92% to 7.91% (-2.01%, equivalent to a drop of 20.3%). The
10% increase in costs, respectively of recurrent costs and investments, has a much smaller impact at
respectively -0.84% and -1.46%, equivalent to a reduction relative to the base-case of respectively
8.5% and 14.7 %.
11.        The worst scenario, a combination of electricity revenues delayed by one year and a 15%
drop in overall electricity sales, results in a reduction of the FIRR to only 5.34%. This may still
acceptable for an environmental project of this type, but an increase in disposal rates would then have
to be considered, so as to protect the company's cash flow. However, the probability of this event
occurring is considered to be low.



Annex 14
Page 3 of 4
12.       The best scenario is that of base-case costs and a 15% increase in electricity sales, an
event which is considered to have a reasonable probability; the FIRR in this case would be 13.38%.
D. THE NET PRESENT VALUE (NPV)
13.       The NPV is the present value of future cash flows from the Project, minus the initial
investments. It represents the contribution of an investment to the value of the firm and the NPV is
considered the primary decision making tool of financial management in the private sector. For this
reason its calculation has been included in the analysis.
14.       The cash flows and the investments have to be discounted; for an enterprise this discount
rate equals its required rate of retum, or the cost of its capital. For development projects the discount
rate normally used is the Opportunity Cost of Capital (OCC), which has been estimated at 10% for
Latvia.
15.       Applying this d.scounting procedure to the cost-benefit flows presented in the attached
tables shows a near break-even situation for the base-case. This indicates that at discount rate of 10%
the investment would yield a zero Net Worth (actually the NPV is -81).
16.       A sensitivity analysis similar to that carried out for the FIRR has also been applied for
the NPV; the results are summarised in the table below.
Table 2. NPV Calculation
I .REVENUES.
COSTS              Revenues-15%        Base Case           Revenues +15%
Investment +10%                  -4670               -1691                1884
Recurrent costs + 10%            -3878               -899                 2676
Base Case                       -3060                 -81                 3494
Revenues delayed I year          -5052               -2372                 448
17.       All the results in bold figures are above the OCC of 10%. These results for the NPV
confirn the FIRR findings, in that the scenario of base-case costs, coupled with a 15% increase in
electricity sales, would give the best return. The worst scenario would be the one-year delay in
electricity revenues, coupled with a 15% drop in electricity sales.
In the base case the NPV is at break-even, which means that the contribution to the company's Net
Worth would zero; all other scenarios of cost increases or a delay in electricity sales would result in a
negative NPV at the I0% discount. In this case, project implementation would result in a decrease of



Annex 14
Page 4 of 4
the company's Net Worth. A positive contribution to the company's Net Worth would materialise
only in the event electricity sales (or the sales price) would increase by 15%. The NPV for these four
cases would vary from US $0.45 million to US $3.49 million.
E. CONCLUSION
18.       The FIRR and the NPV analyses of the Project indicate both that in the base-case
scenario the Project would yield a satisfactory rate of return of 10%, which is good for this type of
environmental protection project, but below what could be expected from a nonnal industrial
investment.
19.       The sensitivity analysis, incorporating increases in costs and reductions in benefits,
indicates that the Project is particularly sensitive to a one-year delay in electricity revenues after the
initial investments have been made'. During the implementation particular care must therefore be
taken to prevent this occurrence from happening.
20.       An increase of investment costs by 10% would also have a strong negative impact on the
returns fiom the Project. This assumption is however less likely to be realised, as relatively high
physical contingencies have already been incorporated in the cost estimates.
21.       The 15% decrease of electricity sales, which would have a large negative impact on the
rates of return, is also considered of low probability.
22.       All in all, the set of returns calculated in the sensitivity analysis shows a range of results
from 13.38% in the best scenario (and a NPV of US $3.49m) to the worst scenario with a FIRR of
5.34% (and a negative NPV of US $5.05m). During the planning and implementation of the Project
particular emphasis must be placed on the timely execution of productive investments, so that
benefits could be realised without delay.
Of course, a delay in both investment and benefits would have a much smaller impact on the rates of return.



LAIVfA: Riga Solid Waste Management Project
Annex 14: Financial Retums of the Ploject
Financial Rate of Retum and NPV Calculation 125 years)
(at Lalvenergo purchase price for electricity)
Page 1
A - Capbtal investments, in '000 USD
YEAR        Environ Remediation    Tech & Ops Improvements     Gas Gen & Energy Prod      Managerial Impreovements  TOTAL INVESTMENT      Electricity price assumptions
base cost  inci all cont  base cost   incl all cont  base cost    incl all cont    base cost    inci all cont   base cost only phys cont
a) import pricelkWh   0.035889
1998             138        141         333           339           154          157           201           210         826         830 b) Latvenergo price    0.048148
1999           2709        3242        3905          4520          2759         3010           347          373         9720       10290
2000             231        273        1745          2124          1980         2315           388           442        4344        4577
2001             193        240         594           766          1555         1901           206           249        2548        2663
2002             195        253         746          1022          1693         2147           210           266        2544        2981
Totals          3466        4149       7323          8771           8141        9530           1352         1540       20282        21341 incl1059ofphvsical
contingencies only
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS             20282       21341 excl interest during construction
B - Recurrent expenditures, in '000 USD                                                                C - Benefits, in 000 USD
electricity output  incremental   value  electricity  production
o & m        staff    energy cells             totals(2+3+4)             GWh per year  waste selection  base - 15%   base case   base + 15%
1998         0           0           0                          0       (recurrentcost     0                   0           0           0                0
1999        380          53          0                        ((433))   incl. phys cont,   0                   0           0           0                0
2000        1040         79          0                        ((1119))   capita/ised      36.53              100        1759        2023             2339
2001        1099         79          0                        ((1178))   from 1997 to     50.49              150        2431        2796             3233
2002        1154         79          0                        ((1233))   2001)            58.23              200        2804        3224             3729
2003            1154         79         764                         1997                  62.63              200        3015        3468             4010
2004            1154         79         593                         1826                  65.17              200        3138        3608             4173
2005            1154         79         220                         1453                  66.64              200        3209        3690             4267
2006            1154         79         220                         1453                  64.57              200        3109        3575             4135
2007            1154         79         220                         1453                  62.75              200        3021        3474             4018
2008            1154         79         220                         1453                  61.16              200        2945        3386             3916
2009            1154         79         220                         1453                  59.75              200        2877        3308             3826
2010            1154         79         220                         1453                  58.51              200        2817        3240             3747
2011            1154         79         220                         1453                  57.41              200        2764        3179             3677
2012            1154         79         220                         1453                  56.44              200        2717        3125             3614
2013            1154         79         220                         1453                  55.57              200        2675        3077             3558
2014            1154         79         220                         1453                  54.79              200        2638        3034             3508
2015            1154         79         220                         1453                  54.09              200        2604        2995             3464
2016            1154         79         220                         1453                  53.46              200        2574        2960             3424
2017            1154         79         220                         1453                  52.90              200        2547        2929             3388
2018            1154         79         220                         1453                  52.39              200        2522        2901             3355
2019            1154         79         220                         1453                  51.93              200        2500        2875             3325
2020            1154         79         220                         1453                  46.28              200        2228        2563             2964
2021            1154         79         220                         1453                  46.28              200        2228        2563             2964
2022            1154         79         220                         1453                  46.28              200        2228        2563             2964
2022    RESIDUAL VALUE of the ORIGINAL INVESTMENT, assumed at 15% of investment incl. physical contingencies            3201        3201             3201



LATVIA: Rigs Solid Waste Marogement Projet
AMex 14: Financial Returies of the Project
Financial Rate of Retum and NPV Calculation (25 years)
Page 2
D - Rate of Retum Calculation, base case
TOTAL INVESTMENT                  Recurnent Costs                  GROSS BENEFITS                                NET COSTS   & BENEFITS  STREAM
base cost phys cont only
base - 15%    base case    base + 15%             base - 15%     base case     base + 15%
1998         826        830                 ((O))    recunrent               0             0            0                    -830            -830           -830
1999        9720      10290                ((433))   costs                   0             0            0                  -10290          -10290        -10290
2000        4344       4577                ((1119))   capitalsed          1859          2123         2439                   -2718           -2454          -2138
2001        2548       2663               ((1178))   durng years          2581          2946         3383                      -82            283           720
2002        2844       2981       21341   ((1233))   1998-2001            3004          3424         3929                      23             443           948
2003  ((20282))   ((21341))   ((total))         1997                      3215          3668         4210                    1219            1671          2214
2004                                            1826                      3338          3808         4373                    1511            1982          2547
2005                                            1453                      3409          3890         4467                    1956            2437          3014
2006                                            1453                      3309          3775         4335                    1856            2322          2882
2007                                            1453                      3221          3674         4218                    1768            2221          2765
2008                                            1453                      3145          3586         4116                    1692            2133          2663
2009                                            1453                      3077          3508         4026                    1624            2055          2573
2010                                            1453                      3017          3440         3947                    1564            1987          2494
2011                                            1453                      2964          3379         3877                    1511            1926          2424
2012                                            1453                      2917          3325         3814                    1464            1872          2361
2013                                            1453                      2875          3277         3758                    1422            1824          2305
2014                                            1453                      2838          3234         3708                    1385            1781          2255
2015                                            1453                      2804          3195         3664                    1351            1742          2211
2016                                            1453                      2774          3160         3624                    1321            1707          2171
2017                                            1453                      2747          3129         3588                    1294            1676          2135
2018                                            1453                      2722          3101         3555                    1269            1648          2102
2019                                            1453                      2700          3075         3525                    1247            1622          2072
2020                                            1453                      2428          2763         3164                     975            1310          1711
2021                                            1453                      2428          2763         3164                     975            1310          1711
2022                                            1453                      2428          2763         3164                     975            1310          1711
2023 Residual value taken as 15% of the investment, including physical contingencie  3201  3201      3201                    3201            3201          3201
Note: base minus 15% is te                IRR        6.84%         9.92%          13.38%
1.00 case cakulatedbyAH
NPV (10%)    .3060           41            3494



LATVIA: Rigs Solid Waste Management Project
Anna 14: Finanial Returs of tle Project
Financial Rate of Return and NPV Calculation (25 years)
Page 3
E - Sensitivity Analysis    i) all investments 10% higher
i) Investments Plus 10%                       il) Recurrent costs plus 10%           iii) Electricity sales delayed one year
Net   Costs   Benefits              Net    Costs    Benefits                Net    Costs    Benefits
base - 15%   base case  base + 15%   base - 15%  base case    base + 15%    base - 15%b    base case   base + 15%
1998           -913        -913       -913         -830           -830        -830         -830         -830        -830
1999         -11319      -11319     -11319       -10290         -10290      -10290        -10290      -10290       -10290
2000          -3176       -2912      -2595         -2718         -2454       -2138         -4477       -4477        -4477
2001           -348          16        454          -82            283         720          -754        -490        -754
2002           -275         145        650           23            443         948          -350          15         452
2003           1219        1671       2214         1019           1471        2014          1007        1428        1932
2004           1511        1982       2547         1329           1800        2364          1389        1841        2384
2005           1956       2437        3014         1810           2292        2869          1885        2355        2920
2006           1856        2322       2882         1710           2177        2736          1956        2437        3014
2007           1768       2221        2765         1623           2076        2620          1856        2322        2882
2008           1692       2133        2663         1546           1988        2518          1768        2221        2765
2009           1624       2055        2573         1479           1910        2428          1692        2133        2663
2010           1564        1987       2494         1419           1842        2349          1624        2055        2573
2011           1511        1926       2424         1366           1781        2278          1564        1987        2494
2012           1464        1872       2361         1319           1727        2216          1511        1926        2424
2013           1422        1824       2305         1277           1678        2160          1464        1872        2361
2014           1385        1781       2255         1240           1635        2110          1422         1824       2305
2015           1351        1742       2211         1206           1597        2066          1385         1781       2255
2016           1321        1707       2171         1176           1562        2025          1351         1742       2211
2017           1294        1676       2135         11-49          1531        1989          1321        1707        2171
2018           1269        1648       2102         1124           1502        1957          1294         1676       2135
2019           1247        1622       2072         1102           1477        1927          1269         1648       2102
2020            975        1310       1711          830           1164        1566          1247         1622       2072
2021            975        1310       1711          830           1164        1566           975         1310       1711
2022            975        1310       1711          830           1164        1566           975         1310       1711
2023           3521       3521        3521         3201           3201        3201         3201         3201        3201 Residual value, 15% of investment,
including physical contingencies only.
IRR       5.61%       8.46%      11.66%       6.88%         9.08%        12.64%       5.34%         7.91%       10.37%
NPV(10%)    -4670        -1691       1884        -3878         -899         2676         -6052        -2372         448






7 t   > _   FINLAN , ,      This matp -s prodecdri                      24by                                                                         27
SW,E~N~   <                   0 ctodc           the Map Design Ueit of A
WorkdR8tk. The bo-ala,-'                                                                                     LATVIA
Baltic    ESTONIA ('   ony otherineformationsho-                                             MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
-'         50~~~this .o do not' otI
ESTONIA           ~~~~he por, ol The Worl Rok    j. /
srt                          RUSSIAN      Group, any judmset on the
IY                    FED.        h9oI sts of any tnertory,                                                               GETLINI DISPOSAL SITE                   MAIN ROADS
or any endorsement or
/      - 1Ro9Q       5              Lacc,eptance of such                                                                0  SELECTED CITIES                -         RAILROADS
|  LATVIA                    ho.-doniee,                                                                         *  NATIONAL CAPITAL            ~     -     RIVERS
PORTS                        -*-*  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
o       L IITHUANIA  (                                                        Kihnuf)           /               T0 Lel
RUSSIAN  )         r                                                                              To   Lelle                         S      t8>
BELARUS       580                                                     /                                                0 
POLAND                  ,--.                                  Ru2 nu                                            RLjien                   To Tartu      'I   /
Saart'                                    - i_
21                                                  a  \                                       Aloia                                                                    e -13t<t
*j   ;   =:<   \             ;'  ' '\;  fS            \\                t~~~~~~ ~~~             ~      ~       ~     ~~~~~~~ze,s   Strenc{'>r 
/ t > > , | gmbazi Xalmiera ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ' > ~~~~9 R U S S I A N
Ventspiis,                  A<                                                                                                                   0  ,       ,,AtJsne9   _      F E D.
N2  J~~~~~~~~~~~~~jrkQIne'> ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~n
Skrundo                 aidr '                                                                                                            Lullrns             K *rsova   j
/ fit               S                          Sg~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OvaZ  |S \            krive-ri         <  -EesX                                        /i 
Liep;  Dob                                                                                                                             P  avinas
Liep~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                      6:1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1,>u~~~~~~~~dza
]   ;A1  ;   =           oM* s=                                /             _   A         k                    X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~leo    a   pi;                          X 
56                                       T K laipeda  M                                                                                                    0ffi                                                S
\ ~~~~~L    I  T    H                                     U    A     N     I  A T aeuei 
\        IYaugovpils,. is
.0            20       40      60       80       1 00 KILOMETERS                                                                        _tJa                                                a     iT
I                                                                        t i                                                                                                          z    c
20    30      40    50                                                                                            TO                          BELARUS                         co
211                                                                               24                                                                                 27'                                     oo
tI 



