Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF020124 RELATED TO LOAN NUMBER 4286 LV
Global Environment Facility Trust Fund Grant Agreement
(Municipal Solid Waste Management Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF LATVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility
Dated April 30, 1998
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF020124 RELATED TO LOAN NUMBER 4286 LV
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 30, 1998, between REPUBLIC OF LATVIA (the Recipient) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as an 
implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) in respect of grant funds 
provided to the GEF Trust Fund by certain members of the Bank as participants of the 
GEF.
WHEREAS (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91\1e5 of March 14, 1991, of the 
Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to assist in the protection of 
the global environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable 
economic development;
(B)
following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements are continued 
in place on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94\1e2 of May 24, 1994, of the 
Executive Directors of the Bank establishing the GEF Trust Fund;
(C)
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as the feasibility and priority of 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested assistance from 
the resources of the GEF Trust Fund in the financing of the Project, and the Bank has 
determined that such assistance would be in accordance with the provisions of 
Resolution No. 94-2 referred to above;
(D)
by the agreement of even date herewith (the Loan Agreement), the Bank, 
acting in its own capacity, has agreed to make a loan (the Loan) to the Recipient in 
the amount of seven million nine hundred fifty thousand United States Dollars 
(US$7,950,000) to assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set 
forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement;
(E)
the Borrower intends to contract from the Swedish International 
Development Agency (SIDA) a grant (the SIDA Grant) in an amount equivalent to 
$1,500,000 to assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in 
an agreement (the SIDA Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and 
Page  2
SIDA;
(F)
the Project will be carried out by the Riga City Council (RCC) and 
Getlini Eco Ltd., (GLE) a limited liability company established by RCC, as a majority 
owner, in partnership with Stopinu Pagast Council (a municipal council of the 
Borrower) and the Recipient, to own and manage the GLE Facility (as such terms is 
defined in the Loan Agreement);
(G)
the Project will be carried out with the Recipient’s assistance and, as 
part of such assistance, the Recipient will make the proceed of the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant available to GLE as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the GEF Trust Fund Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the 
Bank and RCC and GLE;
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the 
modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (15), 
(18) and (20), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i) and (k), 6.03, 
6.04 and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04;
(x)
Article XI; and
(xi)
Sections 12.01 (c), 12.03 and 12.04.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
a new paragraph shall be added to the end of Section 2.01 to read 
as follows: "the term "Special Drawing Rights" and the symbol 
"SDR" mean special drawing rights as valued by the International 
Monetary Fund in accordance with its Articles of Agreement";
(ii)
the term "Bank", wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of 
such term in Section 5.01 thereof, means the Bank acting as an 
implementing agency of the GEF, except that in Section 6.02, the 
term "Bank" shall also include the Bank acting in its own 
capacity;
(iii)
the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient;
(iv)
the term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
Page  3
(v)
the term "Loan" and "loan", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant;
(vi)
the term "Loan Account", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account;
(vii)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the 
United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United 
Nations.";
(viii)a new subparagraph is added after subparagraph (j) in Section 6.02 
of the General Conditions, as follows: "an extraordinary situation 
shall have arisen in which any further disbursement under the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant would exceed the resources available for 
disbursement from the GEF."; and
(ix)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
"Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of the 
Recipient to make withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account shall have 
been suspended with respect to any amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant for a 
continuous period of thirty days, or (b) at any time, the Bank determines, 
after consultation with the Recipient, that an amount of the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant will not be required to finance the Project’s costs to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, or (c) at any time, the Bank 
determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in 
by 
representatives of the Recipient or of a beneficiary of the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant 
during the procurement or the execution of such contract, without the 
Recipient having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank 
to 
remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect 
of 
such contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of 
the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, or (d) at any time, the Bank 
determines that the procurement of any contract to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant is inconsistent with the procedures set 
forth or referred to in the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement and establishes the 
amount 
of expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise have 
been eligible 
for financing out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, 
or (e) after 
the Closing Date, an amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall 
remain 
unwithdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement, the Bank may, by 
notice 
to the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals with respect to such amount.  Upon the giving of such notice, such 
amount 
of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be canceled."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions, in the Recitals to this 
Agreement and in the Loan Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and 
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"GEF Financing Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section 
3.01(b) of this Agreement; and
(b)
"GEF Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The GEF Trust Fund Grant
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GEF Trust Fund Grant in 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to three million eight-hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 3,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant may be withdrawn from 
Page  4
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for carrying out the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant.
(b)
The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set off, seizure or 
attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later 
date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, 
shall cause RCC and GLE to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project 
Agreement all the obligations of RCC and GLE therein set forth, shall take or cause to 
be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other 
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable RCC and GLE to perform such obligations, 
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere 
with such performance.
(b)
The Recipient shall make the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
available to GLE in the form of equity under an agreement (the GEF Financing 
Agreement) to be entered into between the Recipient and GLE on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 
to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Recipient and the Bank hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Section 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively shall be carried out by RCC 
and GLE pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Conditions
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause GLE to maintain records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the GEF Trust Fund Grant.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient 
Page  5
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting 
such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
The Recipient shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under 
the Loan Agreement.
(b)
RCC or GLE shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(c)
The SIDA Grant Agreement shall have failed to become effective by 
September 30, 1998, or such later date as the Bank may agree; provided, however, that 
the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Recipient establishes to the 
satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds for the Project are available to the 
Recipient from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations 
of the Recipient under this Agreement.
(d)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph the right of the 
Recipient to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan or the SIDA Grant. 
Grant have been suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in 
part, pursuant to the terms of the Loan Agreement or the SIDA 
Grant Agreement respectively.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Recipient establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) 
such suspension, cancellation, or termination is not caused by the 
failure of the Recipient to perform any of its obligations under 
such Agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Recipient from other sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Recipient under 
this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice 
thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Recipient; and
(b)
the event specified in paragraph (d) (i) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (d) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as an additional condition to 
Page  6
the effectiveness of the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement within the meaning of Section 
12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely that the Loan Agreement has been executed 
and delivered and all conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the 
Recipient to make withdrawals thereunder, except only the effectiveness of this GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement, have been fulfilled.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their 
obligations hereunder.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Ministry of Finance 
1 Smilsu Street Riga, 
LV-1919 
Republic of Latvia
Telex:
161 323 NAUDA LV
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) 
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Riga, Republic of Latvia, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF LATVIA
By /s/ R. Zile
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT acting
as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment 
Facility
By /s/ Lars Jeurling 
Page  7
Acting Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category:
Amount of the
GEF Trust Fund Grant Allocated
    % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
     to be Financed
(1)
Works
1,200,000
100% of foreign
expenditures, and
82% of local
expenditures
(2)  Goods
2,600,000  
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local 
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 80% of local
expenditures for
other items
procured locally
TOTAL
3,800,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Recipient; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account to be 
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for 
goods or works not exceeding $300,000 equivalent, and under such terms and conditions 
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient.
5.
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the 
provisions of this Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund to the Bank for deposit into the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, an amount equal 
to the amount so used or the portion thereof as specified by the Bank.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to improve management of solid waste through 
measures which would improve environmental quality, contain contamination of ground 
water and create new financial arrangements for recovery of the cost of solid waste 
service.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modification 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Landfill
Page  8
(1)
Carrying out of such remedial measures on the GLE site as required to meet 
environmental standards with regard to leachate treatment and avoidance of 
contamination of groundwater.
(2)
Implementation of measures designed to improve the sanitary standards and 
separation of recyclable materials at the GLE landfill.
Part B:
Electricity Generation
Establishment of energy cells for enhanced degradation of easily biodegradable 
waste, collection of waste and generation of electricity.
Part C:
Technical 
Provision of technical assistance to improve the operation and management of 
GLE.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $300,000 
to be withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient 
shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Bank from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents 
Page  9
and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated 
to the eligible Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated to the eligible Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this 
Agreement, including the General Conditions.
