Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4286 LV RELATED TO GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF020124
Project Agreement
(Municipal Solid Waste Management Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT IN ITS OWN CAPACITY AND AS 
IMPLEMENTING AGENCY OF THE  GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
and
RIGA CITY COUNCIL
and 
GEtlini ECO Ltd
Dated April 30, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4286 LV RELATED TO GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF020124 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated April 30, 1998, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and RIGA CITY COUNCIL (RCC) and GETLINI ECO LTD (GLE).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Republic of 
Latvia (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to seven million nine hundred 
fifty thousand Dollars ($7,950,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan 
Agreement, but only on condition that RCC and GLE agree to undertake such obligations 
toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by the agreement of even date herewith (the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Agreement), the Bank, acting as the implementing agency of the Global Environment 
Facility (GEF) has agreed to make a grant (the GEF Trust Fund Grant) to the Borrower 
in the amount of three million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
3,800,000) to assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement;
(C)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and RCC, the proceeds of the Loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be relent 
to RCC, on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; 
(D)
RCC will further relend the proceeds of the Loan onlent to it under the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement to GLE under a Financing Agreement to be entered into 
between RCC and GLE;
(E)
the Borrower will make proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant available to 
GLE for purposes of the Project in the form of equity; and
WHEREAS RCC and GLE in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Loan 
Agreement and the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to 
undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings 
therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) RCC and GLE declare their commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to each of the Loan Agreement and the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Agreement, and, to this end, shall jointly carry out the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
engineering and public utility practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank, RCC and GLE shall otherwise agree, RCC and GLE shall carry out 
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan or the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. RCC and GLE shall conclude the RCC Financing Agreement under terms 
and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank, including provisions 
whereby:
(a)
RCC shall further onlent the amount of the Loan lent to it under the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement to GLE on terms and conditions identical to those set forth 
in the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(b)
RCC shall provide from its own resources to GLE: (i) a loan in an amount 
equivalent to about $5,400,000, to be disbursed as and when needed to meet 
expenditures under the Project, and to be repaid by GLE, with no interest, over a 
period of seventeen (17) years, including a grace period of five (5) years; and (ii) 
an equity contribution in an amount equivalent to about $600,000; and
(c)
GLE shall contribute from its own resources an amount equivalent to about 
$4,640,000 towards the financing of the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) RCC or GLE, as appropriate, shall carry out the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project 
Agreement.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, RCC, in conjunction with GLE, shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) month after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between 
the Bank and RCC, a plan for the future operation of the Project; 
and
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
RCC on said plan.
Section 2.05. RCC and GLE shall duly perform all their respective obligations 
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the RCC Financing Agreement and the GEF Financing 
Agreement.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, RCC or GLE shall not take or 
Page  3
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or 
waiving any such Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.06. (a) RCC and GLE shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views 
with the Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of their 
respective obligations under this Agreement, the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or the RCC 
Financing Agreement and the GEF Financing Agreement and other matters relating to the 
purposes of the Loan or the GEF Trust Fund Grant.
(b)
RCC and GLE shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by RCC or GLE of their 
respective obligations under this Agreement, the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the RCC 
Financing Agreement and the GEF Financing Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of GLE 
Section 3.01. GLE shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound engineering, administrative, financial and environmental 
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by 
competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. Until the completion of the Project, RCC, as the majority owner of 
GLE, shall obtain the Bank’s prior approval to any action which would: (a) materially 
affect the ownership or managerial structure of GLE or its capacity to manage the GLE 
Facility, or (b) materially affect GLE’s ability to meet the financial targets set 
forth in the Business Plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) RCC and GLE, acting through the PPU, shall maintain records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project.
(b)
RCC and GLE shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, including those for the Special Account, for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) GLE shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b) GLE 
shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so 
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
Page  4
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records, accounts and financial statements and the audit thereof 
as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of RCC and GLE 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement and the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Agreement shall both have been terminated in accordance with their terms, 
and the Bank shall promptly notify RCC and GLE thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For RCC:
KR Valdemara Street 3
Riga Lv-1539
Latvia
Cable address: 
Telex:
Riga City Council
161122 RIKAS SU
Facsimile:
7026383
For GLE:
Basteja Bld. 1
Riga Lv-1050
Latvia
Cable address: 
Telex:
GLE
7026386
RIGA
Page  5
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of RCC may be 
taken or executed by the Mayor of Riga or such other person or persons as the Mayor 
shall designate in writing, and RCC shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of 
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed under this Agreement on behalf of GLE may be 
taken or executed by the Managing Director of GLE or such other person or persons as 
the Managing Director shall designate in writing, and GLE shall furnish to the Bank 
sufficient evidence of such authority and authenticated specimen signatures of each 
such person.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. \0c IN WITNESS 
WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized representatives, 
have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Riga, Republic of 
Latvia, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT IN ITS OWN CAPACITY  
AND AS IMPLEMENTING AGENCY OF 
THE GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY 
By /s/ Lars Jeurling 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia
RIGA CITY COUNCIL
By /s/ M. Purgailis 
Authorized Representative
GETLINI ECO LTD
By /s/ J. Zaloksnis 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
Page  6
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Contracts for (a) works estimated to cost the equivalent of not more than 
$2,100,000 in the aggregate, and (b) supply of sand and clay estimated to cost in the 
aggregate the equivalent of not more than $1,600,000 may be awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International or National Shopping
(a)
Goods estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract and 
not more than $400,000 equivalent in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract and not 
more than $100,000 equivalent in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to: (i) each contract to be awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Part B of this Schedule; (ii) the first two contracts to be awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Part C.1 of this Schedule; and (iii) the first 
contract to be awarded in accordance with the provisions of Part C.2(a) of this 
Schedule, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
2.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where 
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard 
forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts, shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each, or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to (a) the terms 
of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank, (d) amendments 
to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to 
$100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
Part A:
Project Implementation
1.
RCC shall maintain the PSC until the completion of the Project under terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Bank and with representatives from RCC, GLE, the City 
Council of Stopinu Pagast, and the Borrower’s Ministries of Economy, Environmental 
Protection and Regional Development, and Finance.
2.
The PSC shall be responsible for: (a) coordination of Project financing; (b) 
Page  7
facilitating action required for Project implementation at the Policy level; and (c) 
monitoring project implementation.
3.
Until the completion of the Project, RCC shall ensure the inclusion in its draft 
annual budgets of allocations adequate to cover the estimated expenditures for 
operation of the PSC.
4.
RCC shall, in conjunction with GLE, maintain the PPU with such structure and 
under such terms of reference as shall be agreed upon with the Bank.  The PPU shall be 
responsible for: (a) preparation of bidding documents and administration of bidding 
procedures and of contracts under the Project; (b) preparation of disbursement 
applications under the Loan and the GEF Trust Fund Grant; (c) management of the 
Special account referred to in Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement and the GEF Special 
Account referred to in Schedule 3 to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement; (d) 
maintenance of records and accounts related to the Project, and arranging for the 
audit thereof; and (e) preparation of the progress reports referred to in Part D of 
this Schedule and the submission thereof to the Borrower, PSC and the Bank.
Part B:
Arrangements with GLE
GLE shall assign the responsibilities for the management and operation of the 
landfill included in the GLE Facility to an Operator (the Operator) under a management 
contract to be concluded not later than June 30, 1998, under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including provisions specifying:
(a)
the levels of the fees to be paid to the Operator for receiving and 
processing waste; 
(b) 
the undertakings of the Operator with respect to the standards of 
services and the maintenance of landfill operation equipment and other facilities; 
(c)
the technical standards to be adopted by the Operator to ensure that 
operation of the landfill shall be environmentally sound at all times;
(d)
the scope and frequency of reporting to be made by the Operator to GLE 
with respect to the operation of the landfill and the financial position of the 
Operator; and
(e)
the content of and implementation arrangements for the technical 
assistance to be provided to the Operator under Part C of the Project.
Part C:
Power Purchase Agreement
In order to ensure commercial utilization of electricity to be generated from 
the energy cells referred to Part B of the Project, GLE shall enter into an agreement, 
on terms satisfactory to the Bank (the Power Purchase Agreement), with Latvenergo, a 
power company of the Borrower, for purchase of such power by said company; such terms 
shall include, inter alia, provisions with regard to: (i) the mechanism for 
determination of electricity purchase price to be paid by Latvenergo; (ii) the 
arrangements for operation, maintenance and insurance of the electricity facilities; 
and (iii) the duration of the Power Purchase Agreement.
Part D:
Reporting
RCC and GLE shall prepare, through PPU, and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank 
quarterly reports on the status of the Project, including information with respect to: 
(i) progress in Project implementation, measured against the indicators referred to in 
Part E (1) of this Schedule; (ii) expenditures incurred in connection with the 
Project; and (iii) the work Schedule for activities to be carried out under the 
Project during the six-month period following each such report.
Part E:
Monitoring of Project Progress
RCC shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; and
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Borrower and the Bank, on or about June 30, 2000, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
Page  8
(a) of this Section, on (i) the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and (ii) review with the 
Bank, by August 31, 2000, or such later date as the Bank shall request, the report 
referred to in paragraph (b) above and, thereafter, take all measures required to 
ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the 
Bank’s views on the matter.
