Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4039-BHU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
KINGDOXt OF BELTAZ
FOR A
w
CALCIUM CARBIDE PROJECT
April 25, 1985
This docment has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Ngultrum (Nu) 1.0 = US$0.083
Nu 13              = US$1.0
Nu 1,000,000       = US$83,333
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Metric Ton (ton) =  1,000 Kilograms (kg)
= 2,204.6 Pounds (lb)
1 Kilometer (km)   =  0.62 Miles
1 Hectare (ha)      =  2.47 Acres
1 Cubic Meter tm3) =  35.32 Cubic Feet (cf)
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADB              -   Asian Development Bank
BCC             -   Bhutan Carbide and Chemicals Co. Ltd.
DCM             -   Delhi Cloth Mills
Kuwait Fund     -   Kuwait Fund for Economic Development
KV              -   KiLovolt
MECON           -   Metallurgical and Engincering Consultants, India
MVA             -   Megavolt Amperes
MW              -   Megawatt
SPES            -   Shriram Projects and Engineering Services, India
TCC             -   Tashi Commercial Corporation
tph, tpd, tpy   -   Metric Ton Per Hour, Per Day, Per Year
UNDP            -   United Nations Development Programme
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BHUTAN
CALCIUM CARBIDE PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AND PROJ'RCT SUMMARY
Borrower:               The Kingdom of Bhutan
Beneficiary:            Bhutan Carbide and Chemicals Co. Ltd. (BCC)
(a Joint Venture Enterprise)
Amount:                 Special Drawing Rights (SDR) 9.4 million
(US$9.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                  Standard
Relending Terms:        The Government will relend the Credit to BCC for a
term of fourteen years, including a grace period of
four years and interest at 10.25X per annum. BCC
will bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project Objectives      Bhutan is endowed with large-scale deposits of
and Description:       commercially exploitable limestone, dense and
maturing forests that can provide wood for charcoal
for use as a reductant, and substantial hydroelectric
power potential which is beginning to be exploited.
The project aims at utilizing these basic inputs for
production of calcium carbide, mainly for export,
to help Bhutan earn much-needed foreign exchange
revenues for its economic development. The project
would augment the country's limited industrial base,
increase financial self-reliance and help train
manpower in industrial production, mining and
forestry. The project, with a capacity to produce
22,000 tons per year of calcium carbide, would be
located at Pasakha in Southern Bhutan.  The project
would include: (i) a calcium carbid2 plant; (ii)
limestone mining; (iii) forestry; and (iv) charcoal
plants. In addition, the project provides for
necessary infrastructure, technical assistance and
training.
Risks:                  The successful operation of many similar carbide
plants in India indicates that there would be no
inordinate technical risks. However, there could be
potential risks due to the need for considerable
coordination in project execution, Lack of trained
manpower, delays in start-up and commissioning,
difficulties in sustaining high capacity utilization,
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipienfs only in the performance
of their omcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discuad without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
and problems in marketing calcium carbide. To
address these risks, the Government would establish
an Inter-Ministerial Committee for overall project
coordination and implementation of infrastructure and
upstream facilities. Under the project, foreign
consultants and technical advisory services (until
two years after project completion) would be engaged.
Suitable and experienced personnel would be recruited
from neighboring countries and counterpart staff
given training locally and abroad. Technical
performance guarantees would be obtained from the
contractors and implementation supervised by
experienced consultants. Bhutan's long-term sales
arrangements, already concluded with Indian
companies, would reduce marketing risks.
Estimated Project Cost:                               US$ Killion Equivalent
Local  Foreign   Total
Calcium Carbide Plant          1.47   10.56    12.03
Limestone Kining              0.01    0.62      0.63
Charcoal Plants               0.12    0.90      1.02
Forestry                      0.31    1.43      1.74
Total                     1.91   13.51    15.42
Contingencies:  Physical      0.19    1.35      1.54
Price         0.28    2.70      2.98
Working Capital               0.54    1.60      2.14
Total Project Costs           2.92   19.16    22.08
Interest During Construction  1.41    0.45      1.86
Total Project Financing   4.33   19.61    23.94
.
Financing Plan:                                       US$ Killion Equivalent
Local  Foreign   Total
IDA                            -       9.0      9.0
Kuwait Fund                    -       6.6      6.6
Government of Norway           -       3.9      3.9
Covernment of Bhutan           1.6      -       1.6
Tashi Commercial Corporation  1.4       -       1.4
Internal Generation           1.3      0.1      1.4
4.3    19.6     23.9



Estimated                                          (USs Million Equivalent)
Disbursements:         IDA FY                FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90
Annual               1.1    2.5    2.8    1.7    0.9
Cumulative           1.1    3.6    6.4    8.1    9.0
Economic Rate
of Return:             20.7Z
Staff Appraisal
Report:                Report No. 5430-BHU dated April 18, 1985
Map:                      IBRD 18520



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE KINGDOM OF BHUTAN
FOR A CALCIUM CAiBIDE PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Credit
to the Kingdom of Bhutan for Special Drawing Rights (SDR) 9.4 million (US$9.0
million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a Calcium Carbide
Project. The proposed Credit will be onlent to BCC for a term of 14 years,
including four years of grace and interest at 10.25% per annum. The sub-
sidiary loan will be denominated in US dollars and BCC will bear the foreign
exchange risk. The Kuwait Fund for Economic Development (Kuwait Fund) would
lend Kuwait Dinars 2 million (US$6.6 million equivalent) to the Government of
Bhutan which would onlend it to Bhutan Carbide and Chemicals Co. Ltd. (BCC)
for a term of 14 years, including four years grace, and interest at 8% per
annum. The Government of Norway would provide a grant of Kroner 35 million
(US$3.9 million equivalent) which will be passed on to BCC as government
equity.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.      The first economic report entitled, "Bhutan:  Development in a
Himalayan Kingdom" (Report No. 4307-BHU, dated April 7, 1983), was dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors on April 21, 1983. Part I has been
updated by the findings of a mission in November 1984. Country data are
shown in Annex I.
Country Background
3.      Bhutan is a small and landlocked Buddhist kingdom in the eastern
Himalayas. It has an area of about 46,500 square kilometers and is bordered
by the Tibet region of China and the Indian states of Sikkim, West Bengal,
Assam, and Arunachal Pradesh. The border with China follows for the most
part the main ridge of the Himalayas. The border with India was negotiated
in a series of treaties with the United Kingdom in the nineteenth century; it
mostly follows the southern foothills of the Himalayas, which rise abruptly
from the Brahmaputra plains. Bhutan's relatively remote location, rugged
terrain, and formidable-natural borders, coupled with a strong sense of
independence, allowed the country to remain in isolation until about 1960.
4.      Bhutan' s terrain is among the most rugged in the world.  Within fewer
than 100 km, land rises from an altitude of less than 160 m above sea level



-2-
in the south to more than 7,000 m above sea level to the north, and is
characterized in between by steadily rising hills cut by deep river valleys.
The climate is correspondingly extreme, ranging from sub-tropical conditions
in the southern foothills to the perpetual ice and snow of the high
Himalayas. Most of the population lives between altitudes of about 1,000 to
3,000 m, in the hills of the so-called "inner Himalayas," with its generally
temperate climate and number of relatively broad river valleys.  These
valleys, along with some sections of flatland below the southern foothills,
account for most of the readily cultivable land in Bhutan. Only about 5Z of
the land is cultivated or inhabited, while about half of Bhutan remains under
natural forest cover. Most of the remaining land is seasonal grazing land or
under perpetual snow.
5.      Prior to 1907, Bhutan was a theocracy with full power, in principle,
vested in the Shabdung, the head lama. Over time, the power of the Shabdung
and monastic establishment over secular matters declined, and there was
constant turmoil as governors of various regions competed for power. In
1907, a governor of sufficient strength emerged to unify the country under a
hereditary monarchy. The present king, His Majesty Jigme Singye Wangchuck,
is the fourth monarch.
6.      The first two monarchs concentrated on centralizing authority around
the monarchy, but the third monarch favored Bhutan's evoLution into a con-
stitutional monarchy. In 1953, the National Assembly was formed. It has
a Speaker, 100 representatives of the people, 10 representatives of the
monastic establishment, and some 40 government officials appointed by the
King. A Cabinet and the first government ministries were established in
1968. Today, the government has six Ministries -- finance; home; foreign;
trade, industry, and forests; communications and tourism; and development.
For internal administration, Bhutan is divided into 18 districts, with gover-
nors of each district being appointed by the King and reporting to the
Ministry of Home Affairs. Although its power has declined, the monastic
establishment continues to play an important role, and religion continues to
be one of the strongest forces of national unity.
7.      In 1949, following the departure of the United Kingdom from the
sub-continent, Bhutan signed a treaty with India confirming non-interference
in Bhutan's internal affairs, and Bhutan's agreement to be guided by India's
advice in the conduct of external affairs. Until the late 1950s, Bhutan's
principal ries had been with Tibet, because of a common religious heritage
and trade links -- foodgrains from Bhutan being exchanged for wool and salt
from Tibet. In 1959, Bhutan began accepting Indian offers of economic assis-
tance and started building its first road link from the Indian border to Paro
and Thimphu. Since then, Bhutan's relations with India have been close, and
almost all the developmental effort to date has been financed with Indian
grant aid. Bhutan has been gradually expanding its international ties --
between 1962 and 1971, it joined the Colombo Plan, the Universal Postal
Union, and the United Nations. During 1981-82, Bhutan joined the
International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank
(ADB). Bhutan also has full diplomatic relations with Bangladesh.
8.      3hutan is well-endowed with natural resources. namely dense forests,
hydro-power and minerals deposits for which there are ready markecs in neigh-
boring countries. Limestone and dolomite constitute the largest known



-3-
mineral deposits, and reserves of various grades are estimated at 28 billion
tons. Hydro-power potential is estimated at up to 20,000 MW. Present hydro-
power capacity of only 3 MW is expected to increase sharply when the 336 MW
hydro-power project at Chukha in western Bhutan is completed during 1985-86.
In forestry, current extraction is only a small fraction of the annual forest
increment, wnile some of the forest is beginning to decay because of overage.
*          There is, thus, great potential for forest-based exports from Bhutan.  Major
constraints to the exploitation of Bhutan's natural resources are limited
revenues and the serious lack of infrastructure and trained manpower.
Economic Background
9.      Given Bhutan's long isolation, it is not surprising that the economy
is at a very early stage of development, and that much basic economic and
demographic information is still unavailable. The government is aware of
these gaps and has recently undertaken several major statistical efforts,
including two agricultural surveys, nutrition surveys, and a livestock
census. The Planning Commission has recently prepared a set of national
accounts estimates (1980/81). A population census is also underway. At
present, the popuLation is officially estimated at 1.2 million and the
population growth rate at 2% per annum.
10.     Bhutan's economy is still highly subsistence-oriented and centered
around agriculture. It is also overwhelmingly rural, with the two largest
towns -- Thimphu, the capital, and Phuntsholing, the main gateway town, each
having a population of less than 20,000. Based on the national accounts
estimates and official population estimates, the per capita GDP of Bhutan is
about US$120, one of the lowest in the world. It would appear, however, that
Bhutan's overall standard of living is higher than indicated by this figure.
The overall population-land ratio is lower than in neighboring countries and
nutrition surveys have indicated an average calorie intake per capita of
about 2,500 per day, some 25% higher than for South Asia as a whole.
Literacy is estimated at only 10%, infant mortality is high, and as a result,
life expectancy is low (43 years compared to about 52 years for South Asia as
a whole).
11.     The nationaL accounts estimates indicate that agriculture and animal
husbandry account for almost 50% of GDP, and together provide livelihood for
about 95Z of the population. Landlessness is not a major problem, and farm-
land appears to be reasonably equitably distributed. According to the recent
agricultural survey, net foodgrain production amounted to 125,000 metric tons
(tons) in 1981/82, and Bhutan required imports of about 25,000 tons of rice
from India to meet its needs. Historically, Bhutan had been seLf-sufficient
and even exported foodgrains. Therefore, it should be a high government
priority to achieve once again self-sufficiency in foodgrains. Maize is the
predominant foodgrain, accounting for almost 50% of total production, and is
grown mainly in eastern Bhutan under rainfed conditions. Paddy, accounting
for about 35% of production, is the main crop in western Bhutan, and is grown
at altitudes as high as 2,500 m above sea level. Wheat and other foodgrains
are grown at even higher altitudes. Other important crops include ginger,
chillies, pulses, and mustard seeds at Lower altitudes, and potatoes at
higher elevations. In recent years, cash crops such as apples, oranges, and
cardamom have emerged, especially in southern and western Bhutan where
marketing is easier. Although the forestry sector accounted for 15% of GDP



-4-
in 1980/81, this level was probably low by historical standards. In 1979,
the Government, recognizing the importance of properly managing its valuable
forest resources, gave the Department of Forests the sole right to extract
logs for commercial purposes and placed restrictions on the export of low-
value wood products. A plant for veneer and sawnwood has been constructed at
Gedu with UNDP and Kuwait Fund assistance. Industry accounts for only about
5% of GDP, due to the small domestic market and the shortage of domestic
entrepreneurial capacity. Three relatively large industries -- a 100,000-ton
capacity cement factory, a distillery complex, and a fruit processing plant
-- account for the bulk of the value added. Other smaller industries include
sawmills and furniture, matches, candles, soap, and handicrafts. Services
account for the remaining 30% of GDP, with more than half of services
originating in the public sector.
12.     Indian financial and technical assistance is helping Bhutan implement
most of its development activities, while almost all of Bhutan's trade is
conducted with India. A state of free trade exists between the two
countries. Imports from India consist mainly of petroleum products, rice,
metal products, machinery, and truck chassis. Many of these are controlled
items in India, and exports to Bhutan are supplied under mutually agreed
quotas. Bhutan's exports to India consist primarily of agricultural
products, timber, and cement. Its main export to third countries is
cardamom, and the main imports from them are automobiles and spare parts.
The Indian rupee circulates freely alongside the ngultrum in Bhutan and
accounts for most of the currency in circulation. Over time, Government
policy is to convert entirely to the ngultrum. Apart from the recently
established Royal Monetary Authority, which is gradually assuming central
banking functions, the banking system consists of one commercial bank, the
Bank of Bhutan, which is owned jointly by the State Bank of India and the
Covernment of Bhutan. Other financial institutions are the Royal Insurance
Corporation and the Unit Trust; both have been actively involved in making
commercial loans. Given the good relations between Bhutan and India, trade
and transit matters have not been a significant constraint to Bhutan's
development. In 1984, a new trade and commerce treaty was signed with India,
which gives Bhutan full control over its overseas trade.
Planning and Economic Development
13.     Development activities in Bhutan began in 1959 when, with the assis-
tance of India, the Government began preparing its first five-year develop-
ment plan. Since then, Bhutan has completed four five-year plans
(1961/62-1980/81). The plans showed a steady growth in sophistication of the
planning mechanism and in development priorities. The First Plan devoted
almost two-thirds of ou-tlays to roads development in order to end external
isolation and to begin linking the regions of the country. By the Third
Plan, investment priorities reflected more directly productive activities
such as agriculture and industry, and the need to increase social services.
The first three plans were almost entirely financed by India, although by the
end of the Fourth Plan, United Nations Agencies had become significant con-
tributors accounting for about 18Z of total financing.
14.     The Fifth Plan (1981182-1986/87) represents an unprecedented develop-
mental push. The underlying objective of the Plan is to increase Bhutan's
ieconomic self-reliance", i.e., its ability to manage and finance economic



-5-
activities from within. The principal vehicles for achieving this goal are
resource-based industrial projects designed to exploit markets in neighboring
countries, particularly India. Including expenditures on a number of large
resource-based industrial projects, which may or may not be undertaken during
the plan period, development expenditures are to more than trinte. Under the
Fifth Plan, some 50Z of activities, based on development plans drawn up by
individual districts, are being implemented by district administrations.
Such decentralized execution is intended to be more responsive to and consis-
tent with locally perceived needs. A condition for including such projects
in the Fifth Plan was that districts provide, on a voluntary basis, the labor
required in implementation, thereby greatly reducing costs and achieving
greater overall development effort. To help implement district plans,
numerous line ministerial staff were transferred from the central to district
administrations.
15.     A 1984 mid-plan review indicated that overall performance has been
good so far, considering the major institutional changes introduced. Overall
Fifth Plan expenditures are expected to be significantly higher (22%) than
originally projected, largely due to higher inflows of international assis-
tance that permit some additional projects, and to underestimation of costs
of some industrial projects. The districts are also likely to achieve their
investment targets, although due to shortages of technical staff, the quality
of project design and construction has, in some cases, been sub-standard. In
response, the Government is beginning to place less emphasis on the achieve-
ment of targets in the narrow sense and more on ensuring better design and
construction of projects and their proper utilization.
Recent Economic Performance
16.     Due to the paucity of economic data, it is not possible to review
Bhutan's overall economic growth trends. However, a follow-up to the 1980/81
agricultural survey suggests that production in agriculture, the most impor-
tant sector, has been growing at about 6% per annum. At the same time, there
have been major improvements in economic management. Covering recurrent
government expenditures from domestic revenues has been an important goal
under the Fifth Plan. Revenues in 1980/81 amounted to around 10Z of GDP (a
reasonably good level considering Bhutan's stage of development), but recur-
rent expenditures amounted to 17Z of CDP. The Government covered the dif-
ference out of development assistance. Nevertheless, further measures were
necessary because recurrent expenditures associated with development efforts
were rising rapidly and the revenue-expenditure gap continued to widen. The
Government's strategy to improve public savings performance concentrated on
both reducing recurrent expenditures and increasing revenues. In 1981/82, it
effectively reduced the size of the civil service by about 8% and since then
has, with considerable success, controlled growth in public sector hiring.
This move was supported by three major fiscal reforms designed to improve
budgetary efficiency: (a) the existing dual budget system was replaced by a
consolidated budget under the Ministry of Finance; (b) government finances
were reorganized to flow through two main accounts -- one for the release of
expenditures and one for deposit of revenues; and (c) many service functions
that had operated as government departments were, as of 1982/83, instructed
to function on commercial lines. Concurrently, a 30% profits tax was intro-
duced on these services and larger commerciaL and industrial units. Finally,



-6-
to increase the revenue base over the longer run, the Government started
investing in natural resource-based, export-oriented projects.
17.     The impact of these measures has been profound.  Between 1980/81 and
1983/84, growth in recurrent expenditures was Limited to 8% per annum, while
revenues grew by 23% per annum. As a result, revenues in 1983/84 covered 882
of recurrent expenditures, compared to 60X in 1980/81. While most of these
revenues were from taxation of major entities, such as financial institutions
and industries, further reforms were initiated in the 1984/85 budget to
broaden the general tax base by revising the sales and income taxes. With
these measures, as well as the anticipated receipt of revenues on hydropower
sales to India from the Chukha project, Bhutan stands an excellent chance of
meeting its goal of covering recurrent costs from current revenues by the end
of the Fifth Plan period.
18.     Complete balance of payments data for Bhutan are not prepared on a
regular basis, but based on analysis of changes in reserve levels, Bhutan has
continually had an overall surplus in its balance of payments, with both
India and other countries. Bhutan consistently runs trade deficits, but
external assistance and tourism receipts more than cover these deficits. As
of end-1983/84, Bhutan's foreign exchange reserves stood at a healthy US$35
million equivalent, including US$10 million in overseas currencies. Indian
rupee reserves were sufficient to cover about 10 months of imports from
India, and overseas currency reserves almost 20 months of overseas imports.
Bhutan has no external debt problem. The only major loans the Government has
incurred are an Indian rupee loan for the Chukha project, that will effec-
tively be repaid in electricity sales to India, and several concessional
loans from IDA (paragraph 20), ADB, IFAD and the Kuwait Fund. All other aid
to Bhutan has been on grant terms, and given that aid inflows are likely to
continue meeting more than the country's import needs, debt service is
unlikely to pose a significant burden for the foreseeable future. In this
context, the primary role of external assistance in Bhutan is to enable an
increase in the overall level of investment by supplementing the Government's
domestic savings efforts and to provide technical assistance in developing
efficient administrative and technical practices.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BHUTAN
19.     Bhutan became a member of the Bank Group in September 1981.  A
program mission visited Bhutan in June 1982 to obtain general overview of
the country's needs and an economic mission followed in October 1982.
Thereafter, missions visited Bhutan to identify possible areas of assistance
in forestry, education, rural and urban water supply, communications, mineral
development and small resource-based industries. Consultancy services were
also arranged to review prospects of setting up an industrial development and
finance organization to assist medium- and-small scale enterprises.
20.     IDA operations in Bhutan began in FY84 with IDA credits of US$3.0
million equivalent for a Technical Assistance Project (Credit 1416-BHU)
followed by US$5.5 million equivalent for a Forestry Development Project
(Credit 1460-BHU). The proposed Credit in FY85 would bring the total amount



-7-
of IDA assistance to Bhutan to US$17.5 million equivalent.  Annex II contains
a Summary Statement of Bank Group operations as of March 31, 1985.
21.     IDA's current strategy is to help Bhutan achieve its two principal
objectives. First, to achieve economic self-reliance through greater produc-
tivity and exports and increased revenues, and second, to develop human
resources to accelerate development while reducing dependence on expatriates.
IDA's involvement is, therefore, geared to help Bhutan nurture and harness
its natural resources principally in forests, minerals and hytrropower, aug-
ment the industrial base to increase exports, and improve educational stand-
ards and institutions to enlarge its trained manpower pool. The Bank Group
is careful to channel its lending to subsectors not generally supported by
other donors and in amounts commensurate with the country's technical and
administrative absorptive capacity.
22.     Under the ongoing Technical Assistance Project, disbursements have
been slow, as anticipated, but the Bank's technical assistance has helped
Bhutan prepare several projects for financing by other donors, principally
ADB and the UN agencies. The Forestry Development Project, which started
very well, would promote long-term reforestation and use of mature forests
for wood industries and other industrial uses, while increasing log exports
and fuelwood supply for local use. IDA's proposed lending program in the
near term includes a second forestry project which together with the first
project would, in late 1980s, enable Bhutan to reforest at least 2,500 ha
annually. In education, projects planned would assist in the rehabilitation
of existing primary and secondary schools and construction of new schools,
technical and vocational training, the design of curriculum and provision of
training aids, training of teachers, and planning and administration. In
industry, the proposed Calcium Carbide Project would utilize vast high-grade
limestone deposits, maturing forests and cheap hydropower to generate foreign
exchange revenues of about US$10 million equivalent per year from the export
of products. The project includes technical assistance for planning, coor-
dination and execution, and training of national staff. In a proposed
mineral project, Bhutan's extensive mineral deposits of Limestone, dolomite,
marble, slate, graphite, gypsum (already being exported in small quantities),
*          coal, copper, etc. will be surveyed, and mining facilities and infrastructure
provided for production and export. Under all these projects, the Bank would
endeavor to help Bhutan train counterpart staff and develop a cadre of
experienced engineers, technicians, and skilled manpower. These projects
would help augment the country's revenues and improve administrative,
planning, implementing and marketing capacity.
PART III - THE INDUSTRY SECTOR
Industry Sector Overview
23.     Bhutan has a low industrial base, with industry accounting for only
5% of GDP. The manufacturing and processing industry, about one-fourth of
which is cottage industry, accounts for 3.3% of GDP, compared to an average
of 13Z for low-income developing countries. Food processing, distillery
operations, and cement account for 67X of total industrial production, mainly
reflecting the production of three large entities: the Bhutan Fruit Products



-8-
Company; the Government Welfare Project, which runs distillery operations;
and the Penden Cement Authority. They also account for two-thirds of
Bhutan's industrial employment. There are about 60 other small industrial
units, each with an output of less than Nu 0.5 million (about US$40,000) and
employing fewer than 20 persons. These small units manufacture basic con-
sumer goods such as soap, candles, matches, furniture, and simple processed
foodstuffs. A plT,ood plant at Gedu and particle board project near
Phuntsholing are under construction. Almost all manufacturing industries
are located in southern Bhutan where infrastructural fa;.ilities and the
availability of raw materials and labor are better.
Sector Organization and Policy
24.     In 1979, a National Commission for Development of Trade and
Industries was established under the chairmanship of the King. Members
include the Minister of the recently reorganized Ministry of Trade, Industry
and Mines, and the Deputy Ministers of Planning and Finance. The Commission
reviews all major industrial projects to ensure that they are economically
viable and in compliance wit;: Government policy. Daily operation of the
Commission is handled by a working committee chaired by a Joint Secretary.
Covernment policy is to stimulate industrial growth, as far as possible,
through private and joint ventures. While private participation in medium-
and-large scale plants is encouraged, individual private firms are not
allowed to own more than 20% of the equity. Once a plant is established and
operating well, the Government intends to allow the sale of its shares to
the public, with the aim of ultimately reducing its participation to about
20Z in such joint ventures. Foreign investments are not currently permitted
in Bhutan.
Cotistraints to Industrial Development
25.     The major constraints to industrial development have been inadequate
power, communications, trained manpower and a limited domestic market. The
power shortage would be overcome with the commissioning of the 336 MW Chukha
Hydro project. Communication facilities in selected locations would improve
with the completion of the Indo-Bhutan microwave system in 1986.  To overcome
the constraint of a limited local market and also to help earn much-needed
foreign exchange, the Government is encouraging export-oriented industries.
The shortage of trained manpower is being met by hiring competent
expatriates, mostly from neighboring countries (e.g., India, Nepal, and
Bangladesh), and ensuring participation and training of counterpart staff.
At the same time, the Government is making concerted efforts to develop
educational institutions in the country and to train abroad an increasing
number of Bhutanese nationals. As local resources are developed and local
personnel are trained, Bhutan could expect a significant growth in industrial
development. The abuidance of natural resources, low-cost electric power
from Chukha and other proposed hydro-power projects, and a huge neighboring
market would encourage development of resource-based and power-intensive
projects, such as the proposed calcium carbide project.
Calcium Carbide
26.     Calcium carbide is a basic inorganic chemical with veried uses, the
most significant being for the production of acetylene used for metal cutting



-9-
and welding in the engineering industries. Other industrial uses include
manufacture of acetylene black used in dry-cell batteries, desulfurization
compound for the manufacture of low-carbon steel, and chloro-solvent and
other chemicals including polyvinyl chloride (PVC). Carbide is also used for
producing low-pressure acetylene gas for illumination in rural nreas, and
carbide fines help early ripening of fruits.
World Outlook
27.     The total world production of carbide in 1981 was estimated at about
8.5 million tons. China was the leading producer, followed by the Democratic
Republic of Germany, USSR, Japan, the Federal Republic of Germany, Poland,
and the United States. The world carbide industry is expected to contract,
especially in the developed countries, because of high costs of energy, lack
of good quaUlcy limestone and carbonaceous materials (coke, charcoal, etc.)
and the high cost of transporting carbide over long distances. At the same
time, use of carbide (mainly acetylene for welding and metal cutting) is
incseasing in developing countries where repair and rehabilitation of exist-
ing machinery, equipment and vehicles is necessary. In this respect, Bhutan
is competitively placed, compared to other potential producers, and also has
the additional advantage of being close to India, a major consumer, as well
as to markets in Bangladesh, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka.
28.     Production and Consumption in India.  In India, there are seven
carbide plants; two exclusively for captive PVC production and the other five
for manufacturing carbide for the market. Three new plants are currently
under implementation. If the present power situation and capacity utiliza-
tion improve, carbide production in India is likely to reach between 115,000
and 123,000 tons by 1989/90. On the other hand, consumption of carbide has
increased at an average annual rate of around 9.5% during the last decade,
reaching about 96,000 tons in 1984/85. Because of recovery in and expansion
of the engineering and steel industries, demand is projected to rise to about
142,000 tons by 1989/90. Based on these supply and demand pro_ections,
India's cariide deficit is expected to range between 19,000 tons and 27,000
tons by 1989/90. The proposed carbide project would be able to market 17,000
tons of carbide in India. In addition, it is expected that some 3,000 tons
could be exported to Bangladesh based on its current import level. Bhutan's
domestic consumption is not expected to exceed 50 tons.
29.     Advantage of Project Location.  The proposed project would be located
in Pasakha, near Phuntsholing the prime marketing zone in eastern India (West
Bengal, Assam, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh and Orissa) where much of India's steel
is produced. Total carbide demand of this region's steel plants and other
industries is projected at more than 36,000 tons by 1989/90, whereas there is
only one carbide plant in eastern India, with an installed capacity of 15,500
tons per year (tpy). A new plant may come on stream with a capacity of
10,000 tpy in 1987/88. Even if these plants operate at an average capacity
of 90X by 1989/90, there would be a carbide shortfall of about 13,500 tpy.
If the new plant is delayed, the shortfall in eastern India would be higher
(22,500 tons). Whether this plant is completed or not, carbide production
under the project would find a ready market in India. Nevertheless, to
minimize its market risk, BCC has signed Letters of intent with Indian com-
panies for the sale of all of its carbide production. Further, it has signed
a long-term contract with Shriram Fertilizers and Chemicals Ltd., India, for



-10-
the sale of 6,000 tpy. BCC would prepare and furnish to IDA by April 1,
1987, a detailed stratpgy for marketing calcium carbide (para 6, Schedule 2
of the draft Project Agreement (PA)).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
30.     The proposed project was identified in August 1983 and appraised in
June 1984.  A Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Bhutan-Calcium Carbide                       E
Project" (Report No. 5430-BHU, dated April 18, 1985) is being distributed
separately. Technical discussions followed by negotiations were held in
Washington, D.C. from March 11 to March 18, 1985. The Bhutan delegation was
lead by Dasho C. Dorji, Secretary, Ministry of Trade, Industry and Mines. A
timetable of key events relating to the project and special conditions of the
proposed Credit are given in Annex III.
Project Objectives and Description
31.     The Government of Bhutan gives high priority to developing the
country's natural resources and achieving increasing financial self-reliance
through exports to neighboring countries, especially India. After careful
review, the proposed Calcium Carbide Project was selected as one of the most
promising export-oriented ventures for Bhutan. The basic inputs required for
production of calcium carbide are limestone, electric power, and a good grade
carbonaceous reductant (e.g., charcoal). Bhutan is endowed with large
deposits of commercially exploitable limestone, dense forests which can
provide charcoal for use as a reductant, and large-scale hydroelectric power
potential which is beginning to be exploited under the Chukha project.
32.     The proposed project with a capacity to produce 22,000 tons per year
of merchant calcium carbide would be located in an isolated site, about 15 km
from the industrial town of Phuntsholing on the Bhutan-India border. The
Project would include: (i) a calcium carbide plant and ancillary equipment
and facilities; (ii) limestone mining; (iii) forestry; and (iv) charcoal
production.  The project would also provide for necessary infrastructure and
technical assistance and training.
33.     Calcium Carbide Plant, which is the main component of the project,
includes: (i) a 12 KVA open-rotating type, submerged arc furnace, raw
material proportioning and charging system, product tapping equipment, and
handling and packing facilities; (ii) a 100-ton per day (tpd) Lime kiln;
(iii) raw material storage and handling systems; (iv) a producer gas plant to
allow flexibility in using producer gas from coal instead of fuel oil in the
lime kiln; (v) water treatment and supply facilities; (vi) workshop and drum
manufacturing unit; (vii) service facilities for laboratory testing, fire
fighting, etc.; (viii) office and plant buildings; and (ix) infrastructure,
including housing, power transmission lines, and roads.
34.     Limestone Mining.  Availability of chemical grade limestone (92-98X
carbonate content) is crucial for the success of the project. At full
capacity, the carbide pLant would require about 50,000 tpy of limestone.
There are four limestone deposits within a radius of 10-30 km from the
project site, at Hauri Khola, Purbia Khola, Kaleshwar and Mirchang. Proven



-11-
reserves are about 600,000 tons. Probable and possible reserves are
estimated at 460,000 tons and 1.9 million tons respectively. The largest
chemical grade limestone reserves are at Hauri Khola. The secondary sources
would be Purbia Khola, Kaleshwar and Mirchang. Detailed sampling and drill-
ing work has been done at Purbia Khola and Mirchang. In Kaleshwar, this work
started in early December, 1984 and in Hauri Khola in January, 1985. Results
of such work show that proven reserves would be adequate to meet project
needs for about 12 years. Assuming that at least half of probable and 25% of
possible reserves are proven, the available chemical-grade limestone would be
adequate to support the project for about 28 years.  In any event, proven
chemical grade limestone is also available, in adequate quantities, at Paro
and Nanglam. To accelerate drilling, sample investigation of phosphorus and
sulphur content and calcination tests, IDA has agreed to the use of
US$300,000 from the Technical Assistance Credit (Credit 1416-BHU). The
Government would provide the remaining financing and ensure that drilling and
sampling work, to establish proven reserves of 1 million tons (project
requirement of 20 years), at Hauri Khola and Kaleshwar is completed by March
31, 1986 (Section 4.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement (DCA)).
Open-pit mining and laboratory testing of limestone from deposits at Hauri
Khola, Purbia Khola, Kaleshwar and Mirchang would be carried out by BCC to
ensure quality control and long-term supply. The Government has granted BCC
the exclusive mining rights at these sites to enable BCC, with assistance
from consultants, to carry out limestone mining activities in a timely manner
(para 7, Schedule 2 of the draft PA).
35.     Firewood.  About 68,000 cubic meters (m3) of firewood per year would
be needed to meet the charcoal requirements of the project and would come
largely from three sources: (i) logging centers; (ii) salvage logging in the
course of developing new forest plantations; and (iii) thinning and clear-
felling short and medium rotation wood species, included in the IDA-financed
Forestry Project (Cr. 1460-BHU). To ensure against temporary shortages of
wood, BCC with assistance from TCC, would carry out forestry development
components in a timely manner, including establishing a 1,000 ha captive
plantation at Pachu, near the project site. The Government would permit BCC
to use the nurseries established at Phuntsholing for this purpose (Section
4.03(b) of the draft DCA and para 7, Schedule 2 of the draft PA).  To ensure
against any denudation of forests, the Government would prepare and furnish
to IDA, a reforestation program by December 31, 1985 (Section 4.03(a) of the
draft DCA).
36.     Charcoal.  The project's requirement of about 15,850 tpy of charcoal
would be met by 16 charcoal plants, each with a capacity of about 1,000 tpy.
In order not to be completely dependent on outside suppliers, BCC would
establish seven plants, each with a capacity of 1,000 tpy under the project.
Tashi Commercial Corporation (TCC) has established a charcoal plant for the
purpose, and private companies have sought licenses to establish 8 other
plants. Further, in case local production falls short, BCC has signed a
Letter of intent with the Bihar State Government, India, for the purchase of
5,000 tpy of charcoal By October 31, 1985, BCC would prepare a detailed plan
for the production and supply of charcoal required for the project (para 9,
Schedule 2 of the draft PA). The Government would take necessary steps to
ensure that the charcoal component of the project, particularly the charcoal
plants operated by private interests, does not have any adverse impact on
forests and ecology (Section 4.02(b) of DCA). To ensure ease of operation



-12-
and to stabilize production at high levels as soon as possible, the carbide
plant would be designed to have the flexibility to use up to 30% petroleum
coke, along with charcoal, am a reductant. Once production is stabilized at
high levels, the project will use charcoal and petroleum coke on a 90/10
ratio to reduce operating costs. Petroleum coke is easily available from the
oil refineries in eastern India, near the proposed carbide plant.
Infrastructure
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
37.     At present, there is no access road to the project site.  To make
the project site accessible, BCC has completed the 2 km road from Barsa to
the project site. BCC has completed levelling of the existing pathway
through the beds of the two streams up to Barsa, and would construct a steel
bridge (about 7 meters long) across the Barsa Stream (para 3, Schedule 2 of
draft PA). In addition, a permanent road from Kharbandi, about 6 km from
Phuntsholing, to Barsa would be completed by the Public Works Department by
June 30, 1986 (Section 4.05 of the draft DCA). The power requirements of
the project (15 MW) would be met from the Chukha project. One of Chukha's
four 84 MW units is scheduled to be commissioned in 1985, and the remaining
three during 1986. A substation, built adjacent to the project site, has
been connected to Phuntsholing via a 66 KV line and it would be connected to
Chukha as soon as a 220 KV line is completed by end 1986 (Section 4.02(a) of
the draft DCA).
Organization and Management
38.     The Project would be implemented and operated by BCC, which was
incorporated as a limited liability company in October 1984.  The Government
owns 80% of the company's shares and TCC, the remaining 20%.  BCC has a
five-member Board of Directors, of whom four are nominated by the Government,
and one by TCC.  The Deputy Minister, Planning Commission, is the Chairman
and TCC's nominee is the Managing Director of BCC.  To assist the Managing
Director in day-to-day matters, BCC would appoint, by December 31, 1986, a
a General Manager with extensive experience in operating carbide plants
(Section 3.04(a) of the draft PA). BCC has already appointed a capable and
experienced Project Manager, who is responsible for project implementation.
By March 31, 1986, BCC would prepare and review with IDA an organizational
and staffing plan and subsequently implement this plan in time for project
commissioning and operation (Section 3.04(b) of the draft PA).  BCC, with
assistance from TCC, would recruit and maintain key management personnel
(para 2, Schedule 2 of the draft PA). In order to ensure proper linkages
between various Government and private entities involved, an Inter-
Ministerial Committee would be established, by August 1, 1985, for overall
project coordination including infrastructure and upstream facilities (Sec-
tion 4.04 of the draft DCA).
39.     Technical Assistance.  BCC has retained Shriram Projects and
Engineering Services (SPES), of DCM Group, India, to provide technical
advisory services (para 1, Schedule 2 of the draft PA). SPES has extensive
experience in implementing and operating carbide projects and is familiar
with local conditions in Bhutan. SPES would assist BCC management in: (i)
project implementation including initial operation of the plant for about two
years after commissioning; (ii) preparation of legal contracts with suppliers
of equipment and services; (iii) development of organizational and management



-13-
structure; (iv) development of a staffing and organizational plan; (v)
recruitment of personnel; (vi) development and implementation of a training
program, including preparation of operating and maintenance manuals; (vii)
project reporting to financing institutions; and (viii) installation of a
modern financial and accounting system. SPES has agreed to pr^vide 300
man-months of services, over a period of five years including two years after
commissioning, at a cost of about US$462,000 equivalent. SPES, as well as
the personnel assigned to the project, are fully acceptable and the cost of
the services is reasonable. Considering that technical advisory services are
critical for the success of the project, IDA has agreed to finance the con-
tract for these services. BCC would also employ furnace and engineering
contractors and consultants to advise on planning and implementation of the
limestone mining, forestry and charcoal components (para 41).
40.     Employment and Training.  There is an acute shortage of trained
manpower and construction labor in Bhutan. However, because of comparatively
higher tax-exempt wage and salary scales in Bhutan, suitable manpower would
be available from neighboring countries. At the construction stage, about
500 laborers would be required, of which about 20% would be Bhutanese
nationals. After the project is completed, BCC would have about 500
employees including 14 key management personnel, 15 trained engineers, and
100 technicians. Of these, about 25 Bhutanese nationals graduating from
engineering colleges in India and local polytechnics would be recruited and
trained. Selected personnel would be trained abroad. Semi-skilled local
personnel would be trained in operations and maintenance. Recruiting and
training of local personnel, whenever possible, are an important part of the
functions of the technical advisory services. BCC would develop a training
program, as part of a detailed organizational and staffing plan, by March 31,
1986 for implementation in time for project commissioning and operation
(Section 3.04(b) of the draft PA).
Project Execution
41.     The project would be executed under two main contracts:  the
Engineering contract and the Furnace contract. The Engineering Contractor
would be responsible for detailed engineering, procurement, and commissioning
for all units, except the furnace; for civil and erection work for the entire
project, and for appointing the respective sub-contractors after competitive
bidding among Bhutanese and Indian firms. The Engineering Contractor would
furnish necessary performance guarantees. IDA has confirmed BCC's selection
of ICB Private Ltd. (India) to undertake the engineering contract which would
be financed by the Kuwait Fund. The Furnace Contractor would be responsible
for the supply of calcium carbide furnace equipment, and the bag filter for
pollution control; scope drawings for civil works; load data for the furnace
foundation; and supervision of furnace erection and commissioning. BCC has
negotiated the furnace contract with Elkem (Norway), one of the leading
carbide furnace suppliers in the world. For the limestone mining, forestry,
and charcoal components of the project, BCC would employ consultants, by
September 30, 1985, on a retainer basis, to be caLled upon to review and
advise at critical phases of planning and implementation of these components
(para 5, Schedule 2 of the draft PA). The carbide plant component of the
project is expected to be commissioned in April 1988 (36 months after the
effectiveness of the contract with the Engineering Contractor), the mining
component i.a November 1987, and the charcoal component in July 1987. The



-14-
implementation of the forestry component would start in April 1985 and would
continue until 1991.
Cost and Financing
42.     The total cost of the project is estimated at about US$24 million
equivalent (Nu 311 million), of which about US$19.6 million would be foreign
exchange. The estimate includes provision for physical and price
contingencies, working capital, and interest during construction. Cost
estimates are based on the feasibility report prepared by ICB Private Ltd.,
after taking into account changes in the project scope and price offers
received from two leading furnace manufacturers, Demag (the Federal Republic
of Germany) and Elkem (Norway). Physical contingency has been estimated at
10% of base cost estimate. Price contingency, computed using Bank projec-
tions for local and international inflation rates, is estimated to be 17.6%
of base cost plus physical contingency. Cofindncing arrangements include
US$6.6 million equivalent from the Kuwait Fund and US$3.9 million equivalent
from the Government of Norway. The proposed IDA Credit would be onlent to
BCC under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and BCC.
Signing of this Agreement, with terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA,
will be a condition of effectiveness (Section 6.01(a) of the draft DCA).
Local financing (US$4.3 million equivalent), as well as cost overruns and
cash shortfalls would be covered by internal cash generation and by the
Government and TCC. As a condition of effectiveness, the Government and TCC
would execute a Shareholders' Agreement satisfactory to IDA (Section 6.01(b)
of the draft DCA).
Procurement and Disbursement
43.     Equipment financed by the IDA Credit would mostly be procured through
international competitive bidding (ICB) and partly through other procedures
such as limited international bidding (LIB) and limited competitive bidding
(LCB)} consistent with Bank Group guidelines. Small items and items that are
critical for efficient project execution and operation, costing less than
US$200,000, may be procured through LIB after inviting bids from qualified
suppliers from at least three eligible countries. The total contract value
of such items would not exceed US$2.0 million equivalent, approximately 22Z
of the IDA credit. LCB is not expected to be in excess of US$0.5 milLion.
To expedite project execution, IDA Credit would finance retroactively up to
US$0.5 million of eligible expenditures for technical advisory services and
down-payments for procurement of long-delivery items incurred after
September 1, 1984.
44.     Special Account.  Further, to help expedite procurement, a Special
Account of US$500,000 would be established to assist in the procurement of
IDA financed items (Section 2.02(b) of the draft DCA). Deposits into and
payments out of the Special Account may be made for IDA funds only. The
initial deposit in the Special Account is an advance disbursement tc the
Borrower to prefinance items eligible for reimbursemenc by IDA. No documen-
tation is required in respect of the initial deposit, except verification
that the Special Account has been _stablished in accordance with IDA
requirements. Replenishments to the Special Account would be made against
reimbursement applications, submitted on a monchly basis, supported by stand-
ard documentation (contract documents, bilLs, invoices. receipts, shipping



-15-
documpnts and statements of expenditures as provided under the project), and
a copy of the handling bank's statement of account for the reporting period
(normally the previous month), showing each transaction under the Special
Account. The statement of account would show date of payment, currency and
amount paid, rate of exchange, opening balance, any deposit by IDA during the
reporting period and the closing balance. Recovery of the initial advance
into the Special account would be made by accepting documented withdrawal
appLications, but reimbursing only 50X of such reimbursement requests. This
process would commence when the undisbursed amount in the Credit account,
less any amount committed by IDA under its Agreements to Reimburse, is equal
to twice the amount of the initial deposit, or as otherwise specified by IDA
(para 5, Schedule 3 of the draft DCA).
Procurement Arrangements /a
45.     Project Elements
Not
ICB    LCB    Others  Applicable  Total
---------------- US$   000
Equipment, Materials & Spares
-  Calcium Carbide Plant       4,700    300    5,400         -        10,400
(4,700)  (195)  (1,105)       (-)      (6,000)
-  Mining                        400    C-)       220       (-)          620
(400)   (-)      (220)     (-)         (620)
-  Charcoal                       -      200      510       (-)          710)
(-)   (300)    (400)      C-)         (530)
-  Forestry                      400     -        290        -           690
(400)   (-)      (290)     (-)         (690)
Consultants & Technical             -       -     1,010        -         1,010
Advisory Services                (-)    t-)   (1,010)       (-)       (1,010)
Land, Infrastructure, Civil         -       -     3,440        -         3,440
Works and Buildings              C-)    (')       ()        ()           C-)
Engineering, Project Management.  -        -      2,000        -         2,000
Erection and Commissioning       (-)    (-)       C-)       (-)          C-)
Training                            -       -       150        -           150
(-)    (-)      (150)     (-)         (150)
Forest Preparation, Nursery         -      -        920        -           920
and Plantation
Working Capital                     -       -        -      2,140        2,140
(-)    (- }      C-)      (-            C-()
5,500   500   13,940    2,140        22,080
(5,500) (325)  (3,175)       (-)      (9,000)
/a  Figures in parentheses are respective amounts financed by IDA.



-16-
46.     A significant proporcion of the equipment and services for the
project is expected to be provided by Indian firms under ICB. The Kuwait
Fund has agreed to the Government's request for using its rupee funds (earned
from trade with and development assistance from India) for equipment and
services from Indian firms (when those firms are selected under competitive
bidding) and claim reimbursement in foreign exchange.  Reimbursement by IDA
would be made in the currency of the Special Account e.g., US dollars. The
IDA Credit is expected to be fully disbursed by March 31, 1990, which takes
into account financing the services of the Technical advisory services for
two years after the project is commissioned. The project completion date
would be September 30, 1990.
Financial Performance
47.     Most of the calcium carbide produced would be marketed in India where
local prices are relatively high due to the high import duty (140%) levied on
Indian importers. India, however, does not impose any duties on imports from
Bhutan under the treaty governing trade and transit between the two
countries. The project would be highly profitable because Bhutan would sell
its output at prevailing high Indian market prices. Although the present
price of carbide for user industries is US$635 equivalent per ton, in order
to account for costs of market entry, and the possibility of a decrease in
Indian prices due tc reduction of import duties, the analysis assumed an
ex-factory financial Vc, ce of US$554 equivalent per ton at March 1985 prices.
The financial rate of return of the project is estimated to be about 23.5%.
The project will generate profits right from its first year of operation,
when it is conservatively estimated to operate at only 45% capacity. Net
income of BCC is expected to increase from about Nu 6.2 million (US$0.5
million) in 1988 to Nu 57 million (US$4.4 million) by 1991, the first year
of operation at 90% capacity utilization. Internal cash generation of the
project is expected to reach Nu 79 million (US$6.1 million) by 1991, provid-
ing BCC with a sound debt servicing capability. Debt service coverage is
projected to remain above 2.0 times, and the debt/equity ratio at 64/36 or
better. The cash breakeven point would reach its maximum level (41.3%) in
1990, the year the subsidiary loan repayment begins, beyond which it would
gradually improve. BCC would follow sound financial and accounting practices
(Sections 4.02 and 4.03 of the draft PA).
Environment and Social Aspects
48.     The project would be designed and operated to meet the rigorous
liquid effluent standards and limits for gaseous emissions according to
Indian Standards which are comparable to international standards. The
Government would enable BCC to assign experienced staff and provide
appropriate Laboratory facilities to monitor pollution levels in order to
ensure that the project is operated in accordance with environmental stand-
ards acceptable to IDA (Section 4.06 of the draft DCA and para 4, Schedule 2
of the draft PA). Further, while licensing private charcoal units, the
Government would ensure that prospective investors take adequate measures to
control environmental pollution (Section 4.02(b) of the draft DCA). The
proposed project would require a substantial amount of wood to meet its
charcoal requirements. To ensure against denuding of forests, which might
lead to ecological problems, the Government would submit a detailed refores-



-17-
tation program, satisfactory to IDA, by December 31, 1985 (Section 4.03(a) of
the draft DCA).  Because of close ethnic, religious and cultural affinity
between peoples inhabiting either side of the open India-Bhutan border, the
labor force for the project would not cause any social problems.
Nevertheless, from time to time, IDA and the Government would review the
possible sociological impact of manpower and reforestation plans.
Project Benefits and Justification
49.     The project's economic rate of return (ERR) is calculated at 20.7%.
Sensitivity analysis indicates that the project would remain economic (ERR
over 10%, the opportunity cost of capital in Bhutan) even if capital cost
were increased by 86%, operating cost by 44%, or capacity utilization
decreased by 38%. Although the ERR is more sensitive to changes in product
prices, prices would have to decrease at least 22% before the return falls
beLow 10%. A review of the international calcium carbide industry indicates
that the risk of such a drop is not high.
50.     The project, one of the largest industrial ventures undertaken in
Bhutan, represents a major step in the country's development efforts. The
project would generate foreign exchange revenues of more than US$10.0 million
equivalent per year from the export of products. The net foreign exchange
earnings of the project during its first 12 years of operation, after
accounting for imported materials and services but excluding debt servicing,
has been estimated at about US$65 million at March 1985 prices. The project,
as a result of corporate income taxes paid and dividends distributed, would
become a major source of revenues for the Government. It would also stimu-
late the development of upstream facilities such as limestone mining,
forestry development and charcoal production, and downstream facilities for
production of acetylene gas, acetylene black, oxygen, and desulfurizing
compound. The project would provide direct employment to about 500 persons
and indirect employment to at least another 500. In addition, it would also
provide training for Bhutanese nationals in several trades, and thereby
assist Bhutan in its goal of increasing the number of trained nationals.
t         51.     Project Risks.  The project would not face any major technical risk
since it would utilize commercially proven technology imparted by interna-
tionally reputable firms. The project, however, could face risks associated
with (i) lack of timely and adequate coordination in the execution of dif-
ferent components; (ii) lack of trained manpower; (iii) start-up and commis-
sioning problems; (iv) difficulties in maintaining high capacity utilization;
and (v) problems in marketing calcium carbide. To reduce these risks, the
Government would establish an Inter-Ministerial Committee, by August 1, 1985,
for overall coordination of project implementation including infrastructure
and upStream facilities (Section 4.04 of the draft DCA), and has assigned a
senior official to work full-time with BCC as Chief of Planning and
Coordination. BCC, in turn, has engaged Technical Advisory Services to help
it in implementing and commissioning the project. BCC with assistance from
TCC, would recruit suitable personnel from neighboring countries. BCC plans
to further reduce its risks by obtaining performance guarantees from the
Engineering Contractor, who would obtain the necessary back-up guarantees
from the Furnace Contractor, and would also provide the overall guarantee for
correctness of engineering, civil works, and erection. As for the limestone,
forestry, and charcoal components of the project, BCC would use foreign



-18-
consultants to review the work at different critical stages of planning and
implementation. The project's marketing risk is being reduced through long-
term sales arrangements with Indian companies for a substantial part of the
annual projected production from the carbide plant (para 10, Schedule 2 of
the draft PA).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
52.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Kingdom of Bhutan
and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Bhutan Carbide
and Chemicals Co. Ltd. and the Association, and the recommendation of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Association are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. Special Conditions of the Credit are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
53.     1 am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
54.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
April 25, 1985



ANNEX I
T ABLE D                                  Page  1
silurAll ~~- SOCIAL *INDICAI*OnS DATA SlUff
*uiREERNC  SOUPS (WRONTID ARE
HNOT                  (HOST RNT CRSIATEA)
E 'IN'      LOW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i  tmcmi  minoowg
1i6Ot     IiOL       RUTDIATULk      ASIA A PACIFIC         ASIA 6 PACIFIC
AUA (TEOWA  sq. U)
TOTAL                                 47.0       47.0         47.0
AGRICULTVAL                            2.6        2.9          1.1
GM  R  CAPA (MRS)                        30.0       40.0        120.0            271.6                 1091.2
Z1CT _unou rS  CAPITA
(EILOCAKS or OIL EqUIVALNT              .           .           .             272.0                  567.3
rOmais  AID VITAL  UTXnTIC5
POPuIArloIl.lIo-YEAR (THOUASU )      S41.0      947.0       1162.0
URBAN   OPIULATION (I OF TOTAL)        2.5        1.1          2.9             21.7                   24.7
POMULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN TEAR 2000 (HILL)                               3.7
5TATIONARY PorPUATION (HIlL)                                 4.1
POPULATION NONENrM                                           1.6
POPULATION DENSITY
PER sq.  t.                         17.9       20.1         24.2            16.6                   6lb.9
PER SQ. I0. AGRI. LAD              319.3      331.1        365.6            34.35                 1735.1
POPULATION AGE STRUCTUE tE)
0-14 YRS                           *O.J       41.7         39.2             35.6                    39.0
15-44 YRS                           36.0       55.2         56.2            59.8                    37.e
65 AND AOSCV                         L3.        3.1          4.6              4.2                    3.3
POPULATION COTH RATE (Z)
TOTAL                                1.0        1.2          1.7              I.9                    2.3
URBAN                                2.J        3.3          4.1              4.1                    4.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)          43.0       43.0         42.9             27.7                   30.1
CRUDE DEATR RATE (PR  TORS)           24.9       22.0         21.0             10.1                     9.3
CRS REPRODUCTION RATE                  L9         2.9          2.8              1.6                    2.0
FANILY PLNNINC
ACCEPIC0S   ANNUAL (THOJS)
USERS (E OF MAUlED WOEN)              .                                                             52.7
FOOD SD UIUTIII
INDK OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                           ..      100.0        107.0           112.6                   12.0
PER CPltrA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (Z OF REQUIRIHENTS)        92.0       99.0        103.0 Ic          97.7                  114.4
PROTEINS CARIS PER DAT)             47.0       50.0         S3.0 7I         56.r,                   57.0
or IltCH ANIUL. AND PULSE          3.0        3.0          3.0 7           14.9                   14.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE           43.0       40.0         26.0             9.8                     7.2
:-SLIN
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (TEAIM5)        32.0       34.0        43.0             60.0                    60.4
IFANT MURT. RATE (PE THO0S)          Z63.0      226.0        163.0            83.0                    66.3
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (7OFP)
TOTAL                                                        a 0             32.9                   37.0
URAN                                  ..         ..         49.0            70.9                    54.8
RURAL                                 ..         ..          6.0             22.1                   26.4
ACCES TO EYREI DISPOSAL
(S OF PoPuI.ATION)
TOTAL ,                                           *           *.             18.1                   41.3
URBAN                                 ..         ..           ..             72.8                   47.4
RURAL                                 ..         ..           ..             4.6                    33.3
-OPULATION PER ISICAN                   ..        ..        6160.0          3484.2                  7749.4
POP. ER NUESMUC PERSON                  ..        ..        7960.0          4793.1                  2460.4
rPO. PER HOSPITAL IRD
TOTAL                                 ..         ..       1940.0           1016.5                 1044.2
URBAN                                 ..        ..           ..            296.0                   61.2
RURAL                                 ..         ..           ..          5993.4                  2594.6
AIUSSIONS PER HOSPITAL EoD              ..         ..           ..              ..                    Z7.0
RmuC
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOrAL                                 ..         ..
URAN                                  ..        ...
RURAL                                 ..         ..
AVERAG  NO. OF PERSONSIROGI
TOTAL                                 ..         ..
UAN                                   ..         ..a
RURAL                                                     ..                ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (C OF DWELLENCS)
TOTAL                                 _          ..
CJRI,m                                ..         ..           .                ..
URBAL                                 ..         ..           .. .N 



-20-                                               ANNEX I
STA6 LK |  >                               Page    2
im1UTAN                               lUYUI UiCZ N    (WgIUNTgD  AVEAU) 
MOSTCOMT s30KM? Tc s                     ATIN) A k
RIC2NS           LOW INCM EDDL  ra
i,9Lk      197oL      EuTDIATILk      ASIA 6 PACIFIC          ANrA & PACIFIC
ADJUnTED EHROLINt?T RATIOS
PRIMANS    T OTAL                      3.0        7.0         21.0             97.4                    102.0
MAL                          ..       12.0         25.0            110.5                    105.9
EMALE                                  1.0         17.0             83.7                     De.2
SECONDMYI TOTAL                        3.0        1.0          3.0             35.9                     46.0
KALE                                   1.0           ..             44.6                     48.7
FEUALE                      ..          .             .             26.8                     43.1
VOCATIONAL CE OF SECONDARY)               .        38.0         31.0              2.2                     17.5
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRDIARY                              20.0        21.0         31.0             38.5                     31.8
SECONDARY                               .          .            ..             18.7                     23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE CE)                   ..         .          10.0             33.4                     72.9
co-mal
PASSENCU CARS/TROUSAND POP                ..        ..            ,               0.9                     10.1
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP              ..       5L            6.3             112.1                   113.6
TV RECEVERS/THOUSAND POP                  ..         ..           ..              15.7                    50.1
NESPFAPR ("DAtLY CENEAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATIO
PER THOUSAND POPULATION                 ..         ..           .               16.2                    53.9
CINDIA ANNUAL ATTENDANCEICAPITA           ..        0.3           ..              3.6                      3.4
un n
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)              431.0      472.0        650.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     39.5        36.9         37.7             33.3                     33.5
AGRICULTUE (PERCENT)                 95.0        94.0         93.0             69.6                     52.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                    2.0         2.0          2.0             15.8                     17.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 51.1       49.8         55.9             42.6                     38.7
KALE                                 61.5        59.7            .             54.7                     50.9
FCMALE                               40.6        39.6           ..             29.8                     26.6
ECOWNCIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               09          0.9           .e              L.0                      1.1
INCE DISERIDII
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCUS
RECEIVED BY
HIXGEST 5E o  HOUSZHOLDS                     2. .                        .       ..                     2.2
HIGHEST 202 OF HOUSEHOLDS               .          .            ..                .                      8.0
LOWEST 202 OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..                                                               6.4
LOWST 40  OP HOUSHOLDS                                                            .                     15.5
nWm TAS= g
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERrY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAU N.                                                        ..            133.9                    188.6
RURAL                                  ..          .            .             111.6                    152.0
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
MUL                                                                                                    177.9
RURAL                                              .            ..               .                     164.6
ESTIMATED POP. BELOI ABSOLUTE
POVErT INCOlZ LEVEL (S)
URBAN.    ..                                                    ..             43.8                     23 4
RURAL                                        .                   .             51.7                     37.7
NOT AVAILALE
HOT APPLICABLE
NO T E S
Is   The group averaes for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic mens. Coverage of countries among the
indLcators depends on availabillty of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwis  noted. "Data for 1960V refer to ny year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970' between 1969 and
1971; and d"t for "Meost Rbcent Eacmata" between 1980 and 1982.
Ic   1977.
JUNEz 1984



-21-                                                                       AM  
ftent  "Itso I6k duot.t jimo ft. .nrccd Mcc..dl  3c    1k  -ac stccul    =.. ru 1.. It .i-u .-uh. mc .     OM. tibn  npnt t. 5n.ru..li.ui5
cr.c  set-  clu I..            t-dt.d&-   ttluc   -4 ..u..e uM    hi N dilfuru   1ae .  1e chcule  smc a... in s.. .r.u..ecu  ahd
d.nPtk. hisac Id -iulcui. MINicg             Me.,.1  ateolutI.e. curie. u.Ju  slff. n  Ieo.. c-rc...
at. .e..n  cdoop It IIIIhb. -    enacty in... c.9    nbjc cMcotor mda 2 ii .nta . "se  vc  ucusku  hak. tang   ctus- bc. tmc c.eucr ir..  ad tin
-a..  ucp 5.usp. f.. RI  c-uML .cp-ce.c  V-p 9-cc  cciilc cc-  oorul WpIc. us ris. i.*r i* ti-t kus.u .1 eir.uu.r cucc._Iei
*tftils. Eu uPs cc.rcc amp suet. mctr ..c. cuusl.c".. InsetS  "'IsIttlc -us. h-tb Losic.t.i  .5*     ni   9-g  .l.tit   oIt. .uu.rs. u.
im_p`f.. d.c. Pci ike lSLu.l.. lint ft. slm         -i.nIu. MM  9k. urit ctu  scpc M Lb. -cc.li.tiic  cid. ..   . ust .gutuccc.  uuit- n. 
ni got"  cic u441"      u  b W   tcu us eui. OMP upugT%   mice.  m                  c -e 1   -WI   I. - - . usclee a       . rLci. i.t.tn t
uE  S  m   elta..  of mottii. ur 'm  . c-odr . . P.tiucl  sculrohi ick.                                                                                 .
u.  u   metoa..  =un-d kapt 0-q.1pd4 .tciu. crhu. u  rurl -  p.isu. ..u.i
itte -d look d..  ~ ~ ~         ~        ~       ~      ~       uh.  .    .ri d.dc  h   .c   nc.n  .L  a Po4.ureumi
EE.4!~f91~Lft       cp  Itpl. .ulc..cuc  lc      t     ptl"Riun.                    .cietm. I. PuLLh  -A pilc,c  41-4. us .celI.I.i! ueldpulu us
S                           mccc~~~~~~lo. Iol. us us au.-                                                           b  a lust us phriciti-4  isttflii-e  puIlotciclp.ils, cuudic1
lI  '  t.uusilicsu. bu..I tneI.i.  ..                %-cid    cI.: usI
gnus  Ms-l.puaIe    -.   p.e.uutc  .1 c-nicE                                           -9- nsni n    tieu   pw-ii eeils be  Ph" .i.u  ikt hi a uin
.cdrruuciieui u   "t~rtcttiuu . -tuI cu  -1 .id-. nui.c                         a.tc-s  1-.   do"*. *.It. .Me htu  lc. tid   cuul.n
Io 8cu.cmn  cIcu9.triut  I. edilomun .1 -di u.e..iuse puptisrIi Ii&t                    ptid. .I .A9ted  .   W ndicui fucultuIc..
-t joy 1, g~~~~~~~~. tem. -d                            ruset 1 mdl
e.   -I-.a  -.y1-  lU. L                          ioa   d                                                                                           to.u't   Pccctcdi.cccc.%.tsu      uu.  a.d   uc
si.cuSuuEsuu   4.u..a    rc.a.pe  i,aa                                            .0.stn  nB  nt   A I-.tpc .     uu   l - I-tusb he ccis.  L.
-aq cnscarli lfl@. IIAP.usi   sue.                                                    ti.u loetid P..r    urlu  Mpuru..
us                                                           -ct  r.   a  c....7 'b              ttut.1"r.
inn.  pnitttI.,pPInlert uS.niIT.ti rctu  iscien.R thin                               flctupiP.putt.
iu.nc  nuse.lit. ru.s.u       - tn  r.-. -ec   aryc. put                     .gcI        *li.(.pc               ciini-.ui.0.u   uu
un      =1uein   .itt,it  .u stsi.. gu 11.  mcc_j-l-d puc   ei
tiu..ecu pufu.n.t-  bu   cp , up.. uctes         it.1.7c
- mc-  te ut* q- usucc..rciri ..iuiip                                              - i-.  too,cu.  us t.us
-tlpdbetfoi isu.u.  1.  oh. sovamstlu. too btahlboreA. uI,ta                           e. b.c dJneus  c  ditiruce tccgcm  ci P.i.-? santune i.
us null Itu I. snb isp. L. cu .cit.mcu. uu  ic  tune.. to im                           inp..ieuei.t    ceicl ucruihe   -p u.cu   too Pc-.e
irtevs   . cc. "t. da...'apustu  u.- -   ni-tn    -  us                           .it   u     all -upuc du   u 1  d.10- lb. .ff    -P91  .t. qp.
-ut *r Ik ptcj-cd" ft-In.cn-eir  a us Mpucrsic  LA 0 Cciicclruhc     .1    i   s                                            .pop  uectW -  ktiu.ud
itv".     or gscr i-1     oas. pciI..sett-tu   it.,I                      piiun  ucis.  Bctilc.,5cutsiuuicterec   r
cc.gn  siu  it I   c.pit.ts '.. ft- puotat  ..iey   Thu                           .u.idtL  -sdud.
c-.   i. pItts- 1. tie.r.cr j. ic Mnu       -   .i.P 0. Wcttcicii-   iiucc curu vi oioIu. iitsu
cSo -ties A-f 1:7.19 -it..Lci.=rL,c til - cric -. us u -dsce-Y.  edtecttid5
in.  titV    duu   a.tti uuupi.(.rc  -- ieut.ec "dc. ICs ' us cud us ug)
opeeccis. mc. Itctt Iola.   nt .LugLa.el-- ime..sace-c. u--
5   ppuc ti.  nratt  &   .au   .i       unu . .*i.iuus  e.pcttuu 51usisii   &Isdut Iva                                                    . id l.. u..m
r..tai.   Orit mc. pumce -I.          - -,.u  ;;n.  -nCie    d.uitt   ecs
rucuits. Ie 950ic. in-A%   s  it-IL                                         sucuud.u.ucum eut p,I- pu  iLp.   Ob-ci.ru   ci itct
Cducctbt  (cur Mhqud   - uu  tin in-t  put ebs-    -  cud                            -u-I. ci-tut dcl. hruu   .i n    e-tnPu                       ir   u
2ru L. ..brt. jc. t        t-  et desp    e -             -1_    r.u,-                "'It urcuuc  i  i....- cuiu-is  - It  -R-t..  cI-hudic
L'etta,i-.sc. us ic  da..                                                    clape It u  it.d   opueIcu  uurlu tuicund ?U r.tuup
Oa.tspn..*u.c.c -  nruu.um  u tuecc_  .  ..elittc                              ucupu    s5  cr..1rnctsc. u   Wi                    Is it-.r .
~~ puns ~~if a  ...rI.c                                  A.n-cii             ccuu  ltltetn   ktscncec      h    i..
tutii=t  iut.-c 1u.i1e-u.duunuitC    eii   u                                          etic.~-dei  tct  tuutncue.au         liid
uS    - .ctdiu   dc - -w.u  Socutc uL -&M,= u.tcdc a
tudutlcr runc    --&I'l tonu "id (c`flut`    c et.c-                           T."'  us  -.cu    -u.di   uusru  c.. . Sc..  -te
MM i    itu                                                                              n..ruic"uM. 11,6 -A IS dIce.
dunIt p5seii ul  ii iuu  ~itc.  tru1si  esiudu  -bu                      i~JE              . -4  LWIbI.-cr  I. isro,o t.r,r  b.siq  -d
tdu   --a -ud    -cibe       ..u    cu  pil,-ec su...u.                       u1ti --       lc-t   et t--e  u-i ir-r  Icla. itt us iua s.c.
=           :niscu     ceut seab .u  Wii us losit ust.au  K...                 EsJfcl- Ltt."i, t  i citlI  tucrctcr,u-fscit  d
-  c- eectu-i. nwtu. pruOrI- ci c.-f c-trWcu ec                                            cc  us -.    .  -reissue a  e.-I itb  flecI iic. ico
s.-ud                                                                               Punitcu.c dI.-t.tcn  - aut-ni. u  pull -  uitticIvac
Puntmi  nid-,- uPccpu  gtur  fpuimc    bai ii.                                        utedep tut . us cu-te   F- sl  nic. In  aui  itic P. i ' et.
sar.  u.ciuuuA       .   nLt.cisn.m c-cry pup L                                        Me.pu   pucctec. -i i1.tcd. ni   T.d iuni-u PIuiil. f tat Iurrupttir
du CutiS..cu...t L.  ic   uc..cu- 'l%   ne ""      " .-".                       ecg  iti  us  -.utdce    br. tc baud us i.   puttiiputir1t-
.cutc   stI_ig  is ci-    usc -actic. .cI  -W. us., ide                        .,__ r f.ttq eu.Iitl            aie                ISiic.. d    iuje-1 u.s  Ia
-1tii  ll -U.  _ide  runltu   ice. c  itci. top.bri-                             c   nnu -go..iius. nrU.- uucttuc
art  ut.ulcuudhil-   ha   -reuituie  cud  h  cti                               rcsst-t.ci "l  -ulesa  uctotu dP-ususesustn  c
uttiicu   uic1ecc.   clrunl  .uS.  u   ultg                                           t.ccredlw     tuue.  i..dudI.ei
urn u   -etcit.cu  atuuicm..usctuuq  l  utit(c u.e
It  pcPis Iut  ni-.  urn us  flud. duc.         ltd             I-                   --o 'uilyi 
puts pisue. Ii at   19 gin.   te mc .u..i  Vnd.    Utl                 -ciIY ttt  rus.Vt                L-         
ctde iscc  esup loot. IIit0..     tt7  -da ci; tidd  fcuu    in                  b  (u.   .cirtsccccdic.cscc       cItitt.
ci dci pu.lu    c  crcc tu  te eucd.   in   hi-pet' it.                 uMc.iMcniecduutctcrtuL nic
Pi      alc l c...  rci  WI. di.t.  td1- ulut. -..`cccelpuPtscmc    n-n  inn  ccc. tic  urn . i. -1 l lts  rI. --I
a..                                                                                   ucfsldd-W-  a. atd    - d. o
-1  -     ~~~~~~~~  -     -Id ._41i  i  dlc    It itutra  .  hrl-  aS.tn
cll  ui.    %itO us t-t Is.  .            .f.    '      PoO
ic.. nciit cc cc  tWuud - dcc)ett  i etucc 
Pi-1   I   hlt  t  ues   il  flit u   mda..P
dtuu upItcr- 4cut pc"icuct   c-.tluu.- iS-dutu   us inl 



-22-
AN=  I
Page 4
MONET. CREDIT, AND PRICES
(End-December)
19?9      l90       1981      1         1983 (June)
(Nu million)
Money and Quasi Money                   139.1    155.0    202.1    239.3         275. 7
Bank Credit to Public Sector            -69.9    -27.9    -65.9   -114.8    -112.6
Bank Credit to Private Sector            39.1      51.0       54.7     80.9       93.1
Money and Quasi money as z of GDP          .                  19.8
Annual % Changes in:
Consumer Price Indez                     .       S5.3    +12.6    .14.1        4L1.3 (Dec.)
Bank Credit to Public Sector            .        60.1   -136.2    -74.2          1.9
Bank Credit to Private Sector                   +30.4      +7.3    +47.9        15. 1
Consumer Price Index
(1979-100)                             100      115.3    129.8    135.1        150.3 (Dec.)
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS. 1983/84 a'                        MERCRANDISE EXPORTS, 1983/84 A/
(USSOOO)                                                  USS OOO     .
Export of Goods                               342
Import of Goods                           -8,750             Cardamom           245      71.6
Services and Private Transfers (net)   -1,047                Wood Products       51      14.9
Total Current Account                     -9,455             Handicrafts         38      11.1
Official Capital Transfers (net)          11,871             Timb'tr              8       2.4
Change in Reserves (decrease -)            2,416               Total            342    100.0
RATZ OF EXCHANGE b/
(Anual Average for Fiscai Year)
1978179                                       1981/82
US5100        - Ngultrum 8.21                USSl.00        a Ngultrum 8.93
Ngultrur   1.00 - USSO.12                     Ngultrum 1.00 - USSO.11
1979/80                                      1982183
USS1.00        - Ngultrum 8.08                USS1.00        - NguLtrum 9.63
Ngultrum 1.00 - USSO.12                       Ngulcrum 1.00 - USSO.10
1980/81                                       1983/84
USSl1OO        - Ygulcrum 7.89               USS1.00         - Ngultrum 10.31
Ngultrim 1.00 - USS0.13                       Ngultrum 1.00 - USSO10
a/  With countries other than India.
bl The ngultrum is freely exchangeable in Bhutan vith the Indian rupee on a
one-for-one basis.
Not available.
South Asia Programs Department
February 15. 1985



-23-
ANNEL' t
Page 5
COUNTRY DATA - BHUTAN
ARU                         POPUTATION I/                          DENSITY
46,500 sq km               1.2 million (mid-1982)                25 per sq km (1982)
POPULATION CEARACTERISTICS (1982)                      HEALTO (1982)
Crude Birth Rate (per  000):                  43        Population per Physician          18. 1CO
Crude Death Rat. (per  000):                  21        Population per Hospital Bed:       2,000
Infant Mortality (per  000 live births):   147
INCOME DISTRIBUTION                                     DISTRTBUTION OF LAND OWNERSUEIr
: of National Income - bighest Qulntile:      .          Owned by Top 102 of Owners
Lowere Quintile        .       : Ovwed by Smallest 102 of Owners:
ACCESS TO PIPED WATERS (1982)                          ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
: of Population - Urban                       49       : of DwelLings - Urban:
Rural                       6                         Rural:
NUTRITION                                                EDUCATION (1982)
Calorie Intake an S of Requirement:                     Adult Literacy Rate        :          10S
Per Capita Protein Intake (grams                         Primary School Enrollment:          21:
per day):
CDP PER CAPITA IN 1981:  USS116
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR (1980/81)
Value Added
S Million
Agriculture kb           61.6        47.6
Forestry                 20.2        15.6
Industry c/               8.0         6.2
Services dJ              39.5        30.6
129.3       100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1981/82
As : of GDP
Nu mijllon   at Xarket Prices            1983/84
Revenue                             101.1             9.9                  189.2
Current Ezpenditures                169.7            16.6                  216.1
Public Savings                    -68.6            -6.7                  -26.9
Capital Expenditures                239.9            23.5                  459.2
Foreign Grants and Loans            278.7            27.3                  486.1
Overall Balance                     -29.8            -2.9                     -
a/  Official estimate.
b/  Includes agriculture and animal husbandry.
Li  Includes mnufacturing, mining. power, and construction.
A/  Includes communicatios, transport, tourism, financial services. social
services, rental income, trade, and government.
Not available.



-24-
AMNM I I
STATUS OF IDA OPERATIONS IN BHUTAN
(as of March 31, 1985)
US5 Million
Amount (less cancellations)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower    Purpose                Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
1416        1984   Bhutan   Technical Assistance                3.0        2.7
1460        1984   Bhutan   Forestry Developmenc                5.5        5.3
Total,                                                          8.5        8.0
of which has been repaid                                       .0
Total now outstanding                                           8.5
8.0
Undisbursed.                                                               an



-25-
ANNEX III
Page 1
BHUTAN
CALCIUM CARBIDE PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the Country to prepare the Project:
2 years
(b) Agencies Preparing the Project:
The Government and consultants.
(c) Date of First Presentation to the Association:
May 1983.
(d) Date of Departure of Appraisal Mission:
June 4, 1984
(e) Date of Completion of Negotiations:
March 1985
(f) Planned Date of Effectiveness:
October 1985
Section II:     Special IDA Implementation Action
(a) The Technical Assistance Credit (No. 1416-BHU) has
provided US$0.3 million to accelerate the drilling,
sampling and testing work at Hauri Khola and Kaleshwar
(para 34);
(b)  IDA Credit would provide up to US$0.5 milion equivalent
retroactively for eligible expenditures incurred after
September 1, 1984 (para 43); and
tc)  IDA Credit would establish a Special Account of US$0.5
equivalent to procure project items (para 44).



-26-
ANNEX III
Page 2
Section III:    Special Conditions
A. Conditions of Effectiveness
(a) Signing of a Shareholders Agreement between the
Covernment and TCC (para 42); and
A
(b) Signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the
Government and BCC (para 42).
B. Other Conditions
The Government will:
(a) Complete drilling and sampling work at Kaleshwar and
Uauri Khola by March 31, 1986 (para 34);
(b) Furnish to IDA a Reforestation Program by December
31, 1985 and permit BCC to use the nurseries at
Phuntsholing for purposes of the project (paras 35
and 48);
(c) Ensure that private charcoal plants adopt measures
for pollution control satisfactory to IDA (paras
36 and 48);
(d) Complete the Kharbandi-Barsa road by June 30, 1986
(para 37);
(e) Complete the power distribution system in a timely
manner (para 37);
(f)  Establish an Inter-Ministerial Committee for
coordination and implementation of the project
including infrastructure and upstream facilities
by August 1, 1985 (paras 38 and 51); and
(g) ensure that the project is operated in accordance
with environmental standards acceptable to IDA
(para 48).
BCC will:
(a) Prepare a detailed carbide marketing strategy by
April 1, 1987 (para 29);



-27-                         ANNEX III
Page 3
(b) By October 31,1985, prepare a detailed plan for the
production and supply of charcoal required for the
project (para 36);
(c) Complete a steel bridge across the Barsa stream by
June 30, 1986 (para 37);
(d) Prepare an organizational and staffing plan by
March 31, 1986 and appoint a general manager by
December 31, 1986 (paras 38 and 40);
(e) Employ consuLtants by September 30, 1985 to advise
on the mining, forestry and charcoal components of
the project (para 41); and
(f) Establish a Special Account (para 44).



PHYSICAt RELIEF
-malers)                            BHUTAN
- 3000 LOCATION   OF  rALCIUM   CARBIDE                                            Project wte at Plwhlo     A  Elevltion potintsn(eters)
AND   UPSTREAM    FACILITIES                              - Proposedcharcalil                  Nat|nalcp a
0   S ^                     > . A          --    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Roads under irmor owm nr  _   raicEn|nio
DU AA$   P L A,, h 0. 4                                                                        ASt t e bouits r
Irreiton. depoit~~~~~~  ~   Otkb.rr cowrel
A               A *   '                            -        _    r                     0  S       Ailla s
w*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ noe  rod                                                                                        -it4tritbOdru (BIsuE,ranij  
N.~~~~~~~~~~y
bLunn                                                      Aun   r    nt   -- - S          A   (I
a   .   X        r                         <                    9 L ~~~~~~~~~~~H U N  T S  15,                          tivs|
-  ''1
/   )   - --   o-t  PUNAKaIAz                 J  e.  iu   M    T . H    A    N    G
I J P'.A R O \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ t <tWA~~~~NGDIPHODRANG                                                 th rM ItnS-                                                  ,, VILES
P',:C                                                                                                                                         TH  A R   
Goso                                                                   /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TH(AH                        Nobdng akh  -e
long  p hv ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~anln
SAM  HI ~   LkS    90' CoAT-                                                             0TENA     UA
A                                                            g.                                                                      A '  ''.O
WEST~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                       UEGA 
WE5r 8ENGAI                                                                   ~~A S              A M
59   i       vi3                                                       vi.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i






