                                   Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                            Report No: 29491

                      IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                   (IDA-34280)

                                      ON A

                                     CREDIT

                        IN THE AMOUNT OF US$7.5 MILLION

                         TO THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF

                             SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE

                   FOR A PUBLIC RESOURCE MANAGEMENT CREDIT




                                 December 28, 2004




AFTP4
Country Department 14
Africa Region

                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                          (Exchange Rate Effective : end 2004)

                                 Currency Unit = São Toméan dobras (Db)
                                     Db 10,146 = US$ $1.00
                              US$ 0.0000986 = 1.00 Db

                                        FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1      -    December 31

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AfDB      African Development Bank
CEMAC     Central African Economic and Monetary Community
CET       Common External Tariff
CNPC      National Savings and Loans Institution
Db        Dobras
EEZ       Exclusive Economic Zone
EMAE      Empresa de Agua e Electricidade (Utility Company)
EMOLVE    Palm-Oil Development Company
ENAMED    Empresa Nacional de Medicamentos (Public Drug Company)
ENASA     National Air Safety Authorities
ENCAR     Empresa Nacional de Carne (Public Meat Processing Company)
ENCO      Empresa Nacional de Combustivel e Oleos (Petroleum Distribution Company)
ENPORT    National Port Authorities
EU        European Union
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
HIPC      Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
IBSTP     International Bank of São Tomé and Príncipe
IDA       International Development Agency
IDF       Institutional Development Fund
IMF       International Monetary Fund
NGO       Non-Governmental Organization
PE        Public Enterprise
PER       Public Expenditure Review
PIP       Public Investment Program
PPIAF     Public-Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility
PRGF      Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PRSP      Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
SAC       Structural Adjustment Credit
SDR       Special Drawing Rights
SPA       Special Program of Assistance
TA        Technical Assistance
UFI       Unique Fiscal Identifier
UNDP      United Nations Development Program
USD       United States Dollar
VAT       Value Added Tax
WAEMU     Western African Economic and Monetary Union
WCO       World Customs Organization
WTO       World Trade Organization

                 Vice President:  Gobind T. Nankani
             Country Director:    A. David Craig
               Sector Manager:    Robert R. Blake
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Dorsati Madani

                     IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
           THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
PUBLIC RESOURCE MANAGEMENT CREDIT - PRMC (CREDIT NO. 34280-STP)


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            14
6. Sustainability                                                                15
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 16
8. Lessons Learned                                                               17
9. Partner Comments                                                              18
10. Additional Information                                                       19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             21
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             23
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            26
Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation Report                                            27

Project ID: P069909                                                  Project Name: ST - Public Resource Management
Team Leader: Dorsati Madani                                          TL Unit: AFTP4
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 28, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: ST - Public Resource Management                          L/C/TF Number: IDA-34280
   Country/Department: SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE                                               Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (43%); General agriculture,
                            fishing and forestry sector (24%); General finance sector (19%);
                            General water, sanitation and flood protection sector (7%); Health
                            (7%)
                  Theme: Debt management and fiscal substainability (P); Macroeconomic
                            management (P); Poverty strategy, analysis and monitoring (S);
                            Public expenditure, financial management and procurement (S);
                            Other financial and private sector development (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 05/04/2000                                     Effective:                           02/08/2001
     Appraisal: 06/22/2000                                         MTR:
      Approval: 11/02/2000                                      Closing: 03/31/2003                 06/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE/MINISTRY OF PLANNING;
                                           GOVERNMENT OF SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE/FINANCE AND
                                           COOPERATION
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:               A. David Craig                                 Hasan Tuluy
Sector Manager:                 Robert R. Blake                                Emmanuel Akpa
Team Leader at ICR:             Dorsati Madani
ICR Primary Author:             Sati Achath; Dorsati Madani


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

1.       The goal of the US$7.5 million project was to support the government's macroeconomic and
structural reform program. In particular, the project's stated objectives were to: (i) improve domestic
resource mobilization and the implementation of a tariff reform; (ii) strengthen public expenditure
management; and (iii) deepen its public enterprise reform program. The project was also expected to assist
the government's regional integration effort. The accompanying government's Letter of Development Policy
(LDP), which outlined a wide ranging program of reforms, is supported by the Credit. The specific
conditions to be fulfilled for tranche releases were drawn from the LDP.

2.       The objectives were important to the achievement of the country's economic and social
development. These objectives were timely and addressed the needs of the Borrower. However, they were
also ambitious and wide ranging. São Tomé and Príncipe's economic and social indicators were negatively
affected by some of the basic challenges that afflict many small island states. These challenges include:
remoteness and insularity, susceptibility to natural disasters, limited institutional capacity, a narrow
resource base, vulnerability to external shocks, limited access to external capital, and entrenched poverty.
Given that São Tomé and Príncipe's resource base and revenue potential were very limited and essentially
tied to subsistence or informal sector activities and an export sector based on one major activity ­ cocoa -,
the government needed to develop and implement a medium-term program aimed at improving resource
mobilization as well as the efficiency and equity of public resource allocation, within a solid
macroeconomic framework and well-defined sector development priorities, with clear poverty reduction
objectives.

3.       The project aimed to provide budgetary support to fill the financing gap for the period 2000-01,
permitting the government to sustain its reform program. It was also expected to complement ongoing
reforms financed under the Institutional Development Fund (IDF) and the International Monetary Fund
(IMF) Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF), and assist the Saotomean authorities to implement
a set of first-generation policy reforms. These reforms were needed to consolidate and accelerate the
government's efforts and move São Tomé and Príncipe towards a new phase of economic and social
development. The government recognized the Bank as a privileged partner, well positioned to provide sound
advice and extend the dialogue to other development partners.

4.       The project was consistent with the Bank's country assistance strategy (CAS) and the country's
Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP). It supported these economic reforms in the following
areas: (i) improve domestic resource mobilization, including progress towards harmonization with the
Western African Economic Monetary Union (WAEMU) on a common external tariff (CET); (ii) strengthen
public expenditure management; and (iii) continue implementation of the public enterprise reform program.
It mainly supported actions aimed at domestic resource mobilization and at deepening the Public Enterprise
(PE) reform program while at the same time complementing and deepening actions already agreed under the
IMF-PRGF in the area of public expenditure management.`

5.       The project envisioned the following outputs, which related back to the three project objectives
identified above : (i) implementation of the tariff reform and harmonization of the revised tariff system with
the common tariff of the CEMAC and the WAEMU which would assist São Tomé and Príncipe's growth
over the medium and long-term; (ii) increased resource mobilization, private investment flows, economic
diversification and external trade thereby enhancing the efficiency and productivity of public resources; (iii)
improved efficiency of public expenditure and the reallocation of public resources towards education,



                                                       - 2 -

health and poverty-oriented programs, to help protect budgetary spending in these three areas, leading to
positive and direct impact on poverty reduction; and (iv) implementation of the civil service reform to allow
São Tomé and Príncipe to have a lean administration and improve public service delivery to the
beneficiaries.

6.       The following risk factors which could affect the implementation were nonetheless considered. The
main risk was that the reform agenda would encounter resistance and incite social unrest, particularly in the
period leading up to the 2001 presidential election. Other risks resulted from its low institutional capacity,
limited donor commitment and lack of coordination, and a narrow private sector. Declining export earnings,
and protracted negotiations with Nigeria on the delimitation of the maritime border could also distract the
government's attention away from the reform agenda. This could lead to partial implementation of the
program, or to excessive delays or even policy reversals, particularly if recovery of the economy was
slower than expected.

7.       To manage the above risks, the government planned to: (i) harness the support of the political
parties, the business community, labor unions, NGOs and the population at large, as it did during the
successful preparation of the I-PRSP; (ii) strengthen donor coordination including, holding a Donor Round
Table meeting in October 2000; and (iii) develop local institutional capacity. In addition, a companion
study fund (the Public Resource Management Technical Assistance Project (PRM - TA)) was developed to
provide necessary technical support, training and goods and equipment to the government. The PRM-TA
was to meet three objectives: (i) implement the policy measures included under the government's reform
program supported by the PRMC credit; (ii) carry out sectoral, sub-sectoral and specific studies needed
towards the preparation of its PRSP; and (iii) develop the agenda for macro-economic and sectoral policy
reforms.

8.       The project was relatively complex given the process of democratic consolidation that partially
explains the political instability to push through some of the reforms. The main drawback of the project
was that, it underestimated the lack capacity of the civil service and the likelihood of political instability,
which in turn affected the functioning of the civil service. This rendered the project implementation very
uneven. Given these factors, the design of the project (a quick release of two tranches in a short period of
two and half years) for such a large reform program (as described by the Letter of Development Policy and
Table 1 in the Official Credit Document Letter to the President of the World Bank) was not appropriate.

3.2 Revised Objective:

9.       The objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:

10.      The project consisted of three components, all related to achieving the project's objectives.

(a).     Improve Domestic Resource Mobilization.

11.      To increase tax revenues, the government intended to further broaden the tax base and strengthen
tax administration by: (i) reducing the number and scope of tax exemptions; (ii) strengthening the tax
assessment and collection services; and (iii) rationalizing domestic indirect taxation. Through these
measures, the government expected to enhance revenue mobilization to 22 percent of GDP in 2002.

12.      To reduce the number and scope of tax exemptions, the government planned to implement the



                                                      - 3 -

following measures: (i) eliminate all ad-hoc tax exemptions; (ii) let expiring exemptions granted under the
investment code lapse; (iii) exclude all enterprises that will be privatized from exemptions under the
provision of the investment code; (iv) improve implementation of the system of Treasury checks as a means
to monitor exemptions related to imports under foreign-financed government procurement; and (v) extend
to Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) the system of Treasury checks to pay import duties and other
applicable indirect taxes.

13.      To strengthen tax administration, the government planned to: (i) provide a directorate of taxation
with adequate personnel and material to improve its efficiency; (ii) monitor taxpayer compliance by
introducing the single taxpayer identification number system to all revenue agencies; (iii) computerize the
process of tax collection at the Directorate General of Customs; and (iv) improve tax collection by
strengthening the collaboration between Customs and the Directorate of Taxes. In addition, with assistance
from the Bank and the IMF, the government would annually assess the impact of the tariff reform on
government finances, and if needed, develop offsetting measures.

14.      Regarding domestic indirect taxation, the government embarked on a tariff reform in 1999
designed to reduce the dispersion in the level of tariffs and the associated distortions. This reform had two
objectives: (i) simplification of the tariff structure so as to increase transparency and the rate of
compliance; and (ii) reduction in the effective rate of protection in order to better integrate São Tomé and
Príncipe into the global economy. This reform was expected to help safeguard São Tomé and Príncipe's
competitiveness within the region, particularly in light of current tariff reforms from the Central African
Economic and Monetary Community (CEMAC) and WAEMU members.

15.      In January 2000, the government adopted a new customs duty structure that comprised only three
rates: 5, 10, and 20 percent. Given the relatively high rates of taxes paid by alcoholic beverages and
petroleum products, the government intended to neutralize the revenue impact of the duty rate change by
applying an appropriate level of sales taxes. With the changes, the weighted average import duty in São
Tomé and Príncipe's was expected to be about 10.3 percent.

16.      The next stage of tariff and tax reforms was to be implemented within the framework of this
project. Measures to be implemented included the reclassification of goods as a function of their
economic nature (along the lines of the proposed CEMAC scheme); and an extension to the embryonic
general sales tax.

(b)      Rationalize Public Expenditure Management

17.      The government had launched a medium-term process to improve the efficiency and equity of
public spending in line with its macroeconomic objectives and sector priorities. A key priority was to direct
expenditures toward the social sectors (education and health, particularly to the rural population), improve
service delivery and address poverty issues.

18.      Current expenditure as a share of GDP had declined from 27.8 percent of GDP in 1997 to 27.2
percent in 1999. However, despite efforts to reduce the government's wage bill, it increased by 156 percent
from 1997 to 1999 and absorbed, in 1999, about 48 percent of (non-interest) current expenditures. In
contrast, spending for goods and equipment during the same period represented only 23 percent of current
expenditures, and was declining, which had contributed to the deterioration of facilities and equipment, and
to poor service quality, particularly in rural areas. In addition, within the health and education sectors,
resources were not appropriately allocated to the country's priority needs. Administration services
absorbed about 44 percent of current expenditure of both the education and health budgets. In the health


                                                        - 4 -

sector, a significant share of resources was spent on urban, curative health services instead of on rural,
preventive health care. Within the education budget, secondary and higher education received too much and
primary education too little. There was also an issue with respect to regional imbalances in resource
allocation.

19.      To ensure adequate funding of the social and infrastructure sectors, as well as the poverty
reduction program identified under the Interim PRSP framework, the government needed to restructure its
public expenditures. The government had committed to do so under the umbrella of this project. Measures
to be pursued included improving financial management and budget preparation and execution, and
implementing a civil service reform program including the retrenchment of about 532 civil servants by no
later than December 2001. In particular, the government would undertake public expenditure reviews
(PERs) in the education and health sectors to identify issues with regard to the composition of sector
allocations, expenditure programming, budget execution and impact evaluation. In this process, clear
linkages were to be established between recurrent and investment budgets.

20.      Investment expenditures were to be established within the framework of a public investment
program (PIP), in agreement with the Bank. Priority areas included agriculture, infrastructure and human
resource development. With respect to foreign-financed capital expenditure, the government would select
projects having the highest returns and aimed at social development and poverty reduction. Ongoing
projects were to be closely monitored, including those financed through special grants (e.g. from Taiwan,
China). The integrity of the budget would be preserved and all public investments would be included in the
budget and the PIP.

21.      The government intended to review and update the recommendations of the 1997 Public Finance
Review and take into account the education and health PER recommendations as well as the project PRSP
objectives in the preparation of the 2002 Budget law. In this context, the government would fully involve
IDA, the IMF and other interested donors in the preparation of the 2001-02 budgets. Eventually, once
institutional capacity was better developed, public expenditure decisions were to be integrated within a
three-year rolling macroeconomic and public expenditure framework (MTEF).

22.      In addition, the government had indicated its commitment to put in place well-functioning public
finance administrations and procedures. Studies had been conducted on the role and missions of the
Directorate of Finance with a view to streamlining its operations and establishing separate and autonomous
tax, budget, and treasury administrations. Control over expenditure commitments (including investments)
would be strengthened. Finally, following the Paris Club rescheduling (May 2000), the government aimed
at eliminating all external payments arrears during the first year of implementation. Domestic arrears were
also projected to be eliminated at that time.

(c)      Implement Public Enterprise Reform.

23.      The government was determined to pursue the implementation of its public enterprise reform
program by putting up for sale enterprises already slated for privatization, by liquidating non-performing
public enterprises for which buyers cannot be found; and by financially rehabilitating public utilities,
especially by periodically adjusting tariff rates to reflect the cost and efficiency gains of producing these
services. In addition, the government would strengthen the legal and institutional framework for private
investment, conduct a study of the telecommunications sector with a view of opening it up to competition,
and adopt a program for the privatization of large state-owned agricultural farms together with an
action-plan for the rationalization of the land tenure system.




                                                       - 5 -

Budgetary gap and financing requirements

24.      A pre-requisite to the success of the reform program was to maintain sound government finances,
notwithstanding the loss of revenue that would come from both the implementation of the tariff reform and
increased public expenditure in the social sectors.

25.      Tariff Reform and revenue implications. Assuming: (i) revenue neutrality for alcoholic beverages
and fuels; (ii) not accounting for the effect of extending the current sales tax to domestic services; (iii) no
change in the rate of evasion or under-invoicing, and no change in the level of imports (i.e. no
elasticity-type effects due to price changes); (iv) no change in the level and extent of exemptions; and (v) a
constant rate of collection, , the worst case scenario showed that the impact of the tariff reform on fiscal
revenue would be a loss of about US$2.5 million in 2000 or 1.8 billion of Dobras (0.5 percent of GDP in
2000).

26.      To partially offset the expected revenue shortfall, the government aimed to strengthen customs and
tax administration by: (a) conducting a census of all tax and customs exemptions and eliminating all ad hoc
tax and customs duty exemptions that in 1999 amounted to Dobras (Db) 18.3 billion, of which Db 10.4
billion were given to the government itself and to public enterprises (PEs); (b) developing a monitoring
system of import values at customs; (c) making fully operational the computerization program at custom
(SYDONIA); (d) combating fraud and tax evasion; (e) giving full authority to the Ministry of Planning and
Finance and its Customs Service to evaluate the tax bases at Customs, assess and collect duties and taxes
and apply penalties where appropriate; and (f) ensuring that all tax and customs regulations were enforced.

27.      Increased public expenditure. To provide adequate access to basic education and health services
and implement the poverty reduction programs identified under the I-PRSP framework, budget expenditure
was expected to be increased. In addition, budgetary resources were needed to make fully operational the
Oil Unit and carry out sectoral studies and PERs.

3.4 Revised Components:

28.      The components were not revised.


3.5 Quality at Entry:

29.      Unsatisfactory. There was no official assessment of the quality at entry by the Quality Assurance
Group (QAG). The ICR deems the quality at entry to be marginally unsatisfactory.

30.      As mentioned in the earlier sections , the project objectives were consistent with the Bank's country
assistance strategy and the government priorities and met the critical needs of the macroeconomic sector.
During preparation of the project, the Bank took into account the country's low capacity and designed a
TA Credit in order to ensure that the country will be able to prepare policy reform work and undertake
sectoral strategy studies which will provide input to PRSP. The ICR views these aspects as satisfactory

31.      On the other hand, the project design was fraught with risks. For example, given the political
instability and low institutional capacity, the program was over ambitious and not sufficiently focused. The
project's development objectives were not very clear and specific, and they were not matching with the
scope of the government's Letter of Development Policy. In addition, they also did not match with the
nature of the Credit, which consisted of a quick release of two tranches in a short period of two and half



                                                       - 6 -

years. The program should have been more simplified consistent with the tranche release expectations.
Alternatively, the timeframe should have been for a longer period, with less expectations of tranche release.
While a companion Study Fund was provided to assist the government in implementing its reform program,
the scope of the fund was not fully aligned with the credit. In light of these major shortcomings, the overall
quality at entry is rated unsatisfactory.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

Marginally Unsatisfactory.

32.      Macro-economic performance improved at project closing and the IMF deemed the
macro-economic framework as overall satisfactory for 2002, 2003 and the first half of 2004; However, the
specific targets (deficit and expenditures targets listed in annex 1 in the Letter to the President) agreed to in
the project were not met due to delays, elections and political instability. The specific conditions for
tranche releases were embedded into the LDP , but the LDP implementation encompassed many more
structural and policy reforms where performance was mixed. Several areas of structural reform progressed
well while other components of the reform program were not launched or actively pursued (for example, the
rural land title registration and some of the activities for private sector development were never launched,
extension services and the micro-credit system are still weak and inconsistent).

33.      The areas where most progress were generally achieved were on those related to the tranche release
criteria: (i) resource mobilization and management; (ii) petroleum sector management; and (iii) health and
education sectors performance. The government also has made an effort to privatize public enterprises;
and to introduce more transparency and governance in its activities and in expenditure management.
However, continued work is needed in these areas. Progress in private sector development and in rural
sector reforms was uneven.

34.      The project was extended twice (from end March 2003 to end December 2003 and from end
December 2003 to end June 2004) to allow the government more time to implement the reforms delayed by
political changes and lack of capacity. It was then decided that continued extension of the project given the
policy environment changes would be unproductive. The Floating Tranche (last tranche) of US$2.16
million was cancelled upon closing in June 2004, due to the following factors: (i) insufficient and delayed
progress in the overall program (LDP); and (ii) delay in the fulfillment of specific conditions for the
floating tranche release.

35.      The details of the project outcome are as follows:

(i) Improving Domestic Resource Mobilization and Fiscal Management.

Achievement of this activity is satisfactory

36.      In line with the Letter of Development Policy, the Government of STP (GoSTP) undertook reforms
to mobilize resources, albeit with delays in implementation due to the political instability and weak
institutional capacity. In addition to comprehensive tariff and non-tariff reforms of the 1999-2000, GoSTP
implemented several fiscal policy measures.

37.      Customs administration undertook to eliminate the ad hoc exemptions since 2001. No new ad hoc



                                                       - 7 -

exemptions were granted up to May 2004. 2003 data showed a slight (-3.3%) decrease in legal
(non-ad-hoc) exemptions amounts compared to 2002, due to ease in imports by the government.

38.      The SYDONIA system is operational since 2000, and continues to function to satisfaction.

39.      The general services tax was implemented in January 2003. Collection in 2003 for the new tax
was 71.8% of projected collection. The collection rate for 2004 is expected to be around 70-75%.

40.      To consolidate resource mobilization and reduce tax and tariff evasion, in May 2002 the
government instituted a cross-check system between the tax directorate, business registry and customs that
encourages businesses to register, thus making them formal economic entities, and pay their past due taxes
in order to get clearance to extract their imports. Anecdotal evidence suggests that the number of registered
contributors to the tax system (single id tax) had increased and more tax payers now pay on time more
often. The tax directorate is now working to develop implementation methods to close other loopholes ( for
instance filing low tax claims). Customs launched a surveillance system with the help of the EU to improve
valuation of imports, minimize under-reporting and improve tariff collections in May 2003. While the
physical surveillance has been ongoing, the supporting computer system has faced several technical
problems and was to be corrected by the EU.

41.      In accordance with the reform program, the three autonomous directorates responsible for taxes,
budget and treasury were created and became operational. The technical capacity is generally weak and the
three directorates are not linked electronically, making information sharing more prone to errors. Further
reforms are underway in the directorate of taxes to improve performance. Treasury is slated for further
reforms to improve operations and auditing. Recently, Department of Patrimony was reinforced to improve
focus on evaluating and supervising the patrimony.

42.      Government revenues are centralized and, strictly speaking, the government has no extra-budgetary
operations. Programming and execution of foreign-financed capital and current expenditure (loans) are
under the control of the ministry of finance and planning. However, there are still reporting and execution
inconsistencies with regards to grants (including from Taiwan): the expenditures are programmed in the
budget and registered in the budget, but not all actual funds do enter into the budget. The government has
reached an understanding with Taiwan in September 2003 and is working with other donors (Portugal and
US) to correct this situation. Furthermore, the government has tighten control over transfers to PEs and
government agencies: according to the IMF there are no transfers.

43.      The government could not fully implement the agreed reforms for this sub-component. For
example, the Unique Fiscal Identifier (UFI) is partially implemented due to the absence of an integrated
computerized registration system for tax identities, which has led to some multiple entries. Nonetheless,
the UFI is being shared and used by the government entities such as the Customs, Tax Directorate and the
Central Bank and by the private bank (IBSTP). The implementation of the general sales tax is also
implemented but suffers from lack of institutional capacity to achieve better results. On the other hand,
coordination among directorates has improved contributing to improvements in tax collection: tax revenue
in % of GDP increased from 16.1 % in 2000 to 18. 3 % in 2001, 19.5 % (vs. 17.9 % expected under IMF
SMP) in 2002 and 20.5 % in 2003.

(ii) Strengthening public expenditure management.

Achievement of this activity is marginally satisfactory




                                                     - 8 -

44.      The government undertook a number of measures to increase transparency of its fiscal and
financial operations and increase governance. A number of trials were held to pursue individuals accused
of fraudulent activities, such as selling fraudulent government bonds and gold coins. The Central Bank and
ENCO audits are published annually on the internet. The Ministry of Finance is now performing some a
priori and a posteriori financial checks on the budget. The Accounting Tribunal has started its auditing
work in mid-2003 and now reviews and approves government contracts before final signature to improve
governance and transparency. The Ministry of Justice has worked to improve democratic and governance
rules: the new national and local electoral laws (electoral census and voting) have been presented to the
National Assembly. The draft law on local authority (including one for Principe) and the draft law for
local finances have been updated and are being reviewed at the Ministry.

45.      The government was, however, not fully successful in controlling the wage bill. Public salaries
constituted 9.6 percent of GDP in 2001 driven by electoral politics and social pressure (from 7.5 percent of
GDP in 1998). During 2002-2003 subsequent governments held the line on public service salaries to 9.1
percent of GDP under difficult social conditions. The 2004 budget included a 33 percent salary increase (in
agreement with the IMF), leading to the wage bill to climb to an estimated 10.7 percent of GDP.

46.      Civil Service reform. GSTP reformed its structure in 1999, regrouping and restructuring its
ministries. It adopted a plan to downsize the civil services, which was finalized in January 2002 with the
separation of 306 employees (instead of the 532 originally planned) and at higher costs than predicted due
to lack of political will and opposition from the civil service unions. Efforts at further reform in the civil
service are progressing at a slow pace due to multiple changes in the government and lack of political will.
The government has accumulated the list of qualifications and salary scales of all civil servants. The
computerized payroll management is now functional. The government still needs to combine the two
elements to obtain a clear picture of the number of civil servants and their qualifications. It will also need
to undertake an analysis of the wage/qualification relationship and provide the basis for further reforms and
efficiency gains. The secretary of state in charge of the reform of the state is developing a State reform
program, which would include the public service statute, the code for administrative procedures,
computerizing the civil registration (identity card) and the criminal
registry.

47.      To improve the weak debt management and reporting, the Minister of Finance and Planning
created a semi-independent agency in December 2003 to update and manage the debt data, analyze debt
sustainability and develop a national strategy and criteria for indebtedness within the framework of HIPC
and into the petroleum era. The agency consolidated and updated debt data for daily management with the
assistance of a consulting firm. It has also become the repository for original contracts with all multilateral
and bilateral lenders and payment records. The agency also prepared all payment documents that is sent to
the treasury for processing.

48.      Health and Education. The government was successful in redirecting funding towards health and
education sectors (see below) and continues to emphasize these sectors as central to its poverty reduction
strategy. It has draft health and education PERs and has complemented them with sectoral strategies and
other diagnostics to pursue its reform program in these sector.

                  Health and education budgeted expenditures as shares of GDP (IMF):

                              2001             2002              2003
        Health                11.4              8.9              14.0



                                                      - 9 -

      Education               10.8             13.0             15.4

                          Government capital expenditure in US million dollars:

                  2002         2003          2004          2004 overall (capital and current)
                in US$        in US$       projected in              expenditure
                                              US$            projected (as share of GDP)
   Health          2.2          4.21           7.9                       15.9
 Education        1.45          3.59           7.6                       16.0

49.      The Health strategy emphasizes primary health care, and the government has built several new
health posts since 2000 to answer to the population's needs: seven health care health posts have been built
between 1999-2002, another two posts were re-habilitated. Three of the newly built health posts have been
equipped. Children's vaccination rate has improved for all major infantile diseases. Investments in water
and sanitation are also materializing. For instance, in 2003 the capital of Principe started enjoying safe
drinking water.

50.      The Education strategy highlights equal access to education, and seeks to increase gross primary
school enrollment and literacy while ensuring adequate training for graduating high school student to secure
jobs. The 2003 Public Investment Program included the construction of 40 classrooms for education (32
primary and eight secondary classes). All projects have been launched and 90 percent of the envisioned
constructions have begun, however progress is slow. The 2004 budget contained funding to construct
another 15 classes, 10 of which have been built and four more are in the last stages of construction. This is
to help alleviate the 2-3 shifts per classroom and allow increased hours of learning per students. A two
year long in-class training program for teachers was launched in July 2003 for 100 current teachers to
upgrade their skills.

51.      The programming of public investment (PIP) is done on a three year rolling basis. The weak
implementation of the PIP continues to be a serious bottleneck in the development aspirations of the
country, due to delays in donor fund releases and weak donor coordination by the government. In the
context of the PRSP implementation, the Ministry of Planning and Finance is restructuring the PIP
management structure and incorporating it into the new PRPS implementation agency.

(iii) Strengthening public enterprise reform.

Achievement of this activity is satisfactory

52.      To reduce the economic scope of the public sector and promote private sector development, the
government has:

(A).     Drafted and presented to the National Assembly a new proposal for fiscal reform that includes a
revision of various taxes and the investment code, incorporating most of the recommendations made by
FIAS experts in 2001-2002.

(B).     The books of ENCO (semi-public energy supply company) are externally audited on an annual
basis, however, this audit practice was not extended to ENASA (air safety authorities) or ENAPOR (port
authorities) as predicted in the reform program.




                                                      - 10 -

(C).    The telecom sector law was approved by the National Assembly in April 2004 and was
promulgated by the President in May 2004. A draft decree law to create the sectoral supervisory agency
was approved in May 2004. The law, which applies currently to only the telecom sector, is written in such
a way that it will eventually cover all utilities. The government also renegotiated its monopoly contract
with CST telecom company in 2001/2002, permitting the opening of the market to competition by end
2005.

(D).    The government pursued the privatization program outlined in the LDP framework. It created a
small unit dedicated to the privatization effort. The government indicated through a number of decrees its
will to pursue the privatization of the firms included in the PRMC, thereby expanding the scope of the
privatization law. But over the life of the project, institutional weaknesses and lack of interest from
prospective investors slowed the process.

53.     The status of the privatization portfolio at project closure was as follows:

(i).    ENCAR (meat processing concern) was liquidated.

(ii).   ENAMED (medicine distribution company) was liquidated.

(iii).  Poussada Boa Vista Hotel was sold in Spring 2003.

(iv).   Cunha Gomes: Valuation of the capital goods has taken place. The next steps to finalize the
privatization process (the sale of the government shares in Cunha Gomes to the private partners) are: (a)
government to approve the valuation of the property; (b) private owner to pay the government; (c)
ownership documents to be finalized. The privatization process was expected to be finalized by end
November 2003, but has stalled since then due to lack of response from the private partners.

(v).    EMOLVE was brought to the point of sale. The privatization dossier for EMOLVE was launched
in June 2003. The government received one bid in early-October 2003, but the bid proved inadequate. The
government canceled the bid as of April 2004 and was considering whether to re-launch the bidding
process.

(vi).   Air São Tomé: The government is a minority shareholder (35 percent). In the aftermath of the
negotiation deadlock with TAP-Air Portugal (majority shareholder), the government opened its sky to
competition from Air Luxor in late 2002. This action increased flights and reduced prices noticeably on the
STP-Portugal route (economy round trip ticket prices fell from an approximate US$1200 to US$700-800).
In July 2003 the government decided to sell five percent of its share to the national employees of the Air
São Tomé, thus reducing its stake in the company. Currently, it is discussing further air-routes with Angola
to increase competition.

(vii).  EMAE (electricity and water company): The government hired a consultant in late 2002 to
evaluate the condition of the firm. The consultant suggested postponing privatization of the firm due to
market conditions and the fragile financial status of the firm despite ongoing internal reforms and increased
tariffs. The Bank concurred with this proposal at the time.

54.     Restructuring is progressing at EMAE. Management is working to close the financial gap with
improved collections and cost-reducing investments, however the financial status of the firm is fragile. In
May 2004 the management agreed to yearly external auditing of its finances to increase management and
accounting transparency at the company.


                                                      - 11 -

55       The government intends to turn EMAE into a limited liability company in 2004, thus removing it
from the public sector. Accordingly, a special commission was created in March 2004 to review several
proposals by private investors to buy part (electricity production components) or all of EMAE.

(iv) Other structural reforms included in the LDP.

GSTP's record in implementing the broader LDP reform program is mixed and the overall Achievement
for the other structural reforms included in LDP is unsatisfactory

A.       Rural Sector :

Achievement for these activities is unsatisfactory

56.       Efforts to diversify the agricultural base, both in supplying domestic markets (vegetables and
fruits) and for exports (peppers and flowers) met with some success. As part of its poverty reduction
strategy, the government reinforced its rehabilitation and construction of road and infrastructure in the rural
area, using HIPC interim debt relief resources among other sources. GSTP reached an agreement with the
EU to build 80 km of rural roads during the next four years. Efforts are also under way to improve water
access and sanitation as well as electrification (for example, in 2003, the island of Principe was fully
electrified).

57.      However, extension services and the micro-credit system are still weak, and ­ more critically - the
land title registration (for land use only as agricultural land belongs to the government) has stalled since the
end of the Bank's agricultural project in 1999. With three banks, (one well established bank and two
others that have started operations in late 2003 and early 2004), the banking system is still narrow to
respond to the needs of agricultural producers. There is no legislation to formalize the micro-credit system
and bring it under the supervision of the banking authorities. In 2003 the government launched a
short-lived micro-credit program for small producers through an NGO (Micondo), which was halted for
two reasons: (i) lack of adequate capacity at the NGO for the supervisory work; (ii) the program needed
better criteria for providing credit to applicants. Faced with a land reform process that has led to land
erosion and migration to the cities, the government is supporting creation of small cooperatives between
farmers to provide better extension services and credit.

B.       Private sector development ­ business environment:

Achievement for this activity is unsatisfactory

58.      The government's efforts to improve the legislative, regulatory, fiscal and judicial environment
conducive to private sector development were uneven. Notable progress was made in updating laws,
providing capacity building to the judiciary, and in promoting the tourism sector and in developing a new
tax and investment law. Still, many of the updated laws have not yet been presented for discussion and
adoption by the National Assembly. The tax and investment law has been presented to the National
Assembly twice and returned on procedural issues to the Government. Once the National Assembly
approves these laws, the President will have to promulgate them. No progress has been made yet on
improving the commercial framework yet (laws, codes, Single Window).

C.       Tourism sector



                                                       - 12 -

Achievement for this activity is marginally satisfactory

59.      The tourism sector has a development strategy since the end of 2001 and a campaign was launched
in 2002 and 2003 to promote the sector. It met with some success before the July 2003 coup and appears
to have recovered post-coup, especially with the new services provided by Air Luxor. In April 2004 the
government held a tourism round table in São Tomé city to promote the islands and solicit international
public and private sector investments.

60.      The government has revived a long moribund project to create Free Trade /Export Processing
Zones in São Tomé and Príncipe and there appears to be some international private sector interest. On São
Tomé, an area close to the national airport has been identified as a potential site for transshipment /regional
hub. On Principe, the government wishes to see a petroleum related services zone created. Promotion of
such zones without any economic analysis (cost-benefit or feasibility) would not be advisable, as there are
currently no credible reasons for success.



D. Institutional capacity and governance.

Achievement for this activity is marginally satisfactory

61.      GSTP has made slow but steady progress in this policy area, with more work to be done. The
government has a committee to strengthen its capacity to design and implement economic policies. The
committee meets regularly under the coordination of the Minister of Finance and is composed of the
directors of tax, customs, public investment project, treasury and budget, who are joined by sectoral
colleagues when necessary. The accounting tribunal has been active since July 2003 to audit budget
execution and government monetary practices and improve transparency and accountability. In the nascent
petroleum sector, an ad hoc petroleum unit was created in 2002 to address institutional, legal and
negotiations needs. In the first half of 2004, a National Petroleum Council was promulgated to supervise
the sector policy decision making and an National Petroleum Agency was created ­ absorbing the
petroleum unit - to provide legal, economic and technical support for the sector, while continuing to build
institutional capacity in the sector. However, overall capacity is still weak and retention of qualified
professionals difficult for the Sao Tomean public administration due to low salaries.

4.2 Outputs by components:

See Section 4.1

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Not applicable

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:

62.      The project resulted in modest institutional development impact as demonstrated by the



                                                     - 13 -

following:

(i).     Public resource management and expenditure are being strengthened and made transparent. The
government has centralized the government's revenue and external financial proceeds (except for some
grants), and has improved control over extra-budgetary expenditures. It tightened control over budgetary
transfers to SOEs. It has improved tax and tariff collection.

(ii).    As part of the reforms intended to improve transparency and governance in the public
administration, The Central Bank has improved its monetary operations with the assistance of the IMF and
the World Bank. The Central Bank books are audited externally on a yearly basis and published on the
internet. In an effort to improve the Public Investment Program (PIP) performance (which suffered from
low execution rates and lack of routine coordination with donors up to end 2002) the government has
launched a three-year rolling PIP with focus on the PRSP goals.

(iii).   The reforms at the Finance Directorate have slowly taken shape. There are now three directorates:
tax, budget and treasury. All three directorates have received technical assistance from the World Bank and
other donors to assist them in capacity building and the reform of their budget related procedures. The
budget is prepared following consultation with spending departments, but is still done on a yearly basis
instead of within a medium term expenditure framework. The 2003 budget, which was presented to the
assembly in December 2002, was linked to the policy priorities of the PRSP and the macro-economic
targets agreed to with international partners.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

N/A

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

(i)      Limited capacity. The implementation of the project experienced delays due to lack of
institutional, technical and administrative capacity of the civil service. The companion study fund to this
Credit (PRM-TA), was designed to loosen this capacity constraint. However, it was not designed and
programmed closely enough from the onset to support specific actions in the PRMC reform program.
Furthermore, the extent of the capacity building needs of the administration go beyond the capacities of the
US$2.5 million study fund. Low pay structure of the civil service contributed to limited capacity to
implement the reforms.

(ii).    Unstable political environment. A major constraint to achieving the Development Objectives
(DOs) in a timely manner was the unstable political environment - with five governments in two years,
causing weeks or months of uncertainty and stalemate in the civil service. The presidential and legislative
elections and related political deadlock in 2001 and 2002 led to administrative standstill and slowed the
pace of the reform process considerably. In 2003, political in-fighting (January) and political and social
unrest (April riots and July bloodless coup) contributed to a difficult policy environment. In April 2004, a
political scandal led to yet another government reshuffle.

(iii)    Lack of government commitment. The government commitment was not consistent in all sectors.
The tendency on the part of the government was to focus on specific conditions for meeting tranche-release,
while neglecting overall progress in reform progress. For example, while the commitment was strong in



                                                     - 14 -

macroeconomics, on other areas such as land reform, rural development, and private sector development
the commitment was lacking.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

See section 5.2

5.4 Costs and financing:

63.      The actual disbursement under the Credit was US$5.34 million compared the appraisal estimate of
US$7.50 million. This was because of the cancellation of the Floating Tranche of US$2.16 million for the
reasons mentioned in Section 4.1.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

64.      Likely. A number of components and subcomponents supported by this credit are likely to be
sustainable. For instance, the revenue mobilization and management reforms have been absorbed into the
institutional and procedural structure of the government. To a lesser degree so have the basic tenets of
expenditure management. While the implementation has been slow, the change is noticeable. The
petroleum capacity building and petroleum laws - already passed or in final stages of adoption - are also
sustainable policy/economic components for the country. Furthermore, the public finance management and
petroleum sector activities will continue to be supported by the new Governance Capacity Building Credit
(approved on October 14, 2004).

65.      Some of the components will be sustainable as the government is taking an active stance in
furthering the reforms. This is the case for the update of laws, which once finalized through promulgation
of the new laws and implemented, will play a key role in creating a modern legal framework for the
economy and private (domestic and foreign) investment. In 2003 and early 2004, this update included: the
penal code; the code of the penal process; the law of implementing the verdicts; the base law for the judicial
system; the electoral laws (on political parties, financing of electoral campaigns); the law governing local
authorities and activities; the law governing financing of these local entities; labor laws (including health
and security of workers, collective bargaining and the like). As of early May 2004, the penal code, the
code of the penal process, the law of implementing the verdicts, the base law for the judicial system were
done and slated to be discussed with national experts and affected professionals in June-July 2004 before
being presented to the Cabinet of Ministers and then National Assembly in the last quarter of 2004. The
draft electoral laws (electoral survey, rights and elections financing) are currently being discussed in the
National Assembly. The revised labor laws were submitted to the Ministry of Labor for review. The
ministry is pursuing its reform program with the assistance of an IDF grant approved in October 2004.
The IDF will include capacity building for the magistrates and personnel working directly in the courts;
updating further laws such as the civil/commercial laws; and improving conflict resolution methods.

66.      The Bank, UNDP and the IMF have helped the government to prepare two legislations: the decree
law to create the National Petroleum Agency and the National Petroleum Council was promulgated in
June 2004; the National Assembly has approved the petroleum revenue management law in November
2004.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:




                                                      - 15 -

See Section 6.1

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Unsatisfactory.

67.      The identification process correctly focused on critical gaps and opportunities for interventions in
São Tomé and Príncipe. The project was consistent with the government's development priorities and the
Bank's country assistance strategy. The Bank had a consistently good working relationship with the
Borrower during preparation and appraisal. On these counts, the Bank's performance in the identification,
preparation, and appraisal of the project was satisfactory.

68.      However, the Bank's overall performance in lending is rated unsatisfactory based on four factors:
(i) the reform program was over ambitious and not focused; (ii) the development objectives were not
matching with the scope of the government's LDP; (iii) the scope of the LDP did not match the quick
tranche release structure of the Credit; (iv) the political risk and weakness in the civil service were
underestimated; and (v) no complete logical framework was developed during the preparation process of
the credit to capture progress (no clear outputs were identified, some identified outcomes were general and
vague, timetable attached to outcomes was general and outdated, two tables - Annex I and a much longer
table 1 - both containing matrixes of policy actions and outcomes that were at times inconsistent). The
supervision team retroactively introduced some outcome / output measures in October 2003 to provide a
base for the progress of the program.

7.2 Supervision:

Satisfactory

69.      The Bank's performance during the implementation of the project was broadly satisfactory, given
the limited supervision funds available. If more resources were provided, the Bank performance could have
been more multi-sectoral and more in-depth.

70.      Over the three years of project implementation, there were seven supervision missions, with an
average of about two missions per year. The Bank's client relationship was very cordial and productive.
Aide-Memoires were regularly prepared and transmitted, flagging outstanding issues and underscoring
benchmarks for actions. These alerted the government to problems with project execution and facilitated
remedies in a timely manner, in conformity with Bank procedures. The Project Status Reports (PSRs)
rated the performance of the project both in terms of achievement of development objectives and project
implementation based on mission findings, updating ratings when deemed necessary. The team reviewed
the program thoroughly in Fall of 2003 to ascertain an overview of the progress. At the time, the task
team was proactive in introducing retroactively result-oriented framework to capture the outcomes and
outputs of the Credit. Whenever delays in implementation occurred, the Bank's task team was able to
define concrete steps and timetable to try and put the project back on track and pace. The Bank paid
sufficient attention to the project's likely development impact.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:




                                                       - 16 -

Unsatisfactory. Due to design defects of the project, the overall Bank performance was unsatisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

Unsatisfactory.

71.        The government officials worked closely with the Bank's project team on a continual basis, with
full cooperation and enthusiasm. To this extent, the Borrower performance was satisfactory. However, the
Borrower did not cover the adequacy of design and all major aspects, such as, technical, financial,
economic, institutional, and political factors. As mentioned in previous sections, (i) the program was over
ambitious and not focused; (ii) the development objectives were not matching with the scope of the
government's Letter of Development Policy and in turn did not match with the structure of the Credit; and
(iii) the political volatility and weakness in the civil service were underestimated.

7.5 Government implementation performance:


Marginally Unsatisfactory.

72.       Successive governments adhered to the development objectives of the project's policy framework,
and showed continued commitment to its reform program but its implementation record over the life of the
credit was mixed due to political instability, lack of national capacity and lack of political will to undertake
certain sectoral reforms and consequent repeated delays. The government had overall a sound
macroeconomic framework and the economic performance was broadly satisfactory, even though there
were repeated slippages. In public revenue, the government improved tax collection. The government also
made an effort in privatizing public enterprises, although the results were not exactly in line with the credit
conditionalities; in introducing more transparency and governance in its activities; and in expenditure
management. The government also adopted strategies in health and education sectors and increased its
budgetary contributions to these sectors noticeably.

73.       On the other hand, in land formalization and rural development, the performance was not
satisfactory. In private sector development, performance was mixed. Some legal documents were updated,
but the performance was not satisfactory with regards to reforms directly affecting private sector
development, such as commercial law or setting up dispute settlements.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

N/A

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

74.       Unsatisfactory. Given the discussions in the above paragraphs, the overall performance of the
Borrower was unsatisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

·         It is important to ensure that any policy reform has government ownership. Without government
commitment, it is difficult to achieve development objectives.




                                                        - 17 -

 ·       During project preparation, special attention should be given to the project's content and how it fits
within the context of prevailing weak institutional capacity and the level of political volatility. More
specifically, neither should be underestimated.

 ·       The LDP should have been much less ambitious, and more focused, and the project design should
have been much simpler.

 ·       Consideration should be given whether an adjustment operation is the right instrument for a
country like São Tomé and Príncipe given its political volatility and weak institutional capacity. Use of
single tranche credit structure, as opposed to multiple tranche credits may have been more appropriate.

 ·       The program showed an unusual phenomenon that while the adjustment operation did not perform
well, the TA part of the program did well. The government had encountered problems in trying to manage
the adjustment operation, on the TA part it was more engaged and committed and as a result it showed
better results.

 ·       The linkage between the Credit and the TA activities was not strongly established at the beginning
and the TA was not programmed closely/in a timely manner to support the reform program sufficiently. If
the TA had been more closely programmed to support the Credit/project, there might have been more
positive outcome of the Credit/project.

 ·       Increased supervision funding would have been useful so as to undertake multisectoral and more
in-depth supervision.

 ·       The government should ensure that capacity that has already been built with the help of the project
will remain within MOF, and that staff, who were involved with the project, are not shifted to other places.

 ·       The collaboration of the Bank with the IMF had a positive impact on the outcome of the project.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

The Minister of Finance thanked the team for preparing the ICR document and provided government's
comments and evaluation report which are included in the Annex 8 of this report. He agrees with the
content of the ICR document.


(b) Cofinanciers:

N.A.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

N.A.

10. Additional Information

A. The Bank's ICR Team consisted of the following members:

Dorsati Madani (Task Team Leader)



                                                     - 18 -

Sati Achath (Consultant)

B. List of Task Team Leaders of the project in chronological order:

(i) Miguel Saponara
(ii) Dorsati Madani

C. Persons interviewed for the preparation of the ICR:

(i) A. David Craig, Country Director
(ii) Robert Blake, Sector Manager
(iii) Simplice Zouhon-Bi, Consultant
(iv) Miguel Saponara, Consultant




                                                  - 19 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                       1
                Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
Indicators for consolidating Macroeconomic                                  Improved revenue mobilization is noted, but
stability: measures of revenue mobilization                                 fiscal discipline has been mixed; budget has
and of fiscal discipline over time; redirection                             been redirected to social sectors; CPI has
of budget to social sectors; CPI; FX rates                                  overshot targets but GDP grew 4-5 % over
and regime; real Medium term GDP/capita                                     2001-2003; FX is free floating, no black
growth; Medium term poverty rate changes.                                   market.

Outcome indicators for gaining                                              No detailed data available. General evidence
competitiveness: growth in # of small and                                   suggests that public sector still dominates
medium enterprises; growth in private                                       economy; though in construction,
investment (domestic and foreign); share of                                 non-traditional agriculture, and tourism are
GDP growth contributed by private sector;                                   the engines of economic growth.
employment created by private sector.




Output Indicators:
                                                                       1
                Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
Percent of existing ad hoc exemptions to total                              Tax revenues increased due to reforms: from
imports; % change of import tariff collections                              16.2% in 1999, to 18.6% in 2001; 19.5% in
to GDP since 2000; % coverage of the                                        2002 but dropped to an estimated 18.6% by
single tax payer ID; % of extra budgetary to                                end 2003 due to the July coup; centralized
budget expenditure; data generated on a                                     government revenue except for some grants.
regular basis by ASYCUDA.
% of primary spending to GDP; total primary                                 Share of actual health expenditures to GDP
spending allocated to education and health;                                 grew from 5.7 % to an estimated 12.9% by
share of health and education expenditures in                               September 2003. Share of actual education
total in GDP.                                                               expenditure to GDP was 11.5% in 2001 and
                                                                            is an estimated 10.0 % by September 2003.


Number of civil servants reduced; % of new                                  Study of civil service pay scale partially done
civil servants recruited (subgroups: those                                  and still progressing slowly.
who are teachers or health care personnel /
those who are not).


Number of PEs privatized; share of private                                  5 out of 7 public enterprises have been
sector in economic activities.                                              liquidated, sold or are being privatized. For
                                                                            the other two: government introduced
                                                                            competition in air travel, leading to sharp
                                                                            price decreases; EMAE is being
                                                                            restructured.


1End of project




                                                         - 20 -

  Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

  Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                            Appraisal      Actual/Latest    Percentage of
                                                             Estimate        Estimate         Appraisal
                         Component                          US$ million      US$ million
  First Core Tranche                                           2.59              2.59                100
  Second Core Tranche                                          2.75              2.75                100
  Floating Tranche*                                            2.16              0.00                  0



  * Cancelled


  Total Baseline Cost                                          7.50              5.34
                           Total Project Costs                 7.50              5.34
                     Total Financing Required                  7.50              5.34




Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
     Component                 Appraisal Estimate          Actual/Latest Estimate
                           Bank       Govt.       CoF.    Bank       Govt.     CoF.     Bank   Govt.   CoF.




  Not applicable as the Credit was budget support.




                                                   - 21 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

                                   Not Applicable




                                       - 22 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Supervision
               06/01/2001                 3    PSD SPEC (1); LEAD                   S               S
                                               ECONONMIST (1);
                                               CONSULTANT (1)
               11/16/2001                 5    LEAD OPERAT. OFFICER (1);            S               S
                                               ECONOMIST (2); PUBLIC
                                               SECTOR SPEC. (1);
                                               LANGUAGE/PROGRAM ASST.
                                               (1)
               06/10/2002                 2    TTL (1),                             S               S
                                               LANGUAGE/PROGRAM ASST.

               08/26/2002                 1    TTL (1)                              S               S
               04/08/2003                 1    TTL (1)                              S               S
               10/21/2003                 1    TTL (1)                              U               U
               05/08/2004                 1    TTL (1)                              U               U
               09/28/2004                 1    TTL (1)                              U               U


 ICR
               N/A                    N/A      N/A



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Supervision                              47.8                          191.5
  ICR                                        8.0                           32.0
  Total                                    55.8                          223.5




                                               - 23 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Aide Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, and Project Status Reports.

 2. Project Progress Reports.

 3. Consultant Study Reports financed under the Project.

 4. Borrower's Evaluation Report dated October 2004; and

 5. Report and Recommendation of the President of the International Development Association
for the Democratic Republic of São Tomé and Príncipe: Public Resource Management Credit,
dated October 6, 2000 (Report No. P7398).




                                            - 26 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation Report



         The objective of the Public Resource Management Credit (Credit No. 3428) agreed upon in 2000
between the Government of São Tomé and Príncipe and the World Bank was to support the economic
reform processes already underway, with a view to bolstering the country's macroeconomic stability and
increasing competitiveness, in keeping with the Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility as well as the Letter
of Development Policy. Through use of this credit, the Government's objectives and the attendant measures
it adopted had a positive effect on macroeconomic performance.

         The São Tomé and Príncipe economy has therefore been performing satisfactorily since 2001 with
annual increases of 4 percent, 4.1 percent, and 4.5 percent, while there has been significant growth in fiscal
revenue 18 percent, 25.2 percent, and 30 percent respectively--owing to more efficient collection and
efforts to combat tax avoidance and evasion.

         Despite some lingering constraints, these indicators point to positive performance; a trend that
doubtless will gain momentum once some of the measures adopted by Government, such as those outlined
above, are more firmly in place.

    The approved credit of SDR 5,800,000 was scheduled for disbursement in tranches:
·        First tranche: SDR 2 million
·        Second tranche: SDR 1.9 million
·        Floating tranche: SDR 1.9 million

    Unfortunately, for reasons detailed below, only two tranches totaling SDR 3.9 million have been
disbursed since the agreement took effect.

    As stipulated in the Credit Agreement, disbursement of the first tranche was made after the credit took
effect, with the second and third tranches contingent on successful fulfillment of a number of
conditionalities spelled out in the document. It is worth noting that at the sectoral level, those
conditionalities led to strengthening of the Budget, Customs, and Taxation sectors.

    The resources made available under the agreement enabled the General State Budget to cope with the
drop in international cocoa prices, which affected unemployment rates as cocoa growers gradually
abandoned their plantations, and also affected fiscal revenues, which have been increasing significantly
despite a sharp decline in customs taxes since the new customs tariff was introduced and export taxes
eliminated.

    In the customs sector, monitoring of tax benefits received during clearance of imported goods was
stepped up. Ad hoc exemptions have been eliminated and limited to entities legally entitled to tax
exemptions, such as state entities, international organizations, embassies, or to those resulting from
contracts between the Government and specific entities. Administration of the customs authorities was also
strengthened through implementation of ASYCUDA [Automated System for Customs Declaration], which
proved essential to assessing the tax base and calculating customs duties as a means of collecting more tax
revenue.

    In terms of enhancing the operations of the tax authority, a single taxpayer identification number was



                                                    - 27 -

introduced and implemented in public and private institutions, including Treasury, Customs, and Banks.
Under this system, which is now fully operational, the Tax Administration is able to monitor compliance of
all taxpayers and ensure proper follow-up of taxpayer transactions. A general tax on goods and services
was also introduced, which is having a positive impact on the tax revenue of the General State Budget as it
is gradually implemented.

     Public spending on the health and education sectors was reviewed and the recommendations from the
review are being implemented, with government expenditure being restructured to benefit both sectors in
accordance with the Poverty Reduction Strategy.

     As part of administrative reform, surplus public servants were laid off and the database for managing
public sector personnel and salaries was completed.

     The conditionalities for disbursement of the floating tranche, which did not materialize, were based
essentially on the program for privatization of non-performing public enterprises. From this standpoint, the
policies practiced by successive governments have been geared toward divesting themselves of these
companies, thereby fulfilling the terms of the agreement. Owing to the complexity of this privatization
process, most of the enterprises slated for privatization under the program, including EMOLVE, Cunha
Gomes and Air Sao Tomé, EMAE did not complete the process.

     Of these enterprises, only Pousada Boa Vista, was fully privatized, whereas EMOLVE was put up for
sale. The Government in turn decided to sell its shares in Cunha Gomes to raise capital and divest itself
fully of that firm.

     The privatization of Air Sao Tomé will be contingent on the findings of a study on liberalization of the
air transport sector.

     EMAE was rehabilitated economically and financially, as well as restructured with a view to
     subsequent privatization.

     However, ongoing actions under the same privatization framework were completed, with particular
emphasis on:

·        Periodic adjustment of water and electricity rates
·        Completion of the draft overhaul of the Investment Code
·        Completion of the study on liberalization of telecommunications, with a view to opening the sector
up to competition
·        Adoption and implementation of the agro-enterprise privatization program
·        Adoption of the plan of action for rationalization of the land tenure system

     Regarding sustainability, we believe that the project made it possible to lay a foundation that requires
additional resources to further strengthen it and secure the positive outcomes envisaged.

     The project's impact on institutional development was not direct--a point that must be emphasized
since the credit was not used to finance institutional development. Nonetheless it made external debt
servicing possible and for Budgetary purposes proved very useful in offsetting the impact of the reforms
implemented under the program. In this regard, the disbursement of the resources under the credit made it
possible to maintain operations at the institutions and enhance their performance.



                                                     - 28 -

    Not least among the lessons learned is the Government's proactive role in conducting a more judicious
assessment of the conditions for disbursement of the tranches, so as to avoid committing to any conditions
suggested by Bank staff that would be difficult to implement and would only have limited impact on São
Tomé's economic development.

    In summary, it can be affirmed that credit 3428 has contributed greatly to improving the public
resource management process (collection and allocation of revenues), to strengthening tax administration
capacity, and to reallocating expenditure to the social sectors as a means of fulfilling the terms of the
national development strategy and the Letter of Development Policy.

Office of Studies and Advisory Services of the Ministry of Planning and Finance, São Tomé and
Príncipe, October 19, 2004.




                                                    - 29 -

- 30 -

