Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICAL USE ONLY
Report No P7398
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
PUBLIC RESOURCE MANAGEMENT CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 5.8 MILLION
(US$7.5 million equivalent)
AND A
PUBLIC RESOURCE MANAGEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 1.95 MILLION
(US$2.5 million equivalent)
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
October 6, 2000
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their of ficial duties. Its Contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of March 2000)
Currency Unit         Dobra
US$1          Db 7800
SDR I          US$1.2995
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB                   African Development Bank
CEMAC                  Central African Economic and Monetary Community
CET                   Common External Tariff
CNPC                  National Savings and Loans Institution
Db                    Dobras
EMAE                   Empresa de Agua e Electricidade (Utility Company)
EMOLVE                Palm-Oil Development Company
ENAMED                Empresa Nacional de Medicamentos (Public Drug Company)
ENCAR                 Empresa Nacional de Carne (Public Meat Processing Company)
ENCO                   Empresa Nacional de Combustivel e Oleos (Petroleum Distribution Company)
EU                    European Union
GDP                    Gross Domestic Product
HIPC                  Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
IDA                   International Development Agency
IDF                    Institutional Development Fund
IFAD                   International Fund for Agricultural Development
IFC                   International Finance Corporation
IMF                   International Monetary Fund
MTEF                  Medium-Term Expenditure Framework
NGO                   Non-Governmental Organization
PE                    Public Enterprise
PER                   Public Expenditure Review
PIP                    Public Investment Program
PPIAF                  Public-Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility
PRGF                   Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PRSP                  Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
SAC                   Structural Adjustment Credit
SAL                   Structural Adjustment Lending
SDR                    Special Drawing Rights
SPA                    Special Program of Assistance
TA                    Technical Assistance
UNDP                   United Nations Development Program
USD                   United States Dollar
VAT                   Value Added Tax
WAEMU                  Western African Economic and Monetary Union
WCO                   World Customs Organization
WTO                   World Trade Organization
SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE-FISCAL YEAR
January 1-December 31
Vice-President:         Callisto Madavo
Country Director:       Hasan Tuluy
Sector Manager:         Emmanuel Akpa
Task Team Leader:    Miguel Saponara



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
PUBLIC RESOURCE MANAGEMENT CREDIT (PRMC) AND
PUBLIC RESOURCE MANAGEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT (PRM TA)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I. INTRODUCTION ..........................................................1
II. COUNTRY BACKGROUND AND ECONOMY ..........................................................1I
III. BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE ...........................................................2
IV. RECENT PROGRESS ON ECONOMIC REFORM (1998-99) ........................................................... 3
A.    MACROECONOMIC POLICIES AND PERFORMANCE ...........................................................3
B.     STRUCTURAL REFORMS ...........................................................3
C.    SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT ...........4................................................4
V. SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE'S DEVELOPMENT CHALLENGES ...........................................................4
VI. MEDIUM TERM STRATEGY AND PROSPECTS, AND FINANCING REQUIREMENTS (2000-2002)5
A.    MEDIuM-TERM ADJUSTMENT STRATEGY                                                              5
Macro-economic Objectives .6
Structural Reforms                                  .6
Poverty Reduction Strategy                             .7
B.    GOVERNANCE.7
External Financing Requirements                           .7
VII. THE PROPOSED PUBLIC RESOURCE MANAGEMENT CREDIT ........................................................8
A. CREDIT RATIONALE AND COMPONENTS                                     .8
B.  IMPROVE DOMESTIC RESOURCE MOBILIZATION                                 .8
C.  RATIONALIZE PUBLIC EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT                                .9
D.  IMPLEMENT PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFOR .10
Budgetary Gap and Financing Requirements .11
E.     CREDIT FEATURES AND IMPLEMENTATION .............................................. 12
Ownership of the Reform Program .14
F. RATIONALE FOR IDA INVOLVEMENT .14
LookingA                                                     h      e      a      d    15
VIII. COLLABORATION WITH IMF AND OTHER DONORS ..................................................................  15
IX. RECOMMENDATION ................................................................... 15
TABLE
TABLE 1: Sio Tome And Principe: Customs Duty Structure As Of January 1, 2000 .......................................9
TABLE 2: Sao Tome And Principe: Projected Impact On Customs Revenue ................................................... 11
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



ANNEXES
A - Sao Tome and Principe at a Glance
B - Social Development Indicators
C - Key Economic Indicators
D - External Financing Requirements and Sources of Financing
E - Status of Bank Group Operations
F - Key Exposure Indicators
G - Supplementary Loan Data Sheet
H - Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
I - Matrix of Policy
J - Government Letter of Development Policy
- I-PRSP Matrix of Policy



DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
PUBLIC RESOURCE MANAGEMENT CREDIT AND
PUBLIC RESOURCE MANAGEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:           The Democratic Republic of Sao Tome and Principe
Amount:             SDR 5.8 million (US$7.5 million equivalent) and SDR 1.95 million (US$2.5
million equivalent)
Terms:              Standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years
Implementing
Agency:             Ministry of Planning and Finance
Program
Objectives:         The proposed Public Resource Management Credit (PRMC) will assist
Sao Tome and Principe in consolidating macroeconomic stability and in
gaining competitiveness.  The proposed measures are essential to the
enhancement of Sao Tome and Principe's growth prospects. Furthermore, the
reforms supported by the operation are necessary to create an environment
conducive to private sector-led economic growth. Also, by focusing on
revenue mobilization and the reallocation of public resources towards
education, health, and poverty reduction programs, this operation would
ensure that these key sectors/programs would not suffer from budgetary cuts
and would have a direct and positive impact on Sao Tomd and Principe's
efforts towards poverty reduction.
The Public Resource Management Technical Assistance Project (PRM
TA) has been designed to provide necessary technical support, training and
goods and equipment to meet three objectives: (i) implement the policy
measures being implemented under the Government's reform program
supported by the PRMC; (ii) carry out sectoral, sub-sectoral and specific
studies needed towards the preparation of its PRSP; and (iii) develop the
agenda for macro-economic and sectoral policy reforms.
Credit
Description:        During the period 1998-99, the Government has demonstrated its resolve to
keep the economic reform program on track, despite a difficult political
environrnent and reduced foreign assistance. IDA, through two IDFs (Public
Resource Management and Administrative Reform), has supported the
implementation of the first phase of the reform  program.  Given the
encouraging progress so far, the proposed Public Resource Management



Credit would provide budgetary support to fill the financing gap for the
period 2000-01, permitting the Government to sustain its reform program.
The reform supported by the proposed Public Resource Management Credit
has three key objectives: (i) improve domestic resource mobilization,
including progress towards harmonization with the Westem African
Economic Monetary Union (WAEMU) on a common external tariff (CET);
(ii) strengthen  public  expenditure  management;  and  (iii) continue
implementation of the public enterprise reform program. The Credit will
mainly support actions aimed at domestic resource mobilization and at
deepening the PE reformn program while at the same time it will complement
and deepen actions already agreed under the IMF-PRGF in the area of public
expenditure management.
TA Description:    The Public Resource Management Technical Assistance Project will
finance a Study Fund of SDR 1.95 million (US$2.5 million equivalent) to
carry out policy reform studies, sectoral strategies and simulation models.
Benefits:          Implementation of the tariff reform and harmonization of the revised tariff
system with the common tariff of the CEMAC and the WAEMU should assist
Sao Tome and Principe's growth over the medium and long-term. Resource
mobilization, private investment flows, economic diversification and external
trade are expected to improve, thereby enhancing the efficiency and
productivity of public resources. Also, by focusing on the efficiency of
public expenditure and the reallocation of public resources towards education,
health and poverty-oriented programs, the Credit would help protect
budgetary spending in these three areas, with a positive and direct impact on
poverty reduction. In addition, the implementation of the civil service reform
will allow Sao Tome and Principe to have a lean administration and improve
public service delivery to the beneficiaries.
Risks:             The main risk is that the proposed reform agenda encounters resistance and
incites social unrest, particularly in the period leading up to the 2001
presidential election. Other risks are posed by low institutional capacity,
limited donors' commitment and lack of coordination, and a narrow private
sector. Declining export earnings, and protracted negotiations with Nigeria
on the delimitation of the maritime border could distract the Govemment's
attention away from the reform agenda and result in a more difficult
economic environment. That could lead to partial implementation of the
program, or to excessive delays or even policy reversals, particularly if
recovery of the economy is slower than expected. To manage these risks, the
Government plans to: (i) harness the support of the political parties, the
business community, labor unions, NGOs and the population at large, as it did
during the successful preparation of the I-PRSP; (ii) strengthen donor
coordination including, holding a Donor Round Table meeting in October
2000; and (iii) develop local institutional capacity.
Schedule of
Disbursements:     The Credit will be disbursed in two core tranches and one floating tranche



Estimated
Disbursement:      SDR 2.0 million (US$2.6 million equivalent) at First Tranche
SDR 1.9 million each (US$2.47 million equivalent) at Second and Floating
Tranche.
The disbursement and procurement procedures for the PRM TA are laid out
in detail in Annex H.
Financing Plan:    100% IDA Financing
Environment
Rating:            C
Project ID Number: ST-PE-069909






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED PUBLIC RESOURCE MANAGEMENT CREDIT (PRMC) AND A
PUBLIC RESOURCE MANAGEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT (PRM
TA) TO THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
I. INTRODUCTION
I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed Public
Resource Management Credit for SDR 5.8 million (US$7.5 million equivalent) and a Public
Resource Management Technical Assistance Project for SDR 1.95 million (US$2.5 million
equivalent) to the Democratic Republic of Sao Tome and Principe. The proposed Credit will support
the Government's macroeconomic and structural reform program. In particular, the Credit will assist
the Saotomean authorities to: (i) improve domestic resource mobilization and the implementation of
a tariff reform; (ii) strengthen public expenditure management; and (iii) deepen its public enterprise
reform program. The Credit is also expected to assist the Government's regional integration effort.
The Technical Assistance component will help finance policy reformr studies and develop sectoral
strategies and simulation models. The Government has committed to a wide-ranging program of
economic reforms, supported by France, Portugal, Norway, the International Monetary Fund (IMF),
the African Development Bank (AfDB), the International Fund for Agricultural Development
(IFAD), the European Union (EU), and the United Nations Development Program (UNDP).
II. COUNTRY BACKGROUND AND ECONOMY
1.      The Democratic Republic of Sao                                     BOX I
Tome   and   Principe   consists   of  an   T
archipelago loae  inteGl        _o una    Thec cconomy' of Sin Tome and i'rfncipe. which is based alrnost exclusively
archipelago  located isn the Gulf O   suiea.  on the cxpot of cocoa, experienced a long period of decline since 197S.
kilometaleursofa  a which Saroud T e    suare 8  Low world price of cocoa for much of the period since 1979 compounded
kilometers, of which 'So Tom*   has 860   with the nationlization of bage plantations, the mass exodus of skilled
square kilometers and Principe 140 square   personne a d the rpatrion of thousands of Saotonean cxiks caused
kilometers.       The   total   population,   considerable economic dislocation, whose effects have not yet fully
estimated at around  144,800 inhabitants in  reoeded. In 1985. confronted by the threat of economic collapse, the
1999, is growing at about 2.3 percent per  Gvernment intiated a proess of coonomic liberalization. However, the
year. About 37 percent of the population   1986-97 period was characterized by large macroeconomic imbWaan
live   in   urban   areas.       Soon   after   declining mea per capita incomf, high inflation, a sharp decline of living
independence, the Government adopted a   conditions and a heavy public exteral debt. In 1998.99, the Government
socialist form of policy. By the late 1980s,  successfully implemented an lMF-StafT Monitored Program that tured
political  instability,   adverse   external   around the primary budget balarce from deficit to surplus, lowerod
shocks   and   inappropriate   economic  inflation and helped imprve real GEDP growth.
policies led to a worsening of economic   Sb Tom6 arid Principe enjoys domocratic rule, with a freely eleced Head
performance, a loss of per capita income   of State. Following fee and transparent legislative election in November
and a deterioration in the living conditions   198, a new government headed by a Prime Minister representingite party
of the population.                               which has been holding the majority of seats in parliament, was appointed
on January 5, 1999. The Government has pledged to seek consensus with
2.      In 1990, Sao Tome and Principe,  the Head of State, the three main political parties and trade unionm on the
with the support of the donor community,  major economic and political issues facing Sb Tonm and Principe.
embarked upon an ambitious recovery and



Sao Tome and Principe                                                              2
economic development program. However, economic performance continued to deteriorate, owing
mainly to weak institutional capacity, the lack of adequately skilled human resources, adverse
external shocks - especially the decline in world cocoa prices - and heavy reliance on aging cocoa
plantations. Real GDP growth rates remained low, macroeconomic imbalances worsened further,
unemployment increased, and living conditions of the population deteriorated. In 1994, an estimated
40 percent of the population lived below the poverty line. In addition, external public debt soared,
becoming an unsustainable burden.
3.    Following a decade of economic decline and deteriorating social indicators, the authorities in
1998-99 implemented in earnest a series of reforms within the framework of a Fund staff-monitored
program. Progress was made in strengthening fiscal performance, stabilizing the exchange rate, and
lowering inflation. The Government also further liberalized trade and prices, and implemented an
important privatization program. Real GDP recovered in 1998-99, but per capita income remained
low and poverty widespread. To reverse the continued deterioration in the poverty indicators, the
Government drafted, in June 1999, a policy paper on strategic options and an action plan for
2000-05, with technical assistance from the UNDP and following a participatory process. This paper
places poverty reduction at the center of government concerns.
1II. BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
4.    Cumulative Bank Lending to Sao Tome and Principe. The cumulative Bank Group's
assistance to Sao Tome and Principe as of March 31, 2000, has consisted of eight IDA credits
totaling US$ 61.9 million, 8 IDFs and one commercial debt buy back operation totaling US$1.8
million, and a recently approved PPIAF grant of US$175,000. The eight IDA credits (6 closed, 2
active) include a modernization line of credit (1985), two adjustment operations (SAL I, 1987 and
SAC II/TA, 1990), two agricultural projects (cocoa, 1987 and agriculture sector, 1991), two multi-
sector projects (1989 and 1991), and a health & education project (1992). The agricultural and the
health and education projects are active and scheduled to be closed at end 2000 and June 2001
respectively.
5.    Ongoing and Future Lending Operations. The ongoing Agricultural Privatization and
Smallholder Development Project (US$ 9.8 million, FY92) aims to increase and diversify
agricultural production by privatizing a major part of the publicly-owned estate sector, and promote
smallholder productivity. Rural poverty alleviation and environmental protection are secondary
objectives of the project. In the social sectors, the Health and Education Project (US$ 11.4 million,
FY92) aims to reverse the decline in the health and educational status through, in the health sector, a
malaria control program and the provision of drugs; and in the education sector, the provision of
textbooks and schools supplies and improved school inspection. Planning capacities would be
strengthened in both sectors. As for future operations, apart from this proposed Public Resource
Management Credit and its Technical Assistance Project, no further operations are planned for FYs
01-02. However, opportunities for further Bank lending may be considered in the context of the
Government's Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP), the policy paper on strategic options and
action plan for the period 2000-05, and on the results of ongoing and planned activities in oil
exploration and production.



3                                      Public Resource Management Credit and TA Project
IV. RECENT PROGRESS ON ECONOMIC REFORM (1998-99)
A.    MACROECONOMIC POLICIES AND PERFORMANCE
6.    Sao Tome and Principe's performance during 1998 and 1999 was broadly satisfactory. Real
GDP growth stabilized at 2.5 percent, up from I percent in 1997 and this, in spite of an adverse
external environment. Cocoa output, the major export commodity, fell by 13 percent while world
cocoa prices fell sharply. At the same time, import prices for petroleum products rose threefold.
Progress in economic reforms began to alleviate structural rigidities and the impact of the decline in
cocoa production was more than offset by a rapid expansion in trade, construction, and tourism. The
inflation rate dropped substantially from over 80 percent in December 1997 to 13 percent in
December 1999. The external current account deficit (excluding official transfers) narrowed from
75 percent of GDP in 1997 to 57 percent in 1999. In the fiscal area, the primary budget balance
(excluding foreign-financed investments) turned around from a deficit of 2.2 percent of GDP in 1997
to an estimated surplus of 1.3 percent of GDP in 1999, as better-than-programmed tax revenue
administration and collection offset the non-interest spending overruns. On the revenue side,
measures have been taken since 1998 to improve tax administration and collection, including the
strengthening of the tax audit unit, which contributed to a strong performance of direct and indirect
domestic taxes in 1998-99. However, there was a large shortfall in non-tax revenue in 1999, because
EU fishing royalties did not materialize.
7.    Sao Tomn and Principe's external debt amounted to US$296 million (627 percent of GDP) at
end 1999, with 58 percent owed to multilateral creditors and 32 percent to Paris Club creditors. In
1999, Sao Tome and Principe eliminated its non-reschedulable external arrears and continued to
service its external debt to multilateral institutions.
B.    STRUCTURAL REFORMS
8.    In parallel with macroeconomic adjustment, the Government has implemented several
structural policy measures, as follows:
In the general area of economic management, price controls have been eliminated; domestic
trade, including the marketing of agricultural products, has been completely liberalized; and a
mechanism has been introduced to automatically adjust petroleum retail product prices in line with
changes in international prices. Most quantitative restrictions on imports have been eliminated,
except for preferential allocations of foreign exchange for imports of consumer staples (essential
food products, petroleum products, drugs, and agricultural products). The authorities have also
initiated the preparation of a three-year rolling public investment program (PIP).
In the area of institutional development, where the World Bank and the UNDP have provided
technical and financial assistance, the Government has approved new organizational and staffing
plans for ten ministries (November 1999)1. The Government has also revised the civil service
I Ministries of Planning and Finance; Economy; Public Administration and Employment; Foreign Affairs and
Cooperation; Defense; Justice; Education; Health; Infrastructure, Natural Resources and Environment; Local
Administration and Territorial Affairs.



Sdo Tome' and Principe                                                                4
regulations and is preparing an administrative reform and a downsizing program to implement a full
reform of the civil service.
In the public enterprise sector, the bankrupt national savings and loans institution (CNPC)
has been liquidated (for which a loan recovery program was established). The petroleum distribution
company (ENCO) has been partially privatized and two hotels have been placed under private
management. In addition, the authorities have adopted in October 1999 a public enterprise reform
and privatization program. However, there were delays in preparing a strategy for privatizing large
government-owned agricultural estates and for rationalizing the land tenure system and this remains
yet to be done.
In the area of trade and exchange, the monetary authorities have eliminated the requirement
to surrender export receipts to the central bank. In mid-1999, a new foreign exchange legislation that
removed all non-tariff import barriers and liberalized external current account transactions was
adopted. A comprehensive reform of the customs tariff structure and a plan to eliminate export taxes
has been prepared, with World Bank and French technical assistance. Both were implemented in
early 2000. With these trade liberalization reforms, the index of trade policy restrictiveness is
estimated to have been reduced to 5 in 1999, compared to 10 in 1997-98.
In the area of oil exploration, the Government has, with World Bank and Norwegian
assistance, established an administrative unit in the office of the Prime Minister to oversee
government policy in the oil sector, prepare the necessary legislation in the wake of oil
production-sharing negotiations with Exxon/Mobil, and ensure transparency in the handling of future
oil operations.
C.    SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
9.    Sao Tome and Principe's social indicators, which several years ago were better than the
average for sub-Saharan Africa, have significantly deteriorated. In the health sector the rates of
infant, maternal and total mortality have increased dramatically. In the education sector, the quality
of education has declined as a result of poor maintenance of existing infrastructure, a lack of suitable
textbooks in sufficient number, and shortages of professionally qualified teachers. As a result, the
system's quality and effectiveness have seriously declined since 1990. Budget allocations (recurrent
and investment) to both sectors have decreased in real terms by approximately 40 percent in the last
1 0 years.
V. SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE'S DEVELOPMENT CHALLENGES
10.   Sao Tome and Principe displays the economic, environmental, political and social
characteristics that afflict many small island states (the small island syndrome). These characteristics
typically include: remoteness and insularity, susceptibility to natural disasters, limited institutional
capacity, a narrow resource base, vulnerability to external shocks, limited access to external capital,
and entrenched poverty2. Sao Tome and Principe's economic and social indicators are negatively
affected by some of these basic challenges, and confirm the overwhelming demand for public
2 See Small States: Meeting Challenges in the Global Economy (SecM99-693)



5                                      Public Resource Management Credit and TA Project
expenditures. Yet, Sao Tome and Principe's resource base and revenue potential are very limited and
essentially tied to subsistence or informal sector activities and an export sector based on one major
activity - cocoa. Given these conditions, the Government urgently needs to develop and implement a
medium-term program aimed at improving resource mobilization as well as the efficiency and equity
of public resource allocation, within a solid macroeconomic framework and well-defined sector
development priorities, and with clear poverty reduction objectives.
11.   Sao Tome and Principe faces two main development challenges at this time: (i) to reverse the
trend of low real GDP growth, declining per capita income and increasing poverty; and (ii) to
develop the institutional capacity needed to meet the demands of a market-oriented economy. This
implies that the Government needs to consolidate macroeconomic stability and eliminate structural
rigidities so as to move to higher and sustainable economic growth, and to progressively create
employment. Solving the interlocking problems of stabilization and structural adjustment is crucial
to consolidate macroeconomic stability and create conditions for a supply response, which in turn
will generate income and employment, and raise living standards.
12.   The Government's medium-term  economic program  2000-023 attempts to meet these
challenges. It is designed to: (i) pursue prudent demand management policies and improve the
efficiency of public spending while preserving the competitiveness gains resulting from the recent
liberalization of the economy; (ii) accelerate sectoral reforms to promote broad-based economic
growth and a strong supply response; (iii) reduce the role of the state and promote private sector
investment; (iv) improve the delivery of public services; and (v) develop institutional capacities.
Although some progress has been made in the last two years in these areas, much remains to be done
to make public economic management more effective and efficient and thus facilitate economic
growth and reduce poverty.  Issues to be addressed concern macro and sectoral economic
management, budget management, and building institutional capacity, which at present suffer from
weak human capacity. France, the EU, the AfDB and the UNDP will support Sao Tome and
Principe's effort in these areas.
VI. MEDIUM TERM STRATEGY AND PROSPECTS, AND FINANCING
REQUIREMENTS (2000-2002)
A.    MEDIUM-TERM ADJUSTMENT STRATEGY
13.   Notwithstanding the satisfactory progress made in the 1998-99 period, the financial situation
of Sao Tome and Principe remains difficult: the country's debt burden is clearly not sustainable; the
revenue base is narrow and fragile; external reserves are low; the export sector is declining; the
delivery of public services is poor; and structural rigidities impede economic diversification and
growth. Following discussions with the Bank and IMF staff (November 1999 and January 2000), the
Government agreed to reinforce recent progress made in restoring macroeconomic stability and to
start tackling the country's structural problems.
3A detailed description of the Government's macroeconomic and structural adjustment policies for 2000-2002 is provided in the
l-PRSP (IDA/SecM2000-167 dated April 12, 2000)



Sdo Tome and Principe                                                              6
Macro-economic Objectives
14.   The key objectives of the Government's proposed medium-term strategy (which is supported
by an IMF-PRGF) are to bring the economy onto a sustainable growth path, reduce poverty, and
make progress toward external viability. Within this strategy, the macroeconomic objectives for
2000-2002 are to: (i) reduce inflation from 13 percent in 1999 to 3 percent during 2000-02 on an end-
of-year basis; (ii) contain the external current account deficit (excluding official transfers) at 66
percent of GDP (or under 41 percent of GDP including official transfers); (iii) reach a real GDP
growth rate of 4 percent by 2002, allowing per capita income to rise by 1.7 percent a year; and (iv)
increase private investment to 31 percent of GDP and national savings (including official capital
grants) to 20 percent of GDP by 2002.
Structural Reforms
15.   The Govemment is well aware that the macroeconomic situation remains fragile, and that
macroeconomic stabilization cannot be sustained without effective, timely and broad-based
implementation of much needed structural reforms.
16.   Price and trade liberalization will be pursued under the program. The Government will
continue to allow the petroleum product distribution company (ENCO) to implement the automatic
price adjustment mechanism adopted for petroleum product prices in 1997. It will also conduct a
review of the cost structure of the Empresa de Agua e Electricidade (EMAE), with a view to
adopting an automatic adjustment mechanism for water and electricity rates by end-October 2000. In
addition, the Government is conducting a review of the telecommunication sector with the aim of
eliminating the monopoly of the telephone company.
17.   Civil service reform will be a key element of the program. Progress made in implementing
the civil service reform and wage policy, including the implementation of a single computerized
system for civil service and payroll management and downsizing the civil service, will be assessed at
the time of the first review of the program, particularly regarding further downsizing and
streamlining of administrative procedures.
The program calls for the implementation of the Government's public enterprise reform and
privatization program, including the rationalization of the land tenure system in order to increase
production and reinforce investment incentives.   The Government wil also undertake a
restructuring/privatization study of EMAE with the aim of deciding on its future (privatization or
contracting out of the company's management to the private sector), and ensure that the accounts of
all public enterprises are audited annually by reputable accounting firms. The Government will also
conduct a review of business environment in Sao Tome and Principe, with a view to adopting an
action plan aimed at promoting private sector investment through an overhaul of business legislation
and regulation, and assistance to the judiciary in the area of contract enforcement. Regarding the
development of free trade zones in Sao Tome and Principe, the Government has indicated that it will
not be involved and will require an environmental impact study before agreeing on any development.



7                                        Public Resource Management Credit and TA Project
18.   As regards oil exploration,4 the Government will pursue negotiations with Exxon-Mobil on a
possible production-sharing contract. Oil legislation, including provision of a reserve fund for future
generations and environmental protection measures have been adopted. It is expected that standard
production-sharing arrangement with oil companies will be adopted as soon as the issue of the
delimitation of the maritime border with Nigeria is resolved. The program will aim at ensuring
transparency and accountability in the conduct of oil operations, to be confirmed annually through
independent external audits.
Poverty Reduction Strategy
19.   To combat the high incidence of poverty, the Government has prepared and adopted an
Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP) that defines specific measures and actions to
improve the living conditions of the most vulnerable segments of the population. The strategy is
designed around three main activities: (i) generate employment and income for the poor; (ii) achieve
human development, e.g. through better infrastructure and improved access to education and health
facilities; and (iii) enhance institutional development. A committee will be established by December
2000 to oversee implementation of the poverty reduction strategy of the Interim PRSP, and to
monitor poverty indicators. A participative process with the civil society has been launched with a
view to finalizing a full PRSP (and hence an enlarged poverty reduction program) by end-December
2001.
B.    GOVERNANCE
20.   The Government is determined to strengthen transparency and good governance, and crack
down on fraud and corruption. This has been clearly illustrated by the treatment of fraudulent
transfers of foreign currency assets uncovered in 1994, and the Treasury bond fraud attempt
uncovered in February 1999. During the program period, transparency and good governance will be
enhanced through a number of new measures, .uch as annual independent external audits of the
accounts of the central bank, public enterprises, and oil operations, and the strengthening of the
internal audit departments of the Finance Directorate and Customs.
External Financing Requirements
21.    Given the enormity of its development needs, Sao Tome and Principe is likely to continue to
rely on concessional external assistance for many years. For the period 2000-2002, the gross
financing requirements is expected to amount to US$104.4 million. This is expected to be met by
assistance from the IMF (US$7.8 million), Paris Club bilateral debt relief (US$64.2 million), and the
proposed Public Resource Management Credit (PRMC) which will fill the gap for US$7.5 million,
leaving a residual financing gap of US$6.7 million.
4 Petroleum prospects are promising and oil reserves could be large, on the order of 400 million barrels, with a possible coming on
stream of an oil field in 2005. It is expected that investment in oil exploration would increase from US$3 million in 2000 to US$8
million in 2002. Investments for development, construction, and equipment of oil fields are tentatively expected for the period
2003-05.



Sdo Tomi and Principe                                                             8
VII. THE PROPOSED PUBLIC RESOURCE MANAGEMENT CREDIT
A.    CREDIT RATIONALE AND COMPONENTS
22.   During the period 1998-99, the Government has demonstrated its resolve to keep the
economic reform program on track, despite a difficult political environment and reduced foreign
assistance. IDA, through two IDFs (Public Resource Management and Administrative Reform), has
supported the implementation of the first phase of the reform program. Given the encouraging
progress so far, the proposed Public Resource Management Credit would provide budgetary support
to fill the financing gap for the period 2000-01, permitting the Government to sustain its reform
program.
23.   The reform supported by the proposed Public Resource Management Credit has three key
objectives: (i) improve domestic resource mobilization, including progress towards harmonization
with the Western African Economic Monetary Union (WAEMU) on a common external tariff (CET);
(ii) strengthen public expenditure management; and (iii) continue implementation of the public
enterprise reform program. The Credit will mainly support actions aimed at domestic resource
mobilization and at deepening the PE reform program while at the same time it will complement and
deepen actions already agreed under the IMF-PRGF in the area of public expenditure management.
B.    IMPROVE DOMESTIC RESOURCE MOBILIZATION
24.   Tax revenue mobilization in Sao Tome and Principe, at 16 percent of GDP in 1999, is about
average for Special Program of Assistance (SPA) countries.  To increase tax revenues, the
Government intends to further broaden the tax base and strengthen tax administration by: (i) reducing
the number and scope of tax exemptions; (ii) strengthening the tax assessment and collection
services; and (iii) rationalizing domestic indirect taxation. Through these measures, the Government
expects to enhance revenue mobilization to just under 18 percent in 2002.
25.   To reduce the number and scope of tax exemptions, the Government plans to implement the
following measures: (i) eliminate all ad-hoc tax exemptions; (ii) let expiring exemptions granted
under the investment code lapse; (iii) exclude all enterprises that will be privatized from exemptions
under the provision of the investment code; (iv) improve implementation of the system of Treasury
checks as a means to monitor exemptions related to imports under foreign-financed government
procurement; and (vi) extend to NGOs the system of Treasury checks to pay import duties and other
applicable indirect taxes.
26.   To strengthen tax administration, the Government plans to: (i) provide the tax
administration office with adequate personnel and material to improve its efficiency; (ii) monitor
taxpayer compliance by introducing the single taxpayer identification number system to all revenue
agencies; (iii) install computerized value records at the Directorate General of Customs; and (iv)
improve tax collection by strengthening the collaboration between Customs and the tax
administration office. In addition, with assistance from IDA and the IMF, the Government will
annually assess the impact of the tariff reform on government finances, and if needed, develop
offsetting measures.
27.   Regarding domestic indirect taxation, the Government embarked on a tariff reform in 1999
designed to reduce the dispersion in the level of tariffs and the associated distortions. This reform
had two objectives: (i) simplification of the tariff structure so as to increase transparency and the rate



9                                              Public Resource Management Credit and TA Project
of compliance; and (ii) reduction in the effective rate of protection in order to better integrate Sao
Tome and Principe into the global economy. This reform is expected to help safeguard Sao Tome and
Principe's competitiveness within the region, particularly in light of current tariff reforms from the
Central African Economic and Monetary Community (CEMAC) and WAEMU members5.
28.    In January 2000, the Government adopted a new customs duty structure that comprises only
three rates: 5, 10, and 20 percent, as indicated in Table I below. Given the relatively high rates of
taxes paid by alcoholic beverages and petroleum products, the Government intends to neutralize the
revenue impact of the duty rate change by applying an appropriate level of sales taxes6. With the
changes, the weighted average import duty in Sao Tome and Principe will be about 10.3 percent.
Table 1: Sao Tome and Principe: Customs Duty Structure as of January 1, 2000
Import Duty Rate
Category
Basic foods, pharmaceuticals, fuels, and agricultural inputs                              5
Food, paper products, textile raw materials, and equipment goods                          10
Final consumption goods (including some agricultural products)                           20
29.    The next stage of tariff and tax reforms will be implemented within the framework of this
proposed  Public  Resource  Management Credit.   Measures to  be  implemented  include  the
reclassification of goods as a function of their economic nature (along the lines of the proposed
CEMAC scheme); and an extension to the embryonic general sales tax.
C.   RATIONALIZE PUBLIC EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT
30.    The Government has launched a medium-term  process to improve the efficiency and equity
of public spending in line with its macroeconomic objectives and sector priorities. A key priority is
to direct expenditures toward the social sectors (education and health, particularly to the rural
population), improve service delivery and address poverty issues.
31.    Current expenditure as a share of GDP has declined from 27.8 percent of GDP in 1997 to
27.2 percent in 1999. However, despite efforts to reduce the Government's wage bill, it increased by
156 percent from 1997 to 1999 and absorbed, in 1999, about 48 percent of (non-interest) current
expenditures. In contrast, spending for materials and supplies represented only 23 percent of current
expenditures, and is declining, which has contributed to the deterioration of facilities and equipment,
and to poor service quality, particularly in rural areas. In addition, a significant share of resources is
spent on urban, curative health services instead of on rural, preventive health care. Administration
services absorb about 44 percent of current expenditure of both the education and health budgets.
5Sao Tome and Principe would also consider acceding to the World Customs Organization (WCO) and the World Trade
Organization (WTO) in order to benefit from the expertise available for documentation, regulations and staff training. Acceding
to WCO, will allow Sao Tome and Principe to endorse the International Convention on the Harmonized Commodity Description
and Coding System, designed to harmonize customs and trade procedures and to facilitate data sharing and will also give to Sao
Tome and Principe access to the dispute resolution mechanism.
6 The sales tax, which given the high degree of import penetration and the high level of informality in the domestic production
sector, has an impact broadly similar to that of a general VAT, would also continue to be collected at customs.



Sao Tome and Principe                                                                      10
Within the education budget, secondary and higher education received too much and primary
education too little. There is also an issue with respect to regional imbalances in resource allocation.
32.    To ensure adequate funding of the social and infrastructure sectors, as well as the poverty
reduction program identified under the Interim PRSP framework, the Government needs to
restructure its public expenditures. The Government has committed to do so under the umbrella of
this Credit. Measures to be pursued include improving financial management and budget preparation
and execution, and implementing a civil service reform program including the retrenchment of about
532 civil servants by no later than December 2001. In particular, the Government will undertake
public expenditure reviews (PERs) in the education and health sectors to identify issues with regard
to the composition of sector allocations, expenditure programming, budget execution and impact
evaluation. In this process, clear linkages will be established between recurrent and investment
budgets.
33.   Investment expenditures will be established within the framework of a public investment
program  (PIP), to be agreed with the World Bank.  Priority areas will include agriculture,
infrastructure and human resource development.   With respect to foreign-financed capital
expenditure, the Government will select projects having the highest returns and aimed at social
development and poverty reduction. Ongoing projects will be closely monitored, including those
financed through special grants (e.g. from Taiwan, China). The integrity of the budget will be
preserved and all public investments will be included in the budget and the PIP.
34.    The Government intends to review and update the recommendations of the 1997 Public
Finance Review and take into account the education and health PER recommendations as well as the
PRSP objectives in the preparation of the 2002 Budget law. In this context, the Government will
fully involve IDA, the IMF and other interested donors in the preparation of the 2001-02 budgets.
Eventually, once institutional capacity is better developed, public expenditure decisions will be
integrated within a three-year rolling macroeconomic and public expenditure framework (MTEF).
In addition, the Government has indicated its commitment to put in place well-functioning
public finance administrations and procedures. Studies have been conducted on the role and
missions of the Directorate of Finance with a view to streamlining its operations and establishing
separate and autonomous tax, budget, and treasury administrations. Control over expenditure
commitments (including investments) will be strengthened. Finally, following the Paris Club
rescheduling (May 2000), the Government aims at eliminating all external payments arrears during
the first year of implementation. Domestic arrears are also projected to be eliminated at that time.
D.    IMPLEMENT PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM
35.    The Government is determined to pursue the implementation of its public enterprise reform
program by putting up for sale enterprises already slated for privatization, by liquidating non-
performing public enterprises for which buyers cannot be found7; and by financially rehabilitating
7 The PE sector comprises 22 PEs, of which eight are in the rural sector. The Govemment will (i) liquidate two (2) companies, a
meat processing concern (ENCAR) and medicine distribution company (ENAMED); and (ii) privatize a hotel (Pousada Boa
Vista), a palm-oil development company (EMOLVE), a construction materiel distribution company (Cunha Gomes), the national
airline (Air Sao Tome) and the water and electricity enterprise (EMAE).



11                                               PPublic Resource Management Credit and TA Project
public utilities, especially by periodically adjusting tariff rates to reflect the cost and efficiency gains
of producing these services. In addition, the Government will strengthen the legal and institutional
framework for private investment, conduct a study of the telecommunications sector with a view of
opening it up to competition, and adopt a program for the privatization of large state-owned
agricultural farns together with an action-plan for the rationalization of the land tenure system.
Budgetary Gap and Financing Requirements
36.    A pre-requisite to the success of the reform  program  will be to maintain sound government
finances, notwithstanding the loss of revenue that would come from both the implementation of the
tariff reform and increased public expenditure in the social sectors.
37.     Tarif Reform  and revenue implications.  Assuming: (i) revenue neutrality for alcoholic
beverages and fuels; (ii) not accounting for the effect of extending the current sales tax to domestic
services; (iii) no change in the rate of evasion or under-invoicing,8 no change in the level of imports
(i.e. no elasticity-type effects due to price changes); (iv) no change in the level and extent of
exemptions; and (v) a constant rate of collection, that is, assuming no further improvement in the rate
of compliance or strengthening of customs management, the worst case scenario shows that the
impact of the tariff reform on fiscal revenue would be about 1.8 billion of Dobras (Db) or US$2.5
million in 2000.
Table 2: SAo Tome and Principe: Projected Impact On Customs Revenue
(In Millions Of Dobras, Unless Otherwise Specified)
1997         2000
Customs revenue (import duties and consumption tax)                                    8,920.0       8,134.0
Effect on revenue collection from
Change in import duty rates                                                     1/-1,365.0     -1.038.8
New regime for basic foodstuffs and pharmaceuticals                                 136.6        213.0
Efficiency improvement 2/                                                         1,393.8          ...
New sales tax regime                                                                 73.9         56.1
Improvement in collections from ENCO 3/                                             178.4           ...
Post-reform adjusted revenue                                                           9,159.2       7,364.3
In percent of Customs revenue                                                     102.7%         90.5%
1/ Assuming revenue neutrality for petroleum-related receipts.
2/ Improvement in effective collection rates is assumed to be fully incorporated in 2000.
3/ Observed after the privatization of ENCO in 1998; assumed to be ftilly incorporated in 2000.
38.    To partially offset the expected revenue shortfall, the Government will strengthen customs
and tax administration by: (a) conducting a census of all tax and customs exemptions and eliminating
all ad hoc tax and customs duty exemptions that in 1999 amounted to Db 18.3 billion, of which Db
8 Other than generally strengthening management and improving the training available to the staff, the authorities are working
closely with the Chamber of Commerce to increase the rate of compliance with customs law. In particularly, Customs
management has elaborated a plan to closely monitor invoicing practices by the use of reference prices, a practice, which
addresses the key issue of under-invoicing. Sao Tome and Principe has not yet adhered to WTO, but it should be noted that strict
application of reference prices is inconsistent with WTO rules. Nevertheless, temporary use of reference prices is generally
permitted by the WTO (when new adherents demand an exception).



Sdo Tome and Principe                                                                 12
10.4 billion were given to the Government itself and to public enterprises (PEs); (b) developing a
monitoring system of import values at customs; (c) making fully operational the computerization
program at custom (SYDONIA); (d) combating fraud and tax evasion; (e) giving full authority to the
Ministry of Planning and Finance and its Customs Service to evaluate the tax bases at Customs,
assess and collect duties and taxes and apply penalties where appropriate; and (f) ensuring that all tax
and customs regulations are enforced.
39.   Increased public expenditure. To provide adequate access to basic education and health
services and implement the poverty reduction programs identified under the I-PRSP framework,
budget expenditure would need to be increased. In addition, budgetary resources will be needed to
make fully operational, the newly created Oil Unit and carry out sectoral studies and PERs9.
E.    CREDIT FEATURES AND IMPLEMENTATION
40.   The stage for this operation has been set by the successful implementation of the IMF Staff
Monitored Program, the preparation of an Interim PRSP and by a number of important decisions
taken or being taken before Board presentation.
41.   Credit amount and financing. The Borrower will be the Democratic Republic of Sao Tome
and Principe. The proposed amount of IDA financing is SDR 5.8 million (US$7.5 million
equivalent) for the Credit and SDR 1.95 million (US$2.5 million equivalent) for the Technical
Assistance component. The total amount of SDR 7.75 million (US$10 million equivalent) is
considered adequate to support the momentum of policy reforms.
42.   Tranching and tranche release. Public Resource Management Credit: The Credit will
be disbursed in three tranches - two core tranches and one floating tranche. The First core Tranche
of SDR 2.0 million (US$2.6 million equivalent) will be released at credit effectiveness. The Second
core Tranche and the Floating Tranche of SDR 1.9 million each (US$2.47 million equivalent) will be
released once the conditionalities have been met. It is expected that the Second core Tranche will be
released within twelve months after the first one. No date has been set for the release of the Floating
Tranche so that the Government can effectively control the pace of tranche release by accelerating
the pace of the reforms, while having the flexibility to prepare them and assure their support. It is
expected however, that the Floating Tranche will be released no later than February 2002. In the
case of unsatisfactory performance of the reform program, or if tranche release conditions are not
achieved within the expected life of the operation, the Floating Tranche will be cancelled. Core
tranche conditions and floating tranche conditions are summarized below.
43.   Public Resource Management Technical Assistance Project: The TA Project will finance
a Study Fund for SDR 1.95 million (US$2.5 million equivalent) to carry out policy reform studies
(trade liberalization, tax system, PERs, fiscal reform); sectoral strategies (diversification of
agriculture production, tourism, fisheries, public utilities, private sector development, banking and
financial sector reform, transport, education and health); and simulation models. All this economic
and sector work will be needed towards the preparation of a full PRSP. Procurement of goods, works
and services will be governed by the World Bank's handbook, "Guidelines, Procurement under IBRD
9 The EU will finance the retrenchment of 532 civil servants out of 4,708 civil servants



13                                          Public Resource Management Credit and TA Project
Loans and IDA Credits " and "Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers" respectively.
44.    Disbursements. The Borrower will open an account in its Central Bank. Upon notification
of release for each tranche, the Association will, at the request of the Borrower, deposit the
corresponding proceeds of the Credit into this account. In addition, the Government will open a
special account in a commercial bank in Sao Tome and Principe to facilitate disbursements from the
Technical Assistance component of this operation. If after deposit in this account the proceeds of the
Credit and its TA Project are used for ineligible purposes (i.e. to finance goods or services in the
standard negative list), the Association will require the Borrower to refund the amount to the Credit
Account.
45.    Auditing. The Association reserves the right to seek an audit of the Central Bank and the
commercial bank accounts. Audits of the Special Account will be carried out annually by an
independent auditor acceptable to the Association. Such reports will be submitted within six months
of the end of the fiscal year. During negotiations, the Government gave assurances to this effect.
46.    Implementation and Monitoring.  The reform  program  under this operation will be
implemented by the Ministry of Planning and Finance. Implementation of the reform program as
well as overall macroeconomic performance will be monitored bi-annually in the context of the
preparation of the PRSP, and jointly with the IMF through supervision of the PRGF arrangement.
47.    Agreements Reached and Conditionalities
Before Boa#idresntstion         Coa,diios for 'second           Condto4 for sloaig
tratch re lee            :      tmaueh* relm-
1. Submitted a draft Letter of  I.  Eliminate all ad hoc        1.  Implement, by bringing to the
Development Policy              exemptions (seepara. 25)        point of sale, the privatization
program for the non-
agricultural public enterprises
(see para. 35 andfootnote 7)
2. Enacted implementation of    2.  Make fully operational the  2.  Implement the key
the new organizational          SYDONlA automated system        recommendations of the PERs
structures of all ministries,  for the assessment of tax        (education and health) within
including staffing plans, and   bases and the calculation of    the framework of the budget
the cost of one-time            custom duties (see para. 38)    2002 (see para. 34)
retrenchment (see para. 8, 17
and 32)
3. Implemented a single        3.  Introduce the single taxpayer
computerized system for civil  identification number system
service and payroll            to all revenue agencies to
management (see para. 17)       monitor taxpayers compliance
(see para. 26)
4. Published the list of all public  4.  Carry out PERs for the
enterprises to be privatized    education and health sectors
(see para. 35)                  (see para. 32)
5. Created an administrative unit  5.  Implement a general sales tax
responsible for petroleum       (see para. 28)
policy (see para. 8)



Sdo Tome and Principe                                                              14
48.   Benefits. Implementation of the tariff reform and harmonization of the revised tariff system
with the common tariff of the CEMAC and the WAEMU should assist Sao Tome and Principe's
growth over the medium and long-term. Resource mobilization, private investment flows, economic
diversification and external trade are expected to improve, thereby enhancing the efficiency and
productivity of public resources. Also, by focusing on the efficiency of public expenditure and the
reallocation of public resources towards education, health and poverty-oriented programs, the Credit
would help protect budgetary spending in these three areas, with a positive and direct impact on
poverty reduction. In addition, the implementation of the civil service reform will allow Sao Tome
and Principe to have a lean administration and improve public service delivery to the beneficiaries.
49.   Risks. The main risk is that the proposed reform agenda encounters resistance and incites
social unrest, particularly in the period leading up to the 2001 presidential election. Other risks are
posed by low institutional capacity, limited donors' commitment and lack of coordination, and a
narrow private sector. Declining export earnings, and protracted negotiations with Nigeria on the
delimitation of the maritime border could distract the Government's attention away from the reform
agenda and result in a more difficult economic environment.  That could lead to partial
implementation of the program, or to excessive delays or even policy reversals, particularly if
recovery of the economy is slower than expected. To manage these risks, the Government plans to:
(i) harness the support of the political parties, the business community, labor unions, NGOs and the
population at large, as it did during the successful preparation of the I-PRSP; (ii) strengthen donor
coordination including, holding a Donor Round Table meeting in October 2000; and (iii) develop
local institutional capacity.
50.   A set of key performance indicators has been agreed with the Government during negotiation
and is included in Annex I
O*wnership of the Reform Program
51.   At the time of the launch of the PRSP in early November 1999, the Government reaffirmed
its commitment to the reform process. Government ownership of the program that this operation
supports appears to be adequate in order to ensure its successful implementation. This is evidenced
by:
* Full involvement of the Government in the design of the adjustment program. The Government
provided the initial written framework for the Credit including components.
* The Government has already implemented a number of key actions in the areas of revenue
mobilization and public expenditure management.
*  A government counterpart team (composed of senior staff at the level of director from various
ministries) has been working with IDA and IMF staff on the program design and implementation.
The team is headed by the Minister of Planning and Finance, and is supported by a full-time
technical team.
F.    RATIONALE FOR IDA INVOLVEMENT
52.   This Credit and its TA Project will complement ongoing reforms financed under IDFs and
the IMF-PRGF, and will assist the Saotomean authorities to implement a set of first-generation
policy reforms. These reforms are needed to consolidate and accelerate the Government's efforts and



15                                    Public Resource Management Credit and TA Project
move Sao Tome and Principe towards a new phase of economic and social development. The
Government recognizes the World Bank as a privileged partner, well positioned to provide sound
advice and extend the dialogue to other development partners.
Looking Ahead
53.   The Bank will, in coordination with the IMF and donors, closely monitor the implementation
of the agreed measures with a view of strengthening public resource management and institutional
capacity. The timely implementation of the agreed reforms would allow the Government to establish
a sound track record to request debt relief under the enhanced Initiative for Heavily Indebted Poor
Countries (HIPC Initiative).
VIII. COLLABORATION WITH IMF AND OTHER DONORS
54.   The reform program supported by this operation has been closely coordinated with the IMF' s
PRGF program. The PRGF targets and benchmarks have been developed in close consultation with
Bank's staff to stress the complementarity of the IMF and WB programs. The proposed resource
mobilization and public expenditure measures complement those supported by the IMF's PRGF.
Expenditure targets and allocation to be set for 2001-02 will be consistent with both the I-PRSP
objectives and sound expenditure management.
55.   IDA staff has also closely coordinated with the EU, the UNDP, the AfDB, and with Sao
Tome and Principe's major donors, namely Portugal, France and the U.S.A.
IX. RECOMMENDATION
56.   1 am satisfied that the proposed Credit and TA Project (PRMC and PRM TA) would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive Directors
approve them.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Shengman Zhang
Washington, D.C.
October 6, 2000






ANNEX A
Public Resource Management Credit and TA Project                                                                  Page I of 2
Sao Tome and Principe at a glance
Sao Tomr      Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                  and  Saharan       Low-
Principe    Africa  income      Development diamond"
199S 
Population, mid-year (miffions)                     0.14      642      2,417                Life expectancy
GNPpercapita (Atlas method, US$)                    270       500       410
GNP (Atlas method, USs billions)                    0.04      321       988
Average annual growth, 1SS3-9S
Population I%)                                       2.4       2.6      1.9                    /
Labor force (%)                                                          2.3      p                             Gross
perprmy
Most reent estite (latest yearavailable, 199349)                                capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)  40
Urban population % of totl populatio)                44        34        31
Lif expectancy at birth (years)                      64        50        60
Infant mortlity (per 1,000 live births)              65        92        77
Child malnutri6on (% of children under 5)            17        32        43               Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (% of Population)    82        43        64
illiteracy t% of populaion age 15+)                  80        39        39            -
Gross primary enrocHment (% of school-age population)  70      78        96         -Sao  Tome and Principe
Male                                               70        85       102               Low-income group
Female                                             70        71        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979    1989      1998      1999
Economic ratils
GDP (USS bilfions)                         0.03     0,05      0.04     0.05
Gross domestic investrnentlGDP             27.1    36.0       44.7     40.0                    Trade
Exports of goods and servicesfGDP          59.3    22.9       29.7     35.0
Gross domnestc savings/GOP                -11.0   -39.9        2.2     -9.3
Gross national sanqs/GDP                   -4.4   -31.5       26.5      4.1
Current account balanceiGDP                23.9   -59.1      -30.7    -45.7     Domeste
Interest paymentWIGOP                       0.0      5.8       6.1      5.1                  H              Investment
Total debtlGDP                             48.1   292.3    721.5    627.3         vings
Total debt servicelexports                  0.0    56.6       83.1     49. 6f
Present value of debtlGDP                                    355.0
Present value of debtexports                                1 196.7
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99    1998      199S   199S03
faveraoge annual growth)
GDP                                         1.7      2.5       2.5      3 8          -Sao  Tome and Principe
GNP Percapita                     -2.1    -1.0    -1.5         2.9      1.                 Low-income group
Exports of goods and services               0.7    22.6       37.0      5.4
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979    1989      1998      1999     Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                         28.9      21.3     20.6     3 T
Industry                                            10.7      16.7     17.0    20                 A
Manufacturing                                      6.4       4.6       4. 5    t
Ser,ices                                            60.4      62.0     62.5      o.       ;       se         gs   99
Private consumption                       105.2    73.1      72.2      79.5   .201
General government consumption              5.8    66.8       25.6     29.8             -     GDl       e  GOP
Imports of goods and services              97.4    90.3      72.4      84.3
(average annual growth)                 197949  1989-99      1998      1999    | Growth of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                   -      3.9       4.4      4.5     4
Industry                                             1.3       1.6      2.3       t
Manufacturing                                      1.3       2.0       2.2    20-
Services                                             0.6       1.6      1.3
Private consumption                                 -3.9     12.3      12.6    10                      97\9'  99
General govemment consumption                        5.2    -25.2       1.6   -z0
Gross domestic investment                     -     -0.4     10.0       7.6    30
Imports of goods and services                 -     -2.3    -19.1      25.7                 Exports    enImpons
Gross national product                      0.7      1.5       0.8      5.2
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estmates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. Hf data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



ANNEX A
Public Resource Management Credit and TA Project                                                                          Page 2 of 2
Sao Tome and Principe
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                               1979     1989       1998      1999
(% change)                                                                          t"200I
Consumer prices                                        46.0       50.9      16.3     :a
Implicit GDP deflator                                  33.3       37.1      16.0      0
49
Govemment finance                                                                     20
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                                         ____-_
Current revenue                                         37.7      19.4      23.7              94    9S   96   97    98   99
Current budget balance                                  12.1      -9.3      -3.4               -GDP deflator    O  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                -33.0     -34.6    -46.0
TRADE
(US$ militons)                                1979     1989      1998       1999      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                                       6          5         4     35 -
Cocoa                                                    5         5         3     ,30 *
Copra                                                                               25    *
Manufactures                                   .20
Total imports (cif                                       33         21        26     15 t
Food                                                    8          5         6      10 -
Fuel and energy                                                    2         3      5 I
Capital goods                                           18        10        12          9    997   98   99
Export price index (1995=100)                   ..       76         88        47
Importpriceindex(1995=100)                               83         84        90                 *EVoorts      airmpoits
Terms of trade (1995=100)                                92        105        52
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                                1979     1989      1998      1999       Current account balance toGDP(%)
Exports of goods and services                   29       11         12        18 6 
Imports of goods and services                   23       42         29        40     -0
Resource balance                                 6      -31        -17       -23      20
Net income                                       2       -3         -5        -5     40 -
Net current transfers                            0        7         10         6                   I     I0 t -
Current account balance                          8      -27        -12       -22     g50 +
Financing items (net)                           -6       26         10        23     80 T  
Changes in net reserves                         -2        1          3        -1      9
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)                              10       11
Conversion rate (DEC, localUUS$)              35.0    124.7   6,927.4   7,092.6
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989      1998      1999
(USS millions)                                                                        Composition of 1998 debt (US$ mIll.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed            17      135        293       296
IBRD                                           0        0          0        0
IDA                                            0       17        61        65                 G: 48
Total debt service                               0        6         10         8
IBRD                                           0        0         0         0
IDA                                            0        0          1         1
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                2       16         13        15          E
Official creditors                             4       16          5        10          E
Private creditors                              0        0          0         0
Foreign direct investment                               4          4         3                                  106
Portfolio equity
World Bank program
Commitments                                    0        5          3         1     A - ]ORD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                  0        7          2         1      B - IDA    0 - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                           0        0         0         0      C - IMF                      G - Short-temn
Net flows                                      0        7          2         0
Interest payments                              0        0         0         0
Net transfers                                  0        7          1        0
Development Economics



ANNEX B
Public Resource Management Credit and TA Project                                                          Page1 of I
Sao Tome and Principe Social Indicators
Latest single year              Same regionlincome group
Sub-
Saharan          Low-
1970-75      1980-8S       1993-98              Africa       income
POPULATION
Total population, mid-year (millions)                0.1          0.1           0.1              627.3        3,536.4
Growth rate (% annual average)                     3.0          2.3           2.6                2.2           1.4
Urban population (% of population)                  26.9         34.8          44.0               33.3          30.5
Total fertility rate (births per woman)                ..          ..           4.6                5.4            3.1
POVERTY
(%9 of population)
National headcount index                               ..          ..          40.0
Urban headcount index                               ..
Rural headcount index                               ..
INCOME
GNP per capita (US$)                                  ..           ..          270                510            520
Consumer price index (1995=100)                       ..           ..            ..                128           136
Food price index (1995=1 00)                          ..           ..
INCOMEICONSUMPTION DISTRIBUTION
Gini index
Lowest quintile (% of incorne or consumption)
Highest quintile (% of income or consumption)         ..
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Public expenditure
Health (% of GDP)                                   ..           ..           6.1                1.5           1.3
Education (% of GNP)                                ..          6.3            ..                4.1           3.2
Social security and welfare (% of GDP)  .           ..           ..
Net primary school enrollment rate
(% of age group)
Total                                               ..           ..            ..                 ..            86
Male                                             ..            ..            ..                 ..            89
Female                                            ..           ..            ..                 ..            82
Access to safe water
(% of population)
Total                                               ..           ..           82
Urban
Rural
Immunization rate
(% under 12 months)
Measles                                             ..           35           60                 58             80
DPT                                                 ..           48           73                 53             82
Child malnutrition (% under 5 years)                  ..           ..           16
Life expectancy at birth
(years)
Total                                               ..           ..           64                 50             63
Male                                             ..            ..           62                 49            62
Female                                           ..            ..           67                 52            64
Mortality
Infant (per thousand live births)                  89            80           49                 92            68
Under 5 (per thousand live births)                 ..            ..           64                151            92
Adult (15-59)
Male (per 1,000 population)                       ..           ..          249                432           235
Female (per 1,000 population)                    ..            ..          184                383           208
Maternal (per 100,000 live births)                 ..            ..            ..
2000 World Development Indicators CD-ROM, World Bank






ANNEX C
Public Resource Management Credit and TA Project                                                        Page I of 3
PUBLIC RESOURCE MANAGEMENT CREDIT
SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS
National accounts
(as % GDP at current
market prices)
Gross domestic product         100.0       100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0   100.0    100.0
Agriculturea                  25.5       26.4      24.9     24.8      21.3     20.6      20.5     19.9     19.7
Industrya                     20.1        19.6     18.9      16.5     16.7     17.0      17.1     16.4     15.8
Servicesa                     54.4       53.9      56.3     58.8      62.0     62.4      61.4     61.7     61.8
Total Consumption              149.3       152.0    140.6    153.3    97.8       109.3    107.5    105.9    104.9
Gross domestic fixed            46.3       42.0     49.4      47.3     44.7      40.4     49.5     59.3      61.2
investment
Government investment         32.7       36.5      32.6     26.8      19.8     26.0      27.1     26.0     23.3
Private investment            13.5        5.5      16.8     20.6      25.0     14.0      16.5    30.3      29.9
(includes increase in
stocks)
Exports (GNFS)b                 38.3       29.9      30.5     43.4     29.5      35.0     38.8     41.9      43.4
Imports(GNFS)                  133.9       123.8    120.5    144.0    72.0       84.3     89.8    104.1    101.2
Gross domestic savings         -49.3      -52.0    -40.6    -53.3       2.2      -9.3     -7.5      -5.9     -4.9
Gross national savingsc        -36.6      -40.6    -36.3    -29.8    26.5        4.1      -0.5      17.5     5.8
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product          50          45       45        44       41       47        47       48        52
(US$ million at current
prices)
Gross national product per     195.8       237.1    223.5    172.2    252.9    270.0    314.3    336.0    343.7
capita (US$, Atlas method)
Real annual growth rates
(%, calculated from 1987
prices)
Gross domestic product at     2.2%       2.0%      1.5%     1.0%     2.5%      2.5%     3.0%     4.0%      4.0%
market prices
Gross Domestic Income        4.1%        1.8%     2.2%      2.9%     1.1%      1.7%     1.8%     6.8%      6.4%
Real annual per capita
growth rates (%, calculated
from 1987 prices)
Gross domestic product at    -0.5%      -0.6%    -1.0%    -1.4%      0.2%      0.3%     0.8%      1.8%     1.7%
market prices
Total consumption            -3.6%       6.6%     -8.6%     1.6%    -14.4%    4.1%      -2.1%    -0.9%     1.2%
Private consumption          -16.7%      4.9%    -14.0%   -37.2%    9.8%      10.1%     0.4%     0.7%      3.7%



ANNEX C
Public Resource Management Credit and TA Project                                                     Page 2 of 3
PUBLIC RESOURCE MANAGEMENT CREDIT
SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Balance of Payments
(US$m)
Exports(GNFS)b                11.7       11.0     10.6     12.4     12.0      16.5     18.1    20.1      22.6
Merchandise FOB             5.9        5.1      4.9       5.3      4.7      3.9      4.7      5.7      7.2
Imports (GNFS)b              41.0       45.5     42.1      41.3     29.4     39.3     41.9    49.9      52.8
Merchandise FOB             24.3       23.4     19.8     19.2     16.8     21.9      23.9    28.6      31.2
Resource balance             -29.3      -34.6    -31.4    -28.9    -17.4    -23.2    -23.8   -29.8    -30.2
Net current transfers         6.3        5.2       2.0     10.3      9.9      6.3      3.2      11.2     5.6
(including official current
transfers)
Current account balance      -20.2      -16.8    -14.0    -1.6      -8.5    -12.2    -13.2   -11.0    -16.2
(after official capital grants)
Net private foreign direct    1.8         1.9      2.4      0.4      4.2      3.0      6.8      9.0      12.0
investment
Long-term loans (net)         17.2       26.9     29.4     24.2      5.2      16.6     19.1    18.1      16.4
Official                     14.0       13.7     10.1      1.0      5.4      10.2     8.2      8.7      9.1
Private                      3.2        13.2     19.3     23.2    -0.2       6.4      10.9     9.4      7.3
Other capital (net, including  1.3       -6.7    -17.6    -15.3    -3.4      -6.3     -8.6    -8.4       -7.3
errors and omissions)
Change inreservesd            -0.1       -5.3     -0.2     -7.6      2.5     -1.1     -1.1    -5.2      -1.5
Memorandum items
Resource balance (% of        -59.1%     -76.0%    -70.0%    -65.7%    -42.8%    -49.3%    -51.0%    -62.1%   -57.8%
GDP at current market
prices)
Real annual growth rates
YR87 prices)
Merchandise exports          -2.2%     -18.3%   -10.7%    5.2%     12.6%     7.2%     8.3%     4.6%     3.8%
(FOB)
Primary                     -2.2%     -18.3%   -10.7%    5.2%     12.6%     7.2%     8.3%     4.6%     3.8%
Manufactures                  ..        ..        ..       ..       ..       ..       ..
Merchandise imports          -9.1%      -9.0%    -16.9%    4.5%    -1.6%    22.5%     1.4%    11.7%     9.7%
(CIF)
Public finance
(as % of GDP at current
market prices)'
Current revenues              14.1       20.4     14.9     16.6     19.4     23.7      24.3    27.5     26.9
Current expenditures          31.1       24.0     27.2     27.8     28.7     27.1     23.7    26.4      23.1
Current account surplus(+)   -17.0       -3.6    -12.3    -11.2    -9.3      -3.4      0.5      1.1      3.9
or deficit (-)
Capital expenditure           42.7       53.5     42.1     42.2     30.9     42.6     44.4    43.2      41.1
Foreign financing             46.5       49.2     47.0     53.4     15.0     37.1     73.4    42.7      37.9



ANNEX C
Public Resource Management Credit and TA Project                                                       Page 3 of 3
PUBLIC RESOURCE MANAGEMENT CREDIT
SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE
KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP (at current market     38.0        31.5     37.5     36.0      31.9     26.0     25.3     25.8      25.3
prices)
Growth of M2 (%)              132.2       47.4     82.2     94.5      24.5     -3.0      7.5      15.4     8.1
Private sector credit growth/  719.6      6.6      35.2      3.9      60.3    -72.5    -2.4    -26.4       0.0
total credit growth (%)
Price indices( YR87 =100)
Merchandise export price      121.1      128.8    139.8    143.6    113.2    60.8       64.2      70.9     81.0
index
Merchandise import price      107.4      113.7    116.1    108.7    95.6    102.8    115.9   114.3    111.7
index
Merchandise terns oftrade     112.8      113.3    120.4    132.1    118.5    59.1       55.4    62.0       72.5
index
Real exchange rate                        ..
(US$/LCU)f
Real interest rateS
Consumer price index         26.6%       37.2%    37.5%    67.7%    50.9%    16.3%    10.7%    6.90/o    4.00/o
(% growth rate)
GDP deflator                 73.5%       74.5%    50.8%    100.2%   37.1%    16.0%      7.4%     8.6%     6.2%
(% growth rate)
a. If GDP components are estimated at factor cost, a footnote indicating "Data-YR"fact should be added.
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Includes use of IMF resources.
e. Should indicate the level of the government to which the data refer.
f. "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increase in US$/LCU denotes appreciation.






ANNEX D
Public Resource Management Credit and TA Project                     Page 1 of 1
Sao Tome and Principe
External Financing Requirements and Sources of Financing, 2000-02
2000       2001        2002     2000-02
External financing needs              -94.5       -61.9      -44.2     -200.5
Current account balance            -26.7       -33.8       -34.2     -94.6
Amortization due                    -3.5        -3.6       -5.9      -13.0
External arrears                   -60.6       -16.7        0.0      -77.3
Net change in foreign reserves      -3.7        -7.8       -4.1      -15.6
External financing sources            25.7        36.8        33.6      96.2
Projects loans and grants           19.3        20.1       20.6       60.0
Food aid                            1.6         3.2         2.8       7.6
Non-project financing               0.0         1.4         1.1       2.5
Private capital inflows             3.8         6.5         8.6       18.9
Oil receipts                        0.3         5.0         0.0       5.3
Fishing royalties                   0.6         0.6         0.6       1.8
Financing gap                         -68.8      -25.1       -10.6     -104.3
To be covered by                    68.8        20.6        8.3       97.7
PRGF resources                     2.6         2.6         2.6       7.8
Sac                                3.0         2.3         2.3       7.5
Bilateral debt relief              63.1        15.8        3.4       82.3
Residual gap                        0.0         -4.4       -2.3       -6.7






ANNEX E
Public Resource Management Credit and TA Project                                                                                                             Page 1 of I
Status of Bank Group Operations in Sao Tome and Principe
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference Between
Active Projects                                    Last PSR                                                                                        Expected and Actual
Supervision Rating                                  Original Amount in US$ Millions                       Disbursements
Development  Implementatio                                                                                                  Frm
Project ID  Project Name                 Objectives      n Progress        Fiscal           IBRD        IDA    Cancellations  Undisburse    Original             Received
Year                                                      d
P0025?5      Agric Sector                     S               S             1992              0         9.8            0              0.7           0.1               0
P002542      Health &                         S               S             1992              0        11.4            0              3.1           3.1             0.2
Education
Total                                                                                                  21-2                           3.8           3.2              0.2
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
IDA            TOTAL
Original Principal                        61,050,000        61,850,000
Cancellations                                  19,531            19,531
Disbursed                                 62,559,999        62,559,999
Undisbursed                                3,635,708         3,635,708
Repaid                                        981,330          981,330
Due                                       58,442,216        58,442,216
Exchange Adjustment                                  0                0
Borrower's Obligation                     58,442,216
Sold 3rd Party                                       0                0
Repaid 3rd Party                                     0                0
Due 3rd Party                                        0                0






ANNEX F
Public Resource Management Credit and TA Project                                                  Page 1 of 1
SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE - KEY EXPOSURE INDICATORS
Total debt outstanding and           228     252      266      268     293     296      291     302      310
disbursed (TDO) (USSM)8
Net disbursements (US$m)'             16       14       7        0       6       10      II       11      12
Total debt service (TDS)               7        7       8        9      10        8       7        8      11
(US$m)a
Debt and debt service indicators
(O/6)
TDO/XGSb                         1943.8  2293.3  2502.3  2150.8  2433.2  1791.9  1609.7  1500.9  1369.4
TDO/GDP                           460.6   553.5   593.3   609.2   721.8   627.3   624.7   642.6   619.6
TDS/XGS                            63.2    65.3    73.5    71.8    83.1    49.6    38.4    39.7    46.7
Concessional/TDO
IBRD exposure indicators (%)
IBRD DS/public DS                   0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
Preferred creditor DS/public       94.1    92.0    85.0    67.7    55.7    60.1    59.5    60.3    61.0
DS (%/o)f
IBRD DS/XGS                         0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0
IBRDTDO (US$m)d                      0        0       0        0       0        0       0        0       0
Of which present value of
guarantees (US$m)
Share of IBRD portfolio (%)          ..      ..       ..      ..       ..
IDA TDO (US$m)d                     47       54      59       57      61       65      65       64      63
IFC (US$m)
Loans
Equity and quasi-equity'
MIGA
MIGA guarantees (US$m)
a. Includes public and publicly guaranteed debt, private nonguaranteed, use of IMF credits and net short-
tenm capital.
b. "XGS" denotes exports of goods and services, including workers' remittances.
c. Preferred creditors are defined as IBRD, IDA, the regional multilateral development banks, the IMF, and the
Bank for Intemational Settlements.
d. Includes present value of guarantees.
e. Includes equity and quasi-equity types of both loan and equity instruments.






ANNEX G
Public Resource Management Credit and TA Project                            Page 1 of I
PUBLIC RESOURCE MANAGEMENT CREDIT
SUPPLEMENTARY LOAN DATA SHEET
Timetable of Key Project Processing Events:
Identification ...........      September 1999
Preparation ...........         November 1999
Pre-Appraisal ...........       April 2000
Appraisal ...........           August 2000
Negotiation ...........         October 2000
Board Presentation ...........  October 2000
Effectiveness Date ...........  December 2000
This report is based on the findings of the World Bank mission, which visited Sao Tome and Principe
in November 1999 to assist the Government in the preparation of the Public Resource Management
Credit (PRMC). The World Bank team was composed by Messrs./Mmes. Miguel Saponara (Team
Leader), Jennifer Edwards (Consultant), Francois Nankobogo (AFTPS), Boileau Loko (AFTM5),
Dirk Prevoo (AFTR3), Govindan Nair (CITPO), Antoine Simonpietri (AFTII), Cherif Diallo
(AFMGN) and Steve Wan (AFTM5).






ANNEX H
Public Resource Management Credit and TA Project                                         Page I of I
Sao Tome and Principe
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements for PRM TA Project
PRM TA Project - Total Cost by Procurement Arrangements (US$ thousand)
Categories                              P~~~~~~~orurawaotMetbod      TOWa
''B      '     NB           Sopphing         O s..
I. Goods/Equipment              150,000        200,000        100,000         50,000        500,000
QCB         Sie Source    individuals         Oher
2. Consultants'services,
training, studies and audits    1,200,000   100,000        200,000                     1,500,000
3. Unallocated                                                                              500,000
TOTAL                    2,500,000
Note: ICB - Intemational competitive Bidding; QCBS - Quality and Cost-Based; IAPSO - Inter Agency Procurement Services Office
PRM TA Project - Threshold for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expet          Ctegr      Ctn Vrctah  Threshold)   Pi.ueet M ethd                 CoatralSubje.tto0
Prior Review
Goods/Equipment          US100,000 and above           ICB                        All
Below US$100,000 to          NCB                        All
USS20,000
US$20,000 and below          National Shopping/IAPSO    None
Consultant Services       US$100,000 and above for     QCBS+Short list            All
(firms)              firrns
(firms)              Below US$100,000 for firms    QCBS                       None
(f-rms)              Below US$50,000              Single Source               All
(Individuals)        US$50,000 and above for      Comparison 3 CVs            All
individuals
(Individuals)        Below US$50,000 for          Comparison 3 CVs            None
individuals
Note: All Terms of References will be subject to prior review
PRM TA - Disbursements
Amount                      F_cbm Peca
Goods/Equipment                              500,000                   100% of foreign expenditures and
900/o of local expenditures
Consultants'services, training, studies     1,500,000                              100%
and audits
Unallocated                                   500,000
Total                            2,500,000






ANNEX I
Public Resource Management Credit and TA Project                                                    Page I of 3
SAo Tome and Principe (PRMC): Matrix of Policy
Actions, Performance Benchmarks and Outcomes
Areas and Objoctives             Policies and Measures               Expected Outcomes         Timetable
1. Domestic Resource
Mobilization
Broaden and diversijf the   Tax and customs administration:
tax base while eliminating   *  Conduct a survey of tax and customs  *  Increase government    2000-02
tax-induced distortions in   exemptions                                revenue to 22 percent of
the allocation of resources                                            GDP in 2002
*  Eliminate all ad hoc exemptions        *  Increase revenue         Second tranche
collection in the medium-
term leading to a more
sustainable fiscal position
*  Introduce and make operational a system                            2000-02
for monitoring customs valuations, with
regular updating of import unit values
*  Implement a single taxpayer identification                         Second tranche
number system to all revenue agencies to
monitor taxpayers compliance
-  Strengthen the tax inspection and audit                            2000-02
units in the Finance Directorate and
customs administration
-  Strengthen the monitoring and control of                           2000-02
customs reforms
-  Make fully operational the automated                               Second tranche
system for the assessment of tax bases and
the calculation of customs duties
(SYDONIA)
*  Tighten control over transfers to the  *  Greater transparency and   2000-02
budget from public enterprises and        better management of
govermment agencies, including the food   government's financial
aid management agency (GGA)               resources
*  Complete a study on the introduction of a                          2001
general sales tax
*  Implement a general sales tax                                      Second tranche
Fiscal Management
*  Centralize all government revenue,                                 2000-02
external fmancing proceeds, and deposits
at the Treasury
*  Record all government financial operations                         2000-02
in the budget and abolish extra-budgetary
expenditure
*  Improve the operations of the Finance                              2000-02
Directorate and make fully operational the
three autonomous directorates responsible,
respectively, for domestic taxes, budget
preparation and control, and treasury
management



ANNEX I
Public Resource Management Credit and TA Project                                                      Page 2 of 3
SAo Tome and Principe (PRMC): Matrix of Policy
Actions, Performance Benchmarks and Outcomes
Areas aits -idObjectives ;   0   ;t0Policies and Measures             Ex      Outpectdicoes     Tietable
II. Public Expenditure
Management
Shift public expenditure  *  Reduce the government wage bill from   *  Limit primary spending    2000-02
towards cost-effective       7.5 percent of GDP in 1998 to 6.5 percent  (excluding foreign
education, health and        of GDP by 2002                             financed investment) to
poverty reduction                                                       18 percent of GDP by
programs                                                                2002
Increase public
expenditure efficiency.  *  Carry out a PER for the education and   *  Increase the share of total  Second tranche
Improve budget execution     health sectors                             primary spending
andfinancial management.                                                allocated to education and
Improve the programming                                                 health as recommended
and implementation of the                                               by the PERs
public investment program
*  Implement the recommendations of the                                Floating tranche
PERs (Education and Health) within the
framework of the budget 2002
*  Limit other current expenditure while                               2000-02
providing adequately for education, health,
agriculture, and basic infrastructure
maintenance
*  Prepare and implement a three-year rolling                          2000-02
public investment programs (PIP)
consistent with the availability of resources
and sectoral strategies and comprising all
public investments, including those
financed by exceptional external assistance
or by the proceeds of oil exploration
concessions
*  Establish a coordination system on public   *  Reduce the number of  2001
investment projects, with the participation  civil servants from 4708
of major donors and lenders               to 4176
III. Civil Service Reform
Reduce the size of the civil  *  Implement the retrenchment of 532                              2000-02
service and raise its        redundant civil servants
efficiency
*  Stop all recruitment, except for that of                           2000-02
elementary and high school teachers and
health care personnel
*  Complete the study on the civil service pay                        2001
scale and implement the new civil service
management and control procedures
*  Implement the results of the above study                           2002



ANNEX I
Public Resource Management Credit and TA Project                                                     Page 3 of 3
Sbo Tome and Principe (PRMC): Matrix of Policy
Actions, Performance Benchmarks and Outcomes
Areas and Objectives             Policies and Measures               Expeted Outcomes          Timetable
IV. Public Enterprise
Reform
Rationalize and reduce the  *  Liquidate:                          *  Increase private          Floating tranche
scope of the public sector   >  ENCAR,                                 investment through a
in the economy, while    >  ENAMED                                     reduced role of the state
promoting private sector-                                              and the implementation of
led growth                                                             institutional/administrativ
e reforms
Implement by bringing to the point of sale,                       Floating tranche
the privatization program for the following
PEs:
> Hotel Pousada Boa Vista
> EMOLVE
> Cunha Gomes
>  Air Sao Tome
> EMAE
e  Have annual external audits carried out of                         2000-02
the accounts of ENAPORT, ENASA, and
ENCO
*  Implement FIAS recommendations to                                  2000-01
improve the environment for private sector
investment






ANNEX J
Public Resource Management Credit and TA Project                         Page I of 7
August 14, 2000
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
The World Bank
Washington, D.C.
PUBLIC RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
Letter of Development Policy
Dear Mr. President,
The Government of Sao Tome and Principe requests the International Development
Association (IDA) to provide a Credit in the sum of US$10 million in support of its current
economic reform program.
The Government's current economic objective is to consolidate a stable macroeconomic
environment that supports private sector led growth. Policy measures that will lower inflation,
enhance incentives for resource mobilization and savings, encourage private sector investment,
and improve resource allocation towards the social sectors and safety nets are already being
implemented. In addition to the on-going economic liberalization, the Government will also
pursue its divestiture program to further enhance private sector investment opportunities.
The main policy measures were outlined in the Government's Interim Poverty Reduction
Strategy Paper (I-PRSP), dated 12th April 2000, which was prepared with the full participation of
members of our civil society. A copy of the I-PRSP matrix is attached for your information.
This letter presents in more detail the policies and reforms to be supported by the Credit that we
are requesting from IDA.
Political Developments
I.    Sao Tome and Principe, a young country with barely 25 years since independence, has
made important progress in the political field. The international community has participated in a
wide program of political reforms that have been carried out since 1990 when a new Political
Constitution was adopted by referendum. In 1990, a new constitution introduced democracy, and
the first multiparty election took place in 1991. Since then, several elections have been held
within the legal time limits. Human rights and liberties have been respected.
2.    In 1999, Sao Tome and Principe was classified by Freedom House as a "free" country in
respect to political rights and civil liberties. On a scale of I to 7 (with 1 being Excellent and 7
being Worst), Sao Tome and Principe was rated an excellent 1.5. Nevertheless, despite these
successes, our Government is conscious of the fact that there can be no economic development
without democracy and that it is even more difficult maintaining democracy in an environment
where poverty is increasing by the day.



ANNEX J
Public Resource Management Credit and TA Project                          Page 2 of 7
Economic and Social Developments 1987-99
3.    From 1987 to 1997, Sao Tome and Principe's general situation has been characterized by
a profound economic and financial crisis. The annual growth rate was on average about 1.6
percent over this period. Income per capita decreased from US$350 in 1987 to US$300 in 1997.
To confront this situation, in 1998, the newly elected Government redoubled its efforts and
implemented vigorous adjustment measures.
4.    As a result, on the macroeconomic side, economic activity recovered, consumer price
inflation decelerated sharply and exchange rate was stabilized. Primary fiscal balance (excluding
foreign-financed investments) went from a deficit of 2.2 percent of GDP in 1997 to a surplus of
1.8 percent of GDP in 1999. Inflation rate (as measured by the consumer price index) was
reduced sharply from 80 percent in 1997 to 12.6 percent in 1999, and the official exchange rate of
the dobra was stabilized. The external current account deficit (excluding official transfers) fell
from 75 percent of GDP in 1997 to 57 percent of GDP in 1999. Real GDP growth reached 2.5
percent in 1998-99 (compared with 1.5 percent on average for 1995-97).
5.    In parallel with macroeconomic adjustment, the authorities implemented several
structural policy measures. The Government revised the general civil service regulations, and
adopted and published a new public enterprise reforn and privatization program in October 1999.
In addition, price controls were eliminated, domestic trade, (including the marketing of
agricultural products), was completely liberalized, and a mechanism to automatically adjust
petroleum retail products prices, in line with changes in international prices, was introduced.
During the same period, most quantitative restrictions on imports were eliminated. In the area of
oil exploration, the Government has established, with assistance from the World Bank and
Norway, an administrative unit in the office of the Prime Minister to oversee Government policy
in the oil sector, prepare the necessary legislation in the wake of oil production-sharing
negotiations with Exxon/Mobil, and ensure transparency in the handling of future oil operations.
6.    In spite of these results, however, the economic and financial situation remains fragile
and fraught with difficulty. The economy is largely dependent on external assistance, the burden
of the external public debt is particularly heavy, the external position of the country is fragile; per
capita income is extremely low, and structural rigidities continue to impede economic growth and
expansion of the private sector. Living conditions have clearly deteriorated, there is only limited
access to basic social services, and poverty has increased steadily.
Social Developments
7.    Education. While SaoTome and Principe's education indicators were among the best in
sub-Saharan Africa through 1990, the situation of the educational infrastructure sharply
deteriorated in the last decade. Basic education is severely compromised, with high rates of
failure and dropout. Net primary enrollment is decreasing, while enrollment in pre-schools is
falling, mainly due to the lack of classrooms whereby the demand remains unsatisfied. School
infrastructure and equipment are lacking maintenance, particularly in pre and primary schools;
shortage of teaching material, poorly trained and unmotivated teachers are the order of the day.
Overall, the gross primary enrollment rate decreased from 82.5 percent of the school-age
population in 1990 to 60 percent in 1996, before increasing to 70 percent in 1999. During 1996-
99, the total repetition rate stood at 31 percent of total enrollment in primary schools, and more
than 30 percent of the schoolchildren drop out before reaching the sixth grade.
8.    Health. In the health sector, the country has however made some progress, health
indicators have improved, but little progress has been noted in reducing infant and maternal



ANNEX J
Public Resource Management Credit and TA Project                        Page 3 of 7
mortality, as witnessed by the recent dramatic rise in the infant mortality rate from 50 per 1,000
live births in 1996 to 65 per 1,000 in 1999. Maternal mortality is estimated to have remained at
122 per 1,000 live births in 1996-99 and the total mortality rate increased from 8.3 per 1,000 in
1996 to 8.5 per 1,000 in 1997. Differences in health status among districts and between urban
and rural groups are conspicuous. Other problems facing the sector are weak management
capacity, poor functioning system, and lack of sufficient materials including basic health supplies.
Both sub sectors are confronted with inadequate resource allocation and funding.
9.    Poverty situation. Overall, the proportion of the population living below the poverty
line (with an income of less than US$220 per year), according to the latest available data (1994),
was estimated at more than 40 percent. About 33 percent could be considered to live in extreme
poverty (less than US$171 per year), with an income level insufficient to cover 50 percent of the
minimum household food requirements. In addition, a large number of people were living just
above the poverty line, and it would take a relatively small decline in their income to push them
into extreme poverty. In general, poverty is widespread in rural and urban fringe areas. Very
little is known about the current poverty situation in Sao Tome and Principe. However, the
decline in income per capita through 1997 and the deterioration of social conditions have led to a
worsening of poverty in the country.
10.   With a view to reversing the continued deterioration in the poverty indicators, the
Government drafted in June 1999 a policy paper on strategic options and a priority action plan for
2000-05, with technical assistance from the United Nations Development Program (UNDP), in a
participatory process involving, among others, rural and urban poor. These strategic options
place poverty reduction at the center of Government concerns. The authorities prepared an
interim poverty reduction strategy paper (I-PRSP) and a policy matrix, which were submitted to
the review of civil society (including labor unions, the chamber of commerce, religious leaders,
and nongovernmental organizations-NGOs) and donors. The Government has outlined and
committed itself to a oroad program of economic reform with the principle aims of poverty
reduction and improving the living standards of its population by means of promoting sustainable
growth with increasing private sector participation. The program reform aimed at consolidating a
stable macroeconomic environment and implementing structural reforms that could lead to
higher-private-sector-led economic growth, employment creation and, thus poverty reduction.
I. MACROECONOMIC POLICY OBJECTIVES AND STRUCTURAL REFORMS
FOR 2000-2002
Economic Objectives
11.   The macroeconomic objectives for 2000-02, are to: (i) lower the inflation rate to about 3
percent; and (ii) limit the external current account deficit (excluding official transfers) to 66
percent of GDP by 2002 (or 41 percent of GDP, including official transfers), in spite of the
projected start-up of oil sector investments. The real GDP growth rate is projected at 4 percent
per annum in 2001-02. Private investment should increase from 14 percent of GDP in 1999 to 31
percent of GDP in 2002, owing primarily to the start-up of oil exploration, and national savings
should expand from 15 percent of GDP in 1999 to 20 percent of GDP in 2002. Excluding oil
exploration, private investment should increase by 3 percentage points to 17 percent of GDP in
2002.
12.   To reach the above objectives and consolidate macroeconomic stability, with a view to
fostering private sector activity, generating income and employment opportunities, and, thus,
reducing poverty, the Government will continue its prudent fiscal policy aimed at reducing the
overall fiscal deficit and increasing the primary fiscal surplus while improving budget allocations



ANNEX J
Public Resource Management Credit and TA Project                             Page 4 of 7
for basic infrastructure and social programs. It will also conduct a prudent monetary policy
aimed at reducing inflation--the most regressive tax on the poor--and improving the foreign
reserve position of the banking system in the context of the flexible, market-based exchange rate
regime in place.
Structural Reforms
13.   Rural sector. To encourage diversification, the recently adopted agricultural policy
stresses production, diversification, private sector involvement, and full participation of rural
populations in the sector's development efforts. While endeavoring to increase cocoa production,
which remains the main export, the Government will strengthen the development of new
agricultural products. The diversification effort will cover various crops, specifically ylang-
ylang, black pepper, vanilla, other aromatic plants, fruits and vegetables, flowers, and tubers. To
achieve these objectives, the Government will prepare and implement a national extension service
policy and improve the processing capacities for agricultural products at the small-farmer level.
The Government also intends to strengthen the agricultural extension services and improve the
capacity for processing the production of the small farmers.
14.   To promote access to land, the Government has already placed its major agricultural
plantations under long-term operating leases with private operators and distributed about 40,000
hectares of land to 6,000 small-scale and medium-scale farming families. The land distribution
program to small farmers will continue, and land title registration will be improved in order to
encourage commercial banks to expand their financial intermediation and access to credit for the
poor.
15.    To improve access to credit in the rural and informal sectors, the Government will
encourage the development and strengthening of a network of microcredit institutions. The
expected improvement of confidence should also encourage banks to expand their financial
intermediation activities, with a view to better meet the financial needs of the private sector as the
latter begins to diversify. To promote access to markets and basic infrastructure, and reduce the
isolation of rural communities, the Government will accelerate the rehabilitation and maintenance
of infrastructure, including feeder roads, water, and sanitation systems.
16.   Private Sector Development - business environment. The Government will encourage
private sector initiatives by creating a solid legislative, regulatory, fiscal and judicial environment
conducive to private sector development.  The Government has already adopted a legal
framework for the free trade zone and established an authority responsible for promoting the
zone. Free trade zone activities should increase private investment and job creation, while
diversifying available services. The Government will adopt the necessary measures for: (i)
revising the commercial laws and adopting a law on competition, on the basis of legislation and
regulation adopted by other African countries within the framework of the Treaty of the
Organization for the Harmonization of Business Law in Africa (OHADA); (ii) restructuring and
improving the functioning of the judicial system; (iii) applying international business standards;
and (iv) taking the necessary steps to remove obstacles to the recording of property titles. The
Government will also revise the existing Investment Code and implement the FIAS
recommendations to improve the private sector environment.
17.   Tourism sector. This sector will receive the Government's special attention, particularly
with respect to the promotion of the country's image abroad. Implementation of the legal
framework for the Free Zone should facilitate diversification of production and services and thus
increase employment and incomes of the population.



ANNEX J
Public Resource Management Credit and TA Project                           Page 5 of 7
18.   Health. The Government will formulate a national health improvement policy covering
2000-05. The principal objectives of this policy, which will focus on a strategy of enhanced
primary health care, will be to increase life expectancy, improve living conditions, and reduce
infant and maternal mortality. Regarding water and sanitation, the Government intends to focus
its activities on strategic and regulatory issues, and thus encourage increased private sector
participation. In the area of urban development and rehabilitation of poor neighborhoods, it will
restructure areas that are difficult to access. It will also rehabilitate road, drainage, and sanitation
networks in slum areas and in the plantations, and it will provide potable water in the urban
centers under a privatized management system of standpipes. These investments will contribute
to improvements in the environment and a reduction in the incidence of diseases, such as malaria
and cholera.
19.   Education. Aware of the critical role of education in the mobilization of the country's
potential for economic growth and poverty reduction, the Government will prepare a broad
development policy for the sector that will: (i) promote equal access to the educational system at
all levels, without discrimination; and (ii) improve the quality of education, and seek to boost the
gross primary school enrollment rate from 70 percent in 1999 to 90 percent in 2002, eventually
achieving universal enrollment by 2005. The Government also intends to raise the adult literacy
rate, eliminate double-and triple shift classes in primary schools (thereby increasing the average
school day from four to seven hours daily). Primary schooling will be extended to the fifth and
sixth grades, and the quality of secondary education improved.
20.   Public sector management reforms. The public sector in Sao Tome and Principe is still
not in a position to assume fully its role of promoter of development programs and regulator of
economic activities. Many factors still contribute to this weakness: (i) the inadequate functioning
of administrative structures in the country in general and in the Government in particular; (ii)
insufficient coordination, not only among the ministries, but also between departments in the
same ministry; (iii) proliferation of project management units without well-defined links to
Government structures that these units are intended to help, thus diffusing Government efforts
without increasing its efficiency; (iv) lack of matching civil service qualifications with the posts
occupied in Government institutions which in turn leads to weaknesses in planning, design and
implementing development policies; (v) insufficient number of technical specialists to appraise
the economic and financial impact of new projects and of significant decisions for growth in
public finances and in the balance of payments; (vi) short-term economic management priority in
detriment of the longer-term vision; and (vii) lack of coordination of external aid. To redress this
situation, the Government has already adopted an administrative reform aimed at modernizing
and downsizing the public sector and it is implementing the new organizational structures of all
ministries, including staffing plans, preparing an action-plan for the retrenchment of 532 civil
servants and making operational the administrative unit responsible for petroleum policy.
II.  PUBLIC RESOURCE MANAGEMENT AND DIVESTITURE PROGRAM
21.   Resource Mobilization.  An analysis of the fiscal system has highlighted several
weaknesses that have led to a low level of revenue collection, as follows: (i) a high reliance on
external trade; (ii) a significant informal sector; (iii) insufficient capacity to tax formal activities;
and (iv) abuse of the exemption criteria and the less than productive results obtained from those
projects and commercial concession contracts benefiting from exemptions. The objective of the
Government's fiscal policy, therefore, will be to strengthen budgetary resources so as to improve
allocations to the social sectors and decrease dependence on external assistance in financing of
public investments. To this effect and to improve revenue collection, the Government will in
addition to the ongoing tariff reform, implement the following measures: (i) eliminate all ad hoc



ANNEX J
Public Resource Management Credit and TA Project                         Page 6 of 7
exemptions; (ii) make fully operational the SYDONIA automated system for the assessment of
tax bases and the calculation of custom duties (iii) introduce the single taxpayer identification
number system to all revenue agencies to monitor taxpayers compliance; and (iv) implement a
general sales tax.
22.   Public Expenditure Management.  The Government is committed to improve the
efficiency of public expenditures. Public expenditures will only be made if there are sufficient
resources available to cover them; furthermore they would be made in the context of satisfying
priorities identified in the sector strategies. Debt management will be strengthened and public
procurement procedures will be revised according to internationally accepted standards and
practices evaluated regularly. Particular attention will be given to the monitoring of the wage bill
and the Government is committed to create a single computerized system for civil service and
payroll management. The resources allocated to education and health are still inadequate. To
reverse the decline reflected in the indicators for these two sectors, comprehensive public
expenditure reviews will be carried out in 2000-01 with a view of implementing its
recommendations with the budget 2002.
23.   Public Enterprises / Privatization. Government will strongly pursue its reform program
in the PE sector. To this end, the Government will, by no later than December 2001, liquidate a
meat processing enterprise (ENCAR), a medicine distribution company (ENAMED) and bring up
to the point of sale the following public enterprises: a hotel (Pousada Boa Vista), a palm-oil
development company (EMOLVE), a construction materiel distribution company (Cunha
Gomes), the national airline (Air Sao Tome) and the water and electricity enterprise (EMAE).
24.   In order to successfully carry out the current public enterprise reform, the Government
will also update the privatization law whose scope was limited to the first phase of the program,
and set up a dedicated unit within the ministry of finance to manage the PE reform program. In
addition, possibilities of involving the private sector in the management of the port and the airport
will also be explored. In the telecom sector, the Government is moving toward an opening of the
sector to competition and allowing private operators to provide new services such as cellular
phones. In addition, the Government recognizes the necessity to publish economic information
and to create a favorable environment for a partnership between the State and the private sector.
To this end, a framework of regular meetings between the Government and the private sector will
be set up and made operational with a view to considering the opinions and points of view of both
parties in order to improve the business climate in the country.
III. INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY AND GOVERNANCE
25.   The Government considers as a high priority the strengthening of its capacity to design
and implement economic policies. The Economic Council of the Council of Ministers will create
a committee for Economic Policy to which adequate human resources and materials will be
assigned, to guarantee the consistency of the macroeconomic framework, draft relevant decisions
and design strategies for their implementation. In addition, the Government will reinforce its
monitoring of the public investment programs and enhance its dialogue with its development
partners through a better coordination of their interventions. The Government is aware that the
implementation of the objectives described to improve the management of public resources will
require an effective coordination, not only at the level of Government administration but also at
the level of other State institutions and civil society. Therefore the technical secretariat will be
structured to guarantee the coordination of the objectives of the reformn program.
26.   In the area of governance, the main objectives are to strengthen transparency and
accountability, reinforce economic management, strengthen the juridical system, develop the



ANNEX J
Public Resource Management Credit and TA Project                       Page 7 of 7
capacity of municipalities and associations to deliver public services, and promote a participatory
approach in the decision-making process. The Government is determined to strengthen good
governance by increasing the transparency of all of its financial operations as well as to combat
and judicially prosecute any reported acts of fraud or corruption. Measures have already been
taken to enhance transparency. The Central Bank and public enterprises are now committed to
having their books audited every year by an independent external auditor. Furthermore, the
streamlining of the customs tariff and domestic indirect taxation and the elimination of ad hoc
exemptions, together with the strengthening of internal audit units at the Directorates of Finance
and Customs, will help prevent and combat fraud and corruption more effectively. Finally, the
efficiency of the tribunals will be improved through the modernizing of legislation, training and
introducing modern methods and procedures.
Conclusion
27.   Implementation of economic reforms and of the program for growth and poverty
reduction will be supervised at two levels: at the Economic Council of the Council of Ministers,
where policies are approved, and at the level of the Monitoring Committee under the direction of
the Minister of Planning and Finance. The Government intends to use the resources of the
proposed Credit according to the guidelines set out by the World Bank and to produce quarterly
reports on the activities to be carried out.
28.   The reform measures described above are fully consistent with the Government's
commitment to enhance public resource mobilization and allocation and to develop a dynamic
and efficient public sector to support a sustainable private sector-led growth. I hope, therefore,
that IDA will approve the requested Credit to support this reform program.
Truly yours,
Adelino Castelo David
Minister of Planning and Finance






Table 1. Sao Tome and Principe: Matrix of Policy
Actions and Measures, 2000-02'
Areas and Objectives           Policies and Measures              Expected Outcomes       Timetable   Technical Assistance
1. Income generation and sustained growth
Achieve macroeconomic                                         Improved macroeconomic       2000-02
stability, while                                               environment.
promoting higher real                                          Real GDP growth rate raised
GDP growth.                                                    to 4 percent.
Private investment up from
14 percent of GDP in 1999 to
31 percent of GDP (including
oil exploration) in 2002.
Per capita GDP increased from
US$330 in 1999 to US$390 in
2002.
A. Fiscal Policy
Strengthen fiscal                                             Overall fiscal deficit reduced    2000-02
consolidation.                                                to 16 percent of GDP and
primary budget surplus
(excluding foreign-financed
investment) raised to 5 percent
of GDP in 2002
Measures and policies envisaged for 2002 are tentative and could be revised at end-2001 when the poverty reduction strategy paper is
adopted.



Table 1. Sio Tome and Principe: Matrix of Policy
Actions and Measures, 2000-02'
Areas and Objectives           Policies and Measures              Expected Outcomes        Timetable   Technical Assistance
1. Revenue collection
Broaden the tax base   Tax and customs administration:
and strengthen the tax    .   Conduct a survey of tax and customs    Govcrnment revcnue increased  March 2000  World Bank (WB)
and customs                exemptions                          to 22 percent of GDP in 2002
administrations.       *   Eliminate all ad hoc tax and customs                            April 2000
exemptions
*   Introduce a system for monitoring                               March 2000  Portugal
customs valuations, with regular
updating of import unit values
*   Strictly control legal exemptions                               2000-02      World Bank/France
*   Strengthen the tax inspection and audit                         2000-02
units in the Finance Directorate and
customs administration
*   Implement an action plan to restructure                         2000-02      World Bank
and strengthen customs administration
*   Strengthen the monitoring and control                           2000-02      WBIUNDP/
of customs reforms                                                           UNCTAD/
EU/France
*   Make fully operational the automated                            Jan. 2000    WB/UNDP/
system for the assessment of tax bases                                       UNCTAD/EU/
and the calculation of customs duties                                        France
(SYDONIA)



Table 1. Sao Tom6 and Principe: Matrix of Policy
Actions and Measures, 2000-02'
Areas and Objectives           Policies and Measures             Expected Outcomnes       Timetable   Technical Assistance
*   Combat tax evasion by imposing the                             2000-02
penalties prescribed by law, as needed
*   Ensure that tax and customs legislation                        2000-02
is fully enforced
*  Tighten control over transfers to the                           2000-02      World Bank
budget from public enterprises and
government agencies, including the food
aid management agency (GGA)
Customs tariff and indirect domestic
taxation:
*   Implement a new customs tariff with                            Feb. 2000    Fund/World
three rates (5 percent, 10 percent, and                                     Bank/France
20 percent).
*  Adjust the rates of excise taxes                                Feb. 2000    Fund/World Bank/
(149 percent for petroleum products,                                        France
and 55 percent for alcoholic beverages
and tobacco).
*   Complete a study on the introduction of                        Sep. 2000    Fund/World Bank/
a general sales tax.                                                        France
Eliminate export taxes.                                            Feb. 2000
2. Expenditure control    Reduce the government wage bill from  Primary spending (excluding    2000-02
7.5 percent of GDP in 1999 to 6.5 percent of  foreign-financed investment)
Contain expenditure    GDP by 2002.                           limited to 18 percent of GDP
expansion and increase                                        by 2002
efficiency.            Limit other current expenditure while  Share of total primary      2000-02



Table 1. Sao Tome and Principe: Matrix of Policy
Actions and Measures, 2000-02'
Areas and Objectives           Policies and Measures              Expected Outcomes        Timetable   Technical Assistance
providing adequately for education, health,   spending allocated to
agriculture, and basic infrastructure   education increased from
maintenance.                            14 percent in 1998 to
21 percent by 2002
Share of total primary
spending allocated to health
increased from 15.5 percent in
1998 to 17 percent by 2002.
3. Public debt
Reduce debt service to a  Implement the rescheduling agreement  No further accumulation of  2000-02
sustainable level.     concluded with BADEA.                   domestic payments arrears.
Request Paris Club debt service relief.  No further accumulation of  2000
Request similar treatment from non-Paris    external payments arrears.  2000
Club bilateral creditors.               Continued updating of the
Avoid use of nonconcessional external loans  public debt database, debt data  2000-02  Fund/World Bank/
(with a grant element of less than 50 percent)  cross-checked with creditors,    UNDP
contracted or guaranteed by the government.  and debt management
strengthened.
Debt sustainability analysis
prepared within the framework
of the HIPC Initiative.



Table 1. Sao Tom6 and Principe: Matrix of Policy
Actions and Measures, 2000-02'
Areas and Objectives          Policies and Measures              Expected Outcomes       Timetable   Technical Assistance
B. Monetary and
exchange rate policy
1. Monetary policy
Improve monetary      Maintain the central bank reference interest   Consumer price inflation  2000-02  Fund
management to reduce   rate above the inflation rate.         reduced to 3 percent by 2002.
inflation and strengthen   Strengthen the use of indirect monetary                        Starting July  Fund
the foreign assets     policy instruments by establishing a money   Gross official reserves  2000
position of the banking   market and issuing central bank bills at freely  equivalent to 5 months of
system.               negotiated interest rates.             imports by end-2002.
Lower the high reserve requiremeni ratio,                          2001
following the strengthening of indirect
instruments.
2. Banking supervision,
internal audits,
governance, and credit
Strengthen the central    Establish and strengthen the central bank's   Sound practices and internal    Nov. 1999    Fund
bank's audit department.  internal audit and inspection departments and  control in the central bank.
introduce semiannual procedures for:
*  reconciliation of the accounts of
foreign correspondent banks;
* certification by international aid
agencies of amounts not yet
disbursed and held in deposit
accounts; and



Table I. Sao Tome and Principe: Matrix of Policy
Actions and Measures, 2000-02'
Areas and Objectives          Policies and Measures              Expected Outcomes        Timeable   Technical Assistance
internal auditing of semiannual
accounting positions.
Strengthen the internal audit finction by:
*  reactivating the audits board;                             Oct. 1999
*  strengthening the audit team by                            Oct. 1999
increasing its stafring to a
minimum of three full-time
employees and providing
continuous training; and
*  preparing a work program for                               Jan. 2000
2000.
Continue implementation of central bank's                          2000
administrative restructuring and staff
reduction plan.
Maintain a surplus in the central bank's                           2000-02
operating budget.
Strengthen banking    Ensure commercial banks' compliance with   Reduced bank vulnerability.           Fund/World Bank
supervision.          prudential ratios.                                                  2000-02
Ensure compliance of the prudential and
solvency ratios with the Basel Committee's                         2000-02
Core Principles
Ensure the application of banking
supervision and prudential regulations to                          2000-02
offshore banks (in free trade areas).



Table 1. Sao Tom6 and Principe: Matrix of Policy
Actions and Measures, 2000-02'
Areas and Objectives          Policies and Measures              Expected Outcomes       Timetable   Technical Assistance
3. Exchange rate policy
Allow the market-based   Avoid any official intervention in the  Foreign reserves target  2000-02      Fund
foreign exchange      exchange market.                        achieved and spread
arrangements in place to  Encourage public and parapublic entcrprises  maintained between the  June 2000
work effectively.     (CST, EMAE, ENCO, ENASA, and            official and parallel exchange
ENAPORT) to issue all invoices in dobras.   rates at less than 1 percent
Take the necessary steps to accept Article                         2000
VIII obligations.
C. Price and trade
liberalization
Pursue a policy of cost   Pursue the implementation of liberalized                        2000-02     World Bank
recovery reflecting   price and trade arrangements, except for
world market prices.  utility monopolies (petroleum products,
water, electricity, and telecommunications)
Avoid the official setting of agricultural                         2000-02
producer prices.
Implement the automatic mechanism for                              2000-02
adjusting retail prices of petroleum products
to reflect world oil prices.
Adopt and implement mechanisms of                                  Sep. 2000    World Bank
automatic adjustments of water and
electricity rates to reflect costs.
Formulate and implement an action plan to                          June 2000    World Bank/ Foreign



Table I. Sao Tome and Principe: Matrix of Policy
Actions and Measures, 2000-02'
Areas and Objectives            Policies and Measures               Expected Outcomes        Timetable   Technical Assistance
improve incentives to private investment and                                       Investment Advisory
business, especially strengthening the legal,                                      Service (FIAS)
regulatory, and judicial systems.
Do not introduce nontariff barriers to                                2000-02
external trade.
Promote private        Carry out the study on the environmental and                           2000         World Bank
investment under the   social impact.
legislation on the free    Implement the actions contained in the                             2000-02
trade area (Law 33/98).  concession contract.
D. Agriculture
Improve access to land,   Develop a national strategy concerning  Access for the poor to credit    2000    World Bank/ UNDP
credit and production  savings banks and credit institutions,   increased and improved.
factors for the poor and   harmonize the various rural credit    Access for the poor to
women,                 approaches, and encourage the development  agricultural land increased.
of microfinance institutions for small   Marketing facilitated land
enterprises and rural communities.       supply of inputs increased
Clarify the legal status of recently distributed                      June 2000
agricultural lands and finalize the deeds for
land distributed.
Implement a simplified system for                                     2000-01
registering title deeds (one-stop shop).
Complete a cadastral survey for rental and                            Sep. 2001
nonrental properties.
Clarify the legal status of common areas.                             June 2000    World Bank
Clarify and rationalize the role and                                  June 2000



Table 1. Sao Tome and Principe: Matrix of Policy
Actions and Measures, 2000-02'
Areas and Objectives          Policies and Measures              Expected Outcomes       Timetable   Technical Assistance
proprietary rights of foreign capital.
Conduct a socioeconomic study on the                               July 2000    World Bank/
impact of the land distribution program.                                       AfDB/UNDP
Conduct a study on the variability of                              June 2000    World Bank
medium-sized agricultural enterprises.
Conduct a study on the prerequisites and                           2001
operational procedures of a market in
agricultural lands.
Implement the recommendations of the                               2001-02
above study.
Establish a roll of taxable landholdings.                          2001-02
Improve input         Combine the operations of CATAP                                     2001        World Bank
distribution, extenpion    (agricultural school) and CENFOPA
services, and rural   (training center).
infrastructure.
Set up an autonomous entity responsible for                        2001
agricultural extension services.
Conduct a study on the possibility of                              2000
integrating the agricultural extension, animal
husbandry, and forestry services into a single
autonomous entity.
Adopt a national agricultural extension                            2000
policy.
Develop an action plan for the construction                        2000
and maintenance of rural roads.
Develop an action plan for social investment                       2000
(water, sanitation, education, and health).



Table 1. Sio Tome and Principe: Matrix of Policy
Actions and Measures, 2000-02'
Areas and Objectives             Policies and Measures                Expected Outcomes         Timetable   Technical Assistance
Improve farmers' organizational capacity and                            2000
support the creation of interprofessional
associations.
Promote crop diversification and improve the                            2000-02
capacity for processing agricultural products.
E. Economic
diversification
Increase cocoa          Diversify production and improve capacity to  Increased agricultural    2000-02
production and diversify  process agricultural products.          production.
agriculture so as to                                              Increased agricultural income
generate income and                                               and improved living
provide self-emplQyment                                           conditions for the rural
to the poor.                                                      population.
Reduced poverty in
agricultural areas.
Improved capacity of small-
scale farmers to process
agricultural products.
Improve forest          Prepare and adopt a national forestry plan.    Small-scale fisheries    2001
management, combat      Pass the forestry law.                    developed.                    2000
excessive, uncontrolled    Formulate and introduce an action plan for                           2001
logging, and protect the  the timber sector.
environment.            Create rules and regulations for the corps of                           2001
forest wardens.
Increase the number of forest wardens and                               2000-02



Table 1. Sao Tome and Principe: Matrix of Policy
Actions and Measures, 2000-021
Areas and Objectives          Policies and Measures              Expected Outcomes        Timetable   Technical Assistance
implement a training program.
Pass the law on protected areas.                                   Sep. 2000
Pass a law on flora and fauna protection.                          Sep. 2000
Formulate a national strategy for the                              2001
protection of biodiversity and sustainable use
of natural resources.
Strengthen the institutions responsible for                        2001
protected areas.
Increase the fishing   Pass and implement the law on fisheries and                        2000
sector's contribution to   attendant general regulations.
economic growth.      Adopt the fisheries master plan.                                    2001
Adopt an action plan for the institutional                         2001
strengthening of the Fisheries Directorate
Develop tourism as a  Adopt a tourism promotion strategy in                               June 2000    World Bank
further source of income  consultation with sector professionals.
and improve the        Increase tourism.promotion efforts through                         2000-02
efficiency of the     the Tourism Office.
transportation sector.  Prepare a road infrastructure improvement                         Sep. 2000    World Bank
policy and an investment plan.
11. Human resource and social development
Reduce poverty         Adopt a poverty reduction strategy and  Poverty reduction strategy  End- 2001    Fund/World
action plan.                           paper adopted.                           Bank/UNDP
Create a committee to monitor imple-   Public opinion mobilized to  Dec. 2000
mentation of the poverty reduction strategy.  monitor poverty reduction



Table 1. Sao Tome and Principe: Matrix of Policy
Actions and Measures, 2000-02'
Areas and Objectives           Policics and Measurcs               Expected Outcomes        Timetable   Technical Assistance
Implement a participatory process involving   efforts.               1999-2002
civil society.
Improve access to      Adopt an education development plan.                                 June 2000    World Bank/UNDP
education and training    Improve and strengthen planning capacity in                       2000
for the poor and women.  the education sector.
Control and monitor entries into high school.                        2000-02
Conduct a survey of teachers placed on early                         2000-02
retirement.
Define and adopt special staff rules and  60 primary school classrooms   2000
regulations for teachers within the general    built or rehabilitated annually,
civil service rules and regulations.    particularly in rural areas; 30
Provide assistance in the form of school  secondary school classrooms    2000-02
supplies to 4,000 pupils selected from among  annually.
the most underprivileged in elementary  90 new primary school
schools.                                teachers hired and trained
Develop a national adult literacy program.    annually.              2000-02
Increase the share of elementary school  300 primary school teachers    2000-02
spending in the total education budget (from   trained and retrained.
22 percent in 1998 to 30 percent in 2002).    Double and triple shifts
Create a statistics and planning bureau within  eliminated at schools.  Feb. 2000
the Ministry of Education.              Duration of average school
day increased from 4 to
7 hours.
Disparities between rural and
urban areas reduced.
Gross primary school



Table 1. Sao Tomn and Principe: Matrix of Policy
Actions and Measures, 2000-02'
Areas and Objectives            Policies and Measures              Expected Outcomes         Timetable   Technical Assistance
Strengthen reproductive health services  Diphtheria immunization rate   2000-02
(including family planning), preventive  among children aged 12-23
services, and action to combat major    months increased from
endemic diseases (malaria, tuberculosis and   69.3 percent to 85 percent.
other respiratory diseases, diarrhea, AIDS  Tuberculosis immunization
and other STDs).                        rate increased from
Create a statistics and planning bureau within  80.3 percent to 95 percent.  Feb. 2000
the Ministry of Health, responsible for data   Infant mortality rate reduced
collection and project preparation      from 65 to 40 per 1,000 births.
Formulate and implement an action plan for   Child mortality rate (for  Sep. 2000
the extended vaccination program.       children under 5 years of age)
Increase the share of the decentralized  reduced from 125 to 100 per    2000-02
districts in total health expenditure (from  1,000 children.
32 percent in 1998 to 40 percent in 2002).
III. Institutional Development
A. Govemance
Increase transparency  Improve the recovery rate of loans granted                            2000-02
and accountability in  by the CNPC.
financial management    Liquidate the CNPC's foreign and domestic                            Nov. 1999
and improve loan       assets.
recovery               Publish a list of debtors not current on their                        Mar. 2000
obligations to the CNPC, and deny such
debtors access to bank credit (require banks
to constitute 100 percent provisions for any



Table 1. Sao Tomd and Principe: Matrix of Policy
Actions and Measures, 2000-02'
Areas and Objectives            Policies and Measures               Expected Outcomes        Timetable   Technical Assistance
enrollment ratio increased
from 70 percent to 90 percent.
Primary school dropout rate
reduced from 31.2 percent to
15 percent.
Dropout rate for girls attending
primary school reduced from
34 percent to 20 percent.
Primary school repeater rate
reduced from 31.2 percent to
20 percent.
Gross secondary school
enrollment ratio increased to
50 perecnt.
Raise access to primary   Adopt a health development plan.                                   Oct. 2000    World Health
health care services,                                                                                      Organization
drinking water, and                                                                                        (WHO)/AfDB
sanitation for the poor,   Strengthen the national health system and the                     2000-02
and improve their      sector's planning capability.
nutritional status
Develop primary health care services, and  Measles immunization rate  2000-02
improve public information, education, and    among children aged 12-23
communications actions.                  months increased from
Improve curative health care through     69.4 percent to 85 percent.  2000-02
strengthened hospital management and the
installation of more efficient diagnostic
support services.



Table 1. SAo Tome and Principe: Matrix of Policy
Actions and Measures, 2000-02'
Areas and Objectives          Policies and Measures              Expected Outcomes       Timetable   Technical Assistance
loan extended to them).
Organize annual external audits of central                         2000-02
bank accounts.
Prepare a report on the 1994 fraudulent                            Nov. 1999
transfer of central bank foreign assets.
Organize an independent external audit of                          Nov. 1999
the central bank's correspondent accounts for
December 1998 and end-June 1999.
Publish the central bank foreign assets audit                      Mar. 2000
report.
Prepare a report on the fraud attempt at the                       Nov. 1999
central bank, discovered in February 1999,
involving the issuance and trading of
fraudulent treasury bonds.
Ensure efficiency and    Make the administrative unit responsible for                     Nov. 1999   World Bank/Norway
transparency in the   government petroleum sector policy
emerging petroleum    operational.
sector                Make the Economic Council chaired by the                            Nov. 1999
Prime Minister and comprising the Minister
of Planning and Finance, the Minister of
Economy, the Minister of Natural Resources
and the Environient, and the Govemor of
the Central Bank, responsible for oversight
of the petroleum sector and for petroleum
negotiations.
Pursue negotiations of the first petroleum
production-sharing contract.                                       1999-2000



Table 1. Sao Tome and Principe: Matrix of Policy
Actions and Measures, 2000-02'
Areas and Objectives           Policies and Measures              Expected Outcomes        Timetable   Technical Assistance
Draft and pass petroleum sector legislation,                        June 2000
Establish the modalities of a reserve fund for                      June 2000
future generations.
Adopt the decrees for implementation of the                         Dec. 2000
petroleum sector legislation.
Draft a standard production-sharing contract.                       Dec. 2000
B. Fiscal management
Improve budget         Record all government financial operations                          2000-02      World Bank/France
execution and financial  in the budget and abolish extrabudgetary
management             expenditure.
Centralize all government revenue, extemal                          2000-02
financing proceeds, and deposits at the
Treasury.
Improve the operations of the Finance                               2000         France
Directorate and prepare an action plan for
staff training and technical assistance.
Make operational the three autonomous                               June 2000
directorates responsible, respectively, for
domestic taxes, budget preparation and
control, and treasury management
Improve the program-    Design and implement a system of three-year                        Starting     World Bank
ming and imple-       rolling public investment programs (PIP)                             Jan. 2000
mentation of the public   consistent with the availability of resources
investment program     and sectoral strategies, and comprising all



Table 1. Sao Tome and Principe: Matrix of Policy
Actions and Measures, 2000-02'
Areas and Objectives           Policies and Measures              Expected Outcomes        Timetable   Technical Assistance
public investments, including those financed
by exceptional external assistance or by the
proceeds of oil exploration concessions.
Establish a coordination system and hold                            2000-02
quarterly meetings on public investment
projects, with the participation of major
donors and lenders.
Submit the PIP annually for the approval of                         2000-02
Fund and World Bank staff, by end-
September.
Submit to Fund and World Bank staff the                             Starting     World Bank/UNDP
minutes of quarterly meetings with donors                           April 2000
and lenders on the PIP.
Define sectoral strategies Formulate and implement sectoral
development strategies, particularly for:
*  agriculture                                                     Oct. 1999
*  tourism                                                         June 2000
*  education                                                       June 2000
*  health                                                          Sep. 2000
*  basic infrastructure                                            Sep. 2000
*  other sectors                                                   Mar. 2001
C. Civil service reform
Reduce the size of the    Publish the civil service reform timetable.                       Oct. 1999    World BankWUNDP
civil service and raise its  Adopt the organizational and staffing plans                    Oct.-Nov.    World Bank/UNDP
efficiency             for the ten (10) ministries (Planning,                               1999



Table 1. Sao Tome and Principe: Matrix of Policy
Actions and Measures, 2000-02'
Areas and Objectives            Policies and Measures              Expected Outcomes        Timetable   Technical Assistance
Finance, and Cooperation; Economy; Public
Administration and Employment; Foreign
Affairs; Defense; Justice; Education; Health;
Natural Resources, Infrastructures, and
Environment; Local Administration and
Territory).
Implement the administrative reform                                  Mar. 2000    World Bank/UNDP
program for all the ministries.
Identify redundant staff positions and assess                        Apr. 2000    World Bank/UNDP
the civil service downsizing that will result
from the implementation of the
organizational and staffing plans.
Establish and keep up-to-date a single                               June 2000
automated system for civil service and
payroll management.
Stop all recruitment, except for that of                             2000-01      World Bank/UNDP
school teachers and health care personnel.
Appoint a Civil Service Director.                                    Jan. 2000
Amend the December 1997 law on the civil                             2000
service rules and regulations.
Establish a retraining unit within the civil                         April 2000   World BanwIUNDP
service.
Repeal the decree on the early retirement                            Dec. 2000    World Bank/UNDP
from the civil service and pass a decree on
severance pay.
Identify financing to cover severance pay.                           April 2000
Start the retrenchment of redundant civil                            July 2000    World B3ank/JNDP
servants.



Table 1. Sao Tomn6 and Principe: Matrix of Policy
Actions and Measures, 2000-021
Areas and Objectives           Policies and Measures              Expected Outcomes       Timetable   Technical Assistance
budgetary system and the strengthening of
the revenue collection system.
Carry out a study on water and electricity                          Sep. 2000    World Bank
rates and implement its recommendations.
Prepare, implement, and assess semiannually                         Starting    World Bank
an investment program for EMAE.                                     Jan. 2000
Evaluate options for opening up the                                 2000
telecommunications sector to competition.
Carry out annual extemal audits of the                              2000-02
accounts of EMAE, ENAPORT, ENASA,
and ENCO.
Improve the legal, social, Adopt international business standards and    Private sector strengthened.    2000-02
and cultural envirpnment amend legislation on commerce and     New jobs created and
in favor of the poor   competition to promote private sector   demonstration by rural
development.                           inhabitants of greater
Restructure and improve the operation of the  accountability with respect to   2000-02
legal system.                          development efforts.
Clarify and streamline the legal framnework   Increased access for the poor   June 2000    World Bank
governing agricultural land.           to property.
Implement a simplified land title registration                      2000
system (single window).
Clarify the legal status of local communities.                      2000
Strengthen farmers' organizations and                               2000-02
support the establishment of intervocational
associations.



Table 1. Sao Tome and Principe: Matrix of Policy
Actions and Measures, 2000-02'
Areas and Objectives           Policies and Measures             Expected Outcomes        Timetable   Technical Assistance
Complete the study on the civil service pay                        Dec. 2000    World BankWUNDP
scale and implement the new civil service
management and control procedures.
Implement the results of the above-study.                          2001         World Banik/UNDP
D. Reform of public
enterprises and
privatization program
Reduce the size of the    Publish a list of nonagricultural public                        Oct. 1999
public sector and     enterprises to be privatized.
improve the performance  Implement the nonagricultural public                             2000
of public enterprises  enterprise privatization program.
Adopt a program for the privatization of                           June 2000
large government plantations and the
rationalization of the land tenure system.
Assess the possibilities of private                                2000         World Bank
shareholding in the public enterprises in
charge of the port and airport management
(ENAPORT and ENASA).
Carry out a study on the possible options for                      June 2000
the future of the water and electricity utility,
EMAE (privatization, concession of the
management to a private strategic partner,
etc.).
Prepare and implement a financial                                  June 2000
restructuring plan for EMAE, including the
adoption of an appropriate accounting and



Table 1. Sao Tom6 and Principe: Matrix of Policy
Actions and Measures, 2000-02'
Areas and Objectives           Policies and Measures             Expected Outcomes        Timetable   Technical Assistance
E. Statistical issues
Analyze the evolution of  Conduct a household statistical survey,  Data on poverty gathered.  Feb. 2000    World Bank
povcrty, incquality, and   dcvelop a social database in the National  Annual report prepared on the    AfDB/UNDP
vulnerability         Institute of Statistics, and develop a series of  evolution of poverty,
social and poverty indicators to be   inequality, and vulnerability
monitored.                             Strengthened institutions
responsible for statistics and
Adopt a full series of social and poverty  analysis of poverty, inequality, Apr. 2001    World Bank
indicators to be monitored.            and vulnerability.                       AfDB/UNDP
Improve statistical data   Formulate and implement an action plan to                      2000         Fund
to facilitate program  improve the reliability and timeliness of
monitoring             statistical production.
Continue the regular supply of reliable                            2000         Fund
monetary statistics and improve the balance
of payments data.



