Report No. PID9276
Project Name                     Sao Tome and PrUncipe-Public Resource...
Management Credit
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Economic Management
Project ID                       STPE69909
Borrower(s)                      Government of Sao Tome and PrUncipe
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Planning, Finance and
Cooperation
Sao Tome and Principe
Contact Person: H.E. Dr. Adelino Castelo
DavidMinister of Planning, Finance and
Cooperation
Tel:    239-12-21-083
Fax:    239-12-22-182
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                June 28, 2000
Projected Appraisal              August, 2000
Projected Board Date             September 19, 2000
Background
1.      Country and Sector Background
The islands of Sao Tome and PrUncipe are located in the Gulf of Guinea.
Total surface area is around 1000 square kilometers, of which Sao Tome has
860 square kilometers and Principe 140 square kilometers. The total
population, around 144,800 inhabitants in 1999, is growing at about 2.3
percent per year. About 37 percent of the population live in urban areas.
Soon after independence, the Government adopted a socialist form of policy.
By the late 1980s, political instability, adverse external shocks and
inappropriate economic policies led to a worsening of economic performance, a
loss of per capita income and a deterioration in the living conditions of the
population.
In 1990, Sao Tome and PrUncipe, with the support of the donor community,
embarked upon an ambitious recovery and economic development program.
However, economic performance continued to deteriorate, owing mainly to weak
institutional capacity, the lack of adequately skilled human resources,
adverse external shocks - especially the decline in world cocoa prices - and
heavy reliance on aging cocoa plantations. Real GDP growth rates remained
low, macroeconomic imbalances worsened further, unemployment increased, and
living conditions of the population deteriorated. In 1994, an estimated 40
percent of the population lived below the poverty line. In addition,
external public debt soared, becoming a particularly high and unsustainable
burden.
Following a decade of economic decline and deteriorating social indicators,
the authorities in 1998-99 implemented in earnest a series of reforms within
the framework of a Fund staff-monitored program. Progress was made in



strengthening fiscal performance, stabilizing the exchange rate, and lowering
inflation. The Government also further liberalized trade and prices, and
implemented an important privatization program. Real GDP recovered in
1998-99, but per capita income remained low and poverty widespread. To
reverse the continued deterioration in the poverty indicators, the Government
drafted, in June 1999, a policy paper on strategic options and an action plan
for 2000-05, with technical assistance from the UNDP and following a
participatory process. This paper places poverty reduction at the center of
government concerns.
2.      Project Objectives
The reform supported by the proposed Public Resource Management Credit has
three key objectives: (i) improve domestic resource mobilization, including
progress towards harmonization with the Western African Economic Monetary
Union (WAEMU) on a common external tariff (CET); (ii) rationalize public
expenditure management and strengthen public administration; and (iii)
continue implementation of the public enterprise reform program.
The proposed Credit will help to deepen the reform program, and to
consolidate macroeconomic stabilization. The Credit will support reforms to
improve public expenditure allocations, fiscal transparency, civil service
salary decompression, and privatization of public enterprises and state-owned
plantations. It would also provide budgetary support to fill the financing
gap for the period 2000-01, permitting the Government to sustain
implementation of its reform program.
3.      Project Description
The Credit will complement the PRGF in providing financing to meet the
medium-term financing requirements currently projected in the macroeconomic
program as well as additional financing to help the Government partially meet
increased social spending as indicated in the I-PRSP and for a Study Fund to
carry out the much needed sectoral work. The scope of the Credit is focused
in public resource management, which is critically important, and where good
preparatory work has taken place and, in most cases, where commitment exists.
The tranches have been focused on specific sectoral issues and designed to
allow flexibility in disbursement.
4.      Project Financing
The proposed amount of IDA financing is US$10 million equivalent. This
amount is considered adequate to support the momentum of policy reforms.
5.      Implementation
The reform program under this Credit will be implemented by the Ministry of
Planning, Finance and Cooperation. Implementation of the reform program as
well as overall macroeconomic performance will be monitored bi-annually in
the context of the preparation of the PRSP, and jointly with the IMF through
supervision of the PRGF arrangement.
The first tranche of US$4 million equivalent, will be released upon
effectiveness of the proposed credit. Subject to continuing satisfactory
performance of the macroeconomic program as outlined in the Letter of
-2 -



Development Policy, particularly with respect to the overall level of
revenues and expenditures, the second and third tranche will be released upon
fulfillment of conditionalities.
6.      Sustainability
At the time of the launch of the PRSP in early November 1999, the Government
reaffirmed its commitment to the reform process. Government ownership of the
program that this Credit supports appears to be adequate in order to ensure
its successful implementation. This is evidenced by the Government's full
involvement in the design of the adjustment program. The Government provided
the initial written framework for the Credit including components and it has
already implemented a number of key actions in the areas of revenue
mobilization and public expenditure management.
A government counterpart team (composed of senior staff at the level of
director from various ministries) has been working with IDA and IMF staff on
the program design and implementation. The team is headed by the Minister of
Planning, Finance and Cooperation, and is supported by a full-time technical
team.
7.      Poverty Category
Resource mobilization, private investment flows, economic diversification and
external trade are expected to improve, thereby enhancing the efficiency and
productivity of public resources. Also, by focusing on the efficiency of
public expenditure and the reallocation of public resources towards
education, health and poverty-oriented programs, the Credit would help
protect budgetary spending in these three areas, with a positive and direct
impact on poverty reduction.
8.      Environmental Aspects
The proposed project will have no adverse environmental impact. This is a
Category C project and will require no further environmental analysis.
9.      Program Objective Categories
This Credit will complement ongoing reforms financed under IDFs and the IMF-
PRGF, and will assist the Saotomean authorities to implement a comprehensive
set of first-generation policy reforms. These reforms are needed to
consolidate and accelerate the Government's efforts and move Sao Tome and
PrUncipe towards a new phase of economic and social development. The
Government recognizes the World Bank as a privileged partner, well positioned
to provide sound advice and extend the dialogue to other development
partners.
10.     Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:            (202) 522-1500
-3 -



Task Manager
Miquel J. Saponara
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-4951
Note: This is information on an involving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending June 30, 2000.
The Project Information Document (PID), which sets out basic information
on the project's objectives, rationale, and design. This document is
avialable to the public. Ina number of Regions the PID serves as both the
IEPS and the PID. The task manager should check with the Project Advisor for
the Region's specific requirements.
-4-



