Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3428 STP
Development Credit Agreement
(Public Resource Management Credit)
between
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SÃO TOMÉ AND PRÍNCIPE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated November 10, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3428 STP
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated  November 10, 2000, between DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF 
SÃO TOMÉ AND PRÍNCIPE (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower a letter 
dated August 14, 2000, describing a program of actions, objectives and 
policies designed to strengthen public resource management and improve 
the Borrower’s macroeconomic stability (hereinafter called the Program), 
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Association in support of the Program 
during the execution thereof; and
(B)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association 
has decided, in support of the Program, to provide such assistance to the 
Borrower by making the Credit in three tranches as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development 
Credit Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999), with the modifications thereof set forth below 
(the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read:
“‘Project’ means the Program, referred to in the Preamble to 
the Development Credit 
Agreement, in support of which the Credit is 
made”;
(b)
Section 4.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise 
agree, withdrawals from 
the Credit Account shall be made in the 
currency of the deposit account specified in Section  2.02 of the 
Development Credit Agreement”;
(c)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of 
the Credit from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the 
provisions of the Development Credit Agreement and of 
these General 
Conditions.”;
(d)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(e)
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read:
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be  agreed for this purpose between the Borrower 
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare 
and furnish to the 
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request, on the execution of the program referred 
to in the Preamble to the  Development Credit Agreement, the performance 
by the Borrower and the Association of their 
respective obligations 
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Credit.”; and
(f)
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified 
above), 9.07 and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 
9.06 and 9.07. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“BCSTP” means Banco Central de Saõ Tomé e Príncipe, the 
Borrower’s Central Bank established and operating pursuant to Law No. 
8/92 dated August 26, 1992;
(b)
“bring to the point of sale” means that the Borrower has 
taken the following steps: (i) prepared and distributed investment 
memoranda for the relevant public enterprises; (ii) solicited offers 
directly or through advertisement(s) in appropriate newspapers, under 
terms and conditions agreed upon between the Borrower and the 
Association; (iii) evaluated the offers and selected the bidder(s) (if 
any); and (iv) invited the successful bidder(s) (if any) to enter into 
Page  3
good faith negotiations;
(c)
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(d)
“First Tranche” means the tranche referred to in Category 
(1) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement, to be released by the Association on or after the Effective 
Date;
(e)
“Fiscal Year” means the fiscal year of the Borrower 
beginning on January 1 and ending on December 31;
(f)
“Floating Tranche” means the tranche referred to in Category 
(3) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement, to be released by the Association on or after the date on 
which the conditions referred to in Part B of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement have been met;
(g)
“Letter of Development Policy” or “LDP” means the Letter of 
Development Policy referred to in Recital (A) of the Preambles to this 
Agreement;
(h)
“MPF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Planning and Finance; 
(i)
“PSRP” means the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper to be 
prepared by the Borrower and furnished to the Association;
(j)
“Second Tranche” means the tranche referred to in Category 
(2) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement, to be released by the Association on or after the date on 
which the conditions referred to in Part A of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement have been met;
(k)
“SYDONIA” means the Borrower’s automated system for the 
assessment of tax bases and the calculation of the Borrower’s custom 
duties; and
(l)
“tranche” means any of the following tranches, namely the 
First Tranche, the Second Tranche and the Floating Tranche.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development 
Credit  Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to five 
million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 5,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) 
and (d) of this Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the 
proceeds of the Credit from the Credit Account in support of the Program.
(b)
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the 
Association the first request for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and 
thereafter maintain in its central bank, a deposit account in dollars on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. All withdrawals 
from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the 
Deposit Account.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit 
Page  4
shall not be used to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. If the Association shall have 
determined at any time that any proceeds of the Credit shall have been 
used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (i) deposit into the 
Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if 
the Association shall so request, refund such amount to the Association. 
Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be credited 
to the Credit Account for cancellation.
(d)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Credit Account:
(i)
under Category (2) of the table in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
unless the amount specified 
in Category (1) has been withdrawn by the 
Borrower, the Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views 
as 
described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on 
evidence satisfactory to 
the Association:
(A)
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in 
the carrying out of the 
Program;
(B)
that the actions set forth in Part A of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
have been 
undertaken; and
(C)
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the 
Borrower is 
satisfactory, as measured on the 
basis of indicators agreed between the 
Borrower and 
the Association; 
(ii)
under Category (3) of the table in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement, unless the Association 
shall be satisfied, after an exchange of 
views 
as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence 
satisfactory to the Association:
(A)
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in 
the carrying out of the 
Program;
(B)
that the actions set forth in Part B of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
have been 
undertaken; and
(C)
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the 
Borrower is 
satisfactory, as measured on the 
basis of indicators agreed between the 
Borrower and 
the Association; and 
(e)
If, after said exchange of views, the Association is not so 
satisfied, the Association may give notice to the Borrower to that effect 
and, if within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have 
taken steps satisfactory to the Association, in respect of paragraph (d) 
(i) and (ii) above, then the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, 
cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or any part thereof.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be 31 March 2003 or such later 
date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly 
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a 
Page  5
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn 
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of 
each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty 
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the 
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from 
the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 
30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as  may 
be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date 
in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as 
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of 
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in 
the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to 
the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time 
to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be 
payable semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)   Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, 
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual 
installments payable on each April 15 and October 15 commencing April 15, 
2011 and ending October 15, 2040. Each installment to and including the 
installment payable on October 15, 2020 shall be one percent (1%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent 
(2%) of such principal amount. 
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national 
product (GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for 
three consecutive years the level established annually by the Association 
for determining eligibility to access the Association’s resources; and 
(ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, 
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by the 
Association of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the 
Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due 
until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount of 
the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in 
paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on which 
the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a 
grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise 
the modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu 
of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the 
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to 
time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision 
shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
Page  6
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to 
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's 
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, 
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time 
to time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions specified in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association for its review and comment a report on the 
progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on 
any proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Credit 
which would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the 
Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any action 
specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall:
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(b)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than four months after the date of the Association’s 
request for such audit, a certified copy of the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
the Deposit Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, that a 
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or 
a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
ARTICLE V
Page  7
Termination 
Section 5.01. The date ninety  (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the 
General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, 
the Minister of the Borrower responsible for finance is designated as the 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministério de Planeamento e Finanças
Saõ Tomé 
República Democrática de Saõ Tomé e Príncipe
Facsimile:  
239-12-22182
239-12-22372
For the Association:
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 
477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written.
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SÃO TOMÉ AND PRÍNCIPE
By /s/ Domingos Ferreira
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  8
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
and Excluded Expenditures
1.
Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this 
Schedule, the table below sets forth the amounts allocated to the 
tranches to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and the percentage of 
expenditures for items to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
First Tranche
   2,000,000
100%
(2)
Second Tranche
   1,900,000
100% 
(3)
Floating Tranche
   1,900,000
100%
TOTAL
   5,800,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, and for 
purposes of Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the 
Credit shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures:
(a) 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(b)
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract 
which any national or international financing institution or agency other 
than the Bank or the Association shall have financed or agreed to 
finance, or which the Bank or the Association shall have financed or 
agreed to finance under another credit or a loan;
(c)
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or 
subgroups of the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 
(SITC, Rev.3), published by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, 
Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or 
subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Association by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112
   -
Alcoholic beverages
121
   -
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
refuse
122
   -
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or 
Page  9
not
containing tobacco substitutes)
525
   -
Radioactive and associated 
materials
667
   -
Pearls, precious and semiprecious
stones, unworked or worked
718
718.7
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges), 
non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728
728.43
Tobacco processing machinery
897
897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum
group metals (except watches and 
watch
cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’
wares (including set gems)
971
   -
Gold, non-monetary (excluding 
gold
ores and concentrates) 
(d)
expenditures for goods intended for a military or 
paramilitary purpose or for luxury consumption;
(e)
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for 
purposes of this paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” 
means goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is prohibited under 
the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which the 
Borrower is a party); 
(f)
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is 
not a member of the Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied 
from, such territories; or (b) on account of any payment to persons or 
entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or import is prohibited 
by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter 
VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and
(g)
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the 
Association determines that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged 
in by representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit 
during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the 
Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the 
Association to remedy the situation.
SCHEDULE 2
Actions Referred to in
Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement
Part A:
Conditions for the release of the Second Tranche
1.
The Borrower has taken measures, satisfactory to the Association, 
to eliminate the granting of all ad hoc exemptions under its tax laws and 
regulations, as referred to in paragraph 21 of the LDP.
Page  10
2.
The Borrower has taken measures, satisfactory to the Association, 
to strengthen its customs and tax administration, including measures to 
make fully operational the automated system (SYDONIA) for the assessment 
of tax bases and the calculation of custom duties by the Borrower’s 
Department of Customs, as referred to in paragraph 21 of the LDP.
3.
The Borrower has taken measures, satisfactory to the Association, 
to require all its revenue agencies to employ the single taxpayer 
identification number system in monitoring compliance by taxpayers with 
the relevant tax laws and regulations, as referred to in paragraph 21 of 
the LDP.
4.
The Borrower has carried out a public expenditure review, 
satisfactory to the Association, for its education and health sectors and 
has implemented a civil service reform program satisfactory to the 
Association, as referred to in paragraphs 20 and 22 of the LDP.
5.
The Borrower has implemented a general sales tax, satisfactory to 
the Association, as referred to in paragraph 21 of the LDP.
Part B:
Conditions for the release of the Floating Tranche
1.
The Borrower has carried out, to the satisfaction of the 
Association and within the framework of its budget for Fiscal Year 2002, 
the recommendations of the public expenditure review of its education and 
health sectors, as referred to in paragraph 22 of the LDP.
2.
The Borrower has, to the satisfaction of the Association: (i) 
implemented, by bringing to the point of sale or by liquidating 
non-performing public enterprises for which buyers cannot be found, the 
privatization program for the public enterprises identified in paragraph 
23 of the LDP; (ii) rehabilitated public utilities by periodically 
adjusting tariff rates; (iii) strengthened the legal and institutional 
framework for private investment; (iv) conducted a study on the 
telecommunication sector with a view to opening it up to competition; (v) 
adopted a program for the privatization of the Borrower’s large 
state-owned agricultural farms; and (vi) adopted an action plan regarding 
the rationalization of the Borrower’s land tenure system, as referred to 
in paragraph 14 of the LDP.
