Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
Repwt No. P-3615-BD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDEN  nF THE
DITERNATIONA L DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 21.4 MILLION
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR A
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PRM0OTION PROJECT
June 15, 1983
I This document has a restried distri-otiom and may be used by recipients only in the performce of
their ofiial duties. Its cotents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorinaton.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
The Bangladesh Taka is fixed in relation to a basket of reference
currencies, with the US Dollar serving as intenvention currency. On
January 11, 1983, the official exchange rate was set at Tk 24.48 buying and
Tk 24.52 selling per US Dollar. Throughout this report the rates shown below
have been used.
Currency Unit   = Taka (Ti)
100 Paisa       = 1.0 Taka
US$1.0          = 24.0 Taka (as of January 1, 1983)
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB      -  Asian Development Bank
ADP      - Annual Development Plan
bbl      -  Barrel
BCF     -  Billion standard cubic feet
BGFCL    -  Bangladesh Gas Field Company Limited
BGSL     -  Bakhrabad Gas Systems Company Limited
BPC      -  Bangladesh Petroleum Corporation
ESPC     -  Energy Study and Planning Cell
GOB      -  Government of Bangladesh
MCF      -  Thousand Standard Cubit Feet
oe       -  oil equivalent
p.a.     -  per annum
SFYP     -  Second Five Year Plan
TCF      -  Trillion Standard Cubic Feet
toe      -  ton of oil equivalent
FISCAL YEAR
GOB, PETROBANGLA:           July 1 - June 30



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
Development Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:           People's Republic of Bangladesh.
Beneficiaries:      Bangladesh Oil and Gas Corporation (Petrobangla).
Gas Producing Companies, including the Bangladesh
Gas Field Company Limited (BGFCL) and the Bangladesh
Gas Systems Company Limited (BGSL).
Amount:             SDR 21.4 million (US$23 million equivalent).
Terms:              SLandard
Relending Terms:    GOB would pass on the share of expenses (about US$4.0
million equivalent) incurred on producing fields to the
Gas Producing Companies, as a loan; the on-lending terms
tould be for a period of 15 years, including 5 years of
gracz, at an interest rate of 14% per annum. The Gas
Producing Companies would bear the foreign exchange risk.
The balance of credit proceeds (about US$19.0 million
equivalent) to support exploration ex,anses and geophysi-
cal work on fields not yet put into production would be
passed on to Petrobangla in the form of equity, with GOB
bearing the foreign exchange risk.
Purpose and         The project would support GOB's efforts to stimulate
Description:        interest among foreign investors to resume petroleum
exploration in Bangladesh through a proper assessment
of petroleum prospects, including an identification of
areas where immediate further exploration is warranted,
as part of a promotional package to be made available
to interested foreign investors. It would also assist
in the acquisition of critical data that are necessary
for delineating and developing existing gas fields as
well as help improve and strengthen the exploration and
technical capabilities of Petrobangla. The project will
comprise: (a) seismic surveys of about 2,400 line km;
(b) a hydrocarbon habitat study which will collate,
reinterpret and integrate all available as well as newly
acquired seismic, geological and geochemical data; and
(c) a program of assistance to Petrobangla in the techni-
cal, financial and legal fields..
Thr document has a ricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
Project Risks:      There are two risks, which may adversely affect promotion
efforts. The first would be the finding that no case can
be madle for further exploration in Bangladesh. Given the
many positive elements identified so far, this risk is
considered negligible in the case of gas. A risk analy-
sis is contained in Annex V. A r'sk remains though that
oil prospects may be too small (i.e., fields of less
than 30 million barrels) to be of interest to foreign
investors. In this case, it may be profitable for
Petrobangla to explore for such fields on its own, given
the imense Importance that even a small oil find would
mean for Bangladesh. Project implementation would be
closely monitored to ensure that it is executed competently
and that both the data to be acquired under the project and
the interpretation thereof are of sufficieatly high quality
as to be acceptable to the oil industry.
There is no risk associated with the seismic surveys
of existing gas lields, the benefits of which will be
imminent and far reaching: the proposed seismic surveys
will result in an up-to-date subsurface interpretation
of the gas fields and, in turn, will allow for firmer
reservoir estimates and optimum location of development
wells, thus reducing or eliminating the risk of dry
holes.



-iii
Estimated
Project Costs:      Project Components           Local a/   Foreign     Total
(TuS$ million equivalent)
I.  Seismic Surveys
A. Southwest Delta           1.2         4.7         5.S'
B. Production Seismic        1.1         3.6         4.7
C. Data Processing           0.4         2.8         3.2
D. Processing Center           -         0.5         0.5
(purchasing option)
Sub-total                 2.7        11.6        14.3
II.  Hydrocarbon Habitat Study    0.6          3.5        4.1
III.  Technical Assistance
A. Training                  0.1          0.8        0.9
B. Laboratory Equipment        -         0.5         0.5
C. Financial Study             -         0.3         0.3
D. Legal Assistsnce            -         0.1         0.1
Sub-total             0.1         1.7         1.8
Base Cost Estimates     3.4        16.8        20.27
Physical Contingencies  0.5         1.8         2.3
Price Contingencies     0.4         2.6         3.0
Total Project Costs   4.3        21.2        25.5
a/ Includes taxes and duties of about US$0.3 million



-iv-
Financing Plan:                                   Local      Foreign     Total
- - in US$ million)
GOB                           2.5            -        2.5
IDA                           1.8          21.2      23.0
TOTAL                      4.3          21.2      25.5
Estimated
Disbursements:                           FY84     FY85     FY86     FY87
(US$ Million)
Annual               7.7      8.6       3.6      3.1
Cumulative           7.7     16.3      19.9     23.0
Economic Rate
Rate of Return:     Not applicable.
Staff Appraisal
Report:           No separate Staff Appraisal Report has been prepared.
IBRD 17101.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH FOR A
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed
development credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for SDR 21.4 mil-
lion (the equivalent of US$23.0 million), on 3tandard IDA terms, to help
finance a Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project. GOB would pass on the
share of expenses (about US$4.0 million equivalent) incurred on producing
fields to the Gas Producing Companies, as a loan; the on-lending terms would
be for a period of 15 years, including 5 years of grace, at an interest rate
of 14% per annum. The Gas Producing Companies would bear the foreign
exchange risk. The balance of credit proceeds (about US$19.0 million equiv-
alent) to support exploration expenses and geophysical work on fields not yet
put into production would be passed on to PetroLangla in the form of equity,
with GOB bearing the foreign exchange risk.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
Introduction
2.     An economic report entitled "Bangladesh:  Recent Economic Trends and
Medium-Term Development Issues," (Report No. 4277-BD, dated March 4, 1983)
has been distributed to the Executive Directors.
3.      The first years of independence were difficult for Bangladesh.  Its
economy was disrupted and its infrastructure severely damaged by the struggle
for independence. The country was afflicted by poor harvests and devastating
floods in the early 1970s. Agriculture and manufacturing production fell
drastically and only recovered to pre-independence levels in the mid 1970s.
Inflation, declining real wages, rapid population growth, labor unrest and
political instability added to the difficulties. In these early years,
Bangladesh's policy makers were by necessity largely preoccupied with matters
of relief and rehabilitation and the need to shape a national government out
of a provincial administration. The First Five-Year Plan (FY74-78) had to
1/ Parts I and II of this report are substantially the same as Parts I and
II of the President's Report for RD II.



-2-
of a provincial administration. The First Five-Year Plan (FY74-78) had to
be scrapped and replaced by a scaled-down and refocussed three-year "Hardcore
Program" (FY76-78) in response to the enormity of the country's difficulties.
4.      Economic progress and increased political stability in the second
half of the past decade provided planners the opportunity to turn their
attention from crisis management to the longer-range objectives of develop-
ment. Between FY75 and PY80, GDP increased by about 5.8% p.a. despite
several setbacks in agricultural production. Output in manufacturing rose by
about 6.3Z annually between FY75 and FY80, most of this growth taking place
outside the jute industry. Although shortfalls in domestic foodgrain sup-
plies and increases in international petroleum prices led to a deterioration
in the balance of payments in FY80, t.e concluding years of the decade wit-
nessed a number of encouraging developments and positive policy measures to
attain longer-term development goals. These included a strengthening of
budgetary policies, improvements in agricultural and food distribution
policies and steps to promote a more active role by the private sector in
developing the economy.
Recent Economic Developments
5.      The economic consolidation in the second half of the past decade has
been follawed by a period of economic difficulties. Bangladesh experienced
serious budgetary and balance of payments problems in FY81 which continued
into FY82. The external and domestic resource constraints led to some
decline in investment, in real terms, and some loss of momentum in the
development effort. The management of domestic food situation, due to poor
crops, has also posed considerable problems.  Although GDP at market prices
increased by 6% in FY81 (as favorable weather and stepped-up provision of
agricultural inputs helped to increase foodgrain production to a record 14.8
million tons), growth of the economy became negligible in FY82 due to
poor crops, lagging rural incomes and consumer demand and the decline in
investment. A recovery in winter crops (wheat and boro rice) due to improved
weather and the Government's efforts to expand minor irrigation facilities,
however, is expected to increase value-added in agriculture by 3.4% and
overall growth of the economy by 2.5% in FY83.
6.      The economic difficulties experienced in the last few years is
indicative of major constraints to sustained economic development in
Bangladesh in the near term. These are (a) a severe balance of payments
problem; (b) an extremely tight public finance situation; and (c) a food
production and management problem.
7.      Bangladesh's balance of payments is characterized by a massive struc-
tural trade deficit and heavy dependence on foreign aid.  Export earnings
are current'y less than 30% of the import bill and over 50% of these limited
export earnings is derived from raw jute and jute goods. Although export



-3-
earnings doubled over the second half of the past decade due to a significant
strengthening of export prices, and remittances from abroad increased
rapidly, the current account deficit over the past decade averaged over 10%
of GNP annually, financed by external aid inflows, provided mainly on conces-
sional terms by external donors. In FY81 and FY82, however, Bangladesh was
adversely affected by (a) a severe deterioration in its terms of trade and
(b) a simultaneous stagnation in externa' aid inflows. A sharp decline in
export prices of rnw jute and jute goods and of major non-traditional exports
(notably leather and fish products), combined with a 14% increase in average
import prices (partly reflecting significantly higher petroleum prices), led
to a 16% deterioration in Bangladesh's terms of trade in FY81. While import
prices remained relatively stable in FY82, export prices declined by a fur-
ther 16% due to continued stagnation of demand for raw jute and jute goods,
and the terms of trade deteriorated further by 17% in FY82. At the same time
external aid inflo-7s, which rose steadily until FY80, stagnated or declined;
aid disbursements in FY82 were only 4% higher than in FY79 in real terms, and
in FY81 were 7% lower than FY79 levels. During FY81 the Government attempted
to cope with this reduction in the availability of external resources by
resorting to short-term commercial borrowing, short-term deposits from and
currency swaps with friendly countries, some run-down of reserves and assis-
tance from the IKF under an Extended Financing Facility (EFF) arrangement
concluded in December 1980. However, the EFF arrangement was suspended in
July 1981, as the Government's budgetary problems led to a large
bank-financed budget deficit and to the violation of credit ceilings agreed
with the IMF. In FY82 the Government attempted to slow down the growth of
imports through a variety of measures. Nevertheless further short-term
borrowing of $226 million and a run-down of Bangladesh's meager foreign
exchange reserves to about US$100 million (equivalent to about two weeks'
imports) were necessary to finance the reduced level of imports.
8.      The balance of payments situation in FY83 will benefit from a
significant improvement in the terms of trade, a substantial increase in
workers' remittances to about US$600 million and a 9% increase in total aid
disbursements due to an improved response from donors to Bangladesh's recent
requests for more food and commodity aid. The Government is also drawing
upon assistance from the IMF under a Standby Arrangement in an amount of SDRs
68.4 million covering the period up to August 1983. Rising medlium and
long-term debt service payments (from US$98 million in FY82 to US$155 million
in FY83) will, however, claim part of this increase in external resources;
Bangladesh will be also making net payments of about $100 million on out-
standing short-term debts.
9.      The deterioration in the trade and aid climate had a major adverse
impact on public finances during FY81 and FY82. Government's receipts of
local counterpart funds-a principal source of taka resources--were reduced,
as were its receipts from import duties and sales taxes, which account for
nearly 60% of total tax revenues. These budgetary problems were exacerbated



-4-
by weak financial planning and inadequate domestic adjustments in the face of
general.y reduced availability of resources.  The Government's development
programs were predicated on the basis of overly optimistic assumptions
regarding resource availabilities; and the poor financial performance of
public enterprises, due to low levels of efficiency and delays in increasing
their sales prices added a further drain on the budget. A budget deficit of
Tk 5 billion or about 2.5% of GNP emerged in FY81 even though the Annual
Development Program (ADP) was cutback by 12% in the second half of the fiscal
year. In FY82, the cutbacks in imports noted earlier sharply reduced govern-
ment revenues; and this caused serious difLiculties in implementing the ADP
which was again initially set at ambitiously high levels. Although the Taka
component of the ADP was cutback by 15% in the third quarter of FY82, it was
possible to avoid a deficit in the cverall government budget only because a
sharp run-down in government's food stocks as a result of poor domestic crops
helped to prodace a substantial cash surplus on the food account.
10.     Although considerable progres. has been made in the past ter- ;ears
in increasing the availability of irrigation and other inp:tts and improving
agricultural policies, foodgrain production and suppl'; in Bangladesh remains
heavily dependent on the vagaries of the weather. Ptolonged drought since the
summer of 1981 adversely affected the FY82 and FY83 rice crops. The short-
fall in foodgrain production in FY82 (0.7 million tons or 5% below FY81
levels) led to high food prices in FY82, low government procurements,
increased demand for foodgrain distributed through the ration system and a
substamtial run-down of public sector foodgrain stocks to about 600,000 t,ns
by end-June 1982, far below the levels considered to be sufficient for food
security purposes. In order to replenish stocks the Governmeat made substan-
tial commercial imports, thereby imposing further strain on the balance of
payments.
11.     The Government endeavored to cope with the intensifying problems
facing the economy by placing restrictions on imports, public sector expend'-
tures and bank credit, reducing various subsidies, and allowing the Taka to
depreciate. In FY82 the Taka was depreciated by about 10% in relation to a
basket of currencies to which it is pegged and by about 22% in relation to
the US dollar. 1/ However, the rate of domestic inflation, spurred o0: by
sharp increases in foodgrain prices in aid FY82, the adjustments in the
exchange rate and rapid expansion of domestic liquidity in late FY81
accelerated a- the consumer price index increased by 15Z over the 12 month
period ending June 1982.
12.     Faced with continuing prospects of unfavorable terms of trade and
stagnating resource availabilities, the Government, in the FY83 budget (in
1/ Change from end-June 1981 to early June 1982.



-5-
July 1982), introduced a wide range of policy measures designed to adjust the
economy to the country's serious resource constraints. Projected development
expenditures for FY83 were reduced by m'early 20% in line with resource
availabilities, while the increase in recurrent expenditures was limited to
14%, only slightly above the forecast inflation level. The Government also
introduced new tax measures expected to yield Tk 1.17 billion (about 0.5% of
GDP) in FY83. In addition, a number of substantial subsidy and pricing
adjustments aTrhed at reeucing consumption and protecting investments were
made. Ration prices of wheat and rice were increased by 11% and 8%, respec-
tively and fertilizer prices were increased by 14% on average. The Govern-
ment also recognized the need to improve the financial performance of public
sector enterprises and utilities; and product prices and rates were raised
substantially in the case of petroleum products (41%), electricity tariffs
(40%) and natural gas (13%). These measures are expected to channel resour-
ces from private consumption to public investment and, together with a cash
surplus on the food account noted earlier. wiLl help improve the overall
budgetary position, and restore a greater measure of financial stability.
External Debt
13.     Debt service payments on medium and long term debt totalled US$94
million in FY80 and US$92 million in FY81. Bangladesh's debt service ratio,
about 12.9% in FY80 following some debt relief measures undertaken by various
donors, remained at this level in FY81. The debt service ratio might exceed
20% by tile mid-1980s, unless careful debt management policies are pursued and
aid is provided on concessional terms. Bangladesh's total outstanding and
disbursed external public debt amounted to just under US$3.6 billion as of
June 30, 1981 with IDA credits and the single IBRD loan accounting for 30% of
the total- In FY81, the Bank Group accounted for 3% of Bangladesh's total
debt service payments: because assistance is now entirely in the form of IDA
credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly.
Development Planning and Policy Issues
14.     The Second Five-Year Plan (SFYP), issued in draft form in May
1980, accords high priority to four major goals: (i) achievement of
self-sufficiency in foodgrains by FY85, with domestic foodgrain production
targeted to increase to 20 million tons by FY85; (ii) reduction of the
population growth rate with a view to bringing down the net reproduction rate
to unity by 1990; (iii) progress towards mass literacy through free universal
primary education; and (iv) emphasis on energy development, particularly
through accelerated exploitation of known reserves of natural gas.
15.     The potential for increasing foodgrain output in Bangladesh is con-
siderable. Surface and groundwater resources permit a substantial expansion
of irrigation, which in turn would permit increased fertilizer use and shifts
to high yielding varieties of rice. The Government has formulated, with



-6-
assistance from IDA, a Medium-Term Foodgrain Production Plan (MTFPP) which
provides an investment portfolio geared towards the attainme,,t of the SFYP
target of 20 million tons of foodgrains. This target is now being scaled
down in view of the country's resource constraints. The achievement of even
this revised target will depend considerably on the allocation of sufficient
resources to provide needed inputs to farmers and to permit the private
sector to play an expanded role in the provision and servicing of modern
agricultural implements and inputs. Other necessary requirements are ade-
quate levels of foreign aid to finance imported inputs, improved extension
services and training, and appropriate producer incentives.
16.     Achievement of the second objective, reduction of the population
growth rate, will require more determined efforts than have been made thus
far, especially with regard to birth control efforts which have generally
suffered from poor implementation and have had only limited success.
Recently, however, birth contrel activities within the Government have been
coord'nated, while training programs for field staff have been revised and
are now, for the first time, considered adequate. GOB is now preparing, with
bank assistance, a medlur-term implementation plan for the population sector.
17.     The third major objective of the SFYP is the attainment of general
literacy. The Government recognizes that achievement of the goal will take
longer than five years, but it has set itself the ambitious target of intro-
ducing universal primary education and enrolling 90% of all children of
primary-school age by 1985. IDA has assisted GOB in preparing a medium-term
plan for the education sector.
18.     A Plan aimed at effecting significant departures from past trends
will place severe strains on financial resources and managerial skills. A
major challenge which the Government is now facing is to translate the objec-
tives of the SFYP into an operational implementation program on an annual
basis. The Government has recently revised the draft SFYP, and this revised
Plan includes some welcome new initiatives, for example increased emphasis on
rural development, energy development and addressing the problem of rural
unemployment. Some of the targets of the revised Plan and especially its
macro-economic framework are, however, still ambitious and will need to be
adjusted; more work and considerable discipline are also needed to identify
core programs and projects and protect them to the extent possible in a
situation of resource scarcity. A critical factor will also be the extent to
which project implementation capabilities are improved. Although immediate
improvements can be made, it is unlikely that the efforts of public agencies
alone would be adequate to achieve the targeted breakthrough. The Government
recognizes that in certain key areas greater reliance will have to be placed
on the private sector. It also believes that, to a certain extent,
activities such as education and rural development should be carried out in a
decentralized fashion, with greater emphasis on local initiative and
grass-roots participation.



-7 -
19.     vver the past few years, a series of studies undertaken bv IDA, GOB
and other organizations has concluded that existing trade and industrial
policies have distortionary effects on resource allocations within the
irAnstrial sector. The Government is now preparing a program for trade and
industrial policy reform which is expected to lead to a medium-term program
of actions to be pursued across a broad front, including modifications in the
tariff structure, the pattern of domestic indirect taxation, investment
incentives, export policies and the mechanism for industrial promotion and
planning. The Government's New Industrial Policy, announced last year, also
provides for a greater role of the private sector in economic development.
Many of the key elements of this policy are already being implemented,
including the divestment of major segments of the jute and textile industries
to the private sector.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
20.     Bangladesh became a member of the Bank and IDA in 1972.  Initially,
Bank Group operations in Bangladesh concentrat..d on the reactivation of
eleven credits, amounting to US$146.76 million, made originally to Pakistan
before 1971; in addition, a consolidation loan of US$54.9 million and credit
of US$31.04 million to cover liabilities arising from prolects located in
Bangladesh and completed prior to independence was approved in 1974. As of
March 31, 1983, 66 new credits have been approved, totaling US$2,215.70
million; of these, US$867.2 million have been for import credite (eleven
imports program credits and two fertilizer imports credits). Annex II con-
tains a sumary statement of IDA credits and disbursements as of March 31,
1983, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. On June 18, 1976,
Bangladesh became a member of the IFC, and two investments (for a shipbuild-
ing company and an investment promoticn company) have been approved.
21.     The focus of IDA assistance iD recent years has been on agriculture
(20 of the projects approved as of V.rch 31, 1983, and two fertilizer imports
credits). This is consistent with the country's needs and the Government's
priorities. Particular emphasis continues to be placed on projects that
provide agricultural inputs, including fertilizer, fertilizer transport,
irrigation, improved seeds, extension, and credit and storage facilities. In
addition to agricultural projects, emphasis is also being placed upon com-
plementary infrastructural projects in sectors which facilitate agricultural
development or which reduce bottlenecks constraining the economy's overall
performance. In the power sector, for example, IDA is assisting in rural
electrification and elimination of shortages of generation capacity and
distribution facilities which have been a major impediment to utilization of
existing industrial capacity. Assistance for developing telecommunications
is designed to improve the efficiency of a wide-range of economic and social



-8-
activities. Recent IDA lending has also emphasized increasing importance to
the early development of the hydrocarbon sector aimed at relieving the burden
of oil imports on the country's balance of payments through substitution of
domestic natural gas for imported oil, as well as assisting Bangladesh to
realize the foreign exchange potential of its substantial resources of domes-
tic natural gas.
22.     industry has been the main beneficiary of .he eleven imports program
credits approved to date. Given tne need for substantial net transfers of
resources and the persistent structural imbalance and weakness of the
economy, program lending will continue to be an important component of IDA
operations in Bangladesh. The industrial sector has also benefited from two
fertilizer production projects, a jute industry rehabilitation project,
several Development Finance Company and small-scale industry projects and two
IFC investments.
23.     The enormity of Bangladesh's population problem makes this an
extremely high priority sector as well, limited only by its absorptive
capacity. IDA has made two credits available in support of GOB's population
program, which is now making some progress. Improved education and
availability of trained manpower are also crucial, and lending in this field
has emphasized agricultural, technical and vocational training, and primary
education.
24.     Disbursement of the imports program credits has proceeded satisfac-
torily. Project disbursements have lagged behind expectations, owing largely
to delays in the release of local funds, approval of contracts, employment of
consultants, and appointment of staff. Underlying these delays were serious
constraints that included a shortage of qualified staff, overcent.alized
bureaucratic procedures and organizational deficiencies. IDA and GOB have
given increased attention to regular monitoring and supervision in order to
identify ai' resolve potential problems. IDA is providing assistance both
under specit, projects and under technical assistance credits to improve
planning, project preparation and implementation capabilities.
25.     In view of Bangladesh's difficult foreign exchange position and
savings/investment gap, IDA credits should continue to cover all foreign
exchange costs and a portion of local currency expenditures.



-9-
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR 1/
Introduction
26.     Energy consumption in Bangladesh is characterized by the econoay's
heavy reliance on non-commercial sources, particularly in the rural areas.
However, with the progressive development of the country's abundant gas
resources, use of commercial energy is growing at a fast rate. Much of the
growth in demand actually follows the availability of supply as determined by
the progressive extension of the gas and electricity networks. Although
natural gas now accounts for almost half of total hydrocarbon use, the
country still has to rely on relatively large oil imports which severely tax
its limited foreign exchange resources: in FY82, total primary supply of
commercial energy (excluding conversion losses) amounted to 3.3 million tons
of oil equivalent (toe), of which net oil imports contributed 1.6 million toe
totalling US$543 million, or about 87Z of the country's total foreign
exchange earnings.
Resource Endowment
27.    Hydropower and natural gas are currently the ouly two sources of
commercial primary energy in Bangladesh. However, the potential for
hydropower is extremely limited (about 200 MW on the Kaptai River) and has
already been largely harnessed. On the other hand, Bangladesh has an abun-
dant potential supply of natural gas, with reserves current7y estimated at
12.3 to 13.4 trillion standard cubic feet (TCF), or around k80-310 million
toe, of which 75% should be recoverable through normal production methods.
Coal and peat deposits are not economically exploitable at present costs and
Bangladesh has no known oil reserves. Exploration for oil began as early as
1908 but has so far not been successful and Bangladesh has to import all its
oil requirements.
28.     Non-commercial sources of energy are still predominant in Bangladesh.
They include crop residue, animal wastes, rice straw, rice hull, jute sticks
and firewood. Total energy provided from these sources are estimated at
around 5 million toe, annually. As in otther developing economies, the level
of utilization of these forms of energy is high but their end use efficiency
is low. While the future relative share of traditional fuels is likely to
decline, Bangladesh does not have the resources to sustain a major shift to
1/ A more detailed description and analysis of the sector is contained in
the report e -titled, "Bangladesh: Issues and Options in the Energy
Sector," (October 1982, Report No. 3873-B.O.), which is part of a series
of reports of the Joint UNDP/World Bank Energy oector Study.



-10-
commercial energy. Concerted efforts would, therefore, be needed to upgrade
the efficiency of traditional energy use such as through the introduction of
more modern appliances.
Natural Gas
29.     Bangladesh is well endowcd with natural gas; so far 11 onshore and 1
offshore fields have been discovered. All these discoveries are located east
of the Jamuna River which divides the country from north to south into two
areas - the eastern and western zones. Exploration efforts are continuing
in the western zone, but the results have so far been inconclusive. On
account of the limited domestic market, only five gas fields have been par-
tially developed so far. Total production was 65 billion cubic feet (BCF)
in FY62, equivalent to 1.6 million tons of oil. Availability of natural gas
has permitted Bangladesh to contain the growth in the use of imported liquid
hydrocarbons. Natural gas now accounts for almost half of total hydrocarbon
use.
30.     Since estimated gas reserves are more than ample in relation to the
country's requirempnts, no systematic attempt has been made to quantify the
reservoirs or even delineate the fields. The number of wells drilled in
relation to discoveries has been limited. The structural outline of the
fields are, therefore, only sketchily known. In some of the fields (e.g.,
Titas, Bakhrabad), the reservoirs have been shown to be discontinuous and
there is a distinct risk of some dry devLlopment wells. To minimize this
risk, there is a need to acquire high-resolution seismic data. Acquisition
and processing of such data, using advanced programs, would help determine
the distribution of the main reservoir complexes, optimize the location of
future wells and provide the basis for firmer gas reserve estimates.
Exploration Policy and Petroleum Legislation
31.     Since independence, Bangladesh has pursued a policy aimed at seeking
private sector participation in its petroleum exploration and development.
The Petroleum Act of 1974 (as amended) assigns exclusive rights to explore
for and produce hydrocarbons in Bangladesh to the State but also empowers the
State to associate with private oil companies in such undertakings under
separate agreements. A model production sharing agreement establishes the
basic terms and conditions of foreign oil company participation. The main
features of this contract are similar to those of a number of other develop-
ing countries (e.g., Indonesia, Egypt): the contractor takes all the explora-
tion and development risks; pays all expenditures; and is reimbursed his
costs and a profit margin out of future production. The work program and
the sliding scale "profit-oil" splits are negotiated on a case-by-case basis.
The oil companies generally consider this type of contract framework satis-
factory. Petrobangla has also demonstrated flexibility, in the past, in
adjusting its contract terms based on the degree of prospectiveness of each



-11-
area. While Petrobangla's existing model contract is broadly acceptable, it
is, however, almost ten years old. In view of the changed circuimtances in
the oil industry over the past decade, a review of its terms is, therefore,
warranted. GOB has already announced its willingness to modify the provi-
sions of its existing production-sharing contract, so as to provide addi-
tional incentives for poorer geological prospects and adverse tax laws in
the country of origin of the various oil companies. GOB bas also announced
its preparedness to accept foreign participation in all onshore areas.
Energy Consumption Patterns
32.     Total per capita energy consumption in Bangladesh has been estimated
at around 100-130 kilograms (kg) of oil equivalent (oe) per capita per year.
This is one of the lowest levels in the world. Over two thirds of all energy
consumed comes from non-commercial energy sources such as crop residues and
animal wastes. In FY82 per capita annual commercial energy consumption was
estimated at 31 kg oe, about one-sixteenth of the corresponding world average
and one-tenth of the average for low-income countries. Eaergy consumption
patterns differ considerably between rural and urban areas. Energy use in
rural areas is almost entirely dependent on traditional sources, with the
exception of kerosene which is widely used for lighting purposes. Use of
commercial fuels, on the other hand, has grown markedly in the modern and
urban sectors of the economy.  Overall, total commercial energy consumption
grew at an average annual rate of 5.5% between FY76 and FY79 and 8Z between
FY79 and FY81; the share of natural gas in primary supply increasing from 31%
to 45Z over the same periods. Major consumers of commercial energy in FY81
were industry and power (60%), and transport (16%), mainly in the form of
diesel fuel which is used in road and rail transportation and in river
crafts.
Pricing of Petroleum Products and Natural Gas
33.     Under the Credit Agreement for the Bakhrabad Gas Development Project
(Cr. 1091-BD), the Government had agreed to increase the average price of
natural gas by at least 20% foilowing previous increases of 42% and 12% in
1979 and 1980 respectively~ Substantial price adjustments have since been
effected, the weighted average of which has been well above the 20% stipu-
lated requirement. Recent adjustments also brought greater differentiation
among separate categories of consumers in accordance with the relative costs
of supply involved, although further increases for household and commercial
consumers are still required to fully cover the greater costs of serving
them. However, because of the declining value of the Taka, the average price
of natural gas has hardly been maintained in real terms and further adjust-
u!nts will be necessary to bring it in line with th' estimated economic cost.
In order to assist the Government in establishing reasonable gas prices, a
tariff study to be financed under Credit 1091-BD (Bakhrabad Gas Development



-12-
Project) will commence shortly. IDA's objective in this regard is to
encourage the Government to set natural gas prices at levels sufficient to
cover the full economic cost as well as to mobilize resources for the
development of the energy and other sectors. In contrast, petroleum product
prices have always been the highest among commercial fuels in Bangladesh. In
accordance with undertakings under the recently approved Energy Efficiency
and Refinery Rehabilitation project, price adjustments will be made regularly
to recover fully procurement, processing and distribution costs. Current
ex-refinery price levels are considered satisfactory. Additional price data
are shown in Annex VII.
Sector Organization
34.     Responsibility for energy policies and programs is dispersed over
numerous agencies. Energy planning and sector policy development are handled
by the Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources and by the Planning Division
of the Ministry of Finance and Planning. Under the Petroleum Act of 1974,
Petrobangla was established as a wholly government-owned corporation and
entrusted with responsibility for exploration and production of oil; import
of oil; refining and marketing of petroleum products; and the exploration,
production, transmission and distribution of natural gas. Subsequently, with
the establishment of the Bangladesh Petroleum Corporation (BPC) in 1976, the
functions of crude oil import, and refining and marketing of petroleum
products were transferred to BPC.
35.     Until 1978, on-shore exploration was handled by a subsidiary company,
Toila Shandhani, which has since been merged with Petrobangla's Exploration
Division. The day-to-day operational and managerial responsibilities relat-
ing to production, transmission and distribution of natural gas are performed
by a number of companies under Petrobangla's supervision and control. Net
income from these companies' operations is, however, transferred directly to
COB's budget. Petrobangla's own administrative budget is met largely through
service charges from the operating companies, including the Bangladesh Gas
Field Company Limited (BGFCL) and the Bangladesh Gas Systems Company Limited
(BGSL). Petrobangla's exploration expenses are financed through budgetary
allocations under GOB's Annual Development Plan (ADP). Petrobangla is
answerable to the Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources and is managed by
a Government-nominated Board of Directors consisting of four members, includ-
ing the Chairman.
36.     Petrobangla's expertise is deficient in several areas, particularly
with regard to its technical staff, who lack experience and training in
exploration. Poor qua'lity acquisition, processing and interpretation of
seismic data, and insufficient professional analysis of geological and
geophysical data could jeopardize GOB's efforts to revive exploration
interest in the oil industry. However, any proposed efforts to assist COB in



-13-
its short-term promotion objectives should also seek to address the country's
need for overall improvement in its long-term exploration capability.
37.     During the preparation of its Second Five-Year Plan (SFYP) in FY81,
GOB realized the need for integrating its energy planning and policy-making
processes. Accordingly, GOB has since taken positive steps towards central
energy planning by establishing an Energy Study and Planning Cell (ESPC)
within the Planning Commission, under a UNDP/ADB financed project which aims
at formulating a long-term energy plan covering the next 10-20 years; this
plan is expected to provide the framework within which future five-year
energy plans would be formulated.
IDA's Role in the Energy Sector
38.     IDA has to date assisted GOB in the financing of four projects in the
energy sector. Credit 934-BD, in an amount of US$28.0 million equivalent,
was approved in June 1979 to assist in financing an expansion of the power
distribution network in the Greater Khulna area. After initial delays in tne
recruitment of consultants and award of contracts, project implementation is
now proceeding reasor;ably satisfactorily. A second project, Credit 1091-BD
(Bakhrabad Gas Development Project), in an amount of US$85.0 million equiv-
alent, to assist in the development of the Bakhrabad gas field and construc-
tion of a 110-mile, 24-inch pipeline to transmit gas from Bakhrabad to
Chittagong, was approved in December 1980. The project is expected to be
completed by the end of 1983. The well drilling program has been success-
fully completed with all five wells tested as excellent producers. Work is
also proceeding satisfactorily on the construction of the pipeline and the
distribution ring. No cost overruns are expected. In addition, the Associa-
tion made two subsequent Credits in FY82, amounting to US$132.0 million, to
assist in financing the Ashuganj Tnermal Power Project (Credit 1254-BD) and
the Rural Electrification ProJect (Credit 1262-BD). A Credit to support an
Energy Efficiency and Refinery Rehabilitation Project was also approved in
May, 1983. Experience in the implementation of the above projects has shown
that because of the weak institutional capacity of the existing agencies in
the sector, a substantial effort in monitoring and supervision on the part of
IDA staff is often required.
39.     The main objectives of IDA's assistance in the sector are to support:
(i) expanded production, distribution and use of natural gas, particularly
for power generation and in industry, to meet growing energy demand and as a
substitute for more costly imported fuels; (ii) more efficient use of energy
through improved energy conservation measures, including major modification
to the oil refinery and appropriate increases in energy prices, particularly
for electricity, petroleum fuels and gas, and a reduction and better control
of power system losses; (iii) studies to develop gas-based export industries;
and (iv) promotion of further oil/gas exploration through additioi-al seismic
work. IDA's role in the energy sector is being closely coordinated with



-14-
those of other donors that are active in the sector. As a follow-up to an
energy assessment study carried out in collaboration with the UNDP/ADB in
1981, IDA has been assisting GOB in recent months, in the formulation of a
priority energy investment program for FY83-85. This will complement the
longer term energy plan being prepared with technical assistarce from the
Asian Development Bank.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
40.     The proposed project was identified by an IDA mission that visited
Bangladesh in October 1982. It was prepared by the Ministry of Energy and
Mineral Resources, assisted by IDA, and appraised in January 1983. Nego-
tiations were held in Washington in April 1983. The GOB delegation was led
by Mr. Nazem Choudhury, Minister (Economic) of the Bangladesh Embassy in
Washington. Since the proposed project is essentially for the provision of
technical assistance, a separate Staff Appraisal Report has not been
prepared. A Supplementary Project Data sheet is attached as Annex III.
Petroleum Geology
41.     A large part of Bangladesh, including much of its offshore area is
underlain by very thick sediments deposited by the Jamuna-Ganges river
system. Since Oligocene tives (20 million years ago) these rivers have
deposited vast amounts of erosional products from the Himalayas into a basin
which developed between the Indian shield in the west and the Yoma-Arakan
mountain system in the east. Deposition of deltaic sediments commenced in
the Surma Basin (the northeastern part of Bangladesh) where the deepest
sediments were deposited and continued towards the south/southwest, reaching
the present coastline in Pliocene or Pleistocene times; the main center of
deposition of the river discharge is now in the deep offshore. This deltaic
outbuilding was periodically interrupted by marine incursions during iwhich
predomiaantly clayey sediments were deposited. It is this alteration of
sands and shales, observed in all delta areas, which makes the Jamuna/Ganges
area in Bangladesh attractive for hydrocarbon exploration. Within this area,
there are a number of sub-areas that can be distinguished in terms of
hydrocarbon potential as elaborated in Annex IV.
Exploration History
42.     The search for oil in Bangladesh started at the turn of the century
and has continued intermittently.  Ini-_al efforts were concentrated in the
Surma Basin and Chittagong Hill Tracts where rock formations could be studied
at the surface. Burmah Oil Company drilled the first exploratory well in
1914. However, early exploration efforts were largely unsuccessful and no
further activity was undertaken for some time. In 1960, Pakistan Shell Oil



-15-
Company (PSOC) and Standard Vacuum Oil Company (SVOC) launched major explora-
tion campaigns; SVOC in what is now called the Hinge Zone and PSOC in the
Surma Basin, where the latter was successful in discovering several major gas
fields (Titas, Habiganu, Bakhrabad, Kailashtila and Rashidpur). Following
the independence of Bangladesh in 1971, the Bangladesh Oil and Gas Corpora-
tion (Petrobangla) commenced operations, largely with foreign assistance.
Its operations were at first sporadic and countrywide but have since been
concentrated in the Surma Basin, as In the case of the German-financed Multi-
well Drilling Program. In 1976, the Government entered into production
sharing contracts with four foreign oil companies (Arco, Union, Japex and
Ina-Naftaplin) for offshore exploration. These efforts were largely unsuc-
cessful and each company has since relinquished its concession and no off-
shore exploration is currently being undertaken. Bangladesh Shell Oil Com-
pany is the only foreign company currently active in the country, exploring a
10,000 km2 contract area in the Chittagong Hill Tracts. Petrobangla has four
seismic crews, though for lack of funds only one seismic crew ic currently
active. Petrobangla also has ambitious drilling plans embodied in a multi-
well drilling project for which it has selected three sites (in the eastern
part of the country) for exploration drilling over the next 2-3 years.
Hydrocarbon Prospects
43.     Bangladesh's existing gas discoveries (paragraph 27) confirm the
country's hydrocarbon potential. However, enough data have yet to be
gathered to support any firm estimates of the country's overall oil and gas
potential. By analogy with the nearby Indian states of Assam and Tripura,
the Chi.tagong Hill Tracts (where Shell is currently exploring) and the
eastern part of the Surma Basin are known to hold oil potential. The pos-
sibility to study rock formations at the surface has encouraged exploration
activities, although in both areas heavy faulting and folding make explora-
tion particularly difficult. There are also good prospects for additional
gas finds in the western part of the Surma Basin where seismic surveys have
identified numerous untested structures.
44.     There is a need to direct future promotional efforts to other areas
where substantial hydrocarbon potential may exist, but which have hitherto
been largely bypassed under previous exploration attempts. In the central
and lower delta area, for instance, where past exploration has been limited,
thick sedimentary sequences are known to exist though the presence of oil or
gas in this area would depend on the availability of mature source rocks and
geological trapping conditions. However, available data on the area are poor
and inadequate and the shooting of a number of regional seismic lines would
be required to provide the necessary basic information to further assess its
potential. In the offshore, structures at shallow levels (less than 12,000
feet) are very gentle and often difficult to map. Accordingly, it may be
beneficial to focus future efforts on deeper layers where some potential
remains and to reprocess the large quantity of seismic data on this area



-16-
which is already available. The Hinge Zone area has recently received par-
ticular attention, primarily because of the fact that potentially highly
attractive trapping conditioais and, by analogy with nearby India, oil source
rocks are expected to be present. Although possible oil finds are not
expected to be large (probably less than 50 million barrel fields), further
intensive exploration would appear to be justified. However, this would
require dense seismic coverage of the area in order to identify structures
with sufficient precision. A more detailed discussion of hydrocarbon expec-
tations is contained in Annex V.
45.     Realizing that the magnitude of costs involved and the country's
limited exploration capability made a purely national effort impracticable,
the Government is seeking to revive the interest and participation of inter-
national oil companies to complement the exploration efforts of the national
oil company, Petrobangla.  However, to attra.' foreign oil companies, a
convincing "oil case" or a case for l-irgez '-;2s accumulations needs to be
made. At present, existing geophysical and geochemical data are extremely
sketchy; only tentative stratigraphical correlations are available and many
wells have not been properly analyzed. There is, thus, a clear need to
collate, reinterpret and integrate all available geological, geochemical and
seismic data in order to develop a comprehensive evaluation of Bangladesh's
geological base and hydrocarbon potential. The Government is also planning
future gas development work for which it needs to acquire high resolution
seismic coverage of its larger fields.
Project Objectives and Description
46.     The proposed project would assist GOB in its efforts to:  (a)  revive
the interest and engender the participation of foreign investors in petroleum
exploration in Bangladesh, as a means of complementing GOB's own national
exploratiou efforts; (b) ascertain the reservoir configuration and establish
firmer reserve estimates of its existing gas fields as a basis for planning
future development investments; and (c) strengthen the capabilities of its
national oil and gas corporation, Petrobangla. The proposed project would be
implemented over a three-year peried FYS4-FY86 and would include:
(a) Seismic Survey Component
The proposed program would include a total of about 2,400 line km of
seismic surveys falling under two separate categories (see attached
map): (i) a reconnaissance survey of about 1,500 line km (18
crew-months) in the Southwest Delta area, part of which would require
special equipment designed to operate in flooded (tideland) areas;
and (ii) detailed production seismic surveys of about 900 line km (12
crew-months) over seven producing gas fields (Beani Bazar, Kailash-
tila, Titas, Habiganj, Rashidpur, Bakhrabad and Feni), including
potentially important structures on trend with the Bakhrabad field.



-17-
(b) Data Processing
The gathered seismic data would be processed by a small processing
center to be imported by the contractor for the project. The
processing center contract would provide Petrobangla with the option
to buy the equipment and attendant software upon completion of the
project.
(c) Hydrocarbon Habitat Study and Promotional Package
The study would consist of three major elements: first, an examina-
tion of stratigraphical data in order to better understand the
geological development of each area; second, a geochemical investiga-
tion to obtain more comprehensive information on the source rock
potential and thermal hi0cory of each geological unit; and third,
construction of structural regional cross-sections on the basis of
available geochemical and seismic data to ascertain the presence of
structural traps in areas where good reservoirs and mature source
rocks are known or expected to be present. These analyses would form
the basis of an assessment of the petroleum prospects of Bangladesh
and would be included as part of a promotional package to be made
available to the oil industry upon completion of the study. The
package would also include a set of maps identifying the areas where
the key geological parameters are best developed, accompanied by
sufficient basic background data so that interested parties can carry
out their own qualitative and quantitative assessment.
(d) Technizal Assistance
This component would address Petrobangla's need for support in the
technical, accounting and legal fields:
i) Technical Training and Equipment.  Besides on-the-job training
of Petrobangla staff to be provided by the contractor and con-
sultants in seismic data acquisition, processing and interpreta-
tion, short intensive overseas courses would be provided in
petroleum exploration disciplines such as oil geological evalua-
tion, and geophysical acquisition and processing. Funding would
also be provided to finance the purchase of miscellaneous
laboratory equipment.
(ii) Accounting Assistance (18 man-months). Consultants would be
appointed to assist Petrobangla to upgrade its financial systems,
particularly its inventory and fixed asset control procedures.



-18-
(iii) Legal and Contractual Assistance (6 man-months). Consultants
would be appointed as required to: (a) review the terms of GOB's
existing legal and contractual framework for oil exploration and
make recommendations to Petrobangla on possible improvements; and
(b) recommend ways to strengthen Petrobangla's ability to nego-
tiate the economic and legal aspects of production sharing con-
tracts with foreign oil companies.
Implementation
47.     Petrobangla would be vested with overall responsibility for
implementing the proposed project. Although Petrobangla's existing staff
consists of a body of technically qualified personnel they are not well
organized and lack both experience and training. Accordingly, efforts would
be made to maximize the use of Petrobangla's equipment and have its staff
closely involved in project implementation so as to improve Petrobangla's
overall capability to enable it to carry out similar tasks in the future.
The seismic surveys would be carried out during the first 18 months of
project implementation, preferably commencing in the 1983/84 dry season,
since seismic work could only be undertaken during that period, other than in
the more heavily flooded areas where specialized equipment would be required.
Petrobangla would implement the proposed project on the basis of a detailed
work program, satisfactory to the Association (Section 2.01(a) and (b) and
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement). A Project Implementation and Monitor-
ing Committee consisting of the chief managers of Petrobangla's geological,
geophysical and laboratory divisions and the manager of the hydrocarbon
habitat study would be established to monitor the progress of work of each
seismic party (Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement). The Committee would
meet, at least biweekly, under the chairmanship of Petrobangla's Chairman or
his designated representative. Petrobangla would seek the Association's
concurrence before making any significant changes in the agreed work program
(Section 2.01(b)(i) and (ii) of the Project Agreement).
The Seismic Surveys Component
48.     Petrobangla has one digital seismic station and is in the process
of acquiring two others. All three seismic stations would be used in the
project for the acquisition of seismic data. Two expatriate seismic crews
would be hired to undertake part (about 1000 line km) of the reconnaissance
survey in the Southwest Delta and the high resolution seismic survey of the
existing gas fields (about 900 line km). The remaining portion (about 500
line km) of the seismic survey of the Southwest Delta area would be carried
out by a Petrobangla crew, supported by an expatriate party manager and
acquisition geophysicist. Petrobangla, assisted by its exploration consult-
ants, would supervise the execution of the proposed works and its exploration
consultants would assist in monitoring the quality of data acquisition.
Petrobangla staff also would be attached to the two expatriate parties



-19-
engaged to carry out the reconnaissance survey of the Southwest Delta and the
high resolution seismic survey of the existing gas fields, respectively, to
enable them to receive on-the-job training and to maintain and operate the
equipment at a later stage. Data processing would initially be contracted
out. However, to allow for the necessary build-up of local expertise, the
contractor would be required to process the data in Bangladesh using a small
dedicated processing center for which Petrobangla would have a purchase
option upon completion of the data processing contract. Petrobangla staff
would be attached to the processing team to receive on-the-job training.
49.     A detailed work program for the seismic work to be financed under the
proposed project is contained in Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement. To
ensure appropriate coordination of Petrobangla's exploration activities,
Petrobangla would consult with the Association before authorizing any seismic
activities, other than those under the proposed project, in the areas covered
by the proposed project (Section 2.09(a) of the Project Agreement). In the
event that any exploration or other permits are granted, as and when
requested to do so by private investors, Petrobangla shall upon the granting
of such permit exclude the area concerned from the Project Area (Section 2.09
(a) and (b) of the Project Agreement).
The Hydrocarbon Habitat Study Component
50.     The study would be carried out largely by qualified consultants (225
man-months) who will be responsible for its execution and quality. It is
estimated that some six expatriate geologists and four expatriate
geophysicists would be needed for various periods over the three-year dura-
tion of the study to provide needed expertise in stratigraphy, geochemistry,
structural geology, seismic interpretation and seismic quality control (for
the data acquired under the seismic survey component).  Petrobangla's staff
would participate full-time in the study in close collaboration with the
expatriate consultants. Petrobangla would provide sufficient local resources
to support the work of the study team (Section 3.01(b) of the Project Agree-
ment). The appointment of consultants on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association would be a condition of credit effectiveness (Section
5.01(b) of the DCA).
51.     It is the intention of GOB to use the seismic and other data gathered
under the proposed project to promote part of the project area for explora-
tion by foreign investors. Accordingly, Petrobangla would develop, no later
than June 30, 1986, following completion of the hydrocarbon habitat study,
and thereafter implement with the assistance of its exploration consultants,
a detailed plan and schedule for a promotion campaign designed to attract
foreign investment in exploration (Section 2.08 of the Project Agreement).
The terms of reference for the exploration consultants would include a provi-
sion requiring them to assist Petrobangla in assembling a promotional package
for such purpose and for promoting such package within the oil industry.



-20-
Consideration also would be given to the possibility of preparing an interim
promotion package toward the end of the first year of the project, if jus-
tified by seismic data already gathered.
Project Costs and Financing
52.     Total project costs, including physical and price contingencies, are
estimated at US$25.5 million equivalent, including taxes and luties of US$0.3
million, of which US$21.2 million is in foreign exchange. The cost of con-
sulting services has been estimated at US$18,500 per man-month, including
travel, subsistence and overheads. The cost of seismic work has been
estimated on the basis of actual costs of surveys (end-1982 prices) in com-
parable countries. Physical contingencies of 15X on the seismic surveys and
10% on seismic data processing and the hydrocarbon habitat study have been
assumed. Price contingencies are based on assumed annual inflation rates of
10% for local costs; and 8% in FY83, 7.5% in FY84, 7% in FY85 and 6.0% in
FY86 for foreign exchange costs. Total contingencies amount to US$5.3 mil-
lion, or about 26Z of the baseline cost estimate.
53.    The proposed IDA credit of SDR 21.4 million (US$23 million equivalent)
would finance 90X of total project costs, including all the foreign exchange
costs and the local expenses of consultants and contractors. GOB would
finance the remaining local costs of around US$2.5 million equivalent. To
ensure prompt provision of budgetary funds and the hiring of staff, approval
of the Project Proforma 1/ by the Borrower would be a condition of credit
effectiveness (Section 5.01(a) of the DCA).
Onlending Terms
54.     Petroban6la would keep a separate account of expenses incurred for
the seismic survey of the gas fields, including data processing and consult-
ant time spent on interpretation. The share of expenses (US$4.0 million
equivalent) corresponding to work done on producing gas fields (i.e., Titas,
Habiganj and Bakhrabad) would be passed on to the respective Gas Producing
Companies, as a loan; the onlending terms would be for a period of 15 years,
including 5 years of grace, at an interest rate of 14% per annum. The Gas
Producing Companies would bear the foreign exchange risk on their respective
portions of the Credit. The remaining portion of the Credit (US$19.0 million
equivalent) for exploration expenses and geophysical work on fields not yet
put into production would be made available to Petrobangla as equity. An
appropriate increase in Petrobangla's authorized capital to accommodate the
transfer of funds (Taka 200,000,000) needed during the first year of project
1/ An internal docunient, the approval of which is a prerequisite for the
release of funds and the hiring of staff.



-21-
implementation, as equity, would be a condition of Credit effectiveness
(Section 5.01(c) of the DCA).
Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
55.     Petrobangla-s financial accounts are less than satisfactory, par-
ticularly those relating to its Exploration Division which have yet to be
consolidated with its main accounts. These deficiencies would be addressed
under the proposed project through the provision of technical assistance.
Petrobangla would be required to maintain separate accounts for the proposed
project in a manner satisfactory to the Association.
56,    Petrobangla-s main accounts have not been audited by independent
auditors since FY80 and those of of its Exploration Division since FY76. The
auditing of Petrobangla-s accounts by its auditors is currer.tly underway.
Petrobangla-s would submit for the Association-s review, its audited finan-
cial statement for: FY76, FY77, FY78 and FY79, no later than July 31, 1983;
FY80, no later than September 30, 1983. Thereafter, Petrobangla would submit
for the Association-s review and comments its annual audited reports, no
later than six months after the end of each fiscal year (Section 4.02(b) of
the Project Agreement). Petrobangla also would submit progress reports on
the implementation of the proposed project on the basis of a format, satis-
factory to the Association (Section 2.06(b) of the Project Agreement). In
addition, Petrobangla would submit a report on the execution of the proposed
project, no later than six months after the completion of the proposed
project (Section 2.06 (d) of the Project Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
57.     The contract for geophysical work would be avarded following interna-
tional competitive bidding in accordance vith the Associationes procurement
guidelines. It will provide Petrobangla vith the option to purchase the
processing equipment upon completion of the project on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association. Laboratory equipment, estimated to cost
less than US$500,000 in total, would be procured following local bidding
procedures, which are satisfactory to the Association. The selection of
consultants would be in accordance with the Associationus guidelines for the
use of consultants. Disbursements would be mwde against 10OZ of the cost
of consultants and contractors (including subsistence expenses) and 100% of
other foreign expenditures. The Credit is expected to be fully disbursed by
June 30, 1987.



-22-
Environmental Impact and Safety
58.    Very little, and no irreparable, damage to the environment are
expected. Although the land seismic operations use dynamite for an energy
source, the charges used are small and safety rules would be strictly
enforced.
Project Benefits
59.    The proposed project is critical to the exploration efforts of
Bangladesh. Recent efforts by GOB to attract international oil companies to
explore in Bangladesh have been l' -gely unsuccessful because, based on avail-
able geological evidenice, the oil industry perceives Bangladesh to be
generally gas-prone, with poor prospects for oil. However, on the basis of
comparison with similar delta areas elsewhere, Bangladesh can be expected to
hold substantially larger quantities of hydrocarbons than hitherto iden-
tified. While the volume of additional reserves can only be conjectured at
this stage, a figure of 250-500 million toe does not seem unreasonable. Past
exploration results would suggest that most of these reserves would be in
the form of gas. Because of the lack of information on the thermal history
of the sediments, it is prudent to be cautious in assessing the proportion of
these reserves that could be in liquid form. However, bearing 'n mind that
none of the delta areas in the world where hydrocarbons have been found hold
only gas, it is likely that as much as 20Z or more of additional reserves
(50-100 million toe) could be in the form _f liquid hydrocarbon. The
proposed project would aim at providing further evidence to substantiate
these expectations through the provision of relevant geological, geochemical
and geophysical analyses, focussing on areas that have hitherto received
little attention. This effort is expected to receive positive response from
the oil industry and to lead to a revival of interest in oil and gas explora-
tion in Bangladesh. The proposed evaluation will enable the oil companies to
focus on well defined areas with clear prospectiveness, with the chances that
exploration interest could be renewed by 1986, and the opportunity for addi-
tional gas or oil discoveries increased. In addition, a gas discovery in the
western zone could bring substantial additional benefits by redressing the
existing imbalance between gas supply in the eastern and western areas of the
country.
Risks
60.     There are two risks which may adversely affect promotion efforts.
The first would be the finding that no case can be made for further explora-
tion in Bangladesh. Given the many positive elements identified so far, this
risk is considered negligible in the case of gas. (Risk analysis is con-
tained in Annex V.) A risk remains though that oil prospects may be too
small (i.e., fields of less than 30 million barrels) to be of interest to oil
companies. In this case, it may be profitable for Petrobangla to explore



-23-
such fields on its own, given the immense importance that even a small oil
find would mean for Bangladesh. Project implementation would be closely
monitored to ensure that it is executed competently and that both the data to
be acquired under the project and the interpretation thereof are of suffi-
ciently high quality as to be acceptable to the oil industry.
61.    There is no risk associated with the seismic surveys of existing gas
fields, the benefits of which will be imminent and far reaching: the proposed
seismic surveys will result in an up-to-date subsurface interpretation of the
gas fields and, in turn, will allow for firmer reservoir estimates and
optimum location of development wells, thus reducing or eliminating the risk
of dry holes.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic
of Bangladesh and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the
Association and Petrobangla and the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section lCd) of the Articles of Agreement are being dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors separately.
63.     Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III. Additional conditions of effectiveness of the proposed credit include:
the approval of the Project Proforma by the borrower (Section 5.01(a) of the
DCA); the appointment of consultants with qualifications, terms and condi-
tions satisfactory to the Association, by Petrobangla for the hydrocarbon
habitat studv (Section 5.01(b) of the DCA); and an increase in the authorized
capital of Petrobangla to accommodate the transfer of funds (Taka
200,000,000) needed during the first year of project implementation, as
equity, in respect of expenditures incurred in areas not yet put into produc-
tion (Section 5.01(c) of the DCA).
64.     I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
65.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
June 15, 1983
Washington, D.C.



-24-                                      Annex I
V.a1
TUII  3A
ACVL INDICATORS DATA SUEET
ANGLADE                      WREICE -'UIP  (WEIGHTED  .AV ES
AREOL t  SQ, Km.)                                      ~~~~~~~~~~- mmS RECENTr ESTIMATE2-RAE
TurAL  L"                        MOSL RECEM                                MIDD~ICOME  LE INCOME
ACICULTURAL      97.3             1960 _b    1970 /b ESTIAE lb   ASI & PACIPIC              ASIA & PACIC
CGIP PER CAPITA (USS)               40.0       70.0    130.0              261.4                 890.1
ENERGY COUSUPWTIoN PER CAPITA
(ILoGAs OF COAL EQUIVAE)            ..       24.9     39.7              448.7                 701.7
POPULArN  AN VITAL STATISTICS
POPUmATaN,  Dn-TEAR (THOUsANDS) 53491.O    69117.0  88513.0
ZEUS POPULATON (PCU   OF TONAL) 5.1           7.6     11.0               17.3                  32.4
POPULATIWN PROJECrIONS
POPUATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                   141.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                    321.3
WA  STATIONARY POPULATION IS REAFnE                2125
POPULATION CNSmITT
PE  sq. Km.                    371.5      473.0    600.7              158.1                  255.9
PER sq. n. AGRICULTURAL LAND   561.9      703.0    689.0              355.9                 1746.0
POPULATION AGe S7RUCTURE (PERCE1T)
0-14 RS.                        44.3       46.3      42.8              36.8                   39.9
15-64 IRS.                       52.5       51.0     54.6               59.7                  56.8
65 uS. AND AOR                    3.2        2.7      2.6                3.5                   3.3
POPULATION GOT  RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                            1.9        2.4       2.6               2.0                    2.3
URBAN                            3.6        6.3       6.5               3.3                    3.9
CRUDE BDIRT RAZE (PER 7NCUSAID)    53.5      49.2     45.3               29.3                  31.8
MCUl DEATH RATE (PEIa THOUSAND)    26.1      22.7      18.2              1 .0                   9.8
ROSS REPROUUCTION RATE            3.6         3.4      2.9               2.0                    2_0
FAMLY PLANNI
ACCeTRS. AIUAL (TESAND)                   373.0   1607.0 o
USERS oPERCENtr OF ARRIED WOM)   ..                   89/c             19.3                   36.3
FOOD ASD NUTRITO
INtE OF FOOD PROCUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-n-100)        106.0      101.0      97.0             108.1                  115.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIS (PERCT OF
REQUIRENENTS)                 87.3       64.7        .               97.3                  106.4
PROTEINS (CRAMS PERt IY)        43.9       42.7        .               56.9                   54.4
OW WHICH ANDIAL AND PULSE      9.1        8.7                        200                    13.9
CB=  (AGES 1-4) IRTAMIT RATE    24.a         23.0     20.0               10.9                   6.7
EALTH
LIFE EZPECmANCI AT DIRTS (YEARS)   37.3      41.6     46.3               57.8                  59.8
INFANT IWTALrTY KAE (PER
ThDUSAND)                        159.0      150.3    136.1               39.1                  63.7
ACCESS TO SAE WATER (PRCENT OF
POPUJLTION)
TOrAL                              .       45.0      53.0/d            32.9                   32.0
URBAN    13.0     15.0/1            70.7                   51.9
RURAL                             .        47.o      55./o             22.2                   20.5
ACCESS TO EXCRErA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPUIATION)
TOTAL                             ..        6.0       5.0;.            18.1                   37.7
URBAN                             ..         ..      40.0/1            72.7                   65.7
RURAL                             ..         ..        ..               4.7                   24.0
POPUIATION PER PHYSICI             ..       427.2/f 12691.9/c          3297.8                8540.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERS         ..    76808.3  40489.7frc          4929.3                4829.4
DPOPLATION PER HOSPITAL RED
TonI.                             ,,     7021.5/3  *499.3/c          1100.4                 1047.5
URBAN                             _,      D8.57jt  627.4r1            301.3                  651.6
RURAL                             ..         ..  23362.4/r           5U5.7                 2597.6
AUIISSIONS PER HOSPITAL RD          ..         ..        ..                *-                  27.0
NOOSING
AVERACE SIZE OF BOUSEROLD
TOTAL                             ..        5.9/b    5.8
BAN                               ..        6.i7E     6.1
RURAL                             ..         .,iE    5.8s
AVlERAGE SNBER OF PERSONS PER lOM
TOTAL                             ..         ..
URBA                              ..         ..        .                  ..
DRUR                             ..          ...
ACCESS TO ELECmCI   (PERCENT
07 m:ILINcS)
TAL                               ,,         .        3,5
UAN                               ..         ..
RURAL                             ..         ..        ...



-25-
Annex I
TAML -3A
3AUGI~F~S0CLIL   DICAUOR5 mA SERT
IEGLAIS                       REME   CfUS (EGarmD  V         S
-   38? RCENT  ESTIM9 
MST  LWcu     iwum                                IIDX LiOm
190 hb    1970 /b ESTIrATE lb   As*A &PACIFIC              ASIA & PACIIC
EDUCATION
ADWNSED ENROLLIET RATIOS
PRmARY:    TOTA                  47.0        52.0      65.0              97.6                    96.2
MALE                66.0        68.0      79.0              101.0                   99.8
FM=i                26.0        34.0      49.0              87.6                    92.1
SECONDAR:   TOTAL                 8.0        19.0     25.0               53.0                    37.6
HALE                14.0        29.0      38.0              63.6                    41.1
FENALE               1.0         8.0      11.0              41.3                    34.1
VOCLTIONAL EMROL. (2 oF SECOUA)  1.0            0.3      o.7                1.7                    20.8
PUPLL-TEACHE RATIO
PRIMARY                            -         45.1     43.8               37.7                    35.5
SECoNDzAR                                    26.4     24.9               20.2                    25.0
ADUI.  LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)     21.6        23.0/b    26.0/c            52.1                    73.1
CONSUIITI0N
pASSE:M; CARS PEM THOUSAN
POPULATION                         ..         0.4       0.4               1.5                     9.8
RADIO RECEIvERS PER TU105*1W
POPULATION                         ..         6.0      8.z               35.4                   116.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSA1N
POPULAION                          ..          ..      0.5                3.2                    37.6
WSPAPEIL (DAILT CENERAL
INTERESr) CIRCULATION PER
r1o0S5AD PoPATION                    ..          ..      4.7               16.4                    53.7
CIIMU ANsUAL ATTEDANSE PER CAPITA   ,,           ,,       ..                3.6                     2.8
LABOR FO&
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (TOUStANDS)   19251.6    23611.0  31477.4
FEKALE (PERCEPrT)                15.2       lb.6      17.5               29.5                   33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCT)              87.0        86.0      74.0              70.0                    52.2
IiDUStEy (PERCENt)                3.0         3.0     11.0               15.0                    17.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TO-AL                              36.0        34.7      35.6              40.0                    38.5
MALE                               58.7        55.9      56.9              51.8                    50.5
FEMALE                             11.4        11.9     12.9               23.8                    26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO             1.3         1.4       1.3               1.0                     1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF P       XiVAIE ICORE
RECEIVE"D B
HIaGEsT 5 PERCENT or HOUSEHOLDS  18.3/1        *-     14.6/k
HIGHES 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEOLDS  445          44.1i    42.2/E
LOwEsr 20 PERCENr OF HOUSEHOLDS   6.97!       m.1j3    6.97E
LOJESr 40 PERCENT OF NOUSEROLUS   17.97!     19.[    18.27E
POVE    TARGET CROM5
ESTIPAEW ABSOLUTZE EPOVERY NCISOM
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..    139.0/c            133.8                   194.7
RURAL                              ..          ..    l11.0/e            111.1                   155.1
ESIATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOMe
LIVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..       ..                 ..                   178.2
RURAL                              ..          ..       ..                 ..                   166.9
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ARSOULE
POVERTY I:OIE LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                                B660/c              43.8                    24.4
RURAL                                                 B6 0/i/            51.7                    41.1
Not avaijlble
Not applicable-
NTS
/a  The group avragms for .ach Indicator are  opwultiowul8hted aritbastic  _a=n- Coysz   of C0UtltT*
asmon the indicators depends an avallabllty of data and lm not uniform.
/b  Unl es otbsrwie  roted, data for 1960 refer to any yer betw..n 1959 and 1961; for 1970. between 1969
end 1971; and for Most Recent Els te. between 1978 and 1980.
/c  1977; /d 1976; /a 1975; /f Registered. not all precticing in the country; /j 1972; /b 1973; /i 1964;
/ 19677 /k 197C
May 1982



-26-                                                          ~~~~~~~Annex I
Mee.antmtb tt. dec  ge  he-  fcv. o.ut. re-reIly Juodee  the met setherittlv   -d reibe  t S-old  loe be nes  at the  y w te be Intdr-
e.t"aualy tasrabi  bet.....! the lar  .i ot..tstdlast duftlathe m. -t  Octp.Aue  by dlifar   rec.   . callerlag the ldot. Uhe St."se
rSal-. useful Uc d..--e  tttse  nete.&. tedt.t  re. out tharatrtmu t-t.l   -Ji.. tiffs.. bet..csot.t"s.
Mhe veotn.sc . ev  W1  the   5  cestey  ower of the stied  cs-ry -A  (Z) I caIItty stee  Itie  --ets  blat... asre   lasSo  the catty   eadp
.1 the flint  dtooer  (--cM  ist   -igh Zeta   OLi 1up.ft.e  m.er tot. -Nltf. lets- North Altars at tidal, 9da" Is the     bees  ci  Rme
eeci-teLte.e  atliis . I the ve etetoe  data the e-.ega  at  papsL.lets  -eSljtd ariti-tic usse  fat each bAi-ets  out Ad- rely ehe
ajrl   itettl.- L. .  -d hes date let thet let-Lcaa.  Sin. the ceaIa  ef tseirls1s cm  the I-letcccr  dep-se - the erflblllty .1 date
a  icttece.at .    iese.  -th  tatct  at Se 1rene  -en.W.r-II-d   .me- T.                                                  "IL                b    ,
sARM hees .q.he-)                                                                            purlatleP   Ieepital led - test. orb-. ad reve  - Fepoaml-ts  Itecel
Ic-I - tea-     rfc   aetu sm    l-as  are  set teLsut tee; 1979 tact                       eae  adto ) diided by ~tb -krvepett-L-s             b  et hepicLd  bd.
asielot    malusts S   rclt           .lersue  tePetelI. r    potastly                       -nILblr he pblic at prlesCrss - at spetle1llad  eepitel at  s.
itt cepe.  .etort. uth  at bItete  0ards.-   cC li  feLs..; 1979 dtact               hbItIctils-Cse.  talb tels  -t  settscc   pt                  tly statistd
by t  Iana  9akis.    etsltteet  pt-ldi.g preaipfly7 tests
w  PS    ain   15  - cFr Pat ..Plt. .Ce-teet    atet          n.i  .c pIdc. tsl-              die!tar  seotL-lude.  11-l heptes.huse. Inlet  health
-elat" by  a  tesute  usthed . W-Ird tat Atlas (1970-50 hbele); 1950.                       Wadalasi rect  uset p -e.tly etstte  by s phci   be by a
1920.  W t1960 d-t.                                                                         aditl altaLct. ear., .ldsLfe. etc.) flt  siZe  ta-ptmost steLf-
dtalee at p-ctS. sileltd raga  Cf atlta  fetltlcs.  ft,b.stti-
mmT  CzwriS PS CaIPI   - hel taesnttie  ef co-rtl. eusts (tea                                 tics!  -porpe bs o b.. heeLcele     1 ieclde  prlapallr-s.el hPIt.U.
a.d -UIort. patrels. estrs  Jb. -d b7tr-. tocse  ad eercees clot-                            -d tota  hs-rltsl. lets! a. teta  hesitlsl -d  -&-tL at esttfty
-ntIty) he klleer   fi -eL sqellet p.r caplcs  1990. 19)0. ad 1979                          ce-eter.  ipecls1 Ice  hepltale ar  facIotd ely soda  cmte.
dat.                                                                                      Atshe-lCe  R-v NweILI Vod - Total-b este   eftadetia  tM C- diachetee
tee h-OLt.ls dl1ite  by the 'ear  C bta..
~tota  Pettou.Ol-Tea. Iteossed) - A. of July i; 19G0. 1970. ad  IWO0                    HOMING
data.                                                                                   I-`ez   Va   tIeced(sCu   C   oeect     oa,st.   dtt!
Ueb-C  eolte  (cwact cf .tdtl) - amatci.  to..t  t l pepuisttc;                              hesead  ste  Cf  M -ro,tmeliol  aaeItagq ir
dii ece  delslion.t ef- tre  sy  tiect rcepsvsllty   4.1 desd then                                   -I sa..  A herder orlts. y -r -y  c be Llandd he
L-Mtutlc;19. 1920. at" 1190 tsc.                                                 t.he babeLd for ets-ltlts  retrsa.
bur-ttl-tc  he -ea  200  - Correc  pepoiatle Prejotle or  base  -  1190                   bek Cf   arspat ten heal ob., a    elerua   atte
Ctota  paPeLIlatc  by aje ad a  ad their  -triety set fictiiy ra0 fl.se  tsstlsy.Ueilg   -aIede es-eueatettoaa
ft-Jt'," porect-  fr    ta.tty teo  reoptia  Ci thre  lel   ss-oerold  as
let, llfc esptla  at bl.tt lac-aat eltb toety   P- capIt  lae.                        Act-t tc tnecrtty (re-cec ci detlliut) - tols. st    adree  -
lee. -d tousl  Ilt. cepateysablte  e7 7.) yer.  lb. Va-                              C-stetIo1 4dorllle    tlch elactrLItt  he111.   I              dee   env   P- ----eta
.stat. tot iterllt  tact alee hen the   La.-I. acla tdr1ie  he                          of tets. arbe. at tore  docltihe    -ep-ttiuly.
f=tllty  -tcdtrg Wc taco- I.nl at pac  I usil  paise. pertousce
tuth retty  1. tee alwed en ot thee  el.  taleel                f ci  ulty          CEcTtCI
_t t.nlllty  tr I5 icr p_j_tl_  opes                                                  Adleot4 tetLilnt Sete
ASEI-y pzrIe.taa   - Icc. Itdcioeay prpetls  Lee  ther   -a usent  ela-                   Fitt  nb-el - tcl cra   talc  - Ceet total. nle at rel.
tMe bntb vet is       l Lc the detb vats  at ales the eg  s-trut    t-                    eaeleoro  all ems at the prlusy Intl ac pechee   S reet
ee..t  co""st-  thma is a-t-ee  aol, she. hcilk   ret- darlir e-                          p:iusy ethel-see rpuladtie: estaLy letleto   btldttus  agt-Il
tbe teL"Lceoc iel  1 futecrpoutc  rote  tIe  eac  ce ata-                                 past bat edjete  far dL! fait loucthe Cf prlsry edetel-  fey
ct as  repete  it-it  _Ceotl.  The ettsctd           pptl   e ,dec en                      -estva   It b eLcerel ederati  etelle           -y  aId  100 p-dttt
leayart       S   at the-rate bti ache eb   icri-Ldllc    vact  veylers1--                 I-ntc  -b ppI  - t11  etc -t felt -b Co1oclad as- te.  s ett
latud7,  =-cd-cats.  Iepe-Cces-  lentft..av peactef er-teeet pries   tscrociae
Tea- trnr ruttLou le  ashe  - The year &e  Ceselnt  peVeleti-e                               uveide  ~ec.I.  -.-I.te     -v -enhe  trhla   etot                e  p.911.
ee 1-     heL teethed.                                                                      -1eiy  ft 17 -  17 year ot a;: retepsiea   t..oe   ers
puuem O Elt                                                                            IAtlded.
Ke  t   e      ld-yea rew.itta  pry slev  btllet    (I 10  hccre) ci             torS.t ml  -evllse  (recar cieeeto     - ibccielletl             totne
"totlsts  ISiS. 1920 ad 1979 d-ta                                                       Inlet. ctheict1. hetoetl.  or tbe  prose ehichsat    ct t
1st et   e  etetre   a           Caopest os tot  tar ealolaslls                           rety cvsetpetce-t  c  saotryialcectft             c,
tely; 1'O. 1921 at197  da.                                                             bl-trttvts-tlsy    d reetr                   "-lts!.. stent  ensUe   he
Pperlttise tar Siot-r L -     Cse - Ctlidre  (0-14 yet).erla-e.   Ci-'                       W'tety atenetd            s-ic dold   by  .fa.   et cet-ate he the
en   dIdp.e   .-ntrd fey yer ea  tes) as prascge   t eld-7eav Pap-                   c-rt.pcctlag le-I..
laI;1950. 1920. at 1IS0 duct                                                        Sd..l  Ilrc  rt  (p-ces)   L- Ltrt  stoles (bla  cls   ttls
FPople-e1- 0t   a pte                 as  - AesV.l trotb 'tore   f totl eLd          -          aprasstc  teca  adult  oploias1 aced 25 p7sr  ou-at
yea  peoleta  itt 1970-4. Ia-n    t1170-40.
Fe,lcs.   rt  Oar (Fcras) - et  -ael grt  r-c  of tlbse poe-                      MoNrrie
[stie   fr- 1.9500  10-70.  W t1910-40.                                                  seetrCav-fe  thP-        ast  arcltiod     ft.- Fascerrt  cpla. eit-
Cret Uve mae  nthese) - A--aI lie. bltche pat etnece  ef eId-psa                            caeeata         -e  tie cISC. PC--. carlete  sbis . hare  a
Cree Rseteat (I  tbouted) - nAdl,  deabh  pa t cheese          ef alF-ye,mtetreet   rtebarses pat-ist) - All cypee ci teeeet  fa "eI.
peoeb;11. X919. s-  LIM data.'ttdat =                                                         a m.1e pblle  pa.iaaa  ef VPepelue;coesea
Crete    . Lerdci p tae- te-rasit e.ft ottsetro          a     sll buarl it-                 -leoe t-   t t  i  oe t  - Ee at 7l yeav  ohe   vesatrele et e-
rutfty raIse;  -nalr fie--yes  urstue  Idle  Ia 191. L"7. ad LIM.                         -ecncle  tlbedltei.
tel  Pe.e-Are=-         e                        A-l(eesat)     ea       c- trrer       W  setaefrtthtsTVeritl)-Itr.r.e  a  hct-e 
of tltb.ecttl delcseorde  s-I-e of est-1a fatly  ltuleePrat-                      ta-.Ie PehL Pet thoose  Poreltle; o-Ied". -uLI-e-s  TV  -.I-us.
Fe F L-L-o  -      Iltt  fjor-c  at eatris e.e  - Perrecsg  cf  Wrle                     to c_-siv   -ad is yr-v  ee r11LsIvstl- of TV ar. -   - ttn
tes  of bild-teavla  age (1t  years  she -   blet-IoItl   eete to-                      Iseppo  Ciculsc zin  Ftr  chond  s,latln) - St -   the aveag  rt-
a2l curie. S     la         gw e  teen.                                                    eet.of 'dsl1y tcsrl leeee--             erpv  do bed - . patidtloe
roabLUatfe drettd prlusvty t.  eedat tecr1  -se.  it Ls tate4ete
porn        etfleAI                                                                           tc he "tlly" it It appear  -e  sea  fnt tIne . 5
Iota, of rust Freeclcepe Celi                         I.697-10)- .ua  ci pe  oic21ue1iCe  res   t               -  -r CIVIta pe  Tea  - 0.sf-d  the oflo  or
p  U.tino   11tr  iceiiesFFtod.ccia  ca1ee  eeed ad test ad                           lIrlet  unIt term   th  a.  Irelete1s ete-lce .r totLte-ts due
L'n case         - ps besi-  C-ltlaa cen  print  est. tes,-   gste                         a  rbl-e
intse   S eces) etich at edibla  sad Cecis  -ecnt  (..m coffe  ad
tse ae eelota). teagrogote rrtrto             -h or  rotr  F. beus  -e                l.tt Foom
estleI--nte    prod-er -t e . teleSts: 1961-41. 1920. Ott ISM6 tact                     1-ce  ISl  Fore-    htatl- ielol   ti  Par-e.    lda
Pat tipIte utpip et raloti  C rer t ot  sqelvone  - cdm-td ire                              seust  M ee  Id nooptysi b.-catlotie  b-roatee.ttae.ar-
ptt dr,. AteLl.tl  soplstepiec doeocctrl              ttn   Iap-r. free                   ese -o    -bsle- 1990. 1910 ad I9SM tat..
teote dd theert it ec-k.  eat esPilla   -I.ut   leel test, scads.                    Felt lepintre) - Fte1l labor F-et as  fecea                tarl Labor f-tu
qse-ctis seed Ic foot pro-eLe. ad beer  he di-lrbens    eqIe                              ttt-lettty~   Lab-c font le f.are.. toveett. I.teslo   at
noteore.cecttstby tO0 b.-ao  -e ryeeitul IeI for ar-I act-                             lhosa   .cesecf ec-a  Ito. fcrc; 1990. 1920 -el 1960 dat..
ciyI-P     heath ieelrat eovieo.tl cnrte.body -orl...  We                                  oet  (parted   - Labor ter  L. etelut. ttetotfe.ecsoroie
ador tstlhi  of rpsPL.lecs. ad   LI-tio     1 toe-tectr nets at                      setel ccUtit. n-ertset gas se patrarcug  ot cetI labor ter;
boetet  eti  111-i. 107  act 1977 dIts-                                                1910. I9'm ad 1950dt..
Per 'epic  serel  of eretl  deere -a) - frtecte -otec t  pa P.o.pIc.                      Peircttcmc  (rte) - toal. -I.e. ad feel. - P-utti Iact  o
set etpy  ffat           P        - ay    etepIr ci fad ie 4efleod so shore  is-         sttl.tyrceretc                 otta..   -eL.. out feel. labor iorse
f., eacs  to.altecr         bleeslhed by MIl p-oId. tar s.iO                        vtr-ecst  of cora. eale ad  is-     popeltin If all aIno eseportluly;
sIl-arar   rf 60 tre   F1 tota  pr-tl  Pat dsp ad  M0 ste  .f ceel -ad                    l . 1970. ad list tees   Thea  at  head -s Ila. peri.ltip i  rateu
Pale. prIotl. ci  tlth 10  ae tb-old he semi pVe.I..  Th.-a etaet-                        veitigae-o              1ev   efth  poplatle.. ad lou  ti- LrIsd,  A
.rd. e-  len  thee te   of75 et   "f tota  p-oci se  77 gr    t                            e  eutlutt  s F ic   -atsl ecate.
-L-eI P-ee-I. os  s etc  ite the neld. prepon  it yeA1 is the ThIrd                     te-el  Cepoettar Sete - RIcLIt ci poolcIn ru  1  -ad 45 ads-
ifeli nstSevcy;1941-4). 1910 out 1977 data.                                          cc tLe. ccci LAbo  tent
Pettcicatrtol'pnir irE. aeI ad roe -FrLc 1.e,ppf oi fad ds-
rce-dti.tnl  atel               l . etcv pet dy   91*1-4. 1170 ad 1927 dais.           IIcoe DlSTOIsIITlt
aid (m  1-)tec  et               b.s.thed) - AelI tesb- par eheutad I.                   1truaeo-Fleties  (both he cab ad krd) - Roteted by richest
eg 7ve   -I  at. LI rhllts_ Ia thisut stFo.,i no  teerlople  ros                      atet  lhe 0 pr-rar. V_o.ee  _0rrt .ad pe_t   40 pertac
Ltrls  dots teted  treeI Ilit tabl.e; 11960. 1920 ad tISM  dtact                          of hutt
at blt; 190.  120 a   196dtet.                                                    ad -ho-Id he tetarrtde .toih tould-rs2l -us i-
lafet III-clitr tee tet: tho d) - A--eu  deah  c  atce  ur  en past                        stleete  Aborles Feei=     Ity     eol(llMedcet)-  orb. sad totl 
ciun  a  chredlIe.ht ;199.170 sod 1960 dtat,bsls  eri   oe   rs  et-   ae.luibl. cIic1u eelee
Ace  i   eie U.e  (protofpplti)-crL. etbe, ad yard  -   -                              ostlicisely udqusi diet Plea  -eestla  n-to.d LIIreltst  I-et
netsPPly (iatLdea tinted artio    nit          -t ocrete  hot aiotie t               tatlecd eslclt- P-eter lor           -Iael(l  ncpt)-s sa    oa
co  -uh as b-C fre  Prctnca  tevehlse. optito. at.. esLte.y tlle) se                   cosvlai  Pevery lat   lee  he e-ctitd ofIrsepat  *It.
p_ett dpt  .e oftheI  repottir  p"poCeL-ou . ta  sh   urar -I p~ub                        pateca  tar   -C the vestry.  ibac lset  he denle   fret h. revel
tacticW .5 edpeet lerotd eat  -s  tie  200 usev  fre  I b.-en  e.yh                         -laI 5th adjdctec tar bIer teat ci leg is orb-a ayes.
oceateb:e          -Idroal   UIn   tie  tb.he-etau   -  -der. eF the t.usehld             sed rM l -FreofParoaci  (at  sdrve)a   aM ttl
do -   bo.- Ls -     a diolptoerlote-   par ci the day  L. tuthtta, the
inlly,o o.cr e-st.
A-n    tttrc    lsel pr.ts  oe.e.tloi -tota, ob..  -5 rural-I
5e- Cf Vpeal   ctl  tt.a =       !real)=erdb  s-ctdIa  is!g asI
Vatetos  ofthirrepttlt  vwpet lout  Zarat tiepoen  -y &L.ced
thecelaris  aSdpeec. ic  ce ftbIhet treats. ef b            etr-Ce
5    ot-osa  by wearbce  specsI or Lb.   a    PatIl  prllos 55 e.L-
T.D.Uti-     ~     -  .PeruIsle dltlud by  -br ef ptaCtLsIag pbjel-                                                     ges-c  d.   Lahe lees tWIe ain
alaqeeettd  ruea etlALd edeel at eltutety frnl.                                                                  E.caredC . sely.le 55 PvJselustetee
~5ffl,~g~5F-mOO   Pepelecie dleltu  by -.t.  ci mrtleey 1962
MM ta   ta-  edat s-See. delotas  ene.~  precirl ste  ad



-27-                                                     Annex 1
Page 4
ncASR
zC0umulC INDICAT0 S
Populacion:      91.5 million (Jauary 1982)
GNP Per Capita: US51Z0 (FY6t)
Amount            Average Annual Inc"ame  (Z)      Share or CGY at  arkit Frilcee (U)
(million USS          (in conetant ms75 prie.)               (In currant prlcae)
La eurrwut prices)
Indieator                                     l              FTG60-70   1270-75    7  15-8   FY60       mo70     F75       m6
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gro    do osmetic product to                 11.969              4.0      -0.6       6.0        100.0    100.C    100.0    100.0
Agriculture Is                              6.623              3.1      -1.3       4.3         59.9      56.9      62.5    53.6
Induatry /a                                 1.680              7.9      -3.2       6.0          7.7       9.6      11.3    14.0
Serviee 7a                                 3.887              4.9       3.3       8.8         30.1      30.0      26.2    32.6
Consumption                                  11.701              6.4      -0.7       5.7         92.6      92.8      99.1      97.6
Gross domestec iavestmut                      2.064             10.9    -10.9       20.2          6.9      11.3       6.1    17.2
Exports of gods & nfo                           859              0.B    -11.7        5.7         10.0       8.3       3.2       7.2
Imports of goods & nf                         2.635              B.8    -12.0        3.6          9.3      12.5      10.4    Z2.0
CGrown stional savingS                          639             26.5    -17.7       -8.4          0.9       6.1        1.0      5.3
Amun                                               Compoeiton of Murchandise Trads (C)
(umilion USS                                                  (tn current pr'e--)
In current prlics)
FYl                                              FY73    FY75      FM6      FY8
MERCHANDISE T rAD
Nerc:andise export.                             710.8                                           100.0    100.0   100.0   100.0
Privacy lb                                    165.2                                            60.4     29.6    24.3    Z3.2
K.arfac tus                                  545.6                                            59.6     70.4    75.7    76.8
Earch adl.  lomrt                             2.524.0                                           100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Food                                          342.4                                            44.1     41.5    29.1      13.6
Petroleum                                     690.1                                             3.2     11.1     15.7    19.4
Macinry a *quipmenc                           5B0.0                                            13.8      9.6    20.0    23.0
Othrb                                       1,111.5                                            38.9    37.8    35.1    44.0
1174      FY75      FY76      PTY77 "   F78       F79       FY80       18
PRICE AND TERMS OF muDm IJDICES (1972/73-100)
CD  oaflator                                            160.6      240.5    183.1    177.2    Z03.6    216.8    269.2          264.0
Exzcan_   rate (TkRUS3)                                 7.9661     8.8759   14.85Z1   15.4667   15.1215   l5.2228   15.4777   16.3447
Export price Index                                      103.7      123.5     107.1    111.8    127.7       167.5    200.9       178.6
import prlce index                                      152.8      194.8    186.2      183.1    179.4    218.0    250.3    263.9
rre of trade index                                       67.9       63.4      57.5      61.1      71 2      76.8      80.3       62.9
4A I of CUP
at- curret pricE.)
FY73    n27       FY77-   F80      7281
PUBLIC FIRAE
Curret revemuz                                                      5.0      5.4     9.5     10.6    U2.0
Current expenditure                                                 6.5      6.5     7.8      7.8      7.6
Current murpln  (+) or deficit  (-)                                -1.5    +0.9    +1.7    + 2.8    + 4.6
-apital expendiur                                                   8.8      3.1     9.5     13.5    12.1
Foreign financing                                                   7.1      2.4     6.0      8.3      7.7
7260-70    mo70-75    175-80    780-B6
OTtE  fINDICAXOR
GNP groubtF rait  (Z)                                                  4.2       -0.7       5.8        7.9
GCP par caplta growtb rate (Z)                                         1.5       -3.3       3.0        5.2
Ea-rg  conumption growth rate (S)
- not available
- not applicable
/A t _mrket pricte.
79 Raw jute, tea and (In FY81 only) rice.
ASADD
April 15. 1982



- 28 -
Annex I
Pa-.e 5
MUM OF F&UM. tSU, NAL CAPIL OM UVW
(fUL 1Me MS. In currat pric)
BALANCE OF pAMsEU
FY74     nm73     n76       FY77      FY76     FM79     rrfo      ml         ____lm
Net sport. of goods                          -531   -1.050      -665      454      -1659    -946   -1.645   -1.13        -1.760   -1.938
Exrports of goods                           374      352       331      411       490      610       727      711         640      732
twporta of rods                            -925    1.402   -1.266      -665   -1.349   -1.556   -2.372   -2.524        -2.420   -2.670
Net exports of tervice                        -21       12       -24      -29       -32      -27         3       11        -70      -120
Workera' readttaLeen                           19       34        62       81       113      143       210      377        400       450
Curreat sccuant balane                       -553   -1.004      -67      -402      -778     -830   -1,412   -1.423       -1.450   -1.606
Direct private lae_nt                          ..       ..        ..       ..        ..       ..        ..
ML' Loaen (net)                               276      493       498      23e       394      420       581      431        501
Cranta & grsr-Ifke flowa                      174      362       245      2b5       393      553       591      616        650   -1.608
Other capital flow. (not)                      45      25         52      -20       -36      -19       141      304        199
ChaLe In resrves (-  l Incroe)                 58     -UlI        53      -e1        25     -124       119       24         100
Incernatloal resce"   (en of pariod)          115      266       213      294       269      393       274      250        150       15
Raie-ne  as scths of Import of maz year      0.98     2.52      2.95     2.62      2.07     1.99      1.30     1.24       0.67      0.63
m          r75s     rf76        mi77     F7 M79               rib 0        81
GROSS DIs7 UhzuIs
Offil grants                                173.8     382.3      244.7     264.8      392.6     553.2     590.8      616.4
Croa. dlsbhofsamt of ItLT I                 267.4     516.9      563.5     26U.3     435.3      476.8     631.4      531.0
Conceusina                                201.4     45.4-    533.0       24.1      400.8      454.4     601.6      509.6
3tl-tArsL                               150.4      342.8     339.9     144.0      261.9     212.6      272.7     235.2
IDA                                      51.0      112.5     127.8      36.1       U8.2     152.5     152.1      170.9
Othbr mltilateral                         -         3.1       15.3      14.1       50.7      91.3      176.9      83.4
Non-coeceoool                              64.0      60.4       30.4      24.1       34.5      20.4      29.8       21.4
Official export credte                   40.6      45.2       16.5       5.6        1.7       3.3       16.8       2.0
tIRD                                      -         -          -         _         _          _         _          _
Other multilateral                        5.4       0.3        1.1       0.5        0.5       0.1       0.3        0.8
Private       -                          40.0       14.9      12.8      18.0       32.3      17.0       12.7      18.6
EXTERNAL DMIT
DSFW outsil diog and disbhr id (end of -itlod) 492.6   1.352.6   1.795.9   2.051.5   2,569.2   2,949.2   3,215.6   3,584.8
Official                                  363.3   1.232.8   1.689.0   1,939.8   2.435.6   2.808.3   3.068.8   3.462.1
tIRD                                      -        54.9       54.9      54.9       54.9     5.9       54.9       54.9
IDa                                     105.6      255.3     379.6     465.9      554.2     704.7     858.6   1.028.5
Other                                   222.8     922.6   1.254.3   1.419.0   1.826.5   2.046.7   Z.155.1   2.378.7
Private                                   109.5     119.8      106.9     111.6      133.6     140.9     146.8      122.7
Undisbhrsed Debt                            560.8   1.019.4      947.5   1.015.8   1,335.4   1.659.1   L.716.7   2.068.4
DOMT StCn
Total debt service payment                   18.0      31.3      67.4       56.5      69.2       95.1      93.7       92.0
lnaereet                                    7.3      10.1       21.9      28.4      32.1       38.1      43.3       42.0
Paymants - 2 of sport earnig                  4.-8      6.9       22.9      14.2      14.1       15.6      12.9       12.9
Payments an S of CUP                          0.2       0.2       1.2        0.9       0.8        1.0       0.8       0.7
Average Interest rate a- nu loans (1)         3.2       2.0        1.7       1.6       1.5        1.4       1.4        1.6
Official                                    2.9       2.0        1.6       1.5        1.3       1.4       1.2        1.5
Private                                     5.1       2.3        7.8       6.4       6.2        6.1       6.9        7.2
Average _aturity of a  loa  (yearn)          26.1      35.5       41.6      40.1       37.7      35.9      33.6       35.9
Official                                   23.3      35.8       42.2      40.6       38.6      36.3      34.2       36.2
Private                                    13.3      15.3       11.3      11.0       9.5       14.6      19.3       18.5
BANK ROUP 
rIatD DOD/copo4 4.0                                               3.0        2.6       2.1        1.8       1.7        1.5
IUID disburaeuntt/total gros  dburamta    -             -         -          -         -          -         -         -
JIDR  debt service/total debt service         -         -          1.8       5.6       4.8        4.1       3.7        4.0
IDA DOD/totel DOD                            21.4      18.8      21.1       22.7      21.6       24.0      26.7      28.6
IDA disbonmtnrsftotal gros dbsaraea-n   17.7           21.7      22.7       32.1      20.3       32.0      24.0       32.1
IDA dabt *-rvtca/totai debt matie-            1.3       3.1        2.5       5.3       5.4        4.6       6.C-       7.3
JA  , of Dabt Outstanding
at Zed of F6
rNIt STRUCTIUU
Katurity structure of debt Outstanding CZ)
Maturitie. due within 5 ysear                               13.5
Neaurittia due wirthin 10  rs                               36.8
Itaereat structur of debt acoutandug (2)
Interesc due within first year                               1.6
- toc available.
April 15. 1982



-29 -                         ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS - BANGLADESH
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as at March 31, 1983)
Amount
(less cancellations)
Loan or                                                     US$ Million /a
Credit
Number Year  Borrower                 Purpose           Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
One loan and 25 credits fully disbursed                 54.90   831.47       -
341     1972  Bangladesh  Tubewells (replaces Credit
No. 208-PAK of 1970)         -       14.00     0.55
408     1973  Bangladesh  Highways (replaces Credit
No. 53-PAK of 1964)          -       25.00     0.91
487     1974  Bangladesh  Telecommunications II           -       20.00     3.11
527     1975  Bangladesh  Ashuganj Fertilizer             -      62.00      1.85
533     1975  Bangladesh  Population                      -       15.00     2.23
542     1975  Bangladesh  Barisal Irrigation              -       27.00    10.88
605     1976  Bangladesh  Karnafuli Irrigation            -       22.00     6.80
621     1976  Bangladesh  Agricultural & Rural Training  -        12.00     2.76
631     1976  Bangladesh  Rural Development               -       16.00     5.91
632     1976  Bangladesh  Bangladesh Shipla Bank          -       25.00     3.54
724     1977  Bangladesh  Shallow Tubewells               -       16.00     1.92
725     1977  Bangladesh  Muhuri Irrigation               -       21.00    11.43
7Z9     1977  Bangladesh  Extension and Research          -       10.00     1.39
735     1977  Bangladesh  Inland Water Transport II       -        5.00     1.82
765     1978  Bangladesh  Jute                            -       21.00    13.12
787     1978  Bangladesh  Foodgrain Storage II            -       25.00    15.37
825     1978  Bangladesh  Small-Scale Industry II         -        7.00     3.09
828     1978  Bangladesh  Agricultural Research           -        6.00     1.27
864     1978  Bangladesh  Drainage & Flood Control        -       19.00    12.52
872     1978  Bangladesh  Technical Assistance III        -       10.00     2.85
890     1979  Bangladesh  Oxbow Lakes Fisheries           -        6.00     4.54
912     1979  Bangladesh  Vocational Training             -       25.00    19.34
921     1979  Bangladesh  Population & Family Health II  -       32.00    28.63
934     1979  Bangladesh  Greater 1Ohulna Power
Distribution                 -       28.00    27.30
941     1979  Bangladesh  Dacca Water Supply &
Sewerage II                  -       22.00     8.81
955     1979  Bangladesh  Small-Scale Drainage &
Flood Control                 -      25.00    21.30
964     1979  Bangladesh  Highways II                     -       10.00     8.55
990     1980  Bangladesh Low-Lift Pumps                   -       37.00    20.85
/a Prior to exchange rate adjustments.



- 30 -                        ANNEX II
Page 2
A. Bank Loans and IDA Credits to Bangladesh (Cont'd)
Amount
(less cancellations)
Loan or                                                     US$ Million /a
Credit
Number  Year   Borrower               Purpose            Bank    IDA   Undisbursed
1001    1980  Bangladesh  Chittagong Water Supply II      -       20.00    18.70
1023    1980  Bangladesh  Fertilizer Industry
Rehabilitation                -      29.00    26.09
1032    1980  Bangladesh  Jute Industry
Rehabilitation                -      20.00    14.91
1042    1980  Bangladesh  Mangrove Afforestation          -       11.00     7.85
1054    1980  Bangladesh  Education IV (Primary
Education)                    -      40.00    35.06
1065/c  1980  Bangladesh  Small-Scale Industry III        -       35.00    33.26
1091/c  1981  Bangladesh  Bakhrabad Gas Development       -       85.00    38.34
10967W  1981  Bangladesh  Fertilizer Transport Project   -        25.00    18.52
1117/c  1981  Bangladesh  Bangladesh Shilpa Bank II       -       50.00    36.49
1124/c  1981  Bangladesh  Technical Assistance Iv         -       16.00    15.87
11407Wc  1981  Bangladesh  Hand Tubewells                 -       18.00    15.64
1147/c  1981  Bangladesh  Agricultural Credit             -       40.00    39.68
1184/c  1982  Bangladesh  Drainage & Flood Control II    -        27.00    26.00
11947W  1982  Bangladesh  Imports Program X               -      100.00    32.92
12047   1982  Bangladesh  Chittagong Jrea Fertilizer      -       15.00    15.00
1205/c  1982  Bangladesh  Textile Industry
Rehabilitation                -      30.00    30.00
1215/c  1982  Bangladesh  Extension & Research II          -      27.00    27.00
1247/c  1982  Bangladesh  Chittagong Port                 -       60.00    60.00
lb 12547w  1982  Bangladesh  Ashugani Thermal Power           -      92.00    92.00
12627W  1982  Bangladesh  Rural Electrification           -       40.00    40.00
/b 1287/c  1982  Bangladesh  Second Deep Tubevells            -      68.00    68.00
13007c  1983  Bangladesh  Imports Program XI              -      110.00   110.00
1301/c  1983  Bangladesh  First Highway Project
(Supplemental)               -        6.00     6.00
/b 1318/c  1983  Bangladesh  Business Management Education
& Training                   -        7.80     7.80
lb 1321/c  1983  Bangladesh  Telecommunications III           -      35.00    35.00
Total                                               54.90 2,401.27 1,092.77
of which has been repaid                            -        0.40     -
Total now outstanding                               34.90 2,400.87 1,092.77
Amount sold                                0.00
Total now held by Bank and IDA                      54.90 2,400.87
Total undisbursed                                     -   1,092.77 1,092.77
/a  Prior to exchange adjustments.
71  Not yet effective.
/c  IDA 6th Replenishment Credi:s denominated in SDRs. Amounts of principal
shown in USS equivalent at time of negotiation and undisbursed amounts
computed at the March 1983 rate.



- 31-                       ANNEX II
Page 3
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1983)
Fiscal                                                    Amount in USS Million
Year           Obligor              Type of Business     Loan   Equity   Total
1979    Highspeed Shipbuilding a
Heavy Engineering Co. Ltd.    Shipbuilding        1.20    0.36    1.56
1980    Industrial Promotion and       Development
Development Company of        Finance
Bangladesh Ltd.               Company              -      1.05    1.05
Total gross commitments                                    1.20    1.41    2.61
less cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales  -        -        -
m    inm ,_   _
Total now held by IFC                                      1.20    1.41    2.61
Total undisbursed                                          0.65     -      0.65
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION AS OF MARCH 31, 1983 1/
Agricultural Projects
Cr. No. 341     Tubewells Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of November 6, 1972;
Effective Date: January 17, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
The Credit was closed on December 31, 1982 and necessary steps are being
taken to cancel the undisbursed balance of the credit account.
Cr. No. 542     Barisal Irrigation Project; US$27.0 Million Credit of
April 29, 1975; Effective Date: September 30, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Barisal Irrigation Project I (BIP) was completed on June 30, 1981 and
taken over on maintenance. Barisal extension was taken up with the savings of
BIP 1. Farmers response for the dry season (Boro) cultivation has been much
below expectation due to socio-economic and agro-climatic conditions in the area
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in jparticular to report any problems
which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy them.
They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they do
not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in
project execution.



-32 -                       ANNEX II
Page 4
and probably also due to deficiencies in the agricultural support services.
These factors are currently under study. However, there has been some increase
over previous years culLivation. Good progress is maintained or. civil works
construction in che extension area. Procurement preliminaries for the primary
pumps, gates and low lift pumps have been completed and deliveries have started.
Agricultural demonstration farms are in operation in the extension area. Due to
insufficient Annual Development Program (ADP) funding completion of the project
will be delayed until the end of 1984.
Cr. No. 605     Karnafuli Irrigation Project; US$22.0 Million Credit of
January 28, 1976; Effective Date: February 24, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Project implementation which was about 2.5 years behind schedule has
shown good progress in the last two years and except for flood embankments the
project is expected to be completed by the end of 1983. Government of
Bangladesh (GOB) proposes to delete the embankments for technical and social
reasons which IDA is currently examining. The trend on agricultural development
is encouraging and expected benefits would probably be attained.
The fisheries component is completed.
Cr. No. 631     Rural Development Project; US$16.0 Million Credit of June 3,
1976; Effective Date: August 3, 1976; Closing Date: June 30,
1983
Extended credit closing date is June 30, 1982. Project as envisaged
is virtually complete, except for the provision of 250 Deep Tubewells (DTWs).
Due to GOB-s new standardization requirements, the procurement will not be
completed by credit closing, which is likely to result in about US$3 million
of the credit remaining unutilized at that time.
Cr. No. 724     Shallow Tubewells Project; US$16.0 Million Credit of July 1,
1977; Effective Date: December 9, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The Credit was closed on December 31, 1982. Only payment for commit-
ments in the pipeline will continue.
Cr. No. 725     Muhuri Irrigation Project; US$21.0 Million Credit of July 1,
1977; Effective Date: January 6, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
Project implementation has been further delayed because of delays in
finalizing the design and tender documents for the closure dam work. Other
consultants have been recruited to assist Bangladesh Water Development Board
(EWDB) with the design and construction of the dam. Construction of the Feni
Regulator is nearing completion. Agricultural and Integrated Rural Development
Program (IRDP) activities are commencing in 1982/83. Farmer-s response for
adoption of improved agricultural practice and group formation is expected to be
good. A cost overrun is expected due to a likely increase in the cost of the
closure works. A supplementary credit is being considered.



-33 -                       ANNEX II
Page 5
Cr. No. 729     Extension and Research Project; US$10.0 Million Credit of
July 1, 1977; Effective Date:  January 6, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
The credit was closed on June 30, 1982. Necessary steps are being taken
to cancel the undisbursed balance of the credit account.
Cr. No. 765     Jute Project; US$21.0 Million Credit of February 8, 1978;
Effective Date: April 14, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The jute intensification program has suffered as a result of the recent
consolidation of extension services, whereby Jute Extension Officers will be
shifted from one location to another and trained for other crops. Credit sanc-
tioned from Sonali Bank has been only 25% of the requirement and this has
affected crop production. The Government has initiated an evaluation of its
jute intensification program.
Cr. No. 787     Foodgrain Storage II Project; US$25.0 Million Credit of
April 12, 1978; Effective Date: September 29, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984
The project had a slow start due to administrative difficulties,
problems in land acquisition and material shortages. Implementation of the
165,000 MT storage construction program has gained momentum and is now satisfac-
tory. The storage rehabilitation component has heen reduced from 25,000 MT to
10,000 MT as a result of implementation delay. Contracts for rehabilitation
have been awarded for 7,750 MT. Quality control equipment has been procured,
but considerable additional efforts are required in the area of grain quality
control and inspection. The project is now anticipated to be completed by
June 30, 1983. The Government has decided to eliminate the project's paddy
drying component.
Cr. No. 828     Agricultural Research Project; US$6.0 Million Credit of
June 16, 1978; Effective Date: November 15, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Implementation of the project is progressing satisfactorily. Almost
all research station buildings are now complete and only farm development
remains to be finished at the Jessore and Hathazari stations. Research programs
on research stations and those supported by the research grant scheme are being
vigorously pursued. The technical monitoring scheme is now operating well and a
monitoring and evaluation cell, established at Bangladesh Agricultural Research
Council (BARC) headquarters, will now apply techniques pioneered under the
project to all grant-supported research. The major constraint to project
implementation is the lack of operating funds.
Cr. No. 864     Drainage and Flood Control Project; US$19.0 Million Credit of
December 22, 1978; Effective Date: October 19, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984
Of the three subprojects financed under the project construction work
in Chenchuri Beel (CCB) and Kolabashukhali (KBK) will be completed by June 30,
1983. Implementation of Brahmaputra Right Embankment (BRE) is progressing



- 34 -                      ANNEX II
Page 6
satisfactorily and will be completed before thp closing date in June 1984.
Procurement of vehicles and construction of civil works for the agricultural
extension services has been delayed due to procedural problems, however, the
matter has now been resolved and completion is anticipated by June 1983.
Project management during the operation of the completed subprojects requires
now the attention of the Government.
Cr. No. 890     Oxbow Lakes Fishery Project; US$6.0 Million Credit of April 3,
1979; Effective Date:  February 13, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
The basic concept is to intensify carp production in a cluster of six
oxbow lakes, currently underexploited, by the introduction of new composite fish
culture techniques and improved lake management technology. Construction of a
central hatchery started in January 1982, some 12 months behind schedule. The
delay was caused primarily by managerial and administrative weaknesses but also
by shortage of counterpart funds. Work at central hatchery complex is now in
full progress and hatchery is expected to become partly operational in first
part of 1983. Land acquisitIon procedures are proving difficult and are holding
back construction at satellite lakes. Despite delays and problems in project
implementation, the objectives of the project are expected to be fulfilled.
This will, however, require intensive supervision by IDA headquarter's staff.
Cr. No. 955     Small Scale Drainage and Flood Control Project; US$25.0
Million Credit of October 30, 1979; Effective Date: May 21,
1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
At the end of the second year of implementation, out of a total of 40
subprojects under construction, 15 have been completed, 4 substantially com-
pleted and the progress on the remaining 21 has been retarded due to late
comencement, lack of cement and inadequacy of funds in the revolving fund.
Forty-one new subprojects have been approved for 1982/83 for which adequate
provision has been made in the ADP. Fifteen com-,leted subprojects have been
taken over on operation and maintenance.
Cr. No. 990     Lcw Lift Pump Project; US$37.0 Million Credit of April 4,
1980; Effective Date:  September 8, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Three thousand two-cusec LLPs and 1,500 one-cusec LLPs under the Phase I
sales program under public aegis have been pr cured. While all one-cusec units
have been sold, two-cusec pump demand continues slow. Orders have been placed
for the remaining 4,000 Low Lift Pumps (LLPs) to be sold by private dealers,
with investment credit provided to purchasers by the Bangladesh Bank. A
mechanics training program continues well. Compliance with Credit covenants is
satisfactory and Credit disbursements, on schedule.
Cr. No. 1042    Mangrove Afforestation Project; US$11.0 Million Credit of
June 27, 1980; Effective Date: September 26, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
Overall project performance is good. The establishment of plantations
was carried out according to SAR targets. The current progress indicated that



35 -                      ANNEX II
Page 7
the 1982/83 target will also be achieved. The procurement of essential equip-
ment and materials has been completed. Staffing remains behind the SAR target.
The implementation of the Plantation Trial Unit Program has been delayed. No
activity on the Public Relations Component has been started. Disbursement is
behind the SAR targets; however, it will improve when the docuients for launches
and boats imported are received.
Cr. No. 1140    Hand Tubewells Project; US$18.0 Million Credit of July 8,
1981; Effective Date: February 11, 1982; Closing Date:
March 31, 1985
The initial financial and administrative problems regarding procurement
are now over. The project is now building momentum. Raw material for 90 000
Hand Tubevells (HTWs) has beeen procured. Work order for first lot of 31,500
ErWs has been placed with 14 foundries. Incremental staff has been appointed
and HTW selling price tentatively announced to farmers. Major problem is
sbortage of ADP allocation and the Government is looking into the matter.
Cr. No. 1147    Agricultural Credit Project; US$40.0 Million Credit of June 9,
1981; Effective Date: October 6, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
This project is designed to provide long-term credit to farmers for
investments in minor irrigation and other agricultural development, and to
private borrowers for grain storage facilities. Progress in privatization of
shallow tubevells is proceeding satisfactorily. Import licenses had been issued
to authorized private dealers and letters of credit have been opened. Shallow
Tubewell (STW) prices betveen private and public sectors are now ceimparable.
Appointment of consultants to assist Bangladesh Bank, the implemencation agency,
is now In process.
Cr. No. 1184    Second Drainage and Flood Control Project; US$27.0 Million
Credit of January 8, 1982; Effective Date: July 14, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1987
Initial progress on construction work is slower than expected due to
reductions in the 1982/83 ADP budget.
Cr. No. 1215    Second Extension and Researcn Project; US$27.0 Million Credit
of March 16, 1982; Effective Date: October 21, 1982; Closing
Date: June 30, 1988
This credit became effective in October 1982 and progress on projecc
implementation has so far been slow.
Cr. No. 1287    Second Deep Tubevells Project; US$68.0 Million Credit of
August 10, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
This Credit is not yet effective.



-36 -                      ANNEX II
Page 8
Cr. No. 527     AshuganJ Fertilizer Project; US$62.0 Million Credit of
February 11, 1975, as amended by Amending Agreement of
June 18, 1979; Original Credit Effective Date: December 19,
1975; Supplementary Credit Effective Date:  August 1, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project was cofinanced by the Asian Development bank, Federal
Republic of Germany, (KfW), EEC, IFAD, the OPEC Special Fund, and the Govern-
ments of Iran, Switzerland, UK and US, for a total of about US$190 million
equivalent, in addition to the IDA credit. Because of the additional site
works, the delays and currency fluctuations, supplemental financing was neces-
sary and has been obtained. The project has now been mechanically completed.
Even though production of urea was started in December 1981, about six months
later than anticipated at the time of supplementary financing, the project
continues to face operating problems. Further assistance by donors is required
to enable the plant to achieve production stability and also to provide staff
training and expatriate technical assistance to help in operating the plant.
Total foreign exchange cost of the Fertilizer Plant is likely to be about US$15
million higher than that approved at the time of IDA supplementary financing.
Cr. No. 632     Bangladesh Shilpa Bank Project; US$25.0 Million Credit of
May 20, 1976; Effective Date: November 8, 1976; Closing
Da-e: June 30, 1983
Institutional upgrading programs instituted under the credit are still
under implementation, continuing the improvement on BSB-s loan accounting and
staff training. However, because of declining collection BSB-s financial posi-
tion has weakened significantly. This area of operational weakness is receiving
close GOB/IDA attention, and IDA is coordinating closely w4th ADB and KfW to
implement an action program to restore BSB-s financial via.Ality.
Cr. No. 825     Small Scale Industry II Project; US$7.0 Million Credit of
June 16, 1978; Effective Date: September 15, 1978; Closing
Date: March 30, 1984
Project appraisal and processing capabilities of the implementating
banks developed rapidly, with significant improvement in institutional
capabilities of the commercial banks. Staff of the Bangladesh Small and Cottage
Industries Corporation (BSCIC) completed a number of subsector and area studies
for small industry promotion, and some improvement in BSCIC-s promotion and
extension services were achieved.  The project was fully committed by the c-
mercial banks in July 198G; due to some cancellations, the closing date for the
project was extended.
Cr. No. 1023    Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation Project; US$29.0 Million
Credit of June 4, 1980; Effective Date:  September 8, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The reorganization of the project ertities into three separate fer-
tili.zer manufacturing companies have been accomplished, and project financing
agreements have been executed. Consultants for providing engineering services
have been selected and their contracts approved. The project is proceeding
satisfactorily though with some delay.



-37 -                       ANNEX II
Page 9
Cr. No. 1032    Jute Industry Rehabilitation Project; US$20.0 Million Credit
of June 4, 1980; Effective Date: July 22, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Project implementation has been mixed. After some initial delay,
procurement of rehabilitation and preventive maintenance spares is proceeding
well. The establishment of the Jute Strategy Cell and work related to policy
and strategy formulation is delayed. Thirty-three of 66 mills which are
beneficiaries of the project are in the process of denationalization. Arrange-
ments for rechanneling US$3.55 million to these (now private) mills are under-
way. One consultancy assignment (production incentive) is now cudplete, while
the other two (accounting/financial, organization) are being reformulated to
reflect changed circumstances.
Cr. No. 1065    Small Scale Industry III Project; US$35.0 Million Credit of
October 17, 1980; Effective Date: January 15, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984
The US$30 million credit component is moving somewhat behind schedule,
with US$12.5 million committed in 317 subprojects, as of December 31, 1982;
major product groups have been food processing, engineering, textiles, ice
plants for the fishing sector and transport. Project eligibility has been
expanded slightly and promotional services by Bangladesh Small and Cottage
Industries Corporation (BSCIC) and coordination with the banks are being
improved. Technical service components - for handicraft exports, rural
enterprises, and selected organized SSI subsectors were slow in initlation, but
are now proceeding.
Cr. No. 1117    Bangladesh Shilpa Bank II Project; US$50.0 Million Credit of
March 31, 1981; Effective Date: August 12, 1981; Closing
Date: April 30, 1986
As of December 31, 1982, BSB was facing considerable financial difficul-
ties due to the deterioration in its portfolio. This deterioration resulted
from devaluation of the Taka in the late 1970-early 1980,, low collection
levels and the impact of the world recession on Bangladesh industa:y. GOB, with
assistance from ADB and IDA, has initiated a program of financial restructuring
of BSB and arrears recovery. The initial restructuring has been completed and
BSB-s liquidity/financial position has been improved. The final stages of the
arrears recovery program have been implemented and a short list of consultants
has been prepared for a UNDP funded institutional review and portfolio audit,
which is expected to be completed in June 1984. IDA is coordinating closely
with KfW and ADB. The latter is the executing agency for the action program.



- 38 -                    AMEX II
Page 10
Cr. No. 1194    Tenth Imports Program US$100.0 Million Credit of
January 26, 1982; Effective Date: February 22, 1982
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
This Credit became effective on February 22, 1982. As of March 31, 1983
US$67.08 million had been disbursed.
Cr. No. 1204   Chittagong Urea Fertilizer Project; US$15.0 Million Cre:it of
February 10, 1982; Effective Date: January 19, 1983
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
This Credit became effective on January 19, 1983. The bids for the
general contracting services are expected to be received by March 31, 1983.
Cr. No. 1205    Textile Industry Rehabilitation Project; US$30.0 Million
Credit of February 10, 1982; Effective Date: October 27,
1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
After initial delay, the credit became effective on October 27, 1982.
The first set of tender documents related to six mills have been prepared and
approved by IDA. However, nine of the original list of 15 mills are being
denationalized. Balancing, Modernization and Replacenent (BMR) plans for 17
substitute mills are at an advanced state of preparation with IM review planned
for April 1983. The terms of reference for the Industrial Economist have been
prepared and reviewed by IDA. Fielding of consultants is expected by July 1983.
Cr. No. 1300   Eleventh Imports Program; US$110.0 Million Credit of
December 10, 1982; Fffective Date: March 4, 1983;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
This Credit became effective on March 4, 1983.
Education Projects
Cr. No. 621     Agricultural and Rural Training Project; US$12.0 Million
Credit or March 25, 1976; Effective Date: June 30, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
All civil works have virtually been completed except for construction
of two new Thana Training Units (70Z complete) which bas been slow to complete
due to lack of Taka funds. IDA has asked GOB in December 1982 to provide the
needed funds. The latest estimate (December 1982) for completion of all works
is June 1983. Staffing is adequate and all Agriculture Training Institute (ATI)
instructors have received in-service training under the project. The course to
train project managers and those civil servants directly concerned with
implementati-n of IDA financed agricultural projects has been successful and an
extension of the course to June 1983 has been recently approved by IDA. At the
request of GOB, extension of the closing date from June 30, 1982 to June 30,
1983 has been granted by IDA to allow enough time to complete all remaining
civil works and project activities.



-39 -                       ANNE II
Page 11
Cr. No. 912     Vocational Training Project; US$25.0 Millon Credit of May 31,
1979; -Effe~ctive Date: November 2, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
Progress continues to be evident in several areas of project activity.
Contracts have been awarded for the five new TTCs and the National Council for
Skill Development and Training (NCSDT) building. Equipment procured by the
International Labor Organization (ILO) has arrived in Bangladesh and is being
installed in existing workshops. Instructor and in-plant training programs are
operational. Most of the technical assistance team (ILO) with the exception of
the evaluation expert are in post. Trade standards and tests in several areas
have been completed and await formal NCSDT approval. Quarterly Progress Repcrts
are being submitted on time, and the rate of disbursements has improved con-
siderably. The continued failure of GOB to replenish the Revolving Fund has
slowed some project components, however, IDA is now considering advance payments
into the Fund to make it operational. Finally, the second-shift programs have
been sporadic and not well organized. The Government will shortly decide on an
incentive package for instructors which can overcome the major problem with this
program.
Cr. No. 1054    Fourth Education (Primary) Project; US$40.0 Million Credit of
June 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 1, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1986
With the appointment of a new Project Director in June 1983, project
management has shown considerable improvement. The majority of staff for the
PIU and Regional Project Units Regional Project Units (RPUs) have been
appointed. Civil works is also showing improvement. Contracts for the con-
struction of additional classrooms at 178 schools, 594 latrines, 286 tubewells,
hostel extentions to 6 Primary (Teacher) Training Institutes (PTIs) and improve-
ments to 648 schools have been awarded. Learning kits have been distributed to
200 schools. Textbooks already have been distributed to over 443,000 Class I
and Class II students, and requisitions have been finalized for 1983 distribu-
tion to Class I, II, and III. No uniforms were distributed in 1982 in line with
new Government policy, however, two sets will be distributed to all students
(not only girls) in Class II in 1983 and then Class II and Class IV each year
thereafter under the new policy. The Recurrent Teacher Training Program started
in mid-December, slightly behind schedule. The Training of Education
administrators started in June 1982. The Project IMPACT experiment is on
schedule, the opening of a demonstration school and final testing of training
modules. All UNESCO experts are in post, and the four Education Studies under-
taken by British Council consultants have been completed.
Cr. No. 1318    Business Management Education and Training Project; US$7.8
Million Credit of March 28, 1983; Closing Date: June 30, 1988
This Credit is not yet effective.



-40 -                      ANNEX II
Page  12
Population Project
Cr. No. 533     Population Project; US$15.0 Million Credit of March 10, 1975;
Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closiug Date:
September 30, 1982
The credit was closed on September 30, 1982 and payment for commitments
in the pipeline will continue.
Cr. No. 921     Second Population and Family Health Project; US$32.0 Million
Credit of May 31, 1979; Effective Date: April 1, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Project execution, except fo. the first tranche of the Family Welfare
Center's component, effectively commenced only in July 1980, about one year
behind schedule. While the Informatiou, Education and Motivation (IEN) and
Research and Evaluation parts of the project are proceeding satisfactorily, the
civil works- components of the service delivery and training parts of the
project are significantly delayed. Their completion within the original four
year implementation period (July 1979-June 1983) is no longer feasible, owing
not only to the initial implementation but also to weak impplementation capacity
of responsible agencies. The impact of budget cuts and the Government's de
facto devaluation of the Taka since appraisal will result in significant
savings. An extension of the project implementation period is currently being
discussed with the Government.
Transport Projects
Cr. No. 408     Highways Project; US$25.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: August 7, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
The Credit was closed on December 31, 1982. Final disbursement of
US$1.7 million has been made and steps are being taken to cancel the undisbursed
balance remaining under this credit.
Cr. No. 735     Inland Water Transport II Project; US$5.0 Million Credit of
September 30, 1977; Effective Date: March 13, 1978; Closing
Date: August 15, 1983
Spare parts for Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Authority (BIWTA)
vessels, navigation aids, hydrographic and cargo handling have been ordered.
Most spare parts for BIWTC cargo vessels and BIWTA service vessels have been
delivered and are on order. Also, orders have been placed for telecommunication
equipment. Consultants appointed to carry out studies on Inland Water Transpcrt
(IWr) sector, fleet scheduling of Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Corporation
(BIWTC) and accounting systems for BIWTA and BIWTC have submitted their reports.
Implementation of the recommendations of the accounting studies has been sub-
stantially completed. At the request of the borrower the closing date has been
extended to August 15, 1983.



-41 -                      ANNEX II
Page 13
Cr. No. 964     Second Highway Project; US$10.0 Million Credit of December 21,
1979; Effective Date: August 29, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Project implementation has been seriously delayed by the borrower-s
failure to award construction contracts in reasonable time. This failure has
resulted in increased project cost due to inflation. The problem appears to
result from factors outside the control of Roads and Highways Department (RHD),
e.g., the inability of the -Procurement Committee- to take timely decisions and
standard Government procedures which are in conflict with IDA procurement prin-
ciples.  However, the earthworks contracts now appear to be progressing well,
although the two bridge and culvert contracts are moving more sloving due to the
financial difficulties and illness of the contractor.
Cr. No. 1096    Fertilizer Transport Project; US$25.0 Million Credit of
February 13, 1981; Effective Date: July 24, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Trial dredging at Chittagong Port has been completed and the results of
the survey are encouraging in that less lighterage is taking place resulting in
lover transport costs. Also dredging work at the inland river port of Baghabari
has been completed and pontoons are in place. Contracts for procurement of
railway material have been issued. Progress on other project components has
been slow, but regular supervision missions are providing assistance to speed up
implementation. Disbursement of funds, consequently are lagging behind.
Cr. No. 1247    Chittagong Port Project; US$60.0 Million Credit of May 21,
1982; Effective Date: November 17, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1987
Bids for the civil works contract for multipurpose berths have been
issued to prequalified bidders and are due March 31, 1983.
Cr. No. 1301    First Highway Project (Supplemental); US$6.0 Million Credit
of December 10, 1982; Effective Date: March 17, 1983;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
This Credit became effective on .arch 17, 1983. However, the contract
for repair work is expected to be signed shortly, as is the contract with Valen-
tine, Laurie and Davies to supervise the repair work. The contract with the
local consultant is still pending.
Cr. No. 487     Second Telecommunications Project; US$20.0 Million Credit of
June 26, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
The project execution is largely behind schedule due to previous delays
in procurement, civil works and reduced output of the domestic telephone cables
and switching equipment factories. Difficulties were also experienced in com-
pleting the local construction and installation of the systems. Telegraph &
Telephone Board (TTB), a Government board since April 1979, is making sig-
nificant progress in organizing its finances and accounts, and in managing its
operations aud development. TTB funds had until recently all been deposited



-42 -                       ANNEX II
Page 14
in an overall Government account. Since July 1981, TTB has a designated bank
account to which all funds are deposited and withdrawn and the accounting func-
tions have been transferred from Controller-s Auditor General to TTB. The
overhaul of accounting functions, staff and methodology is proceeding very well.
Recruitment of staff has been completed and TTB now has an established and
trained cadre of financial staff. Commercial accounts will be prepared from
FY82/83 onward. In general, financial performance of TTB is reasonably good.
Thus, TTB is gradually achieving a level of financial autonomy that will permit
it to adjust its development program within the overall framework of the agreed
budget. Covenants under the project are now being complied with. Since May
1981, TTB has taken final procurement action to commit the funds remaining under
the project. Works related to last procurement, including national trunk and
international electronic telephone exchanges, will be completed by June 1983.
Actions as required to further improve TTBs management, operations and develop-
ment capability, were considered and have been included in the third telecoa-
munications project.
Cr. No. 1321    Third Telecommunications Project; US$35.0 Million Credit of
March 28, 1983; Closing Date: June 30, 1988
This Credit is not yet effective.
Technical Assistance Credits
Cr. No. 872     Third Technical Assistance Project; US$10.0 Million Credit of
December 22, 1978; Effective Date: January 19, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
Thirty-nine subprojects, totalling about US$12.6 million have been
approved. The credit is about half disbursed. Twenty subprojects have been
completed. The remaining subprojects are proceeding smoothly. In several
instances, however, consultant contracts have not been finalized.
Cr. No. 1124    Fourth Technical Assistance Project; US$16.0 Million Credit
of March 31, 1981; Effective Date: June 10, 1981; Closing
Date: April 30, 1985
Eleven subprojects, amounting to 91Z of Credit have been committed. A
number of proposed subprojects have been agreed in principle and steps are being
taken to secure consultant services.
Power Projects
Cr. No. 934     Greater Khulna Power Distribution Project; US$28.0 Million
Credit of June 18, 1979; Effective Date: November 20, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Foreign consultants (Motor Columbus - Switzerland) have been appointed
as scheduled and have begun design work. Project execution is about one year
behind schedule due to administrative difficulties in preparing maps for the
project areas ana to the inability of the beneficiary (Power Development Board)
to provide adequate local staff for project implementation. To improve the
situation, local consultants have beeppointed in September 1981 and conditions
have been created to recuperate part of the delay.



- 43 -                      ANNEXII
Page 15
Cr. No. 1091    Bakhrabad Gas Development Project; US$85.0 Million Credit of
February 13, 1981; Effective Date: June 16, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
The well drilling program has been successfully completed with all five
wells testing as excellent producers. Work on the pipeline project was started
in mid-October when the right-of-way became accessible after the monsoon. After
a slow start, good progress is now being made by the pipelaying contractor.
Chances appear good that the pipeline can be completed before the monsoon rains,
assuming a normal monsoon. The main distribution ring is scheduled for comple-
tion by December 31, 1983.
Cr. No. 1254    Ashuganj Thermal Power Project; US$92.0 Million Credit of
June 30, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1987
This Credit is not yet effective.
Cr. lIo. 1262    Rural Electrification Project; US$40.0 Million Credit of
June 30, 1982; Effective Date: November 30, 1982; Closing
Date: June 30, 1989
This Credit became effective in November 1982.
Water Supply and Sewerage Projects
Cr. No. 941     Second Dacca Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$22.0
Million Credit of June 29, 1979; Effective Date: November 30,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
DACCA WASAhs consulting engineers have completed design and it is
expected that procurement will be completed by early 1983. Physical works are
expected to be completed by December 1983, about a year behind schedule. Early
delays resulted from slow startup and sluggish procurement but are currently due
to lknd acquisition problems, which have recently been mostly overcome, and
shortage of local currency with which to pay civil worL. contractors.
Cr. No. 1001    Second Chittagong Water Supply Project; US$20.0 Million
Credit of April 4, 1980; Effective Date: April 9, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
After early delays in selecting consultants for the project a firm is in
place and design is now almost complete. Selection of a second consultant for a
sewerage/sanitation study has been made. An expatriate financial adviser has
proved effective. Procurement is now progressing well but implementation will
be about 1-1/2 years behind schedule. Recent tariff increase is not sufficient
and another increase by July 1, 1983 is expected. While there has been improve-
ment in the collection of arrears from Government departments, further improve-
ment is still necessary.



- 44 -                           ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
BANGLADESH
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:
Four months
(b) Agency which prepared the project:
Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources/IDA
(c) Project first presented to IDA:
September 1982
'd) First IDA mission to review project:
November 1982
Ce) Departure of Appraisal Mission:
January 1983
(f) Completion of Negotiations:
April 1983
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:
September 1983
Section II:     Special IDA Implementation Actions
Nil



- 45 -                       ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
Section III:    Special Conditions
(a)  Petrobangla would:  develop, in consultation with the Asso-
ciation, no later than June 30, 198b, a detailed plan and
schedule for a promotion campaign, based on the results of
the hydrocarbon habitat study (paragraph 51); ensure that the
seismic surveys are carried out under the project on the
basis of a detailed work program satisfactory to the Associa-
tion, and seek the Association's concurrence before making
any significant changes in the agreed work program (paragraph
47); ensure that no field teams other than those operating
under the project are allowed to undertake seismic surveys in
the project area, without prior consultation with the
Association (paragraph 49); establish a Project Implementa-
tion and Monitoring Committee, with membership satisfactory
to the Association, to monitor progress in the execution of
the works to be carried out by each seismic party and of the
hydrocarbon habitat study (paragraph 47).
(b) Conditions of effectiveness would be:
(i) the approval of the Project Proforma (paragraph 53);
(ii) the appointment of consultants by Petrobangla to carry
out the hydrocarbon habitat study (paragraph 50);
UiR)  that the Borrower has increased Petrobangla's authorized
capital to accommodate the transfer of funds needed
during the first year of project implementation (Taka
200,000,000), as equity (paragraph 54).



- 46 -                          ANNEX IV
Page I of 5
BANGLADESH
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
Petroleum Geology and Prognosis
1.     Most of Bangladesh is underlain by a large deltaic complex which has
been formed by the Ganges-Jamuna (Brahmaputra) river systems. Delta forma-
tion commenced in Oligocene times (some 20 million years ago) in the Surma
Basin, what is now northeast Bangladesh. Deltaic deposition continued
towards the southeast and south, reaching the present coastline in Pliocene
or Pleistocene times; presently the center of deposition is in the deep
offshore where vast sand and mud flows deposit the discharge of the rivers.
The deltaic sediments are generally very thick, attaining thicknesses of
around 20,000 meters. Typically, they consist of shales and alternating
sands and shales which can form excellent reservoir rocks and cap rocks.
Typically, the shales contain organic material which could be the source for
oil and gas.
2.      Like many large deltas in other parts of the world the Ganges-Jumuna
delta complex holds major exploration potential. Notable examples in the Far
East are the Baram Delta in Brunei-Sarawak (3 billion barrels of oil and 6
TFC of gas), the Mahakam Delta in East Kalimantan (one billion bbl of oil,
several TFC of gas) and the Pohai River Delta in the People's Republic of
China (several hundred million bbl of oil in its offshore part). In many
ways, the Ganges-Jamuna delta offers a similar oil geological setting which
erima facie, appears favorable. Large accumulations of gas have indeed been
discovered in excess of 10 TFC in six large fields. These are located in the
eastern part of the country, where access and working conditions are somewhat
easier than elsewhere in the country and have facilitated exploration
activity.
3.      The geological framework of Bangladesh consists of a number
well-defined structural/stratigraphical units, each having its particular
characteristics with regard to oil geological parameters:
(a) The Bengal Basin proper, reaching from north/northeast Bangladesh
into the Bay of Bengal.



- 47 -                          ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 5
(b)  The northeastern part of the delta complex known as the Surma Basin,
which contains the same rock sequences as the rest of the delta but
has been strongly affected by geological folding; pronounced
anticlinal structures have been the focus of early exploration.
(c) The Chittagong Hill Tracts area, where rock sequences are similar to
those in the Surma Basin, but where geological forces have been even
more intense; this is the only area in Bangladesh with an accentuated
relief.
(d) The Indian Platform, in west Bangladesh, which is underlain by a
geological element stable since Palaeozoic times; rock sequences are
thinner than in the Bengal Basin and exhibit greater variations.
Ce) The transition zone from the "Indian Platform" to the Bengal Basin
known as the Hinge Zone. This is an area of considerable interest
albeit very little understood, where, over a relatively short dis-
tance, a dramatic thickening of the Younger Tertiary sediments takes
place (from less than 1,000 meters on part of the Indian platform to
thousands of meters in the Bengal basin). This area exhibits a large
number of interesting geological trapping conditions.
The Bengal Basin
4.      The Bengal Basin is an immense deltaic complex, the sedimentary fill
of which consists of deposits from two large river systems which transported
erosional debris from the emerging Himalaya Mountains. In early Younger
Tertiary times the Bay of Begal reached much further north, very likely to
the Shillong Massif and the Surma Basin. As huge masses of river sediments
were deposited, the Bay of Bengal gradually retreated to its present posi-
tion. The two river systems continue to deposit vast masses of sediments
into the Bay; most of these sediments are now transported through narrow
channels and come to rest in the deep water areas beyond the 200 m water
depth line.
5.      The sedimentary sequence of the delta area is rather monotonous:
sandstones generally predominate with shale and clay intercalations; the
latter can become rather thick with a wide aerial distribution (several
thousands of square kilometers). It has been demonstrated that shale inter-
calations in similar deltaic complexes often contain abundant organic
material which, under suitable geochemical (thermal) conditions, can be
converted into oil and gas. In their later geological history shale bodies
also act as cap rocks, preventing oil and gas from dissipating to the sur-
face. The presence of such shale bodies has been demonstrated in many wells
in the adjacent Surma Basin. In the gas fields discovered there (Titas,
Bakhrabad, etc.) shales form the cap rocks for large gas accumulations.



- 48 -                           ANNEX IV
Page 3Tof 5
6.      Elsewhere in the Bengal Basin, particularly in the central delta area
and in the lower delta/offshore area, there is no direct evidence of source
rocks, but by analogy with other deltas the presence of such rocks is very
likely and could be further inferred from high quality seismic data. Deltaic
sequences also generally contain trapping conditions which develop along
extensive fault zones (growth faults, rollover structures). In the lower
delta area proper, such trapping structures have not yet been identified for
lack of sufficient subsurface data.
7.      Until the geological history of the Bengal Basin is better under-
stood, its oil and gas potential will remain uncertain. A priority require-
ment is to acquire new seismic data to obtain indications as to the composi-
tion of the basin fill and the presence of geological structures. In paral-
lel, geochemical analyses need to be conducted to help better understand the
geothermal history of the basin. Finally, offshore data would need to be
reevaluated.
The Surma Basin
8.      The sedimentary section in the Surma basin is similar to that in the
Bengal Basin, although strong deformations in the former area are responsible
for notable differences: in the east geological structures are narrow and
intensely broken up; towards the west elongated anticlines are the rule with
only modest faulting. The Surma Basin has certain geological affinities with
the oil producing Assam area in India where Oligocene/Eocene oil source rocks
are well documented. Similar rock sequences could well occur in the Bengal
Basin but at depths in excess of 12,000 meters, too deep for any exploration
interest. In the eastern part of the Surma Basin, however, such rock types
occur at depths less than 4,000 meters -- within drilling depth. Petrobangla
has attempted to explore these geological formations; however, because of the
intense deformations which have precluded proper seismic mapping, the wells
could not be properly drilled and were probably located "offstructure". The
main requisite for future oil exploration in the eastern Surma basin is
therefore to acquire good seismic data over entire structures. If these can
be successfully mapped, there is a fair chance that oil fields similar to
those discovered in Assam may be discovered. (A string of several 50 million
bbl fields could well be possible.) Geological structures in the western
part of the Surma Basin are less disturbed. Geophysical surveys carried out
in the 1960s established the presence of several anticlinal features. The
most conspicuous of these were drilled and five major gas fields were dis-
covered as a result: Titas, Bakhrabad, Rashidpur, Habiganj, and Kailashtila.
Chances are good for discovering large additional quantities of gas.



- 49 -                          ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 5
The Chittagong Hill Tracts
9.      This area is similar to the Surma Basin, although geological struc-
tures in the eastern part are more strongly folded and broken up than thosc
in t1p eastern part of the Surma Basin. Both geological complexity and rough
terrain have rendered seismic acquisition very difficult but there is
definite hydrocarbon potential with fair chances of findings moderate oil
fields (20-50 million bbl). In the coastal area geological structures become
less disturbed but possible oil bearing strata are beyond drilling depth. So
far, only small gas fields have been found.  Seismic coverage is very sparse
thorgh, and there is a high likelihood that additional gas can be found with
modern seismic coverage.
The Indian Platform
10.     The western area of Bangladesh, straddling the Indian border, is
geologically very different from the rest of the country. The sedimentary
rock sequences overlying basement are relatively thin: geological formations
from Palaeozoic to Tertiary average less than 2,000-3,000 meters while in the
Bengal Basin the younger Tertiary strata alone can attain thicknesses in
excess of 10,000 meters. The depositional sequences are all of shallow water
origin, with sandstones, shales and limestones alternating. Of interest,
however, are thick coal formations and shale formations in the so-called
Gondwana sequence (Permian). The occurrence of these formations is patchy;
furthermore, the formations have not been buried deeply enough to have gener-
ated oil or gas. No structural indications have been detected on the seismic
sections available, alLhough the presence of small fault blocks and perhaps
reefs cannot be precluded. The area is thus of low prospectivity and no
further exploration work should be considered at this time since there are
other areas in Bangladesh with much betcer chances for finding oil or gas.
The Hinge Zone
11.     The transitional zone between the Indian platform and the Bengal
Basin is characterized by a pronounced thickening of Tertiary strata (from
1,000 meters to over 10,000 meters over a distance of 20-30 km), with the
underlying formations either warped down or down-faulted. Seismic records
suggest that this area is the locus of many subtle trapping structures such
as wedge outs, fault traps, and possible reef buildups. These trapping
structures are generally small but can, under proper conditions, contain
large amounts of hydrocarbons. As they are much smaller than conventional
anticlines, a large amount (dense grid) of seismic would be needed to locate
them.
12.     Although no well has so far penetrated the prospective section of the
Hinge Zone, the area must be considered as reasonably prospective. Any
hydrocarbons formed in the Bengal Basin and migrating towards the west would



- 50 -                          ANN   IV
Page 5 of 5
be retained in the Hinge Zone, provided bona fide trapping structures are
present. Although at first sight it would appear that mainly gas would be
discovered, there are good chances for the presence of oil. At a near well
in India, Eocene/Cretaceous oil source rccks have been proven. As these
rocks are likely to be of marine origin, one can assume that they had a wide
distribution and could thus be present also in Western Bangladesh.
Summary of Oil and Gas Prospectiveness of Bangladesh
13.    The only systematic exploration operations in Bangladesh were con-
ducted in the Surma Basin and in the offshore. These efforts culminated in
the discovery of major gas fields in the Surma Basin. In the offshore area a
large amount of seismic data is available (some 30,000 line kilometers); of
nine offshore wells one was a gas discovery.
14.     The remainder of the country has been only lightly explored or is
practically without exploration coverage despite a high likelihood of
delta-type structures in the lower delta. Moreover, in the Surma Basin and
in the offshore, practically no deep exploration has been carried out and
several structures have remained untested. It is therefore premature to
suggest a firm estimate of the volume of additional gas or oil to be found.
Nevertheless, a rough estimate has been attempted, which is presented in
Annex V. Even in using conservative geological parameters, the country's
overall hydrocarbon potential appears to be large.



- 51 -                         ANNEX V
Page 1 of 4
BANGLADESH
PETROLEUM EMPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
Hydrocarbon Expectations
1.      With a few exceptions past exploration work in Bangladesh has been
perfunctory and the exact hydrocarbon potential of the country remains lar-
gely unknown. The perception is that the Bekzal Basin is essentially a gas
province with moderate additional potential and that oil possibilities (out-
side the Chittagong Hill Tracts area) are negligible. Direct contacts with
oil companies have confirmed that this is indeed the industry's general view.
Difficult working conditions were also cited as additional adverse factors.
The rather high success ratio (45 wildcat wells for 12 gas discoveries) has
obviously been insufficient to attract new risk capital. The main objective
of the project is to prepare a promotional package whicr- would be offered to
the industry with a view to attracting further exploration in partnership
with the state company or independently. The premise on which this promotion
effort is based is that chances of finding large additional quantities of
hydrocarbons are good. A good case can indeed be made that there is a large
enough potential to attract industry and that there is also a fair chance of
finding oil, albeit in small quantities. The proposed hydrocarbon assessment
study is expected to go a long way towards alleviating some of the industry's
reservations.
2.      Some estimates of the country's hydrocarbon potential in the unex-
plored areas are presented below. These are obviously not intended to
prejudge the results of the basin evaluation, nor to be more than very
general figures derived from very basic geological elements. The study's
main objective will be a refinement of these parameters which will then be
used for a rigorous evaluation of hydrocarbon expectations.
Petroleum Geological Parameters
3.      Among the many factors affecting the petroleum resource potential in
an area are the existence of a petroleum source and a migration path between
the source and the reservoir holding formation. Additional critical factors
include the existence of trapping structures in the reservoir rocks, the size
of the pores in the reservoirs, the volume of the reservoir traps, the depth
of the reservoirs and the number of potential deposits etc.



-52-                            ANNEX V
Page 2 of 4
4.      A preimction of the hydrocarbon resource potential requires thus a
good knowledge of key geological factors; the better this knowledge, the more
precise the oil and gas assessment; where the information base is weak,
predictions will show wide variations.
5.      An assessment of the hydrocarbon endowment of Bangladesh faces the
problem of an irregular data base. In some areas, like the Surma Basin and
the vicinity of Chittagong, information density is fair, consisting of
geophysical data and well data. Offshore, a dense seismic grid and well data
are available. In contrast, practically no geological information is avail-
able on the Hinge Zone and on the entire land area south of Dhaka.
6.      Yet, the very nature of the geological sequences in the Bengal basin
allow some general predictions. Deltaic deposits studied in great detail
elsewhere show a rather uniform geological development; many of the key
elements change very little even over large distances. This holds true in
particular for hydrocarbon source rocks, reservoir rocks etc. which is the
main reason why delta areas (Mississippi Delta, Niger Delta, Baram Delta) are
such prolific producers of hydrocarbons. Thus, while the data base is incom-
plete in the Bengal basin, some predictions regarding the key parameters are
possible; some of these will be summarized in the following paragraphs while
statements are presented 2s to their development in the Bengal basin.
7.      Source Rocks. While no chemical analyses are available, the presence
of gas east of Dhaka and in the Chittagong area attest to the presence of
source rocks.  Detailed analyses are available from Assam and the Tripura
States (India) where shale samples were shown to contain large amounts of
organic material which under suitable conditions can release hydrocarbons.
8.      In view of the general uniformity of deltaic sequences, there is a
fair chance that hydrocarbon source rocks are also present in the lesser
explored areas.
9.      Reservoir Rocks. Deltaic sequences, by their nature, are made of
erosional products from a topographically accentuated hinterland. Such rocks
are predominantly sandstones which form good reservoirs for oil and gas.
Often these sandstones are intercalated with shales which can act both as
source rocks and cap rocks.   There is a high chance that reservoir rocks are
present throughout the subsurface of the Bengal basin.
10.     Composition of Source Rocks.  It is the type of organic matter
present in shaly rocks which determines whether oil or gas is formed. As a
general rule, shales which contain abundant land plants are prone to generate
gas while shales containing abundant animal fragments and certain algae are
oil prone.



- 53-                           ANNEX V
Page 3 of 4
11.     In the Bengal basin, where vast amounts of debris from the hinterland
were deposit d, it is most likely that land derived organic matter
predominates. Generation of gaseous hydrocarbons is expected to predominate
over oil generation.
12.     Source Rock Maturity. For organic material to generate hydrocarbons,
a certain temperature and (less important) pressure regime has to be
attained; oil and gas generation takes place in a temperature interval
between 600C and 1800C. The depth at which these temperatures are reached
depends on the rate of increase of subsurface temperature (geothermal
gradient). Where this gradient is high, generation can take place at shallow
depths (say 2,000 meters); conversely, in areas of low rates of increase,
generation will take place at much greater depths.
13.     In the Bengal basin, little is kncwn about subsurface temperatures.
The depth at which hydrocarbons are generated, and therefore the expected
depth of gas and oil pools, is one of the major uncertainties.
14.     Geological Trapping Structures.  For a geological structure to retain
oil or gas two conditions must be fulfilled: (a) reservoir rocks must be
warped or faulted and be overlain by impervious rocks which prevent hydrocar-
bons from escaping once they have entered the structure; and (b) reservoir
re-ks must be in communication with source rocks from which hydrocarbons can
migrate.
15.     It is a common observation that in all deltaic systems a large
variety of geological trapping structures occur. There is good evidence that
the Bengal basin forms no exception; structures capable of retaining oil and
gas can be expected throughout the area.
Evaluation of Resource Potential - Bengal Basin
16.     Based on the geological parameters discussed in the previous
paragraphs, a Monte Carlo simulation has been carried out, using the RASP
model (developed by the Geological Survey of Canada and modified by the US
Bureau of Mines). In this method a range of values is assigned to each
parameter with a probability of its occurring. These values are then com-
bined and result in a set of possible outcomes. Two outputs are presented
here.
17.     The expectation of gas in the basin is based on two distributions.
First, the probability of hydrocarbons being present (assumed here to be
60%), and second, the likely range in hydrocarbon generation, given that
conditions were favorable in the undrilled part of the basin. The latter
probability distribution is as follows:



- 54-                          ANNEX V
Page 4 of 4
Fractional            BOE               Oil              Gas
(billion BBL)      (billion BBL)       (Tcf)
0.99              0.5                0.15              2.3
0.90              2.25               0.76              8.2
0.80              3.53               1.1&             12.4
0.70              4.65               1.60             17.1
0.50              7.10               2.40             26.4
0.30             10.17               3.60             37.2
0.10             14.62               5.32             53.5
0.05             16.83               6.19             62.0
0.01             21.10               7.70             76.0
The average (expectation) for gas is 29 TCF while the expectation for oil is
2.7 billion BBLs.
18.     When we incorporate the probability that no hydrocarbons were gener-
ated in the undrilled part of the basin, the above distribution is modified
to become:
Fractional            BOE               Oil              Gas
(billToED BBL)     (bilT1on BBL)       ('CE)
0.99              0.00               0.00             0.00
0.90              0.00               0.00             0.00
0.80              0.00               0.00             0.00
0.70              0.00               0.00             0.00
0.50              3.19               1.03            11.14
0.30              7.17               2.43            26.65
0.10             12.62               4.60            47.65
0.05             15.28               5.54            55.25
0.01             15.89               7.18            73.26
The average (expectation) for gas is, in this case, 17.63 TCF while the
average for oil is 1.69 billion BBLs.
19.     This very first, general assessment is an indication that the
hydrocarbon potential cf the Bengal basin can be high and that there are
chances for the occurrence of liquid hydrocarbons. The parameters relating
to oil source rocks and oil generation will therefore be given particular
attention. In the above estimates it has been assumed that 20Z of the
hydrocarbon generated would be in liquid form. This figure took into account
the proven source rocks and the presence of sizeable oil accumulations in
India adjacent to Bangladesh.



- 55 -                         ANNEX VI
Page I of 7
BANGLADESH
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
Geological Notes on the Gas Fields
1.      The intensive exploration efforts during the 1960s and early 1970s
resulted in the discovery of 12 gas fields; of these, eleven were found on
land, all in the northeastern/eastern part of the country, and one in the
offshore. Reserves at present stand at 12 Tcf (Petrobangla figures). With
two exceptions (Kutubdia, offshore, and Beani Bazar in NE Bangladesh), these
fields were discovered on the basis of old seismic data. Quality ranged from
mediocre to poor; it was sufficient, however, to determine the highest point
of the structures and to drill delineation wells in the immediate vicinity of
the discovery wells (Titas, Habiganj and Bakhrabad).
2.      While these delineation wells did confirm the extent of the gas
fields, changes in the composition and thickness of several reservoirs were
noted at Titas, Habiganj and Bakhrabad. On Titas, a well developed, prolific
reservoir unit in Titas-1 is absent in Titas-5 (over a horizontal distance
of less than 1,000 i). In another field (Habiganj), there is a deterioration
of seismic quality away from the discovery well; this may be indicative of a
change (disappearance?) of reservoirs. On Bakhrabad, where five wells rela-
tively closely spaced are available, similar changes in individual reservoir
units are noted. Furthermore, there are indications that the reservoir units
do not extend coherently over the entire structure; instead, they are
separated by faults into segments, resulting in different reservoir units.
Prior to further delineation drilling, away from the previously drilled
wells, high quality seismic acquisition and advanced seismic processing is
required. Equally, to arrive at firmer reserve estimates, more reliable
structural maps are required which can only be achieved with additional
seismic data. In this appendix, the characteristics of the various fields
are summarized; important problems are highlighted as well as recommendations
for further work needed.
Titas
3.      Five wells have been drilled of which four are in production.  Of the
producing wells, one suffered some damage (leaking tubing), but is kept in
production to avoid a drop in supply. Petrobangla has recently completed a
redetermination of reserves of Titas. Its latest figure is 3.58 TCF (of
which 0.74 proven, 1.62 probable and 1.22 possible).   For most fields,



- 56 -                         ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 7
reserves have been calculated based on the following geological and reservoir
engineering parameters: gas bearing areas; average reservoir sand thickness;
reservoir porosity; gas saturation; formation pressure and temperatures at
reservoir conditions. Data on reservoir condit-ons can be obtaiaed from logs
and test results, while a determination of the extent of the structures and
the average reservoir thicknesses can only be obtained accurately by delinea-
tion wells which are widely spaced over the field.
4.      Of the five wells drilled on Titas, four are in a close cluster while
Titas 5 is a deviated well drilled from the Titas-I location. The areal
extent of the entire structure is approximately 20 km x 6 km while the posi-
tion of the gas/water interface is unknown for all but one reservoir. The
five wells are located in an area comprising less than 5% of the total closed
area of the structure; although relatively closely spaced, they show con-
siderable variation in sand development. In order to arrive at more precise
reserve estimates a firm outline of the geological structure is required, as
well as an indication of the lateral development of individual reservoirs and
new data relating to the gas water contact. Both can be obtained by modern
seismic methods.
5.      Present Plans and Recommendations.  Petrobangla plan to drill three
additional wells which will be financed by ADB. However, prior to drilling
these wells, an up-to-date seismic map, based on new acquisition, is required
in order to (a) properly delineate the structure to ensure optimum placing
of the wells and (b) detect areas of stale out of the main reservoirs by
means of seismic amplitude studies; these will also assist in determining the
gas water contact which in turn will allow a more precise reserve estimate.
Babiganj
6.      The Babiganj field is a simple geological structure on which two
wells (closely spaced) have been drilled. Both are producers and supply the
Shahji-Bazar power station and a tea garden 6 km east of the field. A recent
evaluation of Petrobangla put the reserves at 2.2 TCF of which 0.15 are
proven, 1.1 probable and 1.03 possible. There are serious geological risks,
however, with regard to reservoir development and actual reserves may be
lower. (An independent estimate by a German consultant in fact arrived at a
much lower figure of about 1.5 TCF.)
7.      Geological Risks.  Wells H-i and H-2 are located on the northern part
of the structure where seismic reflections are of moderate quality. Towards
the southeast, seismic data quality deteriorates sharply; seismic reflectors
eventually disappear completely. This may be due to the reservoirs being
replaced by non-reservoir rocks (shales) or to intense geological (struc-
tural) disturbances. There are indeed indications of faulting along the
flanks of the structure. In either case extreme care has to be taken when



-57 -                           ANNEX VI
Page 3 of 7
determining gas reserves. With the data quality available reserve figures
must be considered suspect.
8.      Further Plans and Recommendations.  Petrobangla plans to drill six
delineation wells on Habiganj, equipment for two being supplied by a French
aid agency. Such drilling should only be undertaken once production seismic
data are available and interpreted.
Bakhrabad
9.      A large, gentle anticlinal structure, located some 50 km east of
Dhaka. The first well, drilled in 1968/69, discovered in excess of 700' of
gas in several well developed sands. The operator, Shell, in a first reserve
estimate, arrived at a figure of 2.8 TCF of which 0.8 TCF were considered
proven. A later reserve estimate by De Golyer McNaughton arrived at 1.1 TCF
as "proven, recoverable reserves". Although Shell's and De Golyer
McNaughton's estimates are close as far as proven reserves are concerned,
there are large differences in the evaluation of individual sands, par-
ticularly in the determination of porosities and gas saturations. Welldrill,
a UK consultant, has recently carried out a seismic reinterpretation of the
Bakhrabad area, using old Shell lines, some additional seismic lines profiled
by Petrobangla as well as the results of well BK-1. The results of this
reinterpretation are highly interesting, not only with regard to details of
the Bakhrabad structure, but also with regard to the neighboring areas.
10.     Bakhrabad Structure.  Seismic data indicate that the coastal area of
the Bakhrabad anticline is a gentle dome-line feature with only minor fault-
ing, if any. Seismic data to the east of the coastal area are of very poor
quality. This poor quality zone is some 5 km wide and can be followed all
along the anticlinal trend over a distance in excess of 20 km. Meanwhile,
the Bakhrabad Gas Development Project (Credit 1091-BD) has financed the
arilling of four delineation wells, all located on the relatively undisturbed
coastal part of the structure. Basically the same reservoirs were
encountered as in the discovery well. Individual sands show thickness chan-
ges, but the aggregate reservoir thickness remains constant.  Proven reser-
ves, i.e., reserves within the confines of the wells drilled, amount to 0.8
TCF. Total reserves (proven, possible and probable) could be'in excess of 2
TCF.
11.     Bakhrabad Area.  Welldrill summarizes the seismic intepretation
results of the area surrounding the Bakhrabad field as follows: about 20 km
NNW and on the same trend as the field a secondary structure is present.
About 13 km east of Bakhrabad another structural trend has been mapped a'
which several anticlines have been delineated. Over both structures some
seismic lines show certain characteristic anomalies (flat spots, bright
spots) which are indicative of the presence of a gas/water contact. (Similar



- 58 -                         ANNEX VI
Page 4 of 7
anomalies are present on Titas and Habiganj) where they can indeed be corre-
lated with a proven gas/water contact. There is, thus, a good chance that
additional gas bearing structures are present on the geological trend east of
Bakhrabad.
12.     Conclusions.  Bakhrabad is a pronounced structure on which a large
gas accummulation has been discovered. Part of the structure is severely
faulted so that some uncertainties remain regarding ultimate reserves.
Bakhrabad is only one of several structures mapped in the general area. At
least three prospective geological trapping conditions have been identified
at which two exh'bit, on seibmic evidence, direct hydrocarbon indications.
The general Bakhrabad area is, thus, highly prospective; large additional gas
volumes could be present.
13.     Recommendations.  To clarify the structural picture of Bakhrabad,
production seismic is required. This seismic survey should be extended over
the neighboring structures. With the aid of advanced acquisition and
processing techniques, an evaluation of gas expectations should become pos-
sible. It may well turn out that the general Bakhrabad area could add very
significantly to Bangladesh's gas reserves.
Kailashtila
14.     This field is located some 25 km east of Sylhet town.  On the seismic
records, it appears as a gentle, undisturbed anticline; however, there are
indications of a steep west flank; such a steepening is generally indicative
of faulting. The potentially gas bearing area of the structure is 7 x 2 km,
thus considerably smaller than Titas and Babiganj.  One well has been drilled
on Kailashtila; it penetrated three reservoir sands of which two were tested
at rates of 21 MNCFD and 18 MMCFD, with a condensate content of about 10.6
BBL/MMCF. Preliminary reserve estimates are given as 0.6 TCF.
15.     Geological Risks.  Since one well only has been drilled on Kailash-
tila there are no direct indications of reservoir changes. However, the
producing horizons are of the same nature as those of Titas and Habiganj:
eventual delineation wells will certainly encounter variations in reservoir
thickness. Furthermore, the Kailashtila structure is strongly asymmetrical
which is almost certainly due to faulting.
16.     Recommendations.  For the same reasons as enumerated for Tit7as and
Habigani, a production seismic survey should be carried out prior to any
delineation drilling.
Rashidpur
17.     Rashidpur is a narrow, long N-S trending anticlinal structure which
can be followed over a distance of 40 km. Access is very difficult due to



- 59 -                         ANNEX VI
Page 5 of 7
rough terrain. Two reservoirs were encountered, a shallow reservoir between
4,550' and 4,795' and a deep reservoir between 8,878' and 9,060'; both
produced gas at rates between 90 MMCFD and 75 MMCFD. A reserve evaluation is
hampered by poor quality of seismic data; there are also indications that,
due to geological deformations, the structural configuration changes with
depth. Based on the results of the discovery well, proven reserves are given
as 0.14 TCF while total reserves (including proven and possible) would amount
to 1.455 TCF.
18.     Conclusions and Recommendations.  Rashidpur is a very extensive
geological structure. Two reservoirs are gas bearing. Reserves could be
very large. Due to geological complications in depth it is proposed to
include Rashidpur in the production seismic program planned under the
project.
Sylhet
19.     Reserve estimates range between 0.29 and 0.4 TCF.  Six wells have
been drilled, of which three were failures due to adverse geological subsur-
face conditionb (high pressure zones, severe faulting). Two wells are cur-
rently producing, while one serves as an observation well. Sylhet-I (drilled
in 1965) blew out and could not be brought under control. Eventually the
hole crated and gas has continued to flow. It is estimated that up to 0.18
TCF have been lost so far. The blowout of Sylhet-l did extensive formation
damage which is evidenced by pressure declines in the two producing wells;
current production is 30 HHCFD. The surface installations are in urgent need
of repair. In 1977 the dehydration unit broke down; since then gas is piped
to the consumer containing water and condensate resulting in a loss to the
producer of several thousand US dollars per day. Production from the field
is piped to the Fenchuganj fertilizer plant. Prakla (a former seismic con-
tractor) has recently profiled additional seismic lines over this structure;
their interpretation will hopefully assist in clarifying the structural
configuration.
Chhatak
20.     Reserves are guesstimated at 0.04 TCF.  Chhatak is a very complex
geological structure. Seismic data are so poor that the extent of the field
cannot be mapped. Chhatak-1 has been in continuous production since 1974.
Pressure decline has been low (at a total production to date of 15 BCF, the
pressure decline is 4Z). As the reservoir geology is unknown, one has to
consider basically two reservoir mechanisms (a) gas expansion, which would
indicate 0.5 TCF in place (based on pressure decline) or (b) waterdrive in
which case no reservoir estimate can be made as the reservoir volume is
unknown (if a waterdrive were operative, the well could go to water at any
moment). Modern production seismic is urgently needed to determine the
reservoir volumes and whether there is room for further drilling. The main



- 60 -                          ANNEX VI
Page 6 of 7
users are the Chhatak cement factory and the Surma pulp and paper mill.
Prakla has profiled additional seismic lines over Chhatak. Their interpreta-
tion is crucial to the placing of additional drilling locations.
Beani Bazar
21.     The Beani Bazar structure bas been discovered and seismically mapped
by Shell as early as 1959. As compared with structures in the west (Titas,
Bakhrabad) etc., Beani Bazar is small and no drilling was contemplated by
Shell. Beani Bazar was proposed for drilling by the German-financed
multi-well program. In 1979 a Prakla digital seismic survey was carried out.
Beani Bazar is thus the only field in Bangladesh ftr which modern seismic
data are available. The structure turned out to be au unfaulted culmination
with an areal extent of 53 square kilometers at the reservoir level. Seismic
quality is good and individual reflections could be traced to the wells
drilled on neighboring Kailashtila.
22.     The well discovered two gas sands:  an upper sand, between 10,599' -
10,756' (136' net) tested at rates of 20 IMMCFD; a lower sand, although much
thinner (47' net), tested at similar rates. Logs indicate the presence of a
gas water contact for the upper sand; apparently, no gas water contact is
presented at the well for the lower sand. The condensate ratio is relatively
high, i.e., it ranges between 16.2-19.4 bbl/MMCF.
23.     Reserves.  With the availability of a good seismic map and a gas
water contact for the lower sand, reserves for the lower interval have been
calculated at 0.044 TCF. Assuming a similar gas water contact for the upper
sand, the reserves for the upper interval would amount to 0.266 TCF. Actual
reserves, however, could be larger or smaller. Detailed advanced seismic
processing is being applied for a possible final reserve determination.
Semutang
24.     The only "discovery" to date in the Chittagong Hills area.  After
seismic surveys in 1955/56 OGDC commenced drilling in May 1967; after 14
months of drilling operations the well reached a total depth of 13,413 feet.
Two gas sands were discovered which were tested at rates of 9 KMCFD and 16
MMCFD. Of three follow-up wells one proved the extension of the gas sands,
while the other two tests were dry holes. This by itself indicates the need
for production seismic prior to further drilling. Petrobangla's reserve
estimates (0.017 TCF) have to be viewed with caution. At any rate, due to
its location and the likelihood of small reserves, further drilling would not
appear to be warranted in the near future.



- 61 -                          ANNEX VI
Page 7 of 7
Kamta
25.     Kamta is a small NW-SE trending structure 19 km north of Dhaka
recently completed by Petrobangla. A 100 m-thick gas column has been
penetrated from which 21 MMCFD has been tested. Geologically, Kamta has a
twin culmination. A second well is planned on the second culmination, some
3,500 meters SE from the discovery well; on this culminaLicn a flat spot is
noticeable on seismic records; this could be .an expression of a gas water
contact. According to Petrobangla there are possibilities for encountering
deeper gas bearing horizons. In order to determine the fault patterns and
the deep potential (seismic amplitude studies) additional seismic is recom-
mended here also. Reserves are given as 0.1 TCF.
Feni
26.     This is a simple, apparently unfaulted, anticline on which two gas
zones were discovered. Reserves are given as 0.169 TCF. Condensate content
for the upper sand is 1.9 bbl/MMCF and 3.6 bbl/MMCF for the lower sand.
Petrobangla staff speculate that in eventual deeper layers the condensate
content will become higher.
Kutubdia
27.     Of seven offshore wells, Union Oil's Kutubdia well is the only dis-
covery. one gas sand, 30 meters thick, tested about 40 MMCFD. Reservoirs
apparently are of mediocre quality; reserves are given as 1 TCF. There are
no immediate plans for further drilling.
28.      Comments on Gas Reserves and Conclusions.  The gas reserve estimates
are all tentative. With the exception of Beani Bazar seismic is incomplete
and hence the structural outline only sketchily known. Furthermore, in most
of the discoveries made so far, the extent of individual gas zones is
unknown. The sands were deposited in a deltaic-fluviatile environment where
individual sand bodies normally show appreciable thickness variations over
very short distances. A case in point is Titas where a sand unit, productive
in Titas-1, has shaled out completely in Titas-5. On the seismic records
over Habiganj, there are indications of lithological changes (disappearance
of sands?) on the southern part of the structure. A large element of reser-
ves has therefore to be assigned to the "possible" category. In order to
arrive at firmer estimates and to diminish the chances drilling dry delinea-
tion wells acquisition of high quality production seismic on each structure
(with the exception of Beani Bazar) is mandatory.



- 62 -                         ANNEX VII
Page 1 of 1
BANGLADESH
EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
Pricing of Natural Gas and Petroleum Products
A. Natural Gas Tariffs (Titas Gas Co.)
(As of July 1, 1982) (Price per MCF except as noted) /a
Sector                                       Taka              US$
power                                               10.50            0.46
Fertilizer                                          10.50            0.46
Industrial                                          31.00            1.35
Commercial                                          31.00             1.35
Domestic (metered)                                  27.00             1.17
Domestic (unmetered):
Single burner (per month)                         35.00 /b         1.52
Double burner (per month)                         65.00 /b         2.83
B. Comparison of Ex-Refinery and CIF Prices of Petroleum Fuels
(As of July 1, 1982) (Price per metric ton)
Ex-Refinery             CIF equivalent
Taka        US$           Taka        US$
Gasoline         18,007       783           8,883       386
Rerosene          8,582       373           8,676       377
Diesel Oil        7,852       341           7,876       342
Fuel Oil          6,830       297           4,742       206
/a  Excludes meter rental charges and includes excise duties.
/b Flat monthly rates irrespective of consumption level.



IBFD 17101
.                                                  q. .BANGLADESH
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
SE ISMIC LINES
r   t   \   9   f~    o Gao.A7r.   RECONNAISSANCE SURVEV PETROBANGLA f 50OKml
-26        /         ;         \ \_      . | J  _>                                  . RECONNAISSANCE SURVEY CONTRACTORI 1.00O Kml
L26 j       \ <v          .                                                               PRODUCTION SEISMIC SURVEY I 900 Kml                     201
HINGE ZONE AREA
_A G \  _     Xt _    _ i                           V      GAS DISCOVERIES
4 - . A  -DRY  WELL
Di'JAJPUR  .                 |       \      i |                                ROADS
ReILWAYS
RIVERS
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
I..                                                                 SJ YL7EAE41
RAJSHAI\                                                             IKISHORGANJ  . . /                       Jr .
"I~~~~~r
--GAIL  >  /r  ,  -  ,pTA-
- 2d '                                 PB NA          '
NA~~~~~~~
J HITI.W ) >M I N D I A~~~~~~~~~ANGAT
.. ~~ATUAI~~*4AI,i-.C....T......
-.                                              .--           -   -   N
{'' ;,);- -' =' -><' :::-:'-::::::t'."s' ;:-:;a:... ............................................ :\ 
INDIA    ;- A   -    ~                   .< }ARRANGVATi
i ,~~~~~~~~~.-.      ....  :..    .          -... ... -... .... . .
. .Z                                 0    25 . .. . , ....L..S . .    ..B.U.R.MA .. ........... .... ..... .B.A
;           t    -       X     ~~~~.-          -- -------------   --------                CHITTAGON<
;   --F .          I      9          ;. ...    .    ..
O.                                                              * . . .. . . .. . . 
,_____.___R_-_--_-_,_-_-_-_-_-_-_._:_..:;:::::...._.::: -.:: 
_ _._ ...  _  _.  ...... e. _. _ . -- -B .........-.,  -- --.-.-.--.9-.--.--.-..-....,.1    .2
~~~~~~~~. ..                .    .,  ...   .   ,___...........,....  ..    ..,,.,.,,,.,-,,,
,, ._ ~~~~..   ...    .  _...      .* :. ---. e. .---------::...   ...... . -.-I
11 N D I A    _>                                                                                                                             \
.    __-  . _,.__   .2r              |    ~     ~~ 25        50           75 MILESN                          X    BU       M
:~~ ~       ~~~~~~~~~~ _1                                           I            IIUM
iSRI LANKtA 
.                                90"                             s         ~          ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r sr






