CRDIT NUBER 1402 BD
Project Agreement
(Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
BANGLADESH OIL AND GAS CORPORATION
Dated                             , 1983


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1402 BD
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated   q'"                      , 1983, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and BANGLADESH OIL AND GAS CORPORATION (hereinafter
called Petrobangla).                     I
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between People's Republic of Bangladesh (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to twenty-one million four hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 21,400,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but
only on condition that Petrobangla agrees to undertake such
obligations toward the Association as are hereinafter set forth;
and
WHEREAS Petrobangla, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Pet.Lbangla shall carry out the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and petroleum practices.
(b) Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a)
above Petrobangla shall carry out Part A of the Project in
accordance with the Work Program and shall:


﻿-2-
(i) promptly inform the Association of any material
modification proposed to be made in the Work
Program, and furnish to the Association all such
information concerning such proposed modification
as the Association shall reasonably request;
(ii) give the Association a reasonable opportunity for
approval on any revised Work Program or any
material modification of the Work Program before
proceeding with the carrying out thereof; and
(iii) exchange views with the Association on the results
achieved through processing of data availab1e on
the Beani Bazar field, as a result of which the
Association shall determine whether such results
justify the carrying out of a production seismic
survey of such field.
(c) Petrobangla shall maintain records identifying all
expenses incurred for the production seismic surveys (including
costs of data processing and consultants' time spent on inter-
pretation) in respect of each of the seven gas producing fields
included under Part A.2 of the Project and shall charge each of
the Gas Producing Companies the amounts spent in respect of the
field or fields for which such company is responsible.
Section 2.02. Petrobangla shall establish, and thereafter
maintain until completion of the Project, a Project Implementa-
tion and Monitoring Committee under the chairmanship of Petro-
bangla's Chairman or such other officer as he shall designate for
that purpose, consisting of, inter alia, the chief managers of
its geological, geophysical and laboratory divisions and the
leader of the consultants team that shall be in charge of the
hydrocarbon habitat study to be carried out under Part B of the
Project.
Section 2.03. (a) In order to assist Petrobangla in carrying
out Parts B and C of the Project, Petrobangla shall employ
consultants and experts whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory, to the
Association, such consultants and experts to be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿-3-
(b)  Petrobangla shall make available to the consultants to
be employed under the Project, all geological, geochemical and
geophysical information relevant to the Project.
Section 2.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.05. (a) Petrobangla undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and made available to
it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or in-
stallation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable
in a currency freely usable by Petrobangla to replace or repair
such goods.
(b) Petrobangla shall cause all goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit and made available to it by the
Borrower to be used e-clusively for the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.06. (a) Petrobangla shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or addi-
tions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) Petrobangla shall: (i) maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable
the Association's representatives to visit the facilities and
work sites included in the Project and to examine the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Association at
regular intervals all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditures
of such proceeds and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.


﻿-4-
(c) Upon the award by Petrobangla of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between Petrobangla
and the Association, Petrobangla shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and ini-
tial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived
and to be derived from it, the performance by Petrobangla and the
Association of their respective obligations under the Project
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
(e) Petrobangla shall enable the Association's representa-
tives to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, build-
ings, property and equipment of Petrobangla and any relevant
records and documents.
Section 2.07. (a) Petrobangla shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to
the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit.
(b) Petrobangla shall promptly inform the Association of
any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by Petrobangla of its obligations
under this Agreement.
Section 2.08. Not later than June 30, 1986, Petrobangla
shall, in consultation with the Association, and with the assist-
ance of exploration technical experts, develop and thereafter
implement, a detailed plan and schedule for a promotion campaign
designed to attract foreign investments in petroleum exploration
in the Borrower's territory.
Section 2.09. (a) Petrobangla shall consult with the
Association before authorizing any seismic activities in the
Seismic Works Area other than those under the Project; and


﻿-5-
(b) In the event that Petrobangla grants any permits
pertaining to petroleum exploration or development, Petrobangla
shall, upon the granting of such permits, exclude the area
concerned from the Seismic Works Area.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of Petrobangla
Section 3.01. (a) Petrobangla shall carry on its operations
and conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial, and petroleum practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff
in adequate numbers.
(b) Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, Petrobangla shall ensure that its staff and the
consultants to be employed under the Project cooperate with each
other in the implementation of the Project, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. Petrobangla shall at all times operate and
maintain its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and
from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and petroleum practices.
Section 3.03. Petrobangla shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make 'other provisions satisfactory to
the Association for, insurance against such risks and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. Petrobangla shall take all necessary measures
to ensure that its operations shall be carried out with due
regard to safety, health, ecological and environmental practices.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) Petrobangla shall maintain records ade-
quate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
appropriate accounting practices its operations and financial
condition.


﻿-6-
Section 4.02. Petrobangla shall:
(a) have its accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(b) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in
any case not later than July 31, 1983 for FYs 1976, 1977, 1978
and 1979, not later than September 30, 1983 for FY 1980, and not
later than six months after the end of each year for the follow-
ing fiscal years, (i) certified copies of its financial state-
ments for such year as so audited, and (ii) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(c) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said accounts, financial statements, records and
expenditures, as well as the audit thereof, as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of Petrobangla thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date 15 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its ierms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
Petrobangla of this event.


﻿- 7 -
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitt.   to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement bets
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writi-g.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For Petrobangla:
Petrobangla
122-24 Chamber Building
Motisheel, GPO Box 849
Dhaka 2, Bangladesh
Cable address:                    Telex:
PETROBANGLA                        65725 HNXN BJ
Dhaka


﻿-8-
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of Petrobangla may be taken or executed by
the Chairman of Petrobangla or such other person or persons as
the Chairman of Petrobangla shall designate in writing, and
Petrobangla shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each
such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective nar.es in the District
of Columbia, United States of. America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By (&(   tk)   061tt'-"ei    0     t4 L
Regional Vice President
South Asia
BANGLADESH OIL AND GAS CORPORATION
Bythrize Re
Authorized Representative


﻿- 9 -
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Survey and seismic data processing works shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the current edition of the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For works to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, Petrobangla shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form
and detail and containing such information as the Association
shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notifica-
tion to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the
services in question. Petrobangla shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any works
remain to be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for laboratory equipment may be awarded on the
basis of local competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the
Association.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or more:


﻿- 10 -
(a) Before bids are invited, Petrobangla shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been. received and evaluated, Petro-
bangla shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Association of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform Petrobangla and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, Petrobangla shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Associa-
tion of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the
Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies
of such contract, together with the analysis of the respective
bids, recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform Petrobangla
and state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension


﻿- 11 -
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, Petrobangla shall inform the
Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the pro-
visions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform Petrobangla and
state the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Work Program
Unless otherwise agreed by the Association, seismic works
under Part A of the Project shall be carried as follows:
(1) Reconnaissance survey of the Seismic Works Area,    The
area will be covered by a seismic grid, EW lines being
spaced 50 km apart and NS lines 30 km apart for a total
of about 1,500 line km-.
The area to the north of 22050'N parallel will be
executed by one of Petrobangla's crew using a digital
seismic station and covering about 500 line km. The
area to the south of 22050'N parallel will be executed
by a crew specialized in tidal areas and covering
about 1,000 line km.
(2) Detailed Production seismic surveys will be carried
out in the following order: (1) Beani Bazar, (2)
Kailashtila, (3) Titas, (4) Habiganj, (5) Rashidpur,
(6) Bakhrabad and (7) Feni. For Titas, Habiganj,
Kailshtila and Rashidpur, a one-km grid will be
executed covering 150 km, 170 km, 80 km and 80 km
respectively.
Bakhrabad will be covered by a 2 km grid, for 275 km,
including two structures to the North and on trend
with the field. Total cover will amount to about
900 line-km. The program will be executed in two work-
ing seasons. Work will be done by a crew specialized in
the high-resolution seismic acquisition necessary for
delineating the reservoirs.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198   .E                          E
FOR SECRETARY


