Page  1
1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
 
April 12, 2011 
 
Report No.:  AB6484 
 (The report # is automatically generated by IDU and should not be changed) 
 
Operation Name 
Higher Education Development Policy Program - Third Operation 
(HEDPO3) 
Region 
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC 
Country 
Vietnam 
Sector 
Tertiary education (100%) 
Operation ID 
P116354 
Lending Instrument 
Development Policy Lending 
Borrower(s) 
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM 
Implementing Agency 
INISTRY OF EDUCATION AND TRAINING 
Ministry of Education and Training 
49 Dai Co Viet Street 
Hanoi 
Vietnam 
Tel: (84-4) 869-2397 
Fax: (84-4) 869-4085 
nkkhoi@moet.gov.vn
Date PID Prepared 
April 12, 2011 
Estimated Date of Appraisal 
March, 2012 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
July, 2013 
Corporate Review Decision 
Following the corporate review, the decision was taken to proceed 
with the preparation of the operation.
 
I. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement  
1. 
Vietnam became one of the fastest-growing economies in the world
 following market reforms 
(known as "Doi Moi" or renovation) that opened up the country to foreign investment and improved the 
business climate.  Growth of gross domestic product (GDP) averaged 8 percent in the 1990s, slowing 
slightly to 5.3 percent in 2009 as impacted by the global economic crisis and then quickly recovering to 
6.8 percent in 2010.  
 
2. 
Rapid growth has been accompanied by dramatic poverty reduction
.
The shift away from a 
centrally planned economy to a more market-oriented economic model has improved the quality of life 
for many Vietnamese. Per capita income rose from $220 in 1994 to $1,059 in 2009.  The poverty rate has 
declined from 58.1 percent in 1993 to 28.9 percent in 2002 and to 14.5
 
percent in 2008, and has continued 
to decline since.
1
Vietnam is one of the top MDG Progress Index Performers (MDGs)
2
and, riding on its 
successful record, is aiming to become an industrialized country (MIC) by 2020.
 
3. 
Vietnam has become increasingly integrated with the world economy, and joined the WTO in 
November 2006.  In February 2009 Vietnam officially joined the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) as an 
1
The more recent statistics are not directly comparable to the 1993 and 2006 figures, but the poverty reduction trend is 
continuing since 2006.  See the poverty reduction section below.
 
2
Who are the MDG Trailblazers: A New MDG Progress Index; Center for Global Development, working paper 222, August  
2010.
 
Page  2
2
“associate member.”
 The integration with the world economy has become one of the cornerstones of its 
reform program.  Exports have been the main drivers for growth, and foreign investment has been 
buoyant in recent years.  The share of agriculture in GDP declined from 27 to 21 percent of GDP over the 
period 1995-2010 while that of industry rose from 29 to 41 percent over the same period.  The services 
sector picked up 39 percent share of GDP in 2010.  Tourism-related services have been especially 
buoyant. 
 
4. 
Vietnam’s further growth and development will require a well-trained work force with the ability 
to adjust to changing needs and opportunities in the labor market.
 
Judging by the experience of other 
MICs in the region and around the world, the demand for skills in Vietnam can be expected to evolve 
rapidly over the coming decade.  Already there have been signs of increasing skills shortages, especially 
in larger, foreign owned and exporting firms.
3
5. 
GOV sets clear goals for higher education in its “Socio-Economic Development Plan 2006-
2010,” (SEDP).
4
The SEDP aims for an overall quantitative goal of “increasing enrollment in 
universities and colleges by 10 percent annually, to reach a level of 200 students over 10,000 population 
by 2010” and an overall qualitative goal of “approaching the advanced education standards of the region 
and the world,.  
 
6. 
GOV elaborates on its goals for higher education in its “Higher Education Reform Agenda” 
(HERA)
.
5
HERA develops forward-looking strategy for the development of higher education and 
research. Through HERA, GOV shows its commitment to improving the higher education system in a 
rapidly changing economic and social environment.  It is strategic and comprehensive, with major 
emphasis on key operational reforms that the World Bank supports, namely: (i) improving the quality of 
teaching and research, with a view to integration into the increasingly globalized economy; (ii) extending 
HEI autonomy, especially in academic and administrative matters, with a view to improving 
responsiveness to the needs of beneficiaries; and (iii) increasing private sector investment, vital in the 
fiscal sustainability of an expanding sector.  
GOV’s main challenge is to operationalize these strategic 
goals by addressing broad governance issues (e.g. legal and financial frameworks) while promoting local, 
HEI-level modernization. GOV has requested the World Bank to provide continued support for Vietnam’s 
higher education agenda, recognizing the success of past collaboration in the sector. 
 
7. 
The World Bank looks at economic development in a comprehensive way and can therefore work 
with GOV on a higher education strategy that is consistent with, and in support of, Vietnam’s overall 
development strategy
.
This is all the more critical at a time when Vietnam, having recently acceded to 
membership of the World Trade Organization, is looking to develop a skilled population, with a strong 
knowledge base, that will position the country well for expansion and integration with the global 
economy. More specifically, the World Bank can bring its international experience in the higher 
education sector to help Vietnam implement its HERA program.  The World Bank has in-depth 
experience across many higher education projects in the design and implementation of competitive 
funding, institutional autonomy and performance-based financing to drive improved standards in research 
and teaching and improvements in the relevance of higher education, all of which are important objectives 
set out in HERA.  
 
3
Vietnam Enterprise Surveys 2005 and 2009
 
4
Kê
hoa
ch Pha
t
triê
n
Kinh tê
-
Xa
hô
i
5
n
m
2006
-2010
 (Socio-Economic Development Plan 2006-2010), 
attachment to Government Resolution No. 25/2006/NQ-CP, dated October 9, 2006.  
5
Nghi
quyê
t
vê
ô
i
m
i
C
ba
n
va
Toa
n
diê
n
Gia
o
du
c
a
i
ho
c
Viê
t
Nam Giai 
oa
n
2006
-2020
 (Government 
Resolution No. 14/2005/NQ-CP, dated November 2, 2005, on substantial and comprehensive renewal of 
Vietnam’s 
tertiary education in the 2006-2020 period).  See Annex 1. 
Page  3
3
II. 
Proposed Objective(s) 
8. 
The proposed program aims to support the government in the implementation of HERA to 
improve the higher education responsiveness and overcoming skill bottlenecks for a rapidly changing 
economic and social environment. In particular, the proposed program, through a Development Policy 
Lending instrument, will assist the MoET to develop and implement a series of policies and regulations 
defined in HERA which will create a more flexible, responsive and diverse higher education system, with 
more private sector participation, supporting governance and financing frameworks.
 
Preliminary Description  
9. 
The program consists of a series of key policy measures, each financed by a separate credit, 
linked to an indicative program of reform.  The proposed operation is the third in a programmatic series 
of three to support the sustained implementation of selected elements of the GOV’s reform agenda.  In 
particular, the proposed operation aims to continue support for the government efforts in strengthening 
governance, rationalizing the financing system, improving the quality of teaching and research, improving 
accountability for performance, and enhancing transparency in financial management within the higher 
education sector that have been started under the HEDPO1.   Measures implemented by Government on 
the basis of policy analysis and development will be carried out with technical assistance under grant-
financed component of HEP2 in the four key areas, including governance, financing, quality assurance 
and public finance management.  The brief description is as follows: 
10. 
Governance
.
The proposed program aims to improve the governance of the higher education and 
research system at both national, regional and HEIs levels, This implies, in particular, giving greater 
autonomy to individual institutions, increasing their accountability and introducing measures in order to 
create a climate of competition between and within institutions that promotes improvement. 
11. 
Financing.
 The proposed program aims to enhance efficiency and equity of higher education 
financing through promoting greater autonomy of higher education institutions in managing their own 
finance and ensuring equitable opportunities to all students based on ability and aspirations and society’s 
needs. 
12. 
Quality assurance.
 The proposed program aims to improve the quality of teaching and research of 
higher education to meet the market demands by establishment of independent quality assurance system 
using standards –based and credit - based framework for higher education institutions qualifications. 
13. 
Public finance management. 
The proposed program aims to improve the efficiency and 
transparency in public resource use by adopt and apply a reliable financial management system, including 
internal and external audit system in accordance with sound financial management practices.  
III. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects
 
Poverty and Social Impacts 
14. 
The policy actions included in this second operation are expected to have generally positive or at 
worst no adverse poverty and social impacts. In its support to restructure HE system toward greater 
autonomy to HEIs, promote participation of private sector delivery and a comprehensive financing 
strategy to address needs for fund diversification but also equitable access the reform is expected to have 
generally positive effects. The proposed policy measures will make the HE system more efficient, 
accountable and effective which should benefit every student, including the poor and disadvantaged.
 
Environmental Aspects
 
15. 
The policies supported by the proposed operation relate to governance, financing, and quality of 
teaching and are not likely to have any significant positive or negative effects on the country's 
environment, forest, and other natural resources. 
Page  4
4
IV. 
Tentative financing
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
50 
 Total 
50 
 
V. 
Contact point 
 
TTL 
Contact: Binh Thanh Vu 
Title: Sr Education Spec. 
Tel: 202-458-8954 
Fax: 202-522-3394 
Email: Tvu@worldbank.org 
Location: Washington DC, (IBRD) 
 
Borrower 
Contact: Bui Van Ga 
Title: Vice Minister, Higher Education 
Department, Ministry of Education and Training 
Fax: (84-4) 869-4085 
Tel: (84-4) 869-2397 
Email: 
 
Buivanga@ac.udn.vn
nkkhoi@moet.gov.vn
Location: Hanoi, Vietnam 
 
VI. 
For more information contact:
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
 
