Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15189
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAYSIA
SARAH LAND SETTLEMENT AND ENVIRONKENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3039-MA)
DECEMBER 22, 1995
Agriculture and Environment Operations Division
Country Department 1
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Malaysian Ringgit per US$
Year                 Exchange Rate
1988 (Appraisal)          2.60
1989                      2.71
1990                      2.70
1991                      2.75
1992                      2.55
1993 (Completion)         2.57
ABBREVIATIONS
BINA            -         Felda Construction Corporation
DOE             -         Federal Department of the Environment
EMP             -         Environmental Management Plan for the Dent Peninsula
FELDA           -         Federal Land Development Authority
ffb             -         Fresh Fruit Bunches of Oil Palm
GOM             -         Government of Malaysia
GOS             -         Government of the State of Sabah
KWR             -         Kulamba Wildlife Reserve
MTED            -         Sabah Ministry of Tourism and Environmental
Development
PWD             -         Public Works Department
SCS             -         Sabah Conservation Strategy
SWD             -         Sabah Wildlife Department
TWR             -         Tabin Wildlife Reserve
UNDP            -         United Nations Development Program
WWFM            -         World Wide Fund for Nature, Malaysia
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
The World Bank
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S A
Office of the Director-General                                                         December 22, 1995
Operations Evaluation
MEMORANDUJM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORY AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Malaysia
Sabah Land Settlement an(d Env'ironmental Man:-gement Project (Loan 3039-MA)
Attaclhed is the Project Completion Report (PCR) on the Malaysia Sabalb Land Settlement and
Environmental Managemenit project (Loan 3039-MA, approved in FY89). Parts I and Ill were prepared by
the East Asia and Pacific Regional Office and Part 11 by the Borrower.
The pro.ject area consists of about 400,000 hia on the Dent Peninisula. a remote and sparselv
populated part of the State of Sabah. Both the Federal and Saball State Governments wished to promote
some economic development and poverty alleviation in thie area, mucIh of which remilainis forest covxered. but
subject to logging. About 100,000 lha suitable for oil palm cultivation was earmaraked for development ill
land settlement schiemes by the Federal Land Developmenlt AutIlolrity (FEIDA). A furtiler 170,000 ha was
set aside as wildlife and forest reserves. The project was to finance a folur-year time slice ( 1988-92) of
FELDA's agricultural developmenit program. including inifrastrluctuile for settlemenit villages. aiid to provide
support to the newly establislhed Sabali Department of Tourisimi and Envir-onimilental Developmeit. The
latter included technical assistance and staff training ancl the lincremeinital staffing and infrastructLiral
requirements related to the wildlife reserves in thle peninsuila.
The agricultural development program was carried out on sclhedule, and about 61.000 lha was
planted. Yields are in line with forecasts. lHowever, little interest was shown by the rural populationi of
Saball in the settlement scieme. Only 925 families were settled during the project period, compared to a
planned 3,500. The bulk of the land developed is being operated as an estate by FEL DA using hirecd labor.
Performance of the environmental component was fully satisfactory. Relevalit legislation was passed,
infrastructure for the forest and wildlife reser-ves on the peniisuIla constricted, a managemalernt plan prepared,
and t'ie staff of the Wildlife Department increased and ti-ained. Local NGOs were closely involved in these
activities and provided some techinical assistance. Institutional development is rated as substantial. Thie
project fully net all its phiysical objectives but, because of the decline in the price of palm oil since
appraisal, the re-estimated ERR is only 7 percent, compared to 25 percent estimated at appraisal. I-owever,
the ERR does not take the regional developmenit benefits into account. Sustainability is rated as likely, and
project outcome as marginially satisfactory. In its Part 11, the Borrower supports the findings of the PCR and
emphiasizes the contribLtioln of local NGOs in planning aicl iinpleelineitiig the environimilenltal component.
The completion report provides an aclequiate accoulit of project implementation.
An audit is planined.
CcC
Attacliment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAYSIA
Sabah Land Settlement and Environmental Management Project (Loan 3039-MA)
Table of Contents
Preface  . . . . . . . . .
Evaluation Summary   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  iii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE   . . . . . . . . . . . .  1
Project Identity   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  1
Background   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  1
Project Objectives and Brief Description   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4
Sahabat Settlement Complex   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4
Dent Peninsula Environmental Management Plan   . . . . . . . . . .  4
Project Design and Organization  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  6
Project Implementation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  7
Project Results  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Project Sustainability   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Bank Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Borrower Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Project Relationship   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Consulting Services  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Project Documentation and Data   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Review of the Environmental Component by the Government of Sabah   . . 17
Comments from FELDA . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
PART III:  STATISTICAL INFORMATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
Related Bank Loans   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
Project Timetable  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Loan Disbursements   . . . . . . . . . 26
Project Implementation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
Project Cost and Financing   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
Project Results  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
Status of Covenants  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
Use of Bank Resources  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
MAPS IBRD 20966 and 27173
Ths document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
I official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Banlk authorization.






Project ComPletion Report
MALAYSIA
Sabah Land Settlement and Environmental Management Project (Loan 3039-MA)
Preface
This Project Completion Report (PCR) reviews implementation of the Sabah
Land Settlement and Environmental Management Project in Malaysia, for which
Loan 3039-MA in the amount of US$71.5 million was approved on April 25, 1989.
The Loan closed on June 30, 1994, six months behind schedule.   The last
disbursement was made on July 19, 1994, and the undisbursed balance of US$0.53
million was cancelled on that date.
The Evaluation Summary and Parts I and III of the PCR were prepared by
the Agriculture and Environment Operations Division of the Country Department
I, East Asia and Pacific Region. Preparation of Parts I and III by the Bank
was based, inter alia, on the findings of a PCR mission carried out in October
1993 and a follow-up PCR mission in February 1995 to review the environmental
component of the project; data on land settlement and agricultural development
furnished by the Federal Land Development Authority (FELDA) and that on the
environmental component by the Ministry of Tourism and Environmental
Development (MTED) of the Government of Sabah, Malaysia; the Staff Appraisal
Report No 7381-MA dated March 30, 1989; the Loan and Project Agreements dated
July 18, 1989; correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower; and Bank
supervision reports and project files. Part II of the PCR was prepared by the
MTED, Sabah, and FELDA, the main implementing agencies for the project.
The Bank wishes to thank the officials of the MTED and the management
and staff of FELDA and Sabah Public Works Department for their cooperation and
assistance in preparing this PCR.






-iii-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAYSIA
SABAH LAND SETTLEMENT AND ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT (LOAN 3039-MA)
Evaluation Summary
Project Obiectives
1.   The project, located in the eastern part of Sabah, called the Dent
Peninsula, involved consolidation of agricultural development and settlement
of some 61,000 ha, and implementation of an Environmental Management Plan. The
project envisaged a four-year time-slice financing (from January 1989 through
December 1992) and included support to the following components in progress in
1989 or to be initiated during the project period: (a) for the Sahabat
Settlement Complex, crop development and early maintenance of about 51,150 ha
of oil palm and coffee; construction and rehabilitation of agricultural and
access roads; development of four settlement villages; construction of one
palm oil mill; and provision of vehicles and equipment; (b) for the Dent
Peninsula Environmental Management Plan, implementation of actions to enhance
conservation and management of the Tabin and Kulamba Wildlife Reserves,
including provision of staff and other resources to the Sabah Wildlife
Department (SWD); provision of infrastructure facilities and equipment for the
wildlife reserves; provision of technical assistance, including: (i) two
technical advisors for the SWD; and (ii) consulting services for the
preparation of a Sabah Conservation Strategy; and establishment of an
Environmental Coordination Unit in FELDA to ensure enhancement of
environmental protection practices during agricultural development of the
Sahabat area and in future FELDA land settlement projects. About 8,600 settler
families in the long term and 3,560 families during the project period were to
benefit from the project.
Implementation Experience
2.   Project implementation was generally problem-free. However, settler
emplacement was disappointing (para. .) and progress of the environmental
component was slower than expected at appraisal, given the weakness of the
Sahab Wildlife Department at that time and the significant legislative and
administrative changes involved. The Bank loan closing date was extended by
only six months to June 30, 1994, and the loan was almost fully disbursed.
3.   A. Sahabat Settlement Complex.  Agricultural and infrastructure
development targets were substantially achieved. Compared to 61,000 ha
expected at appraisal, about 65,000 ha had been planted through 1993,
including cocoa areas (later converted to oil palm) and plantings before 1984
not financed by the Bank loan. The Bakapit-Tungku access road rehabilitation
commenced in June 1992 and was completed in November 1994. The internal
access road network was also completed as envisaged at appraisal (except
metalling of about 20 km linking Village C to Tungku, which is expected to be
completed by mid-1995). The targets for the village infrastructure were met,
except for settler houses, which were greatly reduced in numbers due to the



-iv-
limited emplacement of settlers (para. 5). The palm oil mill was completed
and commissioned in early 1992 and has already reached its 60 ton of ffb/hour
design throughput.
4.   B. Dent Peninsula Environmental Management Plan.  Overall,
implementation of the Plan was satisfactory, although delays were experienced
in technical assistance recruitment, and legislative and administrative
reforms. The UNDP funding of the TA component was very helpful and World Wide
Fund for Nature, Malaysia (WWFM), a local NGO, played a key role in
preparation and implementation of the EMP.
Results
5.   Overall project results were satisfactory.  As regards the Sahabat
Settlement Complex, the economic development objective of increasing
agricultural production and exports of Sabah was achieved. The rehabilitation
of the Bakapit-Tungku access road has cut down by two-thirds the travel time
from Bakapit to Sahabat. However, achievement of the project's social
objective of rural poverty alleviation by providing land to poor farmers was
disappointing, as only 925 settlers were emplaced (on about 5,700 ha),
compared to 3,560 expected at appraisal. About 90% of the Sahabat area is
being managed by a FELDA subsidiary as a commercial plantation utilizing
immigrant labor and hired Sabahan workers. Given the relatively small
population of Sabah, the remoteness of the Sahabat area, and the perceived
reluctance of poor Sabahans (mostly shifting cultivators and fisherfolk) to
adopt permanent settlement and farming conditions, the risk was specifically
recognized at project appraisal that there may not be a sufficient number of
families willing to settle in the project area. To ensure settler
availability, FELDA, in close cooperation with the Sabah State Government, was
to carry out an aggressive promotion and recruitment campaign. However, those
efforts did not prove very successful.
6.   As regards the Dent Peninsula EMP, the project results were
unquestionably significant and the institutional impact was substantial. Key
objectives have been attained or are about to be attained: (a) full-time
staff of the Sabah Wildlife Department are now based at Tabin Wildlife Reserve
with responsibilities covering the Kulamba Wildlife Reserve. A management
plan has been completed for Tabin. Licensed logging in Tabin ceased in 1992
and illegal logging has been reduced to occasional incursions. Illegal
hunting is also much better controlled. Aerial and other surveys in 1994 show
significant regeneration of logged-over areas and an abundance of wildlife;
(b) an amendment to strengthen existing legislation for wildlife sanctuaries
was transformed into a more comprehensive and functional Wildlife Conservation
Enactment, which is ready for consideration by the Sabah Cabinet prior to its
being tabled at the State Legislative Assembly later this year. The Enactment
is very comprehensive and is generally regarded as a model for conservation
legislation in developing countries; and (c) the Sabah Conservation Strategy
has provided guidelines and an operational framework for the sustainable
management of Sabah's natural resources and is now being implemented at the
sectoral level.



7.   The experience with FELDA's Environmental Coordination Unit was not
successful. The Unit was never very active and it has now been dissolved
since FELDA's new land development has come to a stop and no role for the Unit
was envisaged for the mature phase of plantations.
8.   Project Benefits.  The project's main benefits are increased production
and exports of palm oil and kernels and improved environmental management in
Sabah. The total production of ffb in schemes 1 to 35 in 1994 was estimated
at about 884,000 tons (equivalent to about 185,650 tons of crude palm oil and
31,000 tons of palm kernels). Peak yields of 24 tons ffb/ha projected at
appraisal are unlikely to be attained, except in about 10% of the area. For
over 90% of the area, peak yields are likely to be about 21 tons ffb/ha. This
lower yield is partly a reflection of the problems on about 10-12,000 ha
(about 20% of the total project area) of calcareous (coral) soils in the
eastern part of Sahabat, where the peak yields are unlikely to exceed 18 tons
ffb/ha. These calcareous forests and swamps should have been preserved for
environmental reasons. The number of settler beneficiari-s (925) is much less
than that expected at appraisal (3,560) due to the problems encountered in
settler recruitment (para. 5). With the high palm oil prices prevailing in
1994, net monthly settler incomes in Sahabat schemes averaged RM1,450
(US$580), which is higher than the appraisal estimate of RM1,320 for 1994
(RM1,035 in 1988 constant terms).
9. Economic Rate of Return. The economic rate of return (ERR) of the project
at completion is estimated at 7%. The ERR is lower than that at appraisal
(25W) principally due to a steep decline in projected palm oil prices: the
Bank's projected prices in years 2000 and 2005 (in 1994 constant terms) are
27% and 35% lower than the price assumed at appraisal. The other relatively
minor reasons are the lower expected yields of oil palm (para. 8) and a one-
year lag in production benefits. If the prices projected at appraisal had
materialised, the ERR at completion would have been about 21%.
Sustainabilitv
10. Although FELDA and its subsidiaries are well-established and relatively
strong institutions and their management, production and marketing systems
have proven to be successful, the sustainability of the Sahabat Settlement
Complex in financial terms will mainly depend on the level of world palm oil
prices. If the current high prices continue for a few years, there should be
no problem in ensuring the profitability of the Complex. However, if the
prices quickly decline to the levels projected by the Bank for the long term,
serious financial problems might surface. With the strengthening of the Sabah
Wildlife Department under the project and the continuing strong commitment of
the MTED to environmental improvement in Sabah, the results obtained under the
environmental component of the project are expected to be sustained.
Findings and Lessons Learned
11. The main findings and lessons learned are as follows:
(a) Employment of local NGOs, who have a proven track record
and who are acceptable to the Government, can be the



-vi-
ideal way to prepare and implement environmental projects
(PCR, para. 5.4).
(b) Adequate environmental safeguards should be ensured in
land development operations: the clearing of calcareous
forests and swamps in the eastern part of Sahabat should
have been avoided (PCR, paras. 5.23 and 6.4).
(c) Settler emplacement problems should not be underestimated
and land development activities in settlement projects
should be consistent with settler availability (PCR,
para. 6.1).
(d) A well-prepared environmental management plan with adequate
Government commitment and technical support can have a significant
impact within a relatively short period of time (PCR, para. 6.2).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAYSIA
SABAH LAND SETTLEMENT AND ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT (LOAN 3039-MA)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.   Project Identitv
Name           Sabah Land Settlement and Environmental Management Project
Loan Number   3039-MA
RVP Unit       East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
Country        Malaysia
Sector         Agriculture, Infrastructure and Environment
2.   Background
2.1       Acariculture in Sabah.  Sabah is one of the two East Malaysian
States. It accounts for about 22% of the total area of the country, but the
population is only 1.3 million, or 8% of the country's total. In the late
1980s, forestry, agriculture and fisheries contributed about 40% of the
State's GDP and 50% of exports, with forestry being the largest contributor.
About 2.15 million ha or 30t was suitable for agriculture, but less than one-
third (600,000 ha) was under cultivation in 1986. As in Peninsular Malaysia,
Sabah's climate and soil conditions provide a strong comparative advantage for
tree crops, in particular oil palm and cocoa. About 75% of Sabah's population
lives in rural areas, and they are mostly indigenous peoples. Traditionally,
they have been shifting cultivators, hunters and fishermen. In 1984, it was
officially estimated that about 33% of the whole Sabah population was below
the poverty level. There is a continuous influx of labor from neighboring
Indonesia and Philippines, most of which is employed in tree crop plantations
on the East Coast.
2.2       FELDA.  The Federal Land Development Authority (FELDA) was
established in 1956 as a Statutory Body attached to the Ministry of Lands.
Since its inception, FELDA played a mdjor role in addressing the Government's
poverty alleviation program through the development and planting of State
lands principally with rubber and oil palm for settlement by poor rural
families. FELDA's integrated program involved land development and
smallholder settlement in group farming schemes that included community
organization, management, roads, village infrastructure, water supply
facilities, agricultural extension, inputs, credit, processing, marketing and
other services. For its development services and downstream activities (such
as palm oil fruit processing, transport and marketing) FELDA established
several subsidiary corporations and entered into joint venture arrangements
with the private sector. To construct access roads and village
infrastructure, which are financed by Federal grants, FELDA relied on the
Public Works Department (PWD).
2.3       As of December 31, 1988, FELDA had settled 111,728 families in 441
settlement schemes comprising about 752,000 ha, with a total area in
production of about 540,000 ha. Until 1978, FELDA's program was limited to



-2-
Peninsular (West) Malaysia. However, with increasing scarcity of suitable
land in the peninsula, FELDA began operations in Sabah in 1979 and in Sarawak
in 1987. Under the Fifth Malaysia Plan (1986-90), FELDA intended to develop
175,000 ha and emplace 30,000 settler families, with a total investment of M$
2.7 billion (US$ 1.06 billion), about one-third of which would be in Sabah.
However, during the first three years of the Plan, budget allocations and
government outlays were lower than projected and implementation had fallen
behind target.
2.4       FELDA's long-term Sabah program consisted of three projects with a
gross target area of 119,600 ha: Umas (9,700 ha), Kalabakan (6,900 ha) and
Sahabat (103,000 ha). Land development and planting of the first two
complexes had been substantially completed. Agricultural development and
infrastructure works in the larger Sahabat program were still in progress, and
settler emplacement was starting in 1988.
2.5       Pro-ect Area.  The project area comprised the Sahabat Land
Development and Settlement Complex and the Tabin (TWR) and Kulamba (KWR)
Wildlife Reserves, located at the eastern end of the Dent Peninsula in the
State of Sabah. A 65-km gravel road from Lahad Datu to Tungku, of which a 35
- km section between Bakapit and Tungku was in poor condition, provided access
to the Sahabat area.
2.6        A.  The Sahabat Settlement Complex.  FELDA's long-term program for
Sahabat (gross area of 103,000 ha) included development and planting of about
90,000 ha and settlement of about 12,700 families. The Sahabat Complex was
divided into 54 schemes, which in turn were to be grouped into 13 villages (A
through M), with an average production area of 7,000 ha per village. The
long-term program included construction of roads, water supply works, housing,
offices and other buildings, palm oil mills, an "industrial complex" including
palm oil bulking installations and a jetty, and a palm oil refinery at a later
stage. By end - 1988, some 61,000 ha had been cleared in schemes 1 to 35 and
39,300 ha planted. Although considerable infrastructure had been completed in
the area, harvesting and transport of oil palm on about 13,700 ha already in
production was seriously hampered by an almost total lack of agricultural
roads and an incomplete access road network.
2.7       B.  Wildlife Reserves.  The Tabin Wildlife Reserve(TWR)  (120,000
ha) is the largest forest area in Sabah (and in Borneo) established
specifically for the protection of wild breeding populations of the Asian
elephant (Elephas maximus), the Asian two-horned rhinoceros (Dicerorhinus
sumatrensis) and the wild cattle (Bos iavanicus), known locally as banteng or
tembadau. Gazetted in March 1984 under forest legislation, TWR had previously
been commercial forest reserve selectively logged for large dipterocarp trees
for export. After gazettement, commercial logging had continued in all parts
of the Reserve except in a "Core Area" of 8,616 hectares, which had no special
legal status but was retained as a sanctuary for rhinos and other mammals
displaced by logging in surrounding areas, as well as a source of plants and
animals to regenerate neighboring forest after logging. With the development
of the adjacent Sahabat area, the importance of TWR had increased, since it
would have to provide sanctuary to wildlife displaced by land clearing and
agricultural development within the Sahabat scheme. Also located in the Dent



Peninsula north of Tabin are the Kulamba Wildlife Reserve (KWR) (20,682 ha),
the Kuala Segama and Kuala Maruap Forest Reserve (24,000 ha), and the nipa
swamp state land set aside for fisheries. Tabin and Kulamba are the only
wildlife reserves in the State of Sabah.
2.8       Until 1987, wildlife conservation and management was the
responsibility of the Sabah Forestry Department, through its Wildlife Section.
In 1987, this Section was transferred to operace as a Department under the
State Ministry of Tourism and Environmental Development (MTED). The new
Department was still weak and needed considerable strengthening to be able to
develop and implement the required management and conservation policies and
programs.
2.9       The transfer of the Wildlife Section had led to ambiguity in
responsibility for management of the wildlife reserves. Since the reserves
were gazetted under forest legislation, responsibility for management of the
fauna and flora within them rested with the Forestry Depa-tment. Under State
legislation, there were no conditions attached to the status of the Tabin
Wildlife Reserve--logging could, therefore, continue without reference to the
new Sabah Wildlife Department (SWD). An amendment to the Fauna Conservation
Ordinance (Sabah's wildlife) conservation/management legislation) had placed
responsibility relating to wild animals (except fish) with the Wildlife
Department. However, as the distribution and abundance of wild animals
depends primarily on habitat, the Forestry Department effectively retained
control over all wildlife in the reserves. Furthermore, forest legislation
existing in the late 1980s was such that any kind of management activity
prescribed by SWD for animals required the support of the Forestry Department.
Thus, additional amendments to the then existing provisions were necessary to
ensure that wildlife habitat was protected and the SWD was empowered to
enforce its protection. The Government of Sabah (GOS) had indicated its
commitment to pursue these amendments and to strengthen the newly-established
SWD. The proposed project was to support this endeavor.
2.10      Bank Involvement and Project Origin.  Bank staff first reviewed the
Sahabat settlement complex development program in 1985 during preparation of
the Palm Oil Mills Project (Loan 2530-MA), which included two mills in
Sahabat. At that time it was determined that the Federal and State
Governments were committed to implementing this project. It was also felt
that since the project involved land clearance of some 100,000 ha of secondary
rain forest and wildlife would be lost or displaced, Bank involvement could be
instrumental in bringing about wildlife and other natural resource protection
measures. Thus, after initial discussions with FELDA and the central
agencies, a preparation mission visited Malaysia in July 1986 and agreed with
FELDA on the scope and timetable for a Preparation Report (PR) and terms of
reference for an environmental impact assessment (EIA). FELDA issued the PR
in June 1987 and the ETA was completed in February 1988. A follow-up
Environmental Management Plan for the Dent Peninsula (EMP) was completed in
May 1988 by the World Wide Fund for Nature, Malaysia (WWFM), which was
contracted for this assignment. Project appraisal took place in May 1988.
Sahabat's progress and future implementation targets were updated in February
1989.



-4-
3.   Project Obiectives and Brief Description
3.1       Proiect Obiectives.  The project aimed to assist the Government in
the implementation of the Sahabat settlement program in the eastern part of
Sabah, called the Dent Peninsula, thereby contributing to rural poverty
alleviation and economic development of the State of Sabah, and at the same
time to implement an Environmental Management Plan for the Dent Peninsula,
with emphasis on strengthening management and protection of the Tabin and
Kulamba wildlife reserves, and on institution-building. The project involved
consolidation of agricultural development and settlement of some 61,000 ha, by
providing infrastructure and agricultural inputs and services. This was
expected to raise incomes and living standards of about 8,600 families in the
long term and 3,560 families during the project period, increase agricultural
production and exports, and contribute to the creation of employment in
project-related services and processing industries.
3.2       Project Description.  The project was to consis- of a four year
time-slice financing (from January 1989 through December 1992) of the Sahabat
program (para 2.6) and the Dent Peninsula Environmental Management Plan and
was to include support to the following components in progress in 1989 or to
be initiated during the project period:
A.   Sahabat Settlement Complex
(a) Crop development and early maintenance of oil palm and coffee and
construction of about 5,000 km of agricultural roads;
(b) Rehabilitation of 35 km of the project area main access road,
bituminous treatment of 36 km and construction of 44 km of internal
access roads;
(c) Development of four settlement villages (A to D), including
construction of village roads, water mains and reticulation works,
settler houses, offices and staff houses;
(d) Construction of one palm oil mill; and
(e) Provision of vehicles and equipment, salaries and other operating
expenditures for field management and operation of the schemes.
B.   Dent Peninsula Environmental Management Plan
(a) Implementation of actions to enhance conservation and management of
the Tabin and Kulamba Wildlife Reserves, including provision of
staff and other resources to the Sabah Wildlife Department,
(b) Provision of infrastructure facilities and equipment for the
wildlife reserves;
(c) Provision of technical assistance, including: (i) two technical
advisors for the SWD; and (ii) consulting services to assist GOS in



the preparation of a Conservation Strategy for the State of Sabah;
and
(d) Establishment of an Environmental Coordination Unit in FELDA to
ensure enhancement of environmental protection practices during
agricultural development of the Sahabat area and in future FELDA
land settlement projects.
3.3       Crop Development and Maintenance.  Excluding the areas developed
with cocoa, the project was to support: (i) completion of planting of 18,300
ha of oil palm and 300 ha of coffee in 1989 and 1990; and (ii) early
maintenance of 51,155 ha, including 32,555 ha of oil palm and coffee planted
from 1984 through 1988 and 18,600 ha to be planted in 1989 and 1990.
3.4       Agricultural Roads.  The project included realignment, regrading
and 100% graveling of existing road tracks and construction of bridges and
culverts in schemes 1 to 35. Average agricultural road density was to be 90
m/ha.
3.5       Access Roads.  The project was to support completion of the Sahabat
area main access road, and schemes 1 to 35 internal access road network,
including:  (a)  rehabilitation of the Bakapit-Tungku 35 km main access road,
and construction of a weighbridge; (b) asphalt pavement of 36 km of the
Tungku-Village D road; and (c) ongoing works (8 km) and additional
construction (26 km) of the eastern ring to village I and 10 km of the
diagonal road (to scheme 13).
3.6       Village Infrastructure.  The project was to include infrastructure
development of four villages (A through D). Each village would group on
average four settlement schemes. Basic village infrastructure included in the
project consisted of roads, water mains and household connections, settler
houses and office buildings. Each village was to require about 24 km of
roads, for a total of 96 km for the four villages in the project.
3.7       Palm Oil Mill.  The project included construction of one palm oil
mill at scheme 22. This was to be the third palm oil mill in the Sahabat
Complex and was to be ready for opera'ion by late 1992.  The mill was to
consist of two lines of production, each of 30 tons of fresh oil palm fruit
bunches per hour (ffb/hour) nominal throughput.
3.8       Vehicles, Equipment and Operating Costs.  The project included
first time purchases and replacement of vehicles and equipment, and management
and operating expenditures of the schemes during the first six years after
planting. Some 21 vehicles and 9 tractor/trailers were to be purchased during
the project period.
3.9       Dent Peninsula Environmental Management Plan (EMP). Environmental
actions under the project included:
(a) Legislative and Administrative Actions. To enhance conservation
and management of Tabin and Kulamba wildlife reserves, the project
was to support GOS plans to: (a) amend existing legislation so as



-6-
to define wildlife reserves as areas set aside for the conservation
of wildlife and wildlife habitat and to eliminate commercial forest
exploitation therein, and give responsibility for the management of
wildlife reserves to SWD; and (b) provide the SWD with the staff
and resources necessary to carry out its responsibilities, in
particular, the management and protection of TWR and KWR.
(b)  Infrastructure and Equipment.  The project was to provide for the
construction of a TWR Headquarters building. Access to the
Headquarters was to be through 30 km of existing plantation roads
which were to be upgraded to the agricultural roads standards of
the Sahabat area. The project also provided for vehicles and
equipment for operation of the Reserve.
(c) Technical Assistance. The project provided for two technical
advisors who were to assists SWD, each for a period of 30 months
starting not later than September 30, 1989. One of the advisors
was to be attached to the office of the Director of SWD and was to
assist in developing objectives, policies and programs, and in
assessing staffing, staff training and other resource requirements
for the operation of the Department. The second advisor was to
assist the manager of the Tabin and Kulamba wildlife reserves, and
was to assist the SWD in developing a long-term operational and
research program, in staff training, and in the initial operation
of the reserves. Also, some 18 person-months of consulting
services were provided under the project to assist GOS in the
preparation of a Conservation Strategy for the State of Sabah.
Funding for all TA was to be by UNDP, with counterpart funds
provided by the Government of Sabah (GOS).
4.   Project Design and Organization
4.1       Overall, the project concept and objectives were clear, and the
design and scope of project components were appropriate to the conditions
prevailing in Sabah in the late 1980s. For the component relating to the
Sahabat Settlement Complex, as Bank experience with FELDA's development
approach had been very satisfactory i: the past, the project did not attempt
to introduce major planning, technical or managerial changes. From the
planning perspective, it was designed to accelerate the construction of basic
infrastructure required to bring about agricultural benefits and provide
suitable conditions for settler emplacement. Technically, the project focused
on enhancing design and construction standards for infrastructure and
encouraging land development practices which alleviate environmental damage,
particularly through the establishment of an Environmental Coordination Unit
in FELDA (which was to be established by September 30, 1989). For the
component relating to the Dent Peninsula Environmental Management Plan,
project design appropriately provided for technical assistance and significant
legislative and administrative changes, considering the weakness of the Sabah
wildlife Department at that stage. Prior to loan negotiations, the GOS
furnished to the Government of Malaysia and the Bank a letter dated March 15,
1989 outlining its environmental policies and confirming its intentions and
timetable to implement the Dent Peninsula EMP. Project preparation, which



-7-
spanned a period of two years, was adequate. Project processing took somewhat
longer than anticipated to allow for more detailed preparation of the
environmental management component. Bank staff and consultants were involved
in project preparation and appraisal.
4.2       Organization.  The project implementation responsibility was
divided among FELDA, Sabah Public Works Department (PWD), and the Government
of Sabah.
(a)  Development of the Sahabat Settlement Complex was the
responsibility of FELDA and its subsidiary corporations in line
with the long-established land development and settlement approach.
Planning, design and construction of internal access and
agricultural roads and buildings were the responsibility of FELDA's
Engineering Department assisted by FELDA Construction Corporation
(BINA). Agricultural roads maintenance was to be carried out by
BINA under contract. Access and village roads after construction
were to be gazetted as Federal roads and maintained by PWD-Sabah
with annual Federal budget allocations specifically earmarked for
this purpose.
(b)  Engineering design and construction of the Bakapit-Tungku main
access road was to be carried out by PWD-Sabah with the help of
consultants and contractors. After construction, the road was to
be gazetted as a Federal road and maintenance funds were co be made
available from the Federal Government to PWD-Sabah for this
purpose.
(c)  Primary responsibility for implementation of the EMP was to rest
with the Sabah Ministry of Tourism and Environmental Development
(MTED). The main State executing agency was to be the Sabah
Wildlife Department (SWD) of MTED.
The above organizational arrangements were maintained over the life of the
project and worked well. The road maintenance arrangements have also been
implemented.
5.   Project Implementation
5.1       Project implementation was generally problem-free.  However,
settler emplacement was disappointing (see further para. 6.1) and progress of
the environmental component was slower than expected at appraisal, given the
weakness of the Sabah Wildlife Department at that time and the significant
legislative and administrative changes involved. Compared to RM583.3 million
(US$216.0 million equivalent) estimated at appraisal, actual project cost was
RM765.8 million (US$287.1 million equivalent), with the Sahabat time-slice
expenditure amounting to RM760.2 million and the EMP expenditure to RM5.6
million (including the UNDP TA of about US$0.98 million or RM2.6 million).
The increase in total costs was due mainly to the inclusion of 1993
expenditures, whereas the appraisal estimates were for 1989-92. Excluding
1993, project costs would be RM629.8 million (US$234.2 million equivalent).
The cost overrun over 1989-92 was due primarily to land development and



-8-
infrastructure costs being higher than those anticipated at appraisal. There
was a minor amendment in the Project Agreement between FELDA and the Bank in
June 1991, and an amendment in the Loan Agreement between Malaysia and the
Bank in October 1992 (reflecting changes in the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
between the Government of Malaysia and FELDA). The Bank loan closing date was
extended by only six months to June 30, 1994 and the loan was almost fully
disbursed.
5.2       A. Sahabat Settlement Complex. Project time-slice financing of the
Sahabat Settlement Complex was completed in 1992, at which time agricultural
and infrastructure development targets had been substantially achieved. Crop
development and maintenance were largely in line with appraisal expectations.
Compared to 61,000 ha expected at appraisal for schemes 1 to 35 in the Sahabat
Complex (schemes 36 to 54 had not been cleared at that stage), about 65,000 ha
had been planted through 1993. This included cocoa areas (later converted to
oil palm) and plantings before 1984 not financed by the Bank loan. Planting
and maintenance financed by the Bank loan is estimated at 18,800 ha of oil
palm and 350 ha of coffee, compared to 50,350 ha and 800 ha, respectively,
expected at appraisal. Changes in crop composition in the Sahabat Complex
after the start of the project included the clearing and replanting of
virtually all the original cocoa areas (not financed by the Bank) of about
3,500 ha with oil palm due to the gloomy price prospects for cocoa, the
conversion of 1,290 ha of oil palm inter-cropped with cocoa into oil palm mono
crop, and the replanting to oil palm of about 200 ha of coconut on sandy
soils. Of the total 65,000 ha planted in schemes 1 to 35, only about 5,700 ha
(less than 10% of the total area) has been allocated for settlers under the
block ownership system (block land titles rather than individual titles) and
the rest is operated as an estate by FELDA Plantations Sdn. Bhd. (a FELDA
subsidiary incorporated in early 1992) through contractors making use of
immigrant labor and hired Sabahan workers. About 4,550 km of agricultural
roads to serve the crop areas were also completed, compared to the appraisal
estimate of 5,000 km.
5.3       The Bakapit-Tungku access road rehabilitation commenced in June
1992 and was completed in November 1994, at an estimated cost of RM50 million
(including detailed engineering, survey and construction supervision costs).
The internal access road network was also completed as envisaged at appraisal
(except metalling of about 20 km linking Village C to Tungku, which is
expected to be completed by mid-1995). The targets for the village
infrastructure were met, except for settler houses, which were greatly reduced
in numbers due to the limited emplacement of settlers (para. 6.1). The palm
oil mill at scheme 22 was completed and commissioned in early 1992 and has
already reached its 60 ton of ffb/hour design throughput. The extraction rates
are about 21% for crude palm oil and 3.5% for palm kernels, the highest among
the four mills in operation in Sahabat as of February 1995.
5.4       B. Dent Peninsula Environmental Management Plan.   Overall,
implementation of the Plan was satisfactory, although delays were experienced
in technical assistance recruitment, and legislative and administrative
reforms. The UNDP funding of the TA component was very helpful and a key
contributor to the success of the EMP. WWFM, a local NGO, played a valuable
role in preparation and implementation of the EMP.



- 9 -
5.5       (i) TWR and KWR: (a) Management.  A 5-year Management Plan for
Tabin Wildlife Reserve was completed in October 1994 by the Chief Technical
Advisor to the project and officers of the Wildlife Department. It reviews
the regional context of the Reserve and its resources and socio-economic
pressures and details management objectives, including administration and
maintenance. Many protection actions have been initiated, including
systematic patrolling, boundary demarcation, and twice monthly aerial
reconnaissance to monitor illegal logging. Research, surveying and monitoring
activities have been started and it is expected they will be consolidated and
given better direction with the establishment of a new laboratory and the
implementation of a Memorandum of Understanding on a 10-year cooperative
program of research and training signed by the SWD and the University
Kebangsaan, Malaysia. An Ecotourism Plan for Malaysia under the 7th Plan,
being developed by WWF-Malaysia, proposes to introduce tourism into the Tabin
Wildlife Reserve in 1997 following establishment of appropriate
infrastructure.
5.6       Completion of boundary demarcation has not been completed along the
southern portion of Tabin but there is financial provision for this under the
7th Plan. Patrolling has been enhanced through the use of two guard houses
with a third to be sited in the northwest corner of the Reserve. Since the
threat of poaching and illegal logging is greatest in the northeast corner, a
boat has been purchased to step up the effectiveness of patrolling in this
area and the Kulamba Wildlife Reserve.
5.7       Using the experience of work on the Tabin Wildlife Reserve, a WWF-
Malaysia Advisor and Trainee Scientific Officer to the Wildlife Department are
preparing a Management Plan for the Kulamba Wildlife Reserve. The final
report is expected in June 1995. This will investigate arrangements to make
the Tabin and Kulamba reserves contiguous over State nipa swamp forest and
thereby to manage such land as a unit. In parallel, the Land Survey and
Forest Departments will survey the proposed contiguous area. However, it
should be noted that investigations and management of much of this area are
likely to prove daunting as the area has a high security risk.
5.8       Staffing of the Tabin Wildlife Reserve currently consists of a
Manager (graduate level), eight range:s and three laborers; an additional
position has been approved by the Public Services Commission. The Technical
Advisor to the Tabin and Kulamba Reserves was not replaced after completion of
a 15-month assignment, his duties being entrusted to the Chief Technical
Advisor to the Wildlife Department. This meant delayed preparation of the
management plan and reduced level of support to on-site management and
training. In addition to formal courses, on-the-job training has taken place
on such topics as: survey and habitat analysis of arboreal animals; field
research; and telemetry. A course on surveying large animals is anticipated
for 1995 and a "Wildlife Field Research Conservation Training Manual" used for
instruction at Tabin is currently being translated into Bhasa Malaysia for
country-wide application. Visits by government officers were made to Kenya
and India to review protected areas management, including revenue sharing.
5.9       Despite these training initiatives, more needs to be done,
especially at the ranger level. As a beginning, a clear training program



-10-
should be established targeting staff (officers and rangers in MTED and
relevant sectors), categorizing types of training, and stipulating budgets and
resource persons. The program should be linked to university curricula, and
Danum Valley and other research activities. In this context, it is
encouraging that a co-operative program of research and training has been
agreed between the SWD and University Kebangsan, Malaysia. The Wildlife
Department should take full advantage of scholars visiting Sabah; indeed,
training of Reserve staff should become a condition of permitting the
scholars' research.
5.10      The current practice of maintaining confiscated caged animals at
Tabin headquarters is consuming valuable time and budget and not contributing
significantly to the management of the Tabin Wildlife Reserve. This activity
should be phased out as soon as possible (it was reported that these animals
have to be kept as evidence as long as the court cases are pending) and the
animals released before they become too domesticated.
5.11      (b) Infrastructure.  Construction of 10 km of the access road from
the southwest corner gate of the Tabin Wildlife Reserve to the headquarter
building was completed in September 1993 and, save for 3 or 4 local spots
suffering landslides and slippage, is in good condition. However, as urged by
Bank missions, the MTED should approach the Public Works Department (JKR) to
ensure necessary long-term maintenance. Construction of an additional 20 km
from the Lahad Datu-Tungku road to the southwest gate of the TWR, envisaged at
appraisal, was not considered necessary during implementation because good
access had been arranged through private plantation roads.
5.12      Construction of the office building, and houses for the manager and
four senior staff have been completed. Initial design oversights have been
corrected by Sabah Parks, which was contracted to supervise construction.
5.13      Actions recommended to improve the management of Tabin and Kulamba
Wildlife Reserves are the following: (i) ensure adequate funding of the next
phase of management of the new Wildlife Sanctuaries, giving priority to the
implementation of the management plans for Tabin and the Lower Kinabatangan;
(ii) complete boundary demarcation promised under the 7th Plan and establish
and stock a third guard post in the ncrthwest corner of Tabin Wildlife
Reserve; (iii) complete and implement a management plan for the Kulamba
Wildlife Reserve, including arrangements for contiguity with the Tabin
Wildlife Reserve; (iv) develop a suitable training program to ensure long-term
conservation management of Sabah's biological resources; this should be
targeted at field staff and integrated with courses run by
university/research institutions; (v) develop staff skills in conservation
planning and management by phased increase in specific positions; and (vi)
consolidate a wildlife research program with a balance between the
conservation of habitats and ecosystems and globally endangered species.
5.14      (ii) TA to the Wildlife Department.  The UNDP's TA project was
amended twice and financing increased from US$0.50 million at appraisal to
US$0.98 million eventually. While the contract for the advisor/manager for
Tabin was not extended after the initial 15-month period and thus fell short
of the 30 months envisaged at appraisal, the services of the Chief Technical



-11-
Advisor (CTA) to the Wildlife Department were very much appreciated and he
continued in his job for almost 45 months until October 1994. He assisted in
drafting policies, management plans and field training. Principal outputs
include: "Wildlife Research in Sabah"; and "A Management Plan for Tabin
Wildlife Reserve". Many of the actions outlined in these outputs have been
initiated during the project. However, some await funding or legislative
action. The CTA also helped develop in-situ wildlife management techniques
and procedures, provided some training, and gave support to the drafting of
conservation legislation.
5.15      Recommendations on research activities were submitted by the CTA to
the Wildlife Department in a report "Wildlife Research in Sabah" in December,
1993. Following this, a proposal for "Sabah Wildlife Research and Monitoring"
is before the State Development Office, the Federal EPU and the FAO having
agreed in principle to its funding. The proposal envisages the return of the
former Chief Technical Advisor to the Wildlife Department to further develop
and implement its objectives which include: (i) establishing a research and
monitoring capability within the Wildlife Department; and (ii) strengthening
the conservation of globally endangered species in Sabah.
5.16      The TA for the preparation of the Sabah Conservation Strategy
(financed by the UNDP) was satisfactorily completed (18 months as envisaged at
appraisal). The Wildlife Department increased its staff from 48 to more than
124 envisaged at appraisal, but has only eight graduate officers to manage
71,000 km2 of land under its jurisdiction. This is likely to prove a
management constraint in the future.
5.17       (iii) Legislation.  Substantial progress is being made in
strengthening wildlife conservation through enactment of new State laws. In
1992, the State Assembly approved Enactment No. 1 of 1992 amending the
Forestry Enactment of 1968. This included provisions that: (i) re-defined
Class VII Wildlife Reserve (such as Tabin) for protection of wildlife; (ii)
classified the Tabin core area as Class I Protection Forests; and, (iii)
banned forest concessions in Forest Reserves Class I, VI and VII (which
includes Tabin and its core area).
5.18      A legal consultant has prepared a draft Bill for Wildlife
Conservation Enactment. The Bill would: (i) strengthen the authority of the
Wildlife Department; (ii) establish two categories of protected areas under
the Department's authority, i.e, State Conservation Areas and Wildlife
Sanctuaries (Tabin, Kulamba and Kinabatangan); and (iii) enhance protection of
plants and animals. A Steering Committee comprising the MTED, Wildlife and
Forestry Departments, the State Attorney General and the State Department of
Natural Resources has reviewed the draft and a paper recommending enactment of
legislation is ready for the Cabinet. The Attorney General has already
cleared the draft and it is expected that the Bill will go before the State
Legislative Assembly in August 1995. In the meantime, a Legal Enforcement
Unit of some 23 staff has been established to ensure enforcement of wildlife
legislation, particularly related to poaching.
5.19      (iv) Sabah Conservation Strategy (SCS). The SCS was satisfactorily
completed by WWFM in March 1992 and a number of actions have been taken by GOS



- 12 -
to implement its recommendations. The SCS makes comprehensive recommendations
covering multi-sectoral, sustainable use of Sabah's natural resources and the
protection of its biodiversity, including scheduled species. The committee
responsible for preparation of the SCS became the SCS Implementation and
Monitoring Committee. Later, the State Development Planning Committee,
chaired by the Chief Minister, approved the conceptual framework of the SCS
and established a subcommittee under the Chief of State Natural Resources
Division to draft a statement adopting the Strategy and a paper based on this
statement is currently before the Cabinet.
5.20      As a start to implementing the SCS, a land potential map is being
prepared and the Natural Resources Division has completed a State Water
Resources Study. The Ministry of Tourism and Environmental Development (MTED)
has retained the services of WWF-Malaysia to assist the Environmental
Development Division in SCS coordination and implementation, and bilateral
support is being sought, including funding for a national coastal zone
management plan and a biodiversity conservation project.
5.21      Actions recommended to support conservation efforts in Sabah are
the following: (i) approval of the SCS by the Sabah State Cabinet; (ii)
implementation of specific recommendations of the SCS; (iii) development of
Sabah's protected area network, the passing of relevant legislation,
gazettement of Tabin, Kulamba and the Lower Kinabatangan Wildlife Reserves and
existing Bird Sanctuaries as State Wildlife Sanctuaries, and assignment of
protection status to the Danum Valley Conservation Area and the Maliau Basin;
(iv) preparation of land use base maps for the processing of land
applications; and (v) upgrading of the Environmental Development Division of
the MTED to an Environmental Conservation and Development Unit.
5.22      (v) FELDA Environmental Coordination Unit and Environmental
Practices. The Unit, originally established under the Department of Budget
and Planning, was transferred to the Engineering Department halfway through
the project. It was staffed with non-specialists who, despite repeated
requests by the Bank, were never given adequate authority or encouragement to
promote environmental protection practices in FELDA's operations. "Guidelines
for Reduction of Adverse Environmental Impacts" were developed by the Planning
Department but no training or follow-up actions were undertaken at the field
level. Early in 1995, the Unit was disbanded in the process of overall down-
sizing of FELDA since new land development by FELDA has now been completely
stopped and no role for the Unit was envisaged for the mature phase of
plantations.
5.23      Regarding FELDA's environmental practices, Bank missions repeatedly
drew attention to the felling of trees in very hilly areas and poor clearing
activities near rivers or their banks--often in contravention of the Drainage
and Irrigation Department regulations. Concerns were also expressed by the
Bank regarding the felling of the calcareous forests in the eastern part of
the project area and in the Sahabat River catchment. In a move to protect the
upper and middle Sahabat River catchment (especially the forests), the MTED
has approached the District government to stop issuing development permits on
government land within the catchment. Aquaculture has now been proposed for
some 200 ha of calcareous area in Sahabat schemes 23 and 24 but after an EIA



-13-
and cost estimates are prepared, it is unlikely that the scheme will be found
viable. The establishment of a bird sanctuary is proposed as an alternative
for the area. The only remaining swamps in the Sahabat occur in schemes
6,7,11 and 35. On the positive side, an electric fence and trench along the
eastern boundary of the Tabin Wildlife Reserve has prevented elephant
incursions into Sahabat and FELDA's pest management practices have
incorporated a number of environmental safeguards. Moreover, learning from
the experience of the earlier Jengka projects where elephant entrapment
occurred as a result of land clearing, FELDA maintained a land clearing
pattern in Sahabat from the coast inland in a northwesterly direction to
ensure the movement of animals to the adjacent wildlife reserves.
5.24      Actions recommended to improve the environment in the Sahabat area
are the following: (i) revision of "Guidelines for Reduction of Adverse
Environmental Impacts" after a workshop recommended to be held in Kuala Lumpur
with the participation of agricultural agencies, Department of Environment and
relevant NGOs in the next 9-12 months; (ii) action by the Sahabat District
Government to protect the Sahabat River catchment through control of permits
on government land; and (iii) adequate protection of natural habitat,
especially the remaining calcareous forests and swamps.
6.   Project Results
6.1       Overall project results were satisfactory.  As regards the Sahabat
Settlement Complex, the economic development objective of increasing
agricultural production and exports of Sabah was achieved. The rehabilitation
of the Bakapit-Tungku access road has cut down by two-thirds the travel time
from Bakapit to Sahabat. However, the achievement of the project's social
objective of rural poverty alleviation by providing land to poor farmers was
disappointing, as only 925 settlers were emplaced, compared to 3,560 expected
during the project period and 8,600 in the long term. About 90% of the
Sahabat area is being managed as a commercial plantation utilizing immigrant
labor and hired Sabahan workers. Given the relatively small population of
Sabah, the remoteness of the Sahabat area, and the perceived reluctance of
poor Sabahans (mostly shifting cultivators and fisherfolk) to adopt permanent
settlement and farming conditions, the risk was specifically recognised at
project appraisal that there may not be a sufficient number of families
willing to settle in the project area at an average rate of about 950 per
year, although the FELDA package offered a proven and sustainable economic
option. To ensure settler availability, FELDA, in close cooperation with the
Sabah State Government, was to carry out an aggressive promotion and
recruitment campaign, particularly in the western part of Sabah, where the
majority of the poor, shifting cultivators lived. However, those efforts did
not prove very successful and the bulk of the Sahabat area is, therefore,
likely to continue as a commercial plantation.
6.2       As regards the Dent Peninsula EMP, the project results were
unquestionably significant and the institutional impact was substantial. Key
objectives have been attained or are about to be attained: (a) full-time staff
of the Sabah Wildlife Department are now based at Tabin Wildlife Reserve with
responsibilities covering the Kulamba Wildlife Reserve. A management plan has
been completed for Tabin. Licensed logging in Tabin ceased in 1992 and illegal



-14-
logging has been reduced to occasional incursions. Illegal hunting is also
much better controlled. Aerial and other surveys in 1994 show significant
regeneration of logged-over areas and an abundance of wildlife; (b) an
amendment to strengthen existing legislation for wildlife sanctuaries was
transformed into a more comprehensive and functional Wildlife Conservation
Enactment, which is ready for consideration by the Sabah Cabinet prior to its
being tabled at the State Legislative Assembly later this year. The Enactment
is very comprehensive and is generally regarded as a model for conservation
legislation in developing countries; and (c) the Sabah Conservation Strategy
has provided guidelines and an operational framework for the sustainable
management of Sabah's natural resources and is now being implemented at the
sectoral level.
6.3       The experience with FELDA's Environmental Coordination Unit was not
successful. The Unit was never very active and it has now been dissolved
(para. 5.22).
6.4       Project Benefits.  The project's main benefits are increased
production and exports of palm oil and kernels and improved environmental
management in Sabah. The total production of ffb in schemes 1 to 35 in 1994
was estimated at about 884,000 tons (equivalent to about 185,650 tons of crude
palm oil and 31,000 tons of palm kernels). Peak yields of 24 tons ffb/ha
projected at appraisal are unlikely to be attained in large areas under FELDA
Plantations, but are attainable in settler areas, which usually consist of
better-yielding farms allocated by FELDA. The peak yields in FELDA Plantations
area are likely to be about 21 tons ffb/ha. This lower yield is partly a
reflection of the problems on about 10-12,000 ha (about 20% of the total
project area) of calcareous (coral) soils in the eastern part of Sahabat,
where the peak yields are unlikely to exceed 18 tons ffb/ha (see para. 5.23
for further discussion of calcareous soils). The number of settler
beneficiaries (925) is much less than that expected at appraisal (3,560) due
to the problems encountered in settler recruitment (para. 6.1). With the high
palm oil prices prevailing in 1994, net monthly settler incomes in Sahabat
schemes averaged RM1,450 (US$580), which is higher than the appraisal estimate
of RM1,320 for 1994 (RM1,035 in 1988 constant terms).
6.5       Cost Recovery.  No direct recovery of investments in basic
infrastructure, including roads, water supply, staff houses and public
buildings was envisaged under the project. However, agricultural development
expenditures, including land development, planting and crop maintenance, and
settler houses would be fully repaid by the settlers and FELDA Plantations
Sdn.Bhd. over a period of 25 years. Since FELDA carries out crop processing
and marketing through its subsidiaries, repayments due from settlers are
deducted from sales revenues.
6.6       Economic Rate of Return. The economic rate of return (ERR) of the
project at completion is estimated at 7%, compared to 25% expected at
appraisal. Since project plantings are almost entirely with oil palm, costs
and benefits of only oil palm were included in the economic analysis. The
analysis excluded the costs of construction and maintenance of access roads,
village roads and waterworks, since these infrastructure works generate many
economic and social benefits which could not be identified and included in the



-15-
analysis. If these costs are included (as at appraisal), the ERR would be
negative. The ERR is lower than that at appraisal, principally due to a steep
decline in projected palm oil prices: the Bank's projected world prices in
years 2000 and 2005 (in 1994 constant terms) are US$350 and 310/ton,
respectively, which are 27% and 35% lower, respectively, than the price of
US$478/ton (US$416 in 1988 constant terms) assumed at appraisal. Translated
into millgate terms, the currently projected price in year 2000 in 1994
constant terms is 48% lower than that projected at appraisal (RM114/ton of ffb
compared to RM219). The other relatively minor reasons for the lower ERR at
completion are the lower expected yields of oil palm (para. 6.4) and a lag in
production benefits by one year. If the prices and exchange rates assumed at
appraisal had materialised, the ERR at project completion would be about 21%,
including the cost of infrastructure works.
7.   Project Sustainability
7.1       Although FELDA and its subsidiaries are well-established and
relatively strong institutions and their management, production and marketing
systems have proven to be successful, the sustainability of the Sahabat
Settlement Complex in financial terms will depend on the level of palm oil
prices. If the current high prices continue for a few years, there should be
no problem in ensuring the profitability of the Complex. However, if the
prices quickly decline to the levels projected by the Bank for the long term,
serious financial problems might surface. With the strengthening of the Sabah
Wildlife Department under the project and the continuing strong commitment of
the MTED to environmental improvement in Sabah, the results obtained under the
environmental component of the project are expected to be sustained.
8.   Bank Performance
8.1       Bank performance and contribution to the project were, in general,
satisfactory. The Bank devoted special attention to the environmental
component of the project and kept close cooperation and coordination with the
UNDP to ensure implementation of the technical assistance for the
environmental improvement measures envisaged under the project.
9.   Borrower Performance
9.1       Both FELDA and Sabah-PWD are strong organizations and their
performance under the project was satisfactory. The MTED also gave its full
support to the environmental component of the project and undertook the
necessary legislative and administrative actions.
10. Project Relationship
10.1      Working relations among Bank and UNDP staff on the one hand and
staff from the Federal Treasury, Government of Sabah, FELDA, and PWD were
always very positive and cordial. Differences of opinion were dealt with in a
professional manner, and agreements satisfactory to the various parties were
usually reached.



-16-
11. Consulting Services
11.1      Sabah PWD employed local surveyors and engineering consulting firms
to design and supervise construction of project works, including
rehabilitation of the Bakapit-Tungku road. The consultants and contractors
performed satisfactorily.
11.2      Of the two technical advisors employed by SWD (para. 3.9(c), the
Chief Technical Advisor made important contributions in drafting policies,
procedures and management plans, and assisting in the formulation of the Sabah
Conservation Strategy.
12. Project Documentation and Data
12.1      The SAR and legal documents provided an adequate framework for the
project. Project reporting by the MTED, FELDA and Sabah PWD included
comprehensive information on the project's physical and financial progress.
The information provided by the MTED, Sabah PWD and FELDA for this report was
adequate.



-17-
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A.   REVIEW OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL COMPONENT BY THE GOVERNMENT OF SABAH 1/
1.        Evaluation Summary.  Overall, implementation of the Environmental
Management Plan for the Dent Peninsula (EMP) is rated as a success. All key
goals have either been achieved or are clearly on the way to being implemented
through actions that have been initiated. Several lessons have been learned,
amongst which the most notable are the following:
(a) Selection of an ideal organizational arrangement for project
implementation is inherently difficult because of the diversity of
sectors and governmental agencies involved in environmental issues.
A pragmatic, case-by-case approach is recommended. In the case of
Malaysia, for example, the State Government must play a key role
because the State has power over land and forest matters.
(b) In the EMP, there was some indication that a powerful and
successful organization which has been long-established was less
amenable to innovations suggested in the EMP than were newer,
smaller organizations.
(c) The roster of experts capable of undertaking environmental
conservation work still appears to be limited on United Nations
lists. Although there was no constraint during this project on
relevant local Government agencies seeking for themselves their
preferred technical advisors, it would possibly be useful in future
projects to invite host governments to propose specific names, if
available, and subject to World Bank endorsement, and to cast a
wider net in seeking possible candidates (e.g. through the World
Conservation Union, IUCN).
(d) Employment of local non-governmental organizations (NGOs), which
possess a proven track-record and which are acceptable to
government, can be an ideal way to implement environmental
conservation. Apart from providing consultancy services of
adequate standard, local NGOs may possess other advantages which
can contribute to the smooth running and success of projects. For
example, local NGOs may have an intimate knowledge of local
conditions in general, and may feel freer than outside consultants
to suggest innovative ways to enhance output as the project
proceeds. It is also possible, as was the case in the EMP, that as
a result of working on a project, a competent local NGO will be
able to continue follow-up work which will contribute to the long
term success of projects. However, careful examination is required
at the earliest stages to ensure that potential NGOs do possess
adequate and competent manpower.
i/   Prepared by the Ministry of Tourism and Environmental
Development (MTED), Government of Sabah, Malaysia, in May
1994.



-18-
(e) Expectations of success in environmental projects tend to be too
high, especially in terms of speed of implementation. This does not
apply to infrastructure development, but is most pertinent where
policy changes and legal amendments are proposed. However, this
should not be taken to imply that recommendations in future
projects are to be more modest. On the contrary, it is very
important that, if justifiable, recommendations concerning the
environment should be stringent and, where appropriate, bold.
Environmental conservation needs all the support it can get, most
especially from organizations such as development banks. This is
important because, even in present times of heightened
environmental awareness, there remains a strong tendency to dismiss
environmental concerns as exaggerated if they are voiced only by
environmental departments or NGOs.
(f) In the EMP, the Steering Committee for the Sabah Conservation
Strategy was found to be an active, useful and EAccessful tool, in
terms of guiding the work of consultants and getting inputs from
government agencies for the final product. A similar arrangement is
recommended, where appropriate, for future projects involving the
drawing up of environmental plans by consultants for government.
2.        Background.  The project concerned a Federal Land Development
Authority (FELDA) settlement scheme at Sahabat on the end of the Dent
Peninsula in eastern Sabah, involving the clearance of more than 100,000
hectares of logged natural forest adjacent to a Wildlife Reserve. Development
of the settlement scheme started in the early 1980s. In 1987, FELDA
commissioned an environmental impact assessment (EIA), which identified
several environmental concerns in relation to the scheme. However,
implementation of the EIA recommendations required the identification of
specific actions and an investment plan. Subsequently, the World Bank (WB)
contracted the World Wide Fund for Nature, Malaysia (WWFM), to assess all
environmental aspects of the FELDA scheme and provide the Bank with specific
recommendations in the form of an "environmental management plan". These
recommendations were taken up by WB as components of a loan agreement with
FELDA, for the development of infrastructure in the Sahabat scheme.
3.        Organizational Arrangements.  Overall, the organizational aspects
of the project proved to be satisfactory. Matters relating to land and forests
come under the purview of the State Government. Hence, aspects of the EMP
outside the FELDA settlement area were left to GOS. On the other hand, once a
specific land area has been allocated to a specific party for agricultural
development, it is conventional practice in Malaysia for that party to carry
out the development accordingly. Monitoring and enforcing the laws on their
development is difficult due to lack of manpower. Thus, decisions on EMP
recommendations relating to land inside the scheme were made by FELDA in some
cases with input from GOS.
4.        In the context of the established Malaysian government
organization, the selection of a senior civil servant in GOS as National
Project Director for the EMP was appropriate.



-19-
5.        The arrangements proposed or implied in the EMP were followed in
all essentials, yet the project was characterized by sensible flexibility. One
example was the use of Sabah Parks, a financially-autonomous agency under
MTED, to select consultants for construction of infrastructure at Tabin
Wildlife Reserve and to disburse payments for that work. This procedure
allowed MTED to run the project on behalf of GOS, without the need to
introduce additional agencies.
6.        Implementation.  Tabin Reserve infrastructure and vehicles were
financed by grant by GOM from part of the WB loan for the Sahabat Land
Settlement Scheme. The technical advisor to the Wildlife Department (45
months), Tabin manager (15 months) and preparation of the Sabah Conservation
Strategy (18 months) were funded by UNDP. Local staff salaries and general
maintenance expenses for Tabin were borne by the GOS.
7.        Implementation of the EMP started about one year after the
commencement time originally envisaged and took somewhat longer than expected.
There were various causes of delays in commencing, including the fact that the
project's environmental measures were new to all parties concerned, and that
the project contained aspects requiring the approval of State and Federal
Governments.
8.        The contractors selected for construction of infrastructure at
Tabin Wildlife Reserve performed significantly slower than expected due to
many agencies involved in implementing and monitoring the project
9.        Project components funded by UNDP started late for a combination of
reasons, including time needed to select technical staff and to process
disbursement of funds. On the decision of GOS, the initial 15-month contract
with the Tabin manager was not extended and, instead, the Department technical
advisor took over this role as part of his duties. The SCS took 18 months to
complete, longer than the period envisaged, but reasonable in view of the
comprehensive product which emerged. The component with the fastest
implementation was the increase in Wildlife Department staffing, which was the
sole responsibility of GOS and the proosed Kinabatangan Wildlife Sanctuary.
10.       Viewed simply, some recommei,dations of the EMP were implemented
while others were not. An alternative, more positive and accurate
interpretation, however, is that part of the value of the EMP was to initiate
a series of actions which cannot necessarily be expected to be achieved within
a rather short time frame. A good example was the strengthening of the
statutory protection of the Tabin Wildlife Reserve.
11.       Results.  The Sabah Wildlife Department staff number, recommended
to increase to 124, has not only been achieved but exceeded through creation
of new posts by the Sabah government. The technical advisor to the Wildlife
Department assisted in drafting policies, species and area management plans,
and wildlife translocation techniques.
12.       Full-time Wildlife Department staff are now based at Tabin Wildlife
Reserve, led by a graduate-level officer. The Reserve management plan has been
completed and incorporated into the overall Wildlife Department Management



-20-
Plan. Licensed logging in the Reserve ceased in 1992, and illegal logging has
been greatly reduced to occasional incursions. Illegal hunting has also been
greatly reduced. Aerial surveys in 1994 show that the logged-over areas within
the Reserve are regenerating well, and that wildlife is abundant.
13.       A necessary legal amendment to prohibit logging in Wildlife
Reserves was achieved in 1992. A proposed amendment to strengthen the relevant
existing legislation in relation to wildlife sanctuaries was not achieved;
instead, and more usefully, a new wildlife conservation law has been drafted
by a legal consultant under the UNDP component of the EMP. The draft law is
being reviewed by a Government working committee. That GOS has publicly
referred to the draft is an indication of good prospects that it will be
tabled at the State Legislative Assembly.
14.       The Sabah Conservation Strategy (SCS) was completed in March 1992
and adopted by the Sabah Development Planning Committee (the major policy-
making agency of GOS other than the Cabinet) in the same rear, subject to a
detailed review by a working committee under the Natural Resources Office of
the Chief Minister's Department. The review was completed and the SCS, with
some amendments, was submitted to the Cabinet for final approval. In the
meantime, some aspects of the SCS, which fall under the purview of MTED, have
been taken up, while WWF Malaysia has provided the services of a senior staff
member to MTED, to assist in implementation of the SCS pending the Cabinet
approval.
15.       EMP Sustainability.  Prospects for continued implementation of the
EMP appear good. In particular, activities needed to ensure the passage of new
wildlife legislation and implementation of the SCS are ongoing. Manpower and
infrastructure needed to ensure protection of Tabin are in place.
16.       Bank Performance.  The Bank's performance has been entirely
satisfactory throughout the project period. Where actions were not taken by
the GOS, and where implementation was slow, the Bank was encouraging rather
than critical. This made for a good working relationship which, ultimately,
was effective. In response to changing priorities, the Bank was flexible in
agreeing to the changes in the specific purpose for which money was allocated
for infrastructure development at TabLn.
17.       UNDP Performance.  The initial process of selection and
"processing" of the technical advisor and Tabin manager seemed to be rather
cumbersome. Thereafter, however, UNDP performance was entirely satisfactory
throughout the project period. The periodic presence of a UNDP representative
at the SCS Steering Committee meetings was a welcome sign that the progress of
the EMP was being followed closely. UNDP responded positively to requests that
both the period of service of the technical advisor and his scope of work be
extended. As a result, the advisor worked with the Wildlife Department for
nearly four years. UNDP also responded positively to a request for additional
funding to provide a 6-months of legal drafting consultancy.
18.       Sabah and Federal Government Performance.  Overall reporting was
satisfactory. However, reporting to the World Bank should have been better.
This could not be achieved as too many agencies and authorities were involved



-21-
in approving and monitoring of the project, including FELDA, Attorney
General's Office, Federal EPU, State Development Department, Public Works
Department, State Treasury, State Forestry Department, Audit Department,
Federal Ministry of Finance, Federal Treasury, Federal Development Department,
Federal Ministry of Rural and Land Development, and the State Cabinet.
19.       Consulting Services.  Consulting services for the EMP may be
divided into three categories: UNDP, WWF Malaysia and consultants for civil
works at Tabin. As noted above, there was some delay in acquiring the services
of UNDP technical experts but, once underway, no serious problems were
encountered. At the request of GOS, the services of the Tabin manager were not
extended beyond the initial 15 months due to unsatisfactory performance.
20.       The civil works were barely satisfactory in quality and slower than
expected. It may be beneficial in future projects to investigate possible
alternative means of employing consultants and contractors in order to
maximize quality and speed.
21.       EMP Documentation and Data.  The major single document to emerge
from the EMP is the 3-volume Sabah Conservation Strategy. A new wildlife
conservation enactment for Sabah was drafted by a UNDP legal consultant in
association with relevant government agencies and the UNDP technical advisor
to the Wildlife Department. Various other documents have been produced by the
technical advisor (e.g. Wildlife Department Policies, Tabin Wildlife Reserve
Management Plan, etc.). Data collected under the EMP is available in the SCS
and with the Sabah Wildlife Department.
B.        COMMENTS FROM FELDA 2/
22.       Agricultural Development.  Agricultural development had proceeded
satisfactorily. A total of 65,300 hectares of land has been developed in
Sahabat 1-35 comprising 64,950 hectares of oil palm (99.5%) and 350 hectares
of coffee (0.5%). The area under oil palm included some 2,040 hectares of
land which had earlier been planted with cocoa and later had to be replanted
with oil palm due to prolonged unfavorable market for cocoa products. To-
date, a total of 55,227 hectares or 84.6% of the oil palm and coffee
plantations are in production.
23.       Infrastructure Development.  The construction of 58 km of access
roads (excluding Bakapit-Tungku improvement) and 71 km of village roads was
completed as scheduled. The construction of treatment plants and the laying
of reticulation pipes for villages A, B, C and D were completed in time. The
problem of insufficient surface water source for villages A, B and C was
overcome by constructing a bunded reservoir whilst the same problem for
village D was solved by constructing tube-wells.
27 Received from FELDA in May 1995.



-22-
24.       Four palm oil mills are currently operating, located in Sahabat 4,
11, 21 and 26 schemes. The combined milling capacity is 240 tons per hour.
25.       Basic infrastructure like roads and water supply system for FELDA
projects in Peninsular Malaysia was usually implemented by the Public Works
Department (PWD) of the Ministry of Public Works. However, for FELDA projects
in Sabah, the provision of these amenitiLes was being handled by FELDA through
its subsidiary (FELDA Engineering Services Sdn. Bhd. or FESSB, formerly known
as BINA), as the state PWD was unable to provide the necessary services.
26.       Settler/Worker Emplacement.  To-date a total of 925 settler
families and 5 workers are settled in villages A to D. Total settlers and
workers target was reduced from about 8,600 families to 6,600 families because
of the implementation of the estate system in January 1990. Workers'
recruitment is based on man:land ratio of 1 family to 12 hectares compared to
the previous system of 1 family to 4 hectares. Experience with workers'
recruitment has not been encouraging. However, efforts ar- still being made
to bring in workers.
27.       Environmental Component.  As a part of the Bank's requirement,
FELDA appointed a consulting firm, Minconsult Sdn. Bhd., to undertake the
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) for the Sahabat Complex. The EIA report
helped FELDA to develop its own conservation strategy. The report recommended
the establishment of Environmental Co-ordination Unit within FELDA to be
responsible for co-ordinating the implementation of the Environmental
Management Plan (EMP) in Sahabat and monitoring all environmental matters in
FELDA. However, the Unit played a passive role because no new land
development was carried out during the Sixth Plan (1991 - 1995).
28.       As proposed by the Bank, FELDA requested the Sabah State Government
to protect the Sahabat river catchment area to ensure a continuous supply of
quality water to the bunded reservoir in Sahabat 4 scheme. However, no
positive response was received from the State Government.
29.       Evaluation of Bank's Performance.  The Bank made positive
contributions which led to the successful completion of the project. The
following observations sum up the Bank's performance:
(i) The time-slice concept of this loan provided flexibility in
project implementation and greatly expedited loan disbursement.
(ii) The Bank supervision missions extended valuable assistance in
improving project implementation in Sahabat through discussions
with FELDA.



-23-
30.       Assessment of Effectiveness of Relationship Between the Bank and
Government. The relationship between the Bank and the Government has always
been excellent. The Government was committed to the implementation of the
environmental and other components for which funds were made available, while
the Bank was very supportive towards achieving the objective of the
environmental and other components of the project.



-24-
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loans
Loan Title              Purpose              Year of            Status
and Number                                  approval
Jenka I         Land development of 12,150      1968     Successfully
533-MA          ha and settlement of 2,770               completed.  PPAR No.
families                                 2122 issued 06/30/78.
Jenka II        Land development of 12,065      1970     Successfully
672-MA          ha and settlement of 2,770               completed.  PPAR No.
families                                 3024 issued 07/18/80.
Jenka III       Land development of 16,475      1973     Successfully
885-MA         ha and settlement of 3,848                completed.  PPAR No.
families                                 3978 issued 06/18/82.
Johor           Land development of 30,301      1974     Successfully
Tenggara        ha and settlement of 7,500               completed.  PPAR
967-MA          families                                 No.4221 issued
12/13/82.
Keratong        Land development of 20,960      1974     Successfully
1044-MA        ha and settlement of 5,100                completed.  PPAR No.
families                                 5780 issued 06/85.
FELDA VI        Land development of 28,300      1978     Successfully
1590-MA        ha and settlement of 7,400                completed.  PCR issued
families  1978                           10/30/87.
FELDA Palm      Construction and                1985     Successfully
Oil Mills       commissioning of seven                   completed. PCR issued
2530-MA        palm oil mills.                           3/13/92.
Land            Construction of access and      1985    The project was
Settlement      village roads, and rural                 satisfactorily
Infrastruc-    water supply systems in                   completed in 1993.
ture Project   FELDA settlement schemes,                 PCR under preparation.
2642-MA         and construction of a
training center for rural
water supply operators.



-25-
2. Project Timetable
Item                       Date                Date
Planned             Actual
Identification                                    02/86a/
Preparation                                     07/86-05/98
Appraisal Mission                                  05/88
Loan Negotiations                                 10/11/88
Board Approval                04/25/89           04/25/89
Loan Signature                                   07/18/89
Loan Effectiveness            10/17/89            03/08/90
aX The project was initially identified during supervision of the
FELDA Palm Oil Mills Project (Loan 2530-MA) in 1985. More in-depth
identification was in February 1986.



-26 -
3. Cumulative Estimated and Actual Loan Disbursements
US$ Million
FY   Quarter            Appraisal         Actual         Actual as
Estimate                       % of Estimate
90 Sep 30, 1989
Dec 31, 1989             4.0
Mar 31, 1990              8.0
Jun 30, 1990             12.0             3.34              28
91Sep 30, 1990             16.0            23.30             146
Dec 31, 1990             20.0            29.87             149
Mar 31, 1991             24.7            37.39             151
Jun 30, 1991             29.4            37.73             128
92Sep 30, 1991             34.1            46.58             137
Dec 31, 1991             38.8            54.89            141
Mar 31, 1992             43.6            55.83             128
Jun 30, 1992             48.4            6l.71            127
93Sep 30, 1992             53.2            62.36             117
Dec 31, 1992             57.9            62.82            108
Mar 31, 1993             61.1            65.59             107
Jun 30, 1993             64.3            68.06            106
94Sep 30, 1993             67.9            70.72             104
Dec 31, 1993             71.5            70.72             99
Mar 31, 1994                             70.77             99
Jun 30, 1994                             70.77             99
9SSep 30, 1994                             70.97             99
The date of the last disbursement was July 19, 1994.  Total loan disbursements
at closing were US$ 70.97 million. The undisbursed balance of US$ 0.53
million was cancelled.



4. Project ImpLementation
4.1  Summary of Proiect Indicators
AppraisaL
Item                                    Unit                 Estimate                     Completed by end - 1994
I. SAHABAT SETTLEMENT PROGRAM
1. AgricuLturat Development
Oil Palm                         ha                   50,355                                 48,800
Coffee                           ha                      800                                   356
Agricultural Roads               km                    5,000                                 4,546
2.  Access Roads
Bakapit Tungku Improvement           km                        35                                    37
Tungku - Vitlage D Improv.           km                        36                                    15
Diagonal Road Phase IlI              km                        10                                    10
Eastern Ring Road                    km                        34                                    34
3.  Village Development
Village A
Roads and reticulation               km                        15                                    15
Settler/worker houses                No                      679                                    600
Staff Quarters                       No                        45                                    44
Office Buildings                     No                                                              13
Village B
Roads and reticulation               km                        10                                    10
Settler/worker houses                No                      416                                    200
Staff Quarters                       No                        25                                    25
Office Buildings                     No                        11                                     2
Village C
Roads and reticulation               km                       30                                     30
Settler/worker houses                 No                   1,531                                     50
Staff Quarters                        No                       88                                    88
Office Buildings                      No                       29                                     6
Viltage D
Roads and reticulation                km                       20                                    20
Settler/worker houses                No                      934                                    600
Staff Quarters                       No                        51                                    51
Office Buildings                     No                        21                                    21
4.  Settler Emplacement                   No                    3,560                                   925
4A. State Worker
Emplacement                          No                     N.A.                                     74
5.  Palm Oil Mills                       No                         1                                      1
6.  Vehicles and
Equipment
Vehicles                             No                        21                                    21
Tractor Trailers                     No                         9                                     9



-28-
Appraisal
Item                                   Unit              Estimate               CompLeted by end - 1994
II. DENT PENINSULA ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
1. Infrastructure
Tabin Reserve access road           km                       30                            10
Tabin Reserve headquarters          No                        1                              1
2. Vehicles and Equipment
4-wheeL drive vehicles              No                        2                              2
Motorcycles                       No                        2                              2



-29-
5. Project Cost and Financing
5.1 Project Cost
(USS Million)
Appraisal Estimate                              Actual
Local      Foreign                       Local        Foreign
Item                                   Costs      Exchange      TotaL            Costs       Exchange   Total
Agricultural Development              79.6        43.1       122.7             123.6          66.6       190.2
Access Roads                          10.1         7.6        17.7              39.0          22.0        61.0 a/
Village Infrastructure                16.6         7.5        24.1
Processing Facilities                  4.0         4.5         8.5               4.0           4.5         8.5
Schemes Management                    14.6         1.0        15.6              23.7           1.6        25.3
Environmental Management               1.0         0.8         1.8               1.1           1.0         2.1
Total Baseline Cost                     125.9       64.5        190.4
Physical Contingencies                 6.5         4.0        10.5
Price Contingencies                    7.9         7.2        15.1
Total Project Cost                      140.3        75.7      216.0             191.4          95.7       287.1
5.2 Project Financing
(USM Million)
Source                           PLanned                       Actual
IBRD                          71.5        33%             71.0        25%
UNDP                           0.5                         1.0
MALAYSIA-Fed Govt            143.8        67%            214.9        75%
-Sabah Govt           0.2                         0.2
Total Project                216.0                       287.1
a/ While breakdown of other village infrastructure costs was available from FELDA, the costs of access
roads were combined with village roads.  The two have, therefore, been shown together.  Access roads include
the Bakapit-Tungku road. However, the Bakapit-Tungku road was completed in November 1994 and the 1994 costs
of the road are not included in the above estimate since project costs cover only 1989-93.



-30-
6. Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
Indicators                                          Appraisal Estimate                 Estimate at Project
CompLetion
Planted Area (ha)
Oil Palm                                              50,355                              48,800
Coffee                                                    800                                356
No. of Settler Beneficiaries (families)                     3,560                                 925
B. Economic Impact
Appraisal Estimate                Estimate at Project
Completion
Economic Rate of Return                                      25%                                 B/
Underlying Assumptions
Project Life                                                30                                 30
Commodity Prices:
Cocoa  (MYR/kg) /a                                       4.45                   not estimated
Oil Palm (MYR/ton ffb) /a                              219                                 114
Peak Yields:
Cocoa  (kg/ha)                                          1,200                    not relevant
Oil Palm (ton ffb/ha)                                     24                         18-24 Lb
[a   Mi[Igate prices for year 2000 in 1994 constant terms.  The appraisal figures were in 1988 constant
terms and have been converted to 1994 constant terms.
/b   The yield profiles vary for different schemes and even for the same scheme between those managed by
FELDA (settler schemes) and the others managed by the FELDA Plantations Sdn. Bhd. (non-settler
schemes). The yields, in general, are higher on FELDA-managed schemes, as these have better agronomic
conditions than the non-settler schemes. The yields on calcareous soils are expected to be no more
than 18 tons ffb/ha.
C. FinanciaL Impact
Indicators                                          Appraisal Estimate                 Estimate at Project
Completion
Net Farm Income
(Average MonthLy in MYR)/a
From Oil Palm                                          1,320Lb                              1,450
L     In 1994.
Lb    The appraisal estimate was MYR 1,035 for 1994 in 1988 constant terms.  This has been converted to 1994
constant terms using the consumer price index.



-31-
7. Status  of Covenants
Agreement         Section          Covenant Type       Original Ful-   Revised Ful-            Description of Covenant                        Comments
filment Date    filment Date
Project             Schedule                M            12/31/89                            GOS shall complete measures           (i) GOS Assembly amended the
3039-MA                 (a)                                                                  satisfactory to the Bank:             State Forestry Enactment in 1992
Bank/GOS                                                                                     (i)  to define wildlife               including clauses that enhance
reserves as areas set aside for   protection of wildlife reserves;
the protection of wildlife and        (ii) the Forest Department has
wildlife habitat;  (ii) to pro-       transferred administrative re-
hibit commercial exploitation         sponsiblity for TWR to the Wild-
of forest produce in wildlife         life Department; but vigilance
reserves; and (iii) to transfer    over forestry products still
responsibility for the manage-        remains with the Forestry
ment of wildlife and wildlife         Department.
habitat in wildlife reserves to
the Wildlife Department.
Project 3039-        Schedule               T            10/30/89                            GOS shall appoint in accordance    Both advisors were appointed
MA Bank/GOS             (c)                                                                  with qualifications and terms         under UNDP financing.  The TWR
of reference satisfactory to          manager/advisor completed a 15-
the Bank:  (i) an advisor to          month assignment in 1992, but
assist the Wildlife Department;    did not fulfill the project
and (ii) a manager/advisor of         objectives.  The Wildlife De-
the Tabin and Kulamba Wildlife        partment advisor performed very
Reserves.                             satisfactorily and also complet-
ed the remaining work of the TWR
manager/advisor.
Project 3039-        Schedule               T             12/31/90                           GOS to complete a Conservation        SCS was completed in 1992 and
MA Bank/GOS             (d)                                                                  Strategy (SCS) for Sabah.             GOS is taking action to
implement it.
Project 3039-       Schedule                M            06/30/89 and                        FELDA shall review with the           This covenant imposed at the SAR
MA Bank/FELDA           (a)                               each year                          Bank by June 30, 1989 and by          yellow cover review was not
thereafter                         June 30 each year thereafter          applicable as agricultural
the progress of settler em-           development and infrastructure
placement in the Sahabat area         was well advanced when project
and, if necessary, adjust the         started.
pace of implementation of part
A of the project.



-32-
Agreement         Section          Covenant Type          Original Ful-   Revised Fulf-    Lescription of Covenant                   Comments
filment Date    ilment Date
Project 3039-    Schedule          T                                                          FELDA shall ensure that land           Generally adhered to.  However,
MA Bank/FELDA         (c)                                                                     development in the Dent Penin-         some erosion problems were noted
sula is carried out in accor-         in the land deveLopment phase.
dance with the Environmental
Marnagement Plan.
Project 3039-    Schedule          M                      09/,30/89                           FELDA shall establish by Sep-          The Uniit was established, but
MA Bank/FELDA          (d)                                                                     tember 30, 1989 and thereafter        was cot adequately staffed or
maintain an Environimental Coor-    operational.   It has now been
dinaticn. Unit with respc.nsi-        dissolved.
bilities, resoLirces and staff-
ing satisfactory to the Bank.
Key
Covenant Type:
M: Managerial
T: Technica]



-34-
8. Use of Bank Resources
B. Missions
Number       Total                          Overall
of       days in                        Performance
Project Cycle      Mo/Year    Persons        Field      Specialization       Rating
Identification2l   02/86          2            2              A/G
Preparation 1       06/86         2            10             A/B
Preparation 2       10/86         1            5               A
Preparation 3       02/87         2            10             A/)
Preparation 4       09/87         2            22            A/B/C
Preparation 5       11/87         1            2               A
Preappraisal        02/88         4            72           A/B/C/E
Appraisal           05/88         4            54           A/B/C/-
Negotiations
Follow-up 1       11/88         2            5              A/F
Negotiations
Follow-up 2       03/89         1            3               A
Supervision 1       06/89         2            10             A/E              1
Supervision 2       09/89         2            24             A/E              1
Supervision 3       05/90         4            48           A/B/D/E            2
Supervision 4b1     10/90         1            2               A              none
Supervision 5b/    12/90          2            8              A/B             none
Supervision 6       02/91         2            12             A/E              2
Supervision 7       11/91         2            10             A/B              2
Supervision 8       05/92         1            5               A              none
Supervision 9       02/93         2            14             A/B              2
Supervision 102/   09/93          2            14             A/E              2
Supervision 11/    04/94         1            10              A               1
Completion
Follow-up         02/95         2            10             B/C             n.a.
SPECIALTY:                                              PERFORMANCE RATING:
A =  Rural Development Engineer                         1 = No problems
B =  Environmental Specialist                           2 = Minor problems
C =  Economist                                          3 = Major problems
D =  Financial Analyst
E =  Tree Crops Specialist
F =  Lawyer
G =  Transport Economist
a/  The project was initially identified during supervision of the FELDA Palm Oil
Mills Project (Loan 2530-MA) in 1985. More in-depth identification was in
February 1986.
b/  Supervision of environmental component only.
c/  Combined with completion mission.



-33 -
8. Use of Bank Resources
A.   Staff Inputs  (Staff-Weeks)
STAGE OF PROJECT CYCLE       TOTAL    FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90    FY9'i  FY92    FY93          FY94      FY95
Ident./Preparation           55.0     3.0      9.5      41.5     1.0      -        -       -       -        -         -
AppraisaL                    21.7       -        -      11.6    10.1
Negotiations/Board           23.7       -        -        -      23.7      -       -               -         -        -
Supervision                  58.4       -        -       -       2.8    21.0    13.0    9.3       6.6      4.8
Completion                    7.0       -        -                -        -       -       -       -        1.0      6.0
TOTAL:                     165.8     3.0      9.5    53.1    37.6    21.0    13.9    9.3        6.6      5.8       6.0
SOURCE: MIS Project Staffing Detail



IBRD 2096
iis'oo                              lip                                   11PO 
MALAYSIA
SABAH LAND SETTLEMENT AND
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
- - - - PROJECT BOUNDARY
ACCESS ROADS UPGRADING
- - - - ROAD FINANCED BY SANK tLOAN 2391MA
SAHABAT SETTLEMENT COMPLEX
-60                                                                          WILDLIFE RESERVES                       6'CO'
FOREST RESERVES
540YN                                                     VIRGIN JUNGLE FORESTS
FOtIT- OTHER AGRICULTURAL AREAS
ftESERVE                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~EXISTING ROADS
RIVERS
Sa dogn                                         -   -  DIVISION BOUNDARIES
/(C/   ~ ~ -; XTRUSAN        -   -  INTERNATONAL BOUNDARIES
TRUSAN
KIHASATANOAN
POREST
9   ,   e,,   q l  2,0   3p    4p
, | .  > lLOPURA   r  .-\' /  KILOMETERS
'I        E~~~~LOPURtA        I"
FOREST RESERVE
\ S .-_ r. Sukou. 
5'30                 GOMANTN                               KUkAMoA       KUALA IIOAMA &
-53*f3GIu    )  ' JGOMANTONGII                             KUALA MARUAP
j RESERVE      P~~~ORES? RUIERV    TomlbIsar
SO SIMPAN      KIt.TM.
PIN SUPU                         ~
DAGATap
X            ,./          | ~~~~~ ~         ~~TABIN  WILDUFE  --1
,          <                   / i iT F~~~~~~~~~~~0LANUKAN t                   v
ULU SEGAMA               Lah      ha Dat     I             -)                       'fTnlu
FOREST
LAHAD DATU
FOREST RESERVE
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
THAILAND
AREA
OF AkAP
KimabaluH
1I   A    t               BRUNEIJ. SABAH H
* Kuala                                                                                      ,*..w_     I,
Lumpur                                                                                                ft3 ,~-~ S M8,
.4430'       &W~U ft *MM~~ 1weW  4030'-
Lumpur  ,KSARAWAK
SUMATERA        -CINGAPORE                K_
I  N   D   0   N   E  S   I  A           KALIMANTAN
AUGUST 1988






IBRD 27173
lb* baunda, cbn, dnndinations
KudatO                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~and any .A.r inhvmation shown on
KudW 0                                                                                            this *nl ad nd i*, on  . part of
The WoM Ihn Gmup, ony jugmrrnt
t               oan Jh lVI stt of any brriIory, or
KetoL              an y   rsnd ,t or accipnc of
KlAalu  *                  o 
SAAAH                         * TE                                                                      AN
g5, BRUNEI       Lohad Dat w                          
S                                                SETTAREA OF
0  AkAP    ~      POEC  RA                                           OES  ESRE
g  INDONESIA                                                         .                              O 
522    SM   O                                                          AN   U
L    tt tr      '  -~44--08                                  '    
RESERVE Si                                                                                          j
WHDUFE ~ ~ ~ ~ EPEME RES9RV
48t.POTRA_                                               OETEEVE
M~~~ A1 L      _  SCHM I   OJEE AN UU
EVIRO METLIAAGEMCNE tRCNSRITO                           ERNT PROUNARECT
v   s            Ip            --a-   ~~~~~~~~PRO)OECT AREAG                             FORST t,ERVE
KlLOblETERS ~      ~          cmpETD ILAE ENR
SEPrEMBER 1995









IMAGING
Report No:       15189
Type: PCR



