Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3039 MA
                    (Sabah Land Settlement and
                 Environmental Management Project)
                              between
                             MALAYSIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                        Dated July 18, 1989
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3039 MA
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated  July  18,   1989,  between  MALAYSIA  (the
Borrower)   and   INTERNATIONAL   BANK   FOR   RECONSTRUCTION  AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the  Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project;
     (B)  Part A of the Project will be carried out by the Federal
Land Development  Authority  (hereinafter  called  FELDA) with the
Borrower's  assistance  and,  as  part  of  such  assistance,  the
Borrower will make available to FELDA  part of the proceeds of the
Loan as provided in this Agreement;
     (C)  Part B of the Project  will  be carried out by the State
of Sabah (hereinafter called Sabah) with the Borrower's assistance
and, as part of such  assistance, the Borrower will make available
to Sabah part of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan as provided in this
Page  2
Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in  this  Agreement, in the Project Agreement
of even date  herewith  between  the  Bank  and  FELDA, and in the
Project Agreement  of  even  date  herewith  between  the Bank and
Sabah;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.O2.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "FELDA Project  Agreement"  means  the agreement between
the Bank and FELDA  of  even  date  herewith,  as  the same may be
amended from time to  time,  and  such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the FELDA Project Agreement;
     (b)  "Sabah Project  Agreement"  means  the agreement between
the Bank and Sabah  of  even  date  herewith,  as  the same may be
amended from time to  time,  and  such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Sabah Project Agreement;
     (c)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement"  means  the  agreement to be
entered into between the  Borrower  and  FELDA pursuant to Section
3.02 (a) of this Agreement, as  the  same may be amended from time
to time, and such  term  includes  all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;
     (d)  "Letter" means  the  letter  dated  March  15, 1989 from
Sabah  describing  objectives   and   policies  designed  for  the
management of the environment in  the Dent peninsula of Sabah with
particular  emphasis  on  Wildlife   Reserves,  together  with  an
environmental management plan, and declaring Sabah's commitment to
the implementation of said  policies  and  to the execution of the
environmental management plan;
     (e)  "Environmental Management Plan"  means the environmental
management plan outlined in the Letter;
     (f)  "Sahabat Settlement Area" means  the area on the eastern
part of the Dent peninsula of Sabah alienated to FELDA under lease
No. 115353314 dated October 29, 1981; and
     (g)  "Wildlife Reserve" means the  area gazetted by Sabah for
the protection of  wildlife  and  conservation of wildlife habitat
under the Forest Enactment, 1968, as amended.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.O1. The Bank  agrees  to  lend  to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the Loan
Agreement, an amount in  various currencies equivalent to seventy-
one million five hundred thousand dollars ($71,500,000).
     Section 2.02. The amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance  with  the provisions of Schedule 1
Page  3
to this Agreement for expenditures made  (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect  of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project  described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     Section 2.03. The  Closing  Date  shall  be December 31, 1993
or such later date  as  the  Bank  shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of  the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one-
half  of  one  percent  per  annum  above  the  Cost  of Qualified
Borrowings for the last Semester  ending prior to the commencement
of such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower  of  the  Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
        (i)    "Interest  Period"   means   the  six-month  period
               commencing on each  date  specified in Section 2.06
               of this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
       (ii)    "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
      (iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other  obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall
cause FELDA and Sabah to perform in accordance with the provisions
of the FELDA and  Sabah  Project Agreements, respectively, all the
obligations of FELDA and  Sabah  therein  set forth, shall take or
cause to be taken  all  action,  including the provision of funds,
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate
to enable FELDA and Sabah  to  perform such obligations, and shall
not take or permit to be  taken  any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.
     Section 3.02. (a) In  order  to  assist FELDA in carrying out
Parts A.1, A.2 and A.3  of  the Project, the Borrower shall onlend
the equivalent of $55,200,000 of the proceeds of the Loan to FELDA
under a subsidiary loan agreement  to  be entered into between the
Borrower and FELDA, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank.
     (b)  In order to assist FELDA in carrying out Parts A.4, A.5,
Page  4
A.6 and A.7 of the Project, the Borrower shall make available as a
grant to FELDA the  equivalent  of  $15,200,000 of the proceeds of
the Loan.
     (c)  In order to assist Sabah  in  carrying out Part B of the
Project, the Borrower shall make available as a grant to Sabah the
equivalent of $1,100,000 of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (d)  The  Borrower  shall  exercise   its  rights  under  the
Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  in  such  manner  as  to  protect the
interests of the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  and  to accomplish the
purposes of the  Loan,  and,  except  as  the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 3.03.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall  be  governed  by  the  provisions  of  Schedule  4  to this
Agreement.
     Section 3.04. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the  General  Conditions  (relating  to  insurance, use of
goods and  services,  plans  and  schedules,  records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part
A of the Project shall be carried out by FELDA pursuant to Section
2.03 of the FELDA Project Agreement,  and  in respect of Part B of
the Project shall be carried out by Sabah pursuant to Section 2.03
of the Sabah Project Agreement.
     Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:
     (a)  after completion of  construction,  designate as Federal
roads, all roads constructed and rehabilitated under Parts A.4 and
A.5 of the Project;
     (b)  cause the Sabah  Public  Works  Department to be respon-
sible for maintenance of  roads constructed or rehabilitated under
Parts A.4 and A.5 of the Project; and
     (c)  without limitation upon  the  provisions of Section 9.08
of the General  Conditions,  provide  funding  to the Sabah Public
Works  Department  for   maintenance   of   roads  constructed  or
rehabilitated  under  Parts  A.4  and  A.5  of  the  Project. Such
allocations  are  to  be  determined  in  accordance  with average
routine  and  periodic  maintenance   cost  of  similar  roads  in
Malaysia.
     Section  3.06.  The  Borrower  shall  cause  the  road  under
Part A.4(a) of the Project  to be rehabilitated in accordance with
design  standards  and   other   arrangements  applicable  to  the
construction of the Lahad Datu road under the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Loan  Agreement (Sabah and Sarawak Road Project)
between the Borrower and the Bank dated June 27, 1983.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) For all  expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from  the  Loan  Account  were  made  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be  maintained in accordance
               with  sound   accounting   practices,  records  and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  ensure  that   all   records   (contracts,  orders,
               invoices,  bills,  receipts  and  other  documents)
               evidencing such expenditures  are retained until at
               least one  year  after  the  Bank  has received the
Page  5
               audit report for the fiscal  year in which the last
               withdrawal from the Loan Account was made; and
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) (i) of  this  Section for each fiscal
               year  audited,   in   accordance  with  appropriate
               auditing   principles   consistently   applied,  by
               independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later  than  nine months after the end
               of each such year the  report of such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope  and  in such detail as the
               Bank shall have  reasonably  requested, including a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
               statements  of  expenditure  submitted  during such
               fiscal  year,  together  with  the  procedures  and
               internal controls  involved  in  their preparation,
               can  be  relied   upon   to   support  the  related
               withdrawals; and
        (iii)  furnish  to   the   Bank   such  other  information
               concerning said records and  accounts and the audit
               thereof  as  the  Bank  shall  from  time  to  time
               reasonably request.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  FELDA shall have failed  to  perform  any of its obliga-
tions under the FELDA Project Agreement.
     (b)  Sabah shall have failed  to  perform  any of its obliga-
tions under the Sabah Project Agreement.
     (c)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the  Loan  Agreement,  an  extraordinary  situation  shall have
arisen which shall make it  improbable  that FELDA will be able to
perform its  obligations  under  the  FELDA  Project  Agreement or
Sabah will be  able  to  perform  its  obligations under the Sabah
Project Agreement.
     (d)  The Borrower or any  other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any  action  for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of  FELDA  or  the  Sabah  Wildlife  Department,  or  for the
suspension of their operations.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the  events  specified  in  paragraphs  (a)  and  (b) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement  shall occur and shall continue for
a period of sixty days after  notice thereof shall have been given
by the Bank to the Borrower; and
     (b)  the event specified in paragraph  (d) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The following  event  is  specified as an addi-
Page  6
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within
the meaning  of  Section  12.01  (c)  of  the  General Conditions,
namely, that the Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and FELDA.
     Section  6.02.  The  following  are  specified  as additional
matters, within the meaning  of  Section  12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to  be  included  in  the  opinion  or  opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
     (a)    that  the  FELDA   Project  Agreement  has  been  duly
authorized or ratified by FELDA, and is legally binding upon FELDA
in accordance with its terms;
     (b)  that  the  Sabah   Project   Agreement   has  been  duly
authorized or ratified by Sabah, and is legally binding upon Sabah
in accordance with its terms; and
     (c)  that  the  Subsidiary  Loan   Agreement  has  been  duly
authorized or ratified by  the  Borrower  and FELDA and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and FELDA in accordance with its terms.
     Section 6.03. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The Minister  of  Finance or Deputy Minister of
Finance of the  Borrower  is  designated  as representative of the
Borrower  for  the  purposes  of  Section  11.03  of  the  General
Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          The Treasury
          Jalan Duta
          50592 Kuala Lumpur
          Malaysia
          Cable address:                      Telex:
             TREASURY                            MA 30242
             Kuala Lumpur                        MA 32369
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64l45 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    MALAYSIA
Page  7
                    By /s/ Albert S. Talalla
                                        Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Attila Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                      Asia
                         SCHEDULE  1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of  the  Loan  to  each  Category  and  the  percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                           Amount of the
                          Loan Allocated            % of
                           (Expressed in        Expenditures
    Category            Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Works, engineer-         70,400,000        38%
     ing services,
     land development,
     crop planting and
     maintenance, and
     goods under Part A
     of the Project
(2)  Works, engineering        1,100,000        80%
     services and goods
     under Part B of
     the Project
                              __________
          TOTAL               71,500,000
2.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made:
     (a)  for expenditures prior  to  the  date of this Agreement,
except that withdrawals, in an  aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of $7,100,000, may be  made on account of payments made
for expenditures before that date but after December 31, 1988; or
     (b)  for expenditures on account of the development, planting
or maintenance of cocoa.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objective of the Project  is to assist the development of
Sabah through a land settlement program and improved management of
the environment.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower  and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objective.
Part A:   Sahabat Land Settlement
Page  8
1.   Agricultural development through:
     (a)  completion of planting on about 18,300 hectares of land;
     (b)  early maintenance of about 52,000 hectares of land; and
     (c)  construction of agricultural roads.
2.   Construction and commissioning of  one  palm  oil mill with a
nominal throughput of 60 tons  of  fresh  oil palm fruit bunch per
hour.
3.   Building of settler houses.
4.   (a)  Rehabilitation of about  35  kilometers  of the Bakapit-
Tungku main access road, including construction of a weigh-bridge;
and
     (b)  Upgrading of  about  36  kilometers  and construction of
about 44 kilometers of internal access roads.
5.   Infrastructure  for   four   settlement  villages,  including
village  roads,   water   supply   systems,   offices   and  staff
accommodation.
6.   Support  to  field  management  and  operation  of settlement
schemes through provision  of  vehicles,  equipment, materials and
furnishings.
7.   Actions pertaining  to  implementation  of  the Environmental
Management Plan in the Sahabat Settlement Area.
Part B:   Environmental Management
1.   Implementation of the  Environmental  Management  Plan in the
Dent Peninsula  including  enhanced  protection  and management of
Wildlife Reserves, through certain actions and provision of, inter
alia,   management   expertise,   staff,   technical   assistance,
operational   support,    infrastructure,   vehicles,   equipment,
materials and furnishings.
2.   Preparation of a Conservation Strategy for Sabah.
                         *    *    *    *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1992.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                           Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (Expressed in dollars)*
On each April 1 and October 1
     beginning October 1, 1994
     through   October 1, 2005                    2,980,000
On April 1, 2006                                  2,960,000
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     The following  premiums  are  specified  for  the purposes of
Section 3.O4 (b) of the General Conditions:
Page  9
    Time of Prepayment                          Premium
                                         The  interest  rate  (ex-
                                         pressed  as  a percentage
                                         per annum)  applicable to
                                         the  balance  outstanding
                                         on the Loan on the day of
                                         prepayment multiplied by:
     Not more than three years                   0.18
          before maturity
     More than three years but                   0.35
          not more than six years
          before maturity
     More than six years but                     0.65
          not more than eleven years
          before maturity
     More than eleven years but not              0.88
          more than fifteen years
          before maturity
     More than fifteen years before              1.00
          maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in  Part  C  hereof, goods (including palm
oil mill equipment) and  works  shall  be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance  with  procedures  consistent with those set
forth in Sections  I  and  II  of  the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and  IDA  Credits"  published  by the Bank in May
1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   For bidding purposes,  contracts  for road construction shall
be grouped to the  extent  practicable, in packages each estimated
to cost the equivalent of $2,000,000  or more, in such a manner so
as to permit bulk procurement.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1  hereof,  goods manufactured in Malaysia may
be granted a margin of  preference in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs  2.55  and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
     The  following  may  be   awarded   on  the  basis  of  local
competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the Bank:
1.   Contracts  for  the  construction   of  buildings  up  to  an
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $18,600,000;
2.   Contracts for land development, planting and crop maintenance
up  to  an  aggregate  amount  not  exceeding  the  equivalent  of
$29,000,000;
3.   Contracts for agricultural road  construction up to an aggre-
gate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $53,200,000; and
4.   Contracts  for  the   procurement   of  vehicles,  equipment,
materials, and furnishings up to an aggregate amount not exceeding
Page  10
the equivalent of $4,700,000.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitiations  to  bid  and  of  proposed awards and
final contracts:
     (a)  With respect to  each  contract  for  access and village
road construction and  for  procurement  of fertilizers, chemicals
and  palm  oil  mill  equipment  awarded  in  accordance  with the
procedures described in Part A hereof, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (a)(ii) of this Agreement.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist in  carrying out the Project, the Borrower
shall  employ  or   cause   to   be   employed  consultants  whose
qualifications, experience and terms  and conditions of employment
shall be  satisfactory  to  the  Bank.  Such  consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Bank  on  the  basis  of  the  "Guidelines  for  the Use of
Consultants by World  Bank  Borrowers  and  by  the  World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
