Page  1
                                                  October 28, 1992
His Excellency
Y.B. En. Anwar Ibrahim
Minister of Finance
The Treasury
Jalan Duta
50592 Kuala Kumpur, Malaysia
His Excellency
Mr. Mohd. Fadzil Yuuns
Director General
The Federal Land Development Authority
Jalan Maktab
Kuala Kumpur, Malaysia
      Re: Loan No. 3039 MA
          Sabah Land Settlement and Environmental Management Project
          Amendment to Sections 3.02 (a) and (b) of the Loan
Agreement
Excellencies:
      Please refer to the Loan Agreement (the "Loan Agreement")
entered into by and between Malaysia (the "Borrower") and the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the "Bank")
dated July 18, 1989, to the Project Agreement entered into by and
between the Bank and the Federal Land Development Authority
("FELDA") of even date therewith, and to the Project Agreement
entered into by and between the Bank and the State of Sabah also of
even date therewith,
each in respect of the above-referenced Project.
      I am pleased to inform you that the Bank agrees to amend the
Loan Agreement as requested in the letter received from Ms. Lee Kam
Swee of the Finance Division of the Treasury, on behalf of the
Secretary General to the Treasury, dated September 29, 1992, and as
further specified hereinbelow. Therefore, the Loan Agreement is
hereby amended as follows:
      1.    Section 3.02 (a) of the Loan Agreement is amended to
read as follows: "In order to assist FELDA in carrying out Parts
A.1, A.2 and A.3 of the Project, the Borrower shall onlend the
equivalent of $62,200,000 of the proceeds of the Loan to FELDA under
a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and FELDA, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank."
      2.    Section 3.02 (b) of the Loan Agreement is amended to
read as follows: "In order to assist FELDA in carrying out Parts
A.4, A.5, A.6 and A.7 of the Project, the Borrower shall make
available as a grant to FELDA the equivalent of $8,200,000 of the
proceeds of the Loan."
      Kindly confirm your respective agreement to the foregoing
amendment, as the duly authorized representative of the Borrower and
FELDA, respectively, by signing and duly dating the corresponding
form of confirmation set forth below, and returning this amendment
letter to us at your earliest convenience. A signed duplicate
original of this amendment letter is enclosed herewith for each of
your respective records. We are also taking the liberty of sending
a copy of this amendment letter to His Excellency the Permanent
Secretary of the Ministry of Finance of the State of Sabah.
      This amendment letter shall become effective, as of the date
first above written, once it has been fully executed by both parties
hereto.
Page  2
                                          Very truly yours,
                                          INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                                          By Callisto E. Madavo
                                          Director
                                          Country Department I
                                          East Asia and Pacific Region
AGREED AND CONFIRMED:                     AGREED AND CONFIRMED:
MALAYSIA                                  FEDERAL LAND DEVELOPMENT
AUTHORITY
By Authorized Representative              By Authorized
Representative
Date November 18, 1992                    Date November 17, 1992
