Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             LOAN NUMBER 3039 MA
                    (Sabah Land Settlement and
                 Environmental Management Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                FEDERAL LAND DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
                        Dated July 18, 1989
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3039 MA
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated July  18,  1989,  between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND  DEVELOPMENT  (the  Bank)  and FEDERAL LAND
DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (FELDA).
     WHEREAS by the Loan  Agreement  of even date herewith between
Malaysia (the Borrower) and the Bank,  the Bank has agreed to make
available  to  the  Borrower   an  amount  in  various  currencies
equivalent to seventy-one  million  five  hundred thousand dollars
($71,500,000), on the terms and  conditions  set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only  on  condition  that  FELDA agree to undertake
such  obligations  toward  the  Bank  as  are  set  forth  in this
Agreement; and
     WHEREAS FELDA, in consideration  of  the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the  Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in the  Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this
Agreement and the  General  Conditions  (as  so  defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section  2.01.  (a)  FELDA  declares  its  commitment  to the
objectives of the Project as set  forth  in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part A of the Project
with due diligence and  efficiency  and  in conformity with appro-
priate administrative,  financial,  engineering,  agricultural and
environmental  practices,  and  shall  provide,  or  cause  to  be
provided, promptly as needed,  the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except  as  the Bank and FELDA shall otherwise
agree, FELDA shall carry out  Part  A of the Project in accordance
with the Implementation Program set  forth in the Schedule to this
Agreement.
     Section 2.02.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by  the  provisions  of  Schedule  4 to the Loan
Agreement.
     Section 2.03. FELDA shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,  9.07,  9.08 and 9.09 of the General
Conditions (relating  to  insurance,  use  of  goods and services,
plans and schedules,  records  and  reports,  maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and
Part A of the Project.
     Section 2.04. FELDA  shall  duly  perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement.  Except  as  the Bank shall
otherwise agree, FELDA  shall  not  take  or  concur in any action
which would have the effect  of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 2.05. (a) FELDA  shall,  at  the request of the Bank,
exchange views  with  the  Bank  with  regard  to  progress of the
Project, the performance of  its  obligations under this Agreement
and  under  the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement,  and  other  matters
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
     (b)  FELDA shall promptly  inform  the  Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens  to  interfere  with the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment  of  the  purposes of the Loan, or
the performance by FELDA  of  its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                Management and Operations of FELDA
     Section 3.01. FELDA shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in  accordance  with  sound administrative, financial,
engineering, agricultural  and  environmental  practices under the
supervision of qualified  and  experienced  management assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers.
     Section 3.02. FELDA shall  at  all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and  other property, and from time
to time,  promptly  as  needed,  make  all  necessary  repairs and
Page  3
renewals  thereof,  all  in  accordance  with  sound  engineering,
financial and management practices.
     Section  3.03.  FELDA  shall   take  out  and  maintain  with
responsible insurers, or make  other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance  against  such  risks  and  in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) FELDA  shall  maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in  accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
     (b)  FELDA shall:
         (i)   have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (statements  of  income  and  expenses  and related
               statements)  for  each   fiscal  year  audited,  in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Bank;
        (ii)   furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later  than  nine months after the end
               of each  such  year:  (A)  certified  copies of its
               financial statements for  such  year as so audited,
               and (B) the report  of  such audit by said auditors
               of such scope and in  such detail as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
       (iii)   furnish  to   the   Bank   such  other  information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements as well  as  the  audit  thereof, as the
               Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 5.O2. This Agreement and  all obligations of the Bank
and of FELDA thereunder shall  terminate  on the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate  in  accordance with its terms, and
the Bank shall promptly notify FELDA thereof.
     Section 5.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or  at  such  other  address  as  such  party shall have
designated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Bank:
Page  4
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                      440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     For FELDA:
          The Federal Land Development Authority
          Jalan Maktab
          Kuala Lumpur
          Malaysia
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                FELDA                          MA 32159
                Kuala Lumpur
     Section 6.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf  of  FELDA  may  be  taken  or executed by the
Director General or such other  person  or persons as the Director
General shall designate in writing, and FELDA shall furnish to the
Bank sufficient evidence  of  the  authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 6.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts,  each  of  which  shall  be  an  original,  and  all
collectively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Attila Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                    FEDERAL LAND DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
                    By /s/ Albert S. Talalla
                                        Authorized Representative
                             SCHEDULE
                      Implementation Program
     Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its obliga-
tions under this Agreement,  FELDA  shall  implement Part A of the
Project, and to that  end  FELDA  shall  take all necessary action
including:
Page  5
     (a)  by June 30, 1989 and by June 30 of each year thereafter,
review with the Bank  the  progress  of settler emplacement in the
Sahabat Settlement Area  and,  if  necessary,  adjust  the pace of
implementation of Part A of the Project;
     (b)  after commissioning  of  the  palm  oil mill constructed
under  the  Project,  transfer  such   mill  to  the  FELDA  Mills
Corporation in accordance  with  arrangements  satisfactory to the
Bank;
     (c)  ensure  that  land  development  in  the  Dent Peninsula
shall, in respect of land clearing, watershed and wildlife protec-
tion,  be  carried  out   in  accordance  with  the  Environmental
Management Plan; and
     (d)  establish by September 30,  1989 and thereafter maintain
an Environmental Coordination Unit  with  responsibilities,
resources and staffing satisfactory to the Bank.
