Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             LOAN NUMBER 3039 MA
                    (Sabah Land Settlement and
                 Environmental Management Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                          STATE OF SABAH
                        Dated July 18, 1989
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3039 MA
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated July  18,  1989,  between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT  (the  Bank) and STATE OF SABAH
(Sabah).
     WHEREAS by the Loan  Agreement  of even date herewith between
Malaysia (the Borrower) and the Bank,  the Bank has agreed to make
available  to  the  Borrower   an  amount  in  various  currencies
equivalent to seventy-one  million  five  hundred thousand dollars
($71,500,000), on the terms and  conditions  set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only  on  condition  that  Sabah agree to undertake
such  obligations  toward  the  Bank  as  are  set  forth  in this
Agreement; and
     WHEREAS Sabah, in consideration  of  the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the  Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in the  Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this
Agreement and the  General  Conditions  (as  so  defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section  2.01.  (a)  Sabah  declares  its  commitment  to the
objectives of the Project as set  forth  in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part B of the Project
with due diligence and  efficiency  and  in conformity with appro-
priate administrative,  financial,  engineering,  agricultural and
environmental  practices,  and  shall  provide,  or  cause  to  be
provided, promptly as needed,  the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except  as  the Bank and Sabah shall otherwise
agree, Sabah shall carry out  Part  B of the Project in accordance
with the Implementation Program set  forth in the Schedule to this
Agreement.
     Section 2.02.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by  the  provisions  of  Schedule  4 to the Loan
Agreement.
     Section 2.03. Sabah shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,  9.07,  9.08 and 9.09 of the General
Conditions (relating  to  insurance,  use  of  goods and services,
plans and schedules,  records  and  reports,  maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and
Part B of the Project.
     Section 2.04. (a) Sabah  shall,  at  the request of the Bank,
exchange views  with  the  Bank  with  regard  to  progress of the
Project, the performance of  its  obligations under this Agreement
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
     (b)  Sabah shall promptly  inform  the  Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens  to  interfere  with the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment  of  the  purposes of the Loan, or
the performance by Sabah of its obligations under this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 3.01. (a) Sabah  shall  maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices,
the operations and  financial  condition  of the entities carrying
out Part B of the Project.
     (b)  Sabah shall:
         (i)   have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (statements  of  income  and  expenses  and related
               statements)  for  each   fiscal  year  audited,  in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Bank;
        (ii)   furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later  than  nine months after the end
               of each  such  year:  (A)  certified  copies of its
Page  3
               financial statements for  such  year as so audited,
               and (B) the report  of  such audit by said auditors
               of such scope and in  such detail as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
       (iii)   furnish  to   the   Bank   such  other  information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements as well  as  the  audit  thereof, as the
               Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 4.O2. This Agreement and  all obligations of the Bank
and of Sabah thereunder shall  terminate  on the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate  in  accordance with its terms, and
the Bank shall promptly notify Sabah thereof.
     Section 4.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                             ARTICLE V
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 5.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or  at  such  other  address  as  such  party shall have
designated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                      440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     For Sabah:
          Ministry of Finance
          Secretariat Building
          Kota Kinabalu
          Sabah, Malaysia
                                            Telex:
                                               KEWANG
                                               MA 80048
     Section 5.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf  of  Sabah  may  be  taken  or executed by the
Permanent Secretary of  the  Ministry  of  Finance, Sabah, or such
Page  4
other person or persons as the Permanent Secretary shall designate
in  writing,  and  Sabah  shall  furnish  to  the  Bank sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of each such person.
     Section 5.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts,  each  of  which  shall  be  an  original,  and  all
collectively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Attila Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                    STATE OF SABAH
                    By /s/ Albert S. Talalla
                                        Authorized Representative
                             SCHEDULE
                      Implementation Program
     Without  any  limitation  or  restriction  upon  any  of  its
obligations  under  this  Agreement,  Sabah  shall  implement  the
Environmental Management Plan, and  to  that  end Sabah shall take
all necessary action including:
     (a)  by   December   31,   1989,   completion   of   measures
satisfactory to the Bank:
          (i)  to define Wildlife Reserves  as areas set aside for
               the  protection  of  wildlife  and  conservation of
               wildlife habitat;
         (ii)  to prohibit all  commercial  exploitation of forest
               produce in Wildlife Reserves; and
        (iii)  to transfer the  responsibility  for the management
               of  wildlife  and   wildlife  habitat  in  Wildlife
               Reserves to its Wildlife Department;
     (b)  provision of  its  Wildlife  Department  with  staff and
resources satisfactory to the Bank;
     (c)  appointments in accordance with qualifications and terms
of reference satisfactory to the Bank by September 30, 1989 of:
          (i)  an Advisor to assist the Wildlife Department, and
         (ii)  a Manager/Advisor of the Tabin and Kulamba Wildlife
               Reserves; and
     (d)  completion  by  December  31,  1990  of  a  Conservation
Strategy for Sabah.
Page  5
