7  IRS /-  go s
--z-  I!~(-kRESTRICTED
FILE     COPY                   Report No. P-699
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
FOR AN
EDUCATION PROJECT
May 14, 1969



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMIENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA FOR
AN EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit in various currencies equivalent to $14.8 million to the Republic
of Korea for an education project.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        In late 1967 an economic mission identified the need for
increased emphasis on technical and vocational training in Korea's
educational system. A Bank reconnaissance mission in Miarch 1968 was
followed by UNESCO project identification and preparation missions,
which led to a request by the Government to IDA to help finance the
imorovement and expansion of the country's technical and vocational
education facilities. The project was appraised in October/November
1968.
3.        Progress in the industrial sector has outstripped the supply
of trained manpower required to sustain the growth of the increasingly
sophisticated industries, the mainstay of the country's rapid economic
progress. The proposed project would help provide the skilled manpower
needed for further economic expansion.
4.        Negotiations for the proposed loan were held in Washington
from April 14 to 17. Representing Korea were: iAr. S.C. Hong, Director,
Bureau of Science Education, 1'1inistry of Education;  Mr. K.S. Choi,
Counselor, Korean Embassy; Mr. I. Kang, Educational Attache, Korean
Embassy; H4r. J.Y. Sun, Third Secretary, Korean Embassy.
5.        The proposed credit would be the fourth to Korea.  A proposed
$45 million Bank loan for irrigation will be presented to the Executive
Directors on Hlay 15. Before the end of this fiscal year, I expect to
present for your approval a second Bank loan for the Korea Development
Finance Corporation (KDFC) in an amount of $20 million. A third railway
project for which the Government has requested a Bank loan is currently
being appraised.
6.        The following is a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA
credits to Korea as of April 30, 1969:



-2-
Loan  or                                             Amount (U.S. $ million)
Credit No.  Year       Borrower          Purpose     Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
25       1962   Republic of Korea   Railway             13.9      Nil
110       1967   Republic of Korea   2nd Railway         11.0      1.0
529       1968   KDFC                Industry      5.0             4.7
S-4       1968   Republic of Korea   Highway
Studies            3.5      3.0
Total (less cancellations) now outstanding 5.0   28.4
Total undisbursed                                          8.7
7.        The first railway project has been completed and the other
projects are progressing satisfactorily. Disbursements are on schedule.
IFC has invested $700,000 in KDFC and is considering investments
totalling $6 million in equity and loans for two projects in Korea, a
paper plant and a silk reeling plant.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED CREDIT
8.        Borrower:         Republic of Korea
Amount:           Various currencies equivalent to $14.8 million
Purpose:          To expand and improve technical and
vocational education
Amortization:     In fifty years including a ten year grace
period, through semi-annual installments
beginning June 15, 1979 and ending
December 15, 2018
Service Charge:   Three-fourths of one percent per annum
PART III - THE PROJECT
9.        An appraisal report entitled "An Education Project in Korea"
(PE-3a), dated hiay 14, 1969, is attached.
10.       Korea's compulsory education system has produced a literacy
rate of close to 90 percent, but turns out too iany students not
adequately trained to find a job after leaving school. MIost schools
badly lack commercial, scientific and engineering teaching equipment,
and pupils completing technical courses are often unqualified to fill
skilled manpower vacancies in commerce and industry. Steps to improve
these schools and so increase the proportion of good quality graduates
are urgently needed. The Government has drawn up an education plan to
improve tha systemTh so as to relate the groGwth and quality of the
output of the schools more closely to the overall economic needs of the



- 3 -
country. The rate of increase in the school age population is moderate,
partly as a result of a vigorous family planning program, and this will
make it possible for the Government to concentrate on the quality of
schools rather than the quantity.
11.       The project would not result in a substantially increased
student enrollment, but is designed principally to improve the quality
of existing education and training facilities. Its objective is to
improve facilities in selected specialized schools where agricultural,
commercial and technical subjects are taught in order to provide a
substantial increase in suitably qualified manpower.
12.       This, the first education project in Korea financed by the
Bank Group, would provide for the expansion and equipment of twenty-
seven technical high schools, five post secondary technical schools, and
four university teacher training departments. It would also include twenty-
six -;rn-years of technical assistance, twenty man-years of overseas
fellowshlips to support developments in agricultural and technical education
and assist educational planning and the services of consultant architects.
13.       To implement the proposed project a Project Unit would be set
up at the iiinistry of Education, headed by a Project Director, acceptable
to the Association. It would include a qualified architect, a
coordinator of the technical assistance teams and an experienced
accountant. An overseas team of vocational teachers and educational
planners would support the Project Unit. Furthermore, an overseas
architectural firm acceptable to the Association with special experience
in school building and school furniture, would be appointed to establish
space, construction and costing standards applicable to all the schools
in the project.
1.       The total cost of the project is $26.8 million.   The proposed
credi t, covering 55 percent of thle total cost, would fin-nce all
ex-;enditures on equipment and furniture, 35 percent (the es-Cimated foreign
exchange component) of the civil works,and the foreign costs of
consultants and fellowships. International competitive bidding would
be used for the supply of all equipment and furniture, and for the
construction of the schools. For furniture and equipment local
suppliers will be allowed the usual preference of 15 percent or the
prevailing customs duty, whichever is lower.   As domestic contracting
firms are competitive and well qualified, it is expected that
construction work will be awarded to local contractors. 'T)ualified
local suppliers may win the contracts for furniture and some of the
contracts for equipment,in which case about $2 million of the credit
would finance local currency expenditures.
15.       Korea has rniade remarkable development efforts and its savings
performance has increased considerably, being presently about 1 percent
of GNP. But there is nevertheless a resource gap which cannot be met
entirely by financing only the foreign exchange costs of projects
suitable for Bank Group consideration.   Many projects having a high



foreign exchange component, particularly in the industrial sector, are
financed with private and official capital from abroad. In these
circumstances, financing of same local expenditures on high priority
projects is justified.
16.       The proposed project is of high priority and is urgently
needed if Korea is to have the skilled manpower needed for continued
industrial development. The Ministry of Education, with the help of
the consultants provided under the proposed credit, will be capable
of efficient project implementation.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMIENTS AND AUTHORITY
17.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic
of Korea and the Association, the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreenent
and the text o` a Resolution approving the proposed Credit are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately. The draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement generally follows the pattern of Development
Credit Agreements for education projects.
PART V - THE ECONaOmY
18.       An economic report entitled "Current Economic Position and
Prospects of the Republic of Korea!" (EAP-4a) was circulated to the
Executive Directors on March 19, 1969.   The growth performance of the
Korean economy continues to be outstanding. In spite of successive
droughts GNP in real terrns grew by 9 percent in 1967 and 13 percent in
1968. This is well above the plan target. The rate of population
growth has slowed down from 3 percent to 2.3 percent in the last decade
and per capita GNP was about US$170 equivalent in 1968.
19.       Agricultural performance in the last two years has been
disappointing; 1968 output remained at the low level of 1967 which was
6 percent below; 1966. W4hile poor weather undoubtedly was the major
reason, there was also a slowdown in land development and the use of
current agricultural inputs.  The Government is determined to speed up
agricultural development.
20.       Output in manufacturing rose by 23 percent in 1967 and almost
29 percent in 1963. Further industrialization is emphasized in the
Government's development strategy. However, both agriculture and
industry, besides bottlenecks in physical infrastructure, are faced
with a shortage of skilled manpower.
21.       Merchandise exports increased from an average level of less
than US$90 million in 1962-64 to US$320 million in 1967 and to almost
U5$490 million in 1968.  However, especially in the last two years,
imports grew even more than exports in absolute terms as a result of
the economic expansion, trade liberalization, and large imports of
foodgrains. The deficit on goods and services increased to almost



US$680 million in 1968 fran US$415 million in 1967 and US$220 rnillion
in 1964. Net foreign assets of the banking system amounting to
US$320 million at the end of February 1969 were equivalent to almost
3 months' imports.
22.       Public savings rose substantially in the last three or four
years owing to sharp increases in tax revenue, following a tax reform
and continuing improvement of tax administration. Total gross domestic
savings are expected to go up from 13 percent of GNP in 1968 to about
15 percent in 1969.
23.       Since gross capital formation amounted to about 24.5 percent
of GNP in 1968 the resource gap, which has been widening since 1966,
reached close to 11.5 percent of GNP in 1968. It is expected to stay
at abou.t this percentage of GNP through 1971 but to increase in
absolute amount. Gross investment is expected to reach a level of
close to Won 500 billion (US$1.8 billion) in 1969 or almost 26 percent
of GNP. This would result in a resource gap of roughly US$700-750
million to be financed by the inflow of capital from abroad.
24.       During the last two years Korea has incurred a rather large
a,ount of short- and medium-term debt.  The debt service ratio is still
modest but it increased from 2.6 percent in 1966 to 7.4 percent in 1968.
If items now on order are delivered on schedule, service on public and
private debt will reach 20 percent or more of exports of goods and
services in 1970, not counting any provision for the service on new
obligations. Korea cannot realistically expect to fill the estimated
resource gap based on her present plans with borrowings on conventional
and concessionary terms. Therefore the planned level of investments
will have to be reconsidered to avoid an excessive debt burden. A
possible slower growth of exports and decline of receipts from Vietnam
may also accentuate the problem.
25.       At the third meeting of the Consultative Group in Paris on
April 17/18 the Korean Deputy Prime Iinister assured the meeting of his
Government's determination to control the inflow of short- and medium-
term debt and to keep the debt service burden within reasonable limits.
In its recent standby agreement with the Fund, the Korean Government
agreed, for the current calendar year, to limit the contracting of new
debt with maturities of between three and ten years to *$295 million
and to limit new short-term credit with maturities between one and three
years to the financing of essential grain and cotton imports of
$h0 million. This represents a modest step towards reducing the
disproportionate amount of debt on short- and medium-term. The Depu.ty
Prime i-Iinister also described other measures the Goovernment is under-
taking. All foreign loans are required to go through the Government's
screening process, commercial banks are required to obtain clearance
from the Hinistry of Finance before they can guarantee foreign loans,
and potential borrowers are required to obtain the Government's
permission before they can start to negotiate with foreign suppliers.
The Government intends to carry out a careful review of the investment



program, in particular large capital-intensive projects, to determine
which of the projects can be postponed or scaled down.   The Deputy Prime
M1inister also stated that export promotion will be strengthened further,
that the export targets for 1969 to 1971 will be raised, and that the
large repayments of sihort-term debts in 1970 and 1971 will be
rescheduled so as to reduce the debt hump for these two years. He
assured the members of the Consultative Group that the service of
external debts with maturities of thiree years and ovler would not be
allowed to exceed 15 percent of foreign exchange earnings. The Govern-
ment also intends to slow down the increase of the money supply and keep
price rises at the same or even lower rates than those in 1968:
6 percent increase in wholesale prices and 10 percent increase in
consumer's prices.
26.       During recent years, the Korean economy has grown rapidly,
stimulated by a substantial inflow of capital, at the cost of incurring
a considerable amount of short- and medium-term debt.   The Goverrnent
is noU reviewing investment priorities, restricting foreign borrowing,
and is actively promoting exports and discouraging imports by requiring
advance deposits against letters of credit.   In these circumstances and
given the underlying strength of the economy, Korea can be regarded as
creditworthy for the Bank lending at present planned. At the same time,
Korea's per capita income is low, and considering that Korea will have
to rely heavily on borrowing- abroad for development, it would be both
prudent and justified to provide part of the Bank Group's assistance
on concessional terms.
PART VI - COiPfLTANCE WITHi ARTICLES OF AGREEiENT
27.       I am satisfied that the proposed development credit would
comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VII - RECOIViENDATION
28.       I recom-mend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
development credit.
Attachment                                 Robert S. McNamara
President
by J. Burke Knapp
!siay 14, 1969



