CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 151 KO
Development Credit
Agreement
(Education Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 4, 1969


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 151 KO
Development Credit
Agreement
(Education Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 4, 1969


﻿gUnppmut Tubit Arawigt
AGREEMENT, dated June 4, 1969, between REPUBLIC
OF KOREA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssoCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to De-
velopment Credit Agreements of the Association dated
January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Appli-
cable to Development Credit Agreements of the Association
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
SECTION 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless
the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings
therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions in this Development
Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in
various currencies equivalent to fourteen million eight
hundred thousand dollars ($14,800,000).
SECTIOi 2.02. (a) The Association shall open a Credit
Account on its books in the name of the Borrower and shall
credit to such Account the amount of the Credit.


﻿(b) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account as provided in, and subject to the rights
of cancellation and suspension set forth in, this Develop-
ment Credit Agreement and in accordance with the alloca-
tion of the proceeds of the Credit set forth in Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such allocation shall be modified from
time to time pursuant to the provisions of such Schedule
or by further agreement between the Borrower and the
Association.
SECTION 2.03. The Borrower shall be entitled to with-
draw from the Credit Account in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods or services required for the Project and to
be financed under tlhis Development Credit Agreement:
(i) such amounts as shall have been paid (or, if the
Association shall so agree, shall be required to meet
payments to be made) for goods or services included
in Categories I, III and IV of the allocation of the
proceeds of the Credit set forth in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and
(ii) the equivalent of thirty-five percent (35%) of such
amounts as shall have been paid (or, if the Asso-
ciation shall so agree, shall be required to meet
payments to be made) for goods or services included
in Category II of the allocation of the proceeds of
the Credit set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agree-
ment, provided, however, that if there shall be an
increase in an estimate of such payments for goods
or services included in such Category, the Asso-
ciation may by notice to the Borrower adjust the
above percentage as required in order that with-
drawals of the amount of the Credit then allocated
to such Category and not withdrawn may continue
pro rata with the payments remaining to be made
for goods or services included in such Category.


﻿5
SECTION 2.04. No withdrawals from the Credit Account
shall be made:
(i) under Categories III and IV of the allocation of
the proceeds of the Credit set forth in Schedule 1
to this Agreement on account of payments in the
currency of the Borrower, or for goods produced
in, or services supplied from, the territories of the
Borrower; or
(ii) on account of payments for taxes imposed by the
Borrower or any of its political sub-divisions on,
or in connection with the importation or supply of,
goods or services included in Category I of said
allocation of the proceeds of the Credit.
SECTION 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per
cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
SECTION 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
SECTION 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account
in semi-annual installments payable on each June 15 and
December 15 commencing June 15, 1979 and ending Decem-
ber 15, 2018, each installment to and including the install-
ment payable on December 15, 1988 to be one-half of one
per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent
(1%) of such principal amount.
SECTION 2.08. The currency of the United States of
America is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
4.02 of the General Conditions.


﻿6
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
SECTION 3.01. The Borrower shall apply the proceeds of
the Credit in accordance with the provisions of this Devel-
opment Credit Agreement to expenditures ou the Project,
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
SECTION 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, (i) the goods and services (other t1.an consulting
services) to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding in accordance with the Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by
the Bank in February 1968, and in accordance with such
other procedures supplementary thereto as are set forth
in Schedule 4 to this Agreement or as shall be agreed be-
tween the Borrower and the Association, and (ii) contracts
for the procurement of such goods and services shall be
subject to the prior approval of the Association.
SECTION 3.03. Except as the Association may otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclu-
sively in carrying out the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
SECTION 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the
Project with due diligence and efficiency, in conformity
with sound technical, financial and administrative standards
and with due regard to economy, and shall at all times
make or cause to be made available, promptly as needed,
all funds and other resources required for carrying out
the Project and for the effective utilization, staffing, equip-


﻿7
ping, operation and maintenance of the educational insti-
tutions included in the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the educational institutions
included in the Project to be so operated as to promote
the educational objectives of the Borrower and to be pro-
vided with qualified teachers and administrators in adequate
numbers.
(c) The Borrower shall cause the buildings, furniture
and equipment of the educational institutions included in
the Project to be adequately maintained and shall cause all
necessary repairs and renewals thereof to be made. The
Borrower shall establish appropriate administrative and
financial procedures for the purposes of such maintenance.
(d) For the purpose of carrying out the Project, the
Borrower shall establish in the Borrower's Ministry of
Education a special unit headed by a Project Director,
acceptable to the Association, who shall be responsible for
the proper execution and supervision of the Project. The
Borrower shall appoint as members of such unit (i) a full-
time assistant to the Project Director, acceptable to the
Association, (ii) an experienced architect, acceptable to
the Association, (iii) an accountant and (iv) such support-
ing technical, accoLnting and secretarial staff as may be
necessary for the purposes of such unit.
(e) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause Parts A, B and C of the Project to
be carried out by contractors acceptable to the Borrower
and the Association employed under contracts satisfactory
to the Borrower and the Association.
(f) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the
Association for its approval promptly upon their prepara-


﻿8
tion the plans, specifications, contracts and work schedules
for the construction included in the Project and the master
lists of instructional equipment and furniture included
therein, and any subsequent material modifications thereof,
in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
SECTION 4.02. (a) In the carrying out of the Project, the
Borrower shall employ qualified and experienced architec-
tural consultants, acceptable to the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation, upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bor-
rower and the Association, for the following purposes:
(i) establishing space, construction and costing stand-
ards to be applied to all schools included in the
Project, and supervising the implemcntation of
such standards;
(ii) advising the Borrower on the professional compe-
tence of the architectural units of the Borrower's
Provincial Boards of Education with respect to the
responsibilities assigned to such units in the carry-
ing out of the Project; and
(iii) assisting the Borrower in the selection of Korean
architectural firms for the purposes of the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the said architectural units
or qualified Korean architectural firms to (i) design the
schools included in the Project on the basis of the standards
referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of this Section, (ii) pre-
pare appropriate drawings and documents for the purposes
of school construction, and (iii) supervise the construction
of schools included in the Project.
SECTION 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall take appropriate
steps to develop agricultural, commercial and technical sub-
jects in its teacher training institutions, secondary and
post-secondary schools.


﻿9
(b) Without limiting the generality of the foregoing
paragraph (a), the Borrower shall (i) employ an adequate
number of qualified specialists, acceptable to the Asso-
ciation, for such periods as shall be agreed between the
Borrower and the Association to assist the Borrower in
preparing sound education planning, establishing adequate
facilities for training teachers in the above mentioned sub-
jects and in developing agricultural, commercial and tech-
nical education in the Borrower's secondary and post-
secondary schools, (ii) provide ten fellowships for the
purpose of training Koreans overseas as specialists in the
said subjects, and (iii) take appropriate measures to ensure
that the Koreans so trained as specialists join the public
service of the Borrower for at least four years upon the
completion of their training overseas.
(c) The Borrower shall promptly take all requisite steps
for the acquisition and retention by the Borrower of all
such lands, interests in land and properties and all rights,
powers and privileges as may be necessary or proper for
the construction and operation of the educational institu-
tions included in the Project to ensure that such lands are
available immediately as needed for the purposes of said
construction.
SECTION 4.04. (a) For the purpose of strengthening the
staff and organization of the Borrower's Ministry of Edu-
cation, the Borrower undertakes that it will:
(i) appoint additional staff to the Planning and Man-
agement Office of the said Ministry for the purpose
of developing agricultural, technical, marine and
fishery education; and
(ii) appoint specialists in agricultural, commercial, in-
dustrial marine and fishery subjects to the Direc-
torate of School Supervisors of the said Ministry.


﻿10
(b) The Borrower undertakes that it will take all action
reasonably required on its part to ensure that the schools
included in the Project are at all times adequately provided
with electricity, water and such other utilities as may be
required for the proper functioning of such schools.
SECTION 4.05. The Borrower shall (i) maintain or cause
to be maintained such records as sball be adequate to iden-
tify the goods and services finaneou out of the proceeds of
the Credit, to disclose the use thereof in the Project, to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost
thereof) and to reflect in accordance with consisLently main-
tained sound accounting practices the operations and finan-
cial condition, in respect of the Project, of the ministries
or departments of the Borrower responsible for the con-
struction, operation and maintenance of the Project or any
part thereof; (ii) enable the Association's representatives
to inspect the Project, the operation thereof, the goods and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to
the Association all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Credit, the Project, the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the operation
of the educational system of the Borrower, the programs
for educational development in its territories and the oper-
ation and financial condition, in respect of the Project, of
the ministries or departments of the Borrower responsible
for the construction, administration, operation and main-
tenance of the Project or any part thereof.
SECTION 4.06. (a) The Borrower and the Association
shall cooperate fully with each other to assure that the
purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end,
each of them shall furnish to the other all such information
as either shall reaseaably request with regard to the gen-


﻿11
eral status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to fian-
cial and economic conditions in the territories of the Bor-
rower and the international balance of payments position
of the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall from time
to time exchange views through their representatives with
regard to matters relating to the purposes of the Credit
and the maintenance of the service thereof. The Borrower
shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit or the main-
tenance of the service thereof.
(c) The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity
for accredited representatives of the Association to visit
any part of the territories of the Borrower for purposes
related to the Credit.
SECTION 4.07. The principal of, and service charges on,
the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free
from, any taxes, and free from all restrictions, imposed
under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
SECTION 4.08. This Agreement shall be free from any
taxes that shall be imposed under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories on or in connection with
the execution, delivery or registration thereof.
SECTION 4.09. The Borrower undertakes to insure the
imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit against marine, transit and other hazards incident
to acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation and for such insurance any in-
demnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable hv
the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.


﻿12
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
SECTION 5.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of
the General Conditions shall occur and shall continue for
the period, if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent
time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at
its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare the prin-
cipal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable
immediately together with the service charges thereon and
upon any such declaration such principal, together with
such charges, shall become due and payable immediately,
anything in this Development Credit Agreement to the
contrary notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of this Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 10.01(b)
of the General Conditions, namely: that the architectural
consultants referred to in Section 4.02(a) of this Develop-
ment Credit Agreement shall have been employed.
SECTION 6.02. The date of September 30, 1969, is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 10.04 of the General
Conditions.
SECTION 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under
Sections 4.01(b) and (c), 4.03(a), 4.04 and 4.05 of this
Agreement shall terminate on the date on which this Devel-
opment Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date
twenty years after the date of this Development Credit
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.


﻿13
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
SECTION 7.01. The Closing Date shall be December 31,
1974 or such other date as shall be agreed between the
Borrower and the Association.
SECTION 7.02. The Minister, Economic Planning Board,
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.
SECTION 7.03. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister, Economic Planning Board
Republic of Korea
Seoul
Korea
Alternative address for cables:
EPB
Seoul
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Alternative address for cables:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.


﻿14
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
By /s/ DONG JO KIM
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssoCIATIoN
By /s/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President


﻿15
SCHEDULE 1
Allocation of Proceeds of the Credit
Amount expressed
Category                                in Dollar Equivalent
I. Furniture and equipment                8,490,000
II. Civil works                            4,330,000
III. Professional fees and administration    250,000
IV. Technical assistance and fellowships     460,000
V. Unallocated                             1,270,000
TOTAL           14,800,000
Reallocation Upon Change in Cost Estimates
1. If the estimate of the cost of the items included in any
of the Categories I to IV shall decrease, the amount of
the Credit then allocated to, and no longer required for,
such Category will be reallocated by the Association to
Category V.
2. If the estimate of the cost of the items included in any
of the Categories I to IV shall increase, an amount equal
to the portion, if any, of such increase to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit (or, in the case of Category
II, an amount equal to 35 % of such increase) will be
allocated by the Association, at the request of the Bor-
rower, to such Category from Category V, subject, how-
ever, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined
by the Association, in respect of the cost of the items in
the other Categories.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following:
A. Construction and equipment of :
(i) replacements for 3 technical high schools and ex-
pansion of 6 others;
(ii) extensions to 2 comprehensive high schools;
(iii) extensions to 5 agricultural-technical high schools;
(iv) extensions to 4 commercial high schools; and
(v) extensions to 7 agricultural high schools.
B. Construction and equipment of :
(i) extensions to 4 higher technical schools; and
(ii) extensions to one higher agricultural school.
C. Construction and equipment of an extension to the De-
partment of Agricultural Education at the Seoul Na-
tional University.
D. Provision of science equipment for the science teacher
training departments at the three national universities
of Seoul, Kyungbuk and Kongju.
E. Consulting Services for the works included in Parts
A, B and 0 above.
F. The provision of 26 man-years of technical assistance
and 20 man-years of overseas fellowships to promote
the development of agricultural and technical education
and to assist educational planning.
The specific educational institutions to be included in
the Project, the specific locations thereof, enrollment levels
thereat and the approximate areas of construction shall be
those shown in Schedule 3 to this Agreement, subject to
modification by further agreement between the Borrower
and the Association.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1974.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 3
List of Educational Institutions
A. High Schools. Replacements for 3 and extensions to 24
secondary high schools including 700 student boarding
places.
Approx. Total
Student  Axea to be
Final Total Boarding constructed
Name of School           Enrollment  Places  (sq. meters)
Technical High Schools
Seoul P-k               960       -        2270
Pusan (rebuilding)     1680       -       11178
Anyang                 1080       -        2376
Taiback                 960       -        4800
Choongnarn             1080       -        4114
Mokpo (rebuilding)     1080       -        7974
Ulsan (rebuilding)     1080       -        7974
Chinju                  960       -        4647
Soonchon               1080       -        4736
Comprehensive High Schools
Youngju                1080       -        4274
Kunsan                 3000       -        2883
Agricultural-Technical High Schools
Sosa                    840       -        2743
Kangneung               840       -        3415
Janghang                600       -        2544
Nonsan                  840       -        4487
Kimhae                 1560       -        7650
Agricultural High Schools
Yoju                    480      100       2941
Boeun                   600      100       3312
Jeongeup                960      100       5765
Bosung                  480      100       4116
Kimchon                 600      100       3148
Kongju                  720      100       4060
Suwon                   600      100       3167
Continued


﻿18
Approx. Total
Student  Area to be
Final Total Boarding constructed
Name of Institutiou      Enrollment  Places  (sq. meters)
Commercial High Schools
Kyunggi                1200       -        2573
Kyu-ngnam              1440       -        4446
Inchon                 1200       -        2231
Taegu                  1440       -        2353
B. Higher Schools. Extensions to 5 higher schools.
Higher Technical Schools
Kyunggi                1400       -        2158
Pusan                  1600       -        2188
Chungju                 800       -        2715
Taejon                  900       -        1054
Higher Agricultural School
Chinju                 1000       -        5433
C. University Teacher Training Departments. Extensions
to one Department including 100 student boarding places
and equipment for 3 others.
Seoul, Agricultural Teacher
Training Department      320       100        580
Seoul, Department of
Science Education and
Home Economics
Kyungbuk, Department of     Equipment only
Science Education
Kongju, Department of
Science Education


﻿19
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Pursuant to Section 3.02 of the Development Credit
Agreement, international competitive bidding will be used
to carry out the Project, and the procedures set forth in the
Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and
IDA Credits, dated February 1968, shall be applied by the
Borrower together with the following supplementary pro-
visions:
1. Contracts for Civil Works
(a) The several civil works included in the Project
shall be grouped to form one or more economical bid
Packages, whenever practicable.
(b) Prior to inviting bids the Borrower shall:
(i) Submit to the Association for approval lists
containing the types and groups of works
proposed to be let and the estimated costs
thereof, together with a description of the
method to be used for obtaining bids in re-
spect to each one;
(ii) Upon obtaining such approval, the Borrower
shall submit for the approval of the Associa-
tion the draft bidding documents, the draft
contracts, the list of firms that the Borrower
proposes to invite to bid, if any, and the
proposed international advertising coverage.
(c) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall send to the Association a summary
thereof, the analysis of the bids and a brief justifica-
tion of the Borrower's decision on the award; provided,
however, that in the case of any contract, or a group
of contracts covered by a single award, involving an


﻿20
amount of US$100,000 equivalent or more, the Bor-
rower shall obtain the Association's approval before
making the award.
(d) As soon as a contract has been awarded, the Bor-
rower shall send a certified copy thereof to Association
promptly after execution of such contract and prior
to the submission to the Association of the first appli-
cation for withdrawal in respect of such contract.
(e) The Borrower shall request the Association's ap-
proval for any proposed change in a contract involving
a price increase of 5 per cent, or more than US$10,000
equivalent, whichever is less.
2. Contracts for Equipment and Furniture
(a) Lists for all items of equipment and furniture
required for the Project shall be prepared, showing the
specifications and estimated unit and total price of
each item. Items will be grouped so as to permit bulk
procurement as shall be consistent with sound technical
and procurement practices.
(b) Prior to inviting bids the Borrower shall:
(i) Submit to the Association for its approval the
lists mentioned in paragraph 2 (a) above,
together with a description of the method to
be used for obtaining bids in respect of each
one;
(ii) Submit for the Association's approval the
proposed standard bid, tender and contract
documents.
(c) In the case of a contract involving an amount of
US$25,000 equivalent or less, the Borrower shall send
to the Association, after the bids have been evaluated
and awarded (provided the bid amount was within
original estimates) a summary and analysis thereof,


﻿21
and a brief justification of the decision on the awarding
of the contract.
(d) Foreign bids will be compared on a C.I.F. port of
entry, Korean landed price basis exclusive of customs
duties and similar taxes incident to importation of the
goods.
(e) Where bids are submitted by Korean suppliers of
goods substantially manufactured or processed in the
territories of the Borrower, the following rules shall
be observed for the purposes of comparing any such
bid to any competing bid of a foreign bidder:
(i) All customs duties and similar taxes incident
to importation shall first be deducted from
the total of such foreign bid;
(ii) The portion of such foreign bid representing
the C.I.F. port of entry, Korean landed price
of the goods shall then be increased by 15o
0                                 thereof or the existing level of such duties
and taxes, whichever is lower and the result-
ing figure shall be deemed to be the delivered
price of the imported goods;
(iii) If the ex-factory price of the goods offered
by the competing Korean supplier is equal
to or lower than the delivered price of the
imported goods arrived at under sub-para-
graph (ii) hereof, and other terms and con-
ditions are satisfactory, the contract shall be
awarded to the Korean supplier.
(f) As soon as a contract has been awarded, the Bor-
rower shall send a certified copy thereof to the Asso-
ciation, promptly after the execution of such contract
and prior to the submission to the Association of the
first application for withdrawal in respect of such
contract.


