                                                  SR39



         Lao People’s Democratic Republic
  Peace Independence Democracy Unity Prosperity
                ***************


             Ministry of Health


       Community Nutrition Project



Ethnic Group Development Plan




       Supported by: The World Bank




                 22 January 2012
                                    Table of Content

1.    Overview
       1.1 The Community Nutrition Project
       1.2 Compliance with World Bank Operational Policy 4.10
2.   Background Information
       2.1 Ethnic Groups in Lao PDR
       2.2 Legal and Institutional Frameworks applicable for Ethnic Groups in Lao PDR
       2.3 Baseline information on ethnic groups in project areas
3.   The Ethnic Group Development Plan
       3.1 Summary of the HSIP Social Impact Assessment
       3.2 Summary of free, prior, and informed consultations during project preparation
       3.3 Framework for ensuring ethnic groups consultations during project
           implementation
4.   Action Plan of Measures for the EGDP
5.   Cost of financing the EGDP
6.   Complaint monitoring and conflict resolution mechanisms
7.   Monitoring and Evaluation
8.   In-country disclosure

References
   1. Overview

The Ethnic Group Development Plan (EGDP) provides a strategy and a programmatic approach
to ensure and enhance the inclusion of different ethnic groups in the Community Nutrition
Project (CNP). The EGDP also ensures compliance with policies of the Lao People’s Democratic
Republic concerning ethnic groups, as well as the World Bank’s Operational Policy 4.10 on
Indigenous Peoples.

The World Bank Operational Policy 4.10 on Indigenous Peoples aims to ensure that ethnic
groups are afforded opportunities to participate in, and benefit from, the project in culturally
appropriate ways. As the CNP will be targeting remote and rural areas, where many ethnic
groups are concentrated, it has been designed in a manner that is fully consistent with
Operational Policy 4.10 and is expected to positively impact ethnic groups. The EGDP will
describe in detail the socioeconomic and demographic characteristics of ethnic groups in project
areas and the manner in which the project’s core activities will be carried out to ensure ethnic
groups benefit from the project.

Lao people’s Democratic Republic (Lao PDR) is one of the poorest and least developed
countries in East Asia. With a population of 6,200,894 and a GDP per capita of US$1,208 in 2010,
it is classified as a lower middle income country (WDI 2010). Poverty in the country has been
reduced significantly, with the poverty headcount declining from 46 percent in 1992/93 to 34
percent in 2002/03 and to 28 percent by 2007/8, and expected to reach the related MDG target
of 25 percent by 2015 (Lao DoS 2010).

However, considerable differences in poverty rates persist among different geographic areas
and ethnic groups. The three major non Lao-Tai groups, who together constitute about 45
percent of the population (2005 Lao DoS), still record poverty rates above 42 percent, compared
to 25 percent among Lao-Tai (considered the majority group). Lao PDR has 49 different ethnic
groups, making it one of the most diverse countries.

The country has made good progress on health indicators over the last decade; under-5
mortality and maternal mortality have been reduced from 88 in 2000 to 54 in 2010 and from 790
in 2000 to 580 in 2008 respectively. However, less progress has been seen among ethnic groups.
The total fertility rate has also been reduced from 4.3 in 2000 to 2.8 in 2009. Malnutrition
however remains a problem and Lao PDR has one of the highest stunting rates in the region
with 47.6 percent of children under-5 being stunted and 31.6 percent of children under-5 being
underweight (MICS 2006). Furthermore, health indicators show high degree of variations
amongst the Lao-speaking population and ethnic groups.
       1.1 The Community Nutrition Project

The CNP project has been designed as a program of demand incentives, community-based
nutritional education, and institutional capacity building needed to improve access to health
care and raise knowledge and awareness regarding nutrition. The objective of the CNP is to
improve coverage of essential maternal and child health services and improve mother and child
caring practices among pregnant and lactating women and children less than two years old in
seven southern and central provinces (Bolikhamxai, Khammoune, Savannakhet, Salavane,
Xekong, Attapeu, and Champasak).

The CNP comprises two components:
   1. CCTs to stimulate the uptake of key maternal and child health services;
   2. A community-based health and nutrition program to affect behavior change and
      mobilize mutual support to improve nutrition;

In addition, the project provides resources for support and management, including capacity
building to health staff through in-service training (5 Module Training), improved supervision,
and increased availability of maternal and child care supplies in remote rural villages through
community-based distributors (CBDs).

As a result of these activities, villagers, especially those living in remote rural communities, are
expected to benefit from improved utilization of health services and increased knowledge and
awareness of nutrition. Through the CCT component, the project is expected to help reduce
financial barriers to accessing care, while the community nutrition component will improve
knowledge of maternal and child health and nutrition, especially in remote villages where non-
Lao speaking ethnic groups typically live. The community-based distributor program, in
particular, is operational in communities considered too remote to be able to reliably depend on
routine outreach of health services.

       1.2 Compliance with World Bank Operational Policy 4.10

The CNP project has been designed to meet all the requirements of the World Bank’s
Operational Policy 4.10 on Indigenous Peoples. The objective of this policy is to ensure that
groups meeting the definition of “indigenous peoples? can receive culturally appropriate
benefits from the project, and that any adverse socioeconomic and cultural impacts caused by
the projects are identified, minimized and otherwise mitigated. The World Bank’s Operational
Policy 4.10 requires that “indigenous peoples? be involved in a multi-step consultation process
including a social impact assessment (SIA) of the proposed project and in a process of “free,
prior, and informed consultations? during project design and preparation. The World Bank will
only support projects involving such groups, if a consultation process demonstrates a pattern of
broad community support for project objectives and activities.
    2. Background Information

2.1 Ethnic Groups in the Lao PDR
Lao PDR is one of the most ethnically and culturally diverse countries. The official terminology,
for describing the diverse population of the Lao PDR is ‘ethnic group’ and was introduced in
the 1991 Constitution. The term “indigenous people? is not used in Lao PDR. Therefore the
EGDP will use the official terminology of the Government of Lao PDR (GoL).

Despite the fact that the number of ethnic groups have changed over time, specialist agree on
the ethnolinguistic classification of ethnic groups produced by the Lao Front for National
Construction (LFNC) which contains 49 categories and over 160 subgroups.

According to the official categorization of the LFNC, ethnic groups in Lao PDR can be
categorized into four ethnolingustic categories:
    - The Lao-Tai (also referred to as ‘Tai-Kadai’) which includes the ‘ethnic Lao’ group and
       lowland Tai/Thay speaking groups;
    - Mon-Khmer ethnic groups, which includes the Khumic, Palaungic, Kautic, Bhahnaric-
       Khmer and Vietic speaking groups;
    - Hmong-Mien, including the Hmong and the Mien speaking groups.
    - Sino-Tibetan (also referred to as Chine-Tibet), which includes Chinese Ho and Tibeto-
       Burman speaking groups.

It has been established that these groups meet the Bank’s definition of ‘indigenous people’, that
is, they possess the following characteristics:
     a) Self-identification as members of a distinct indigenous cultural group and recognition of
        this identity by others;
     b) Collective attachment to geographically distinct habitats or ancestral territories in the
        project area and to the natural resources in these habitats and territories;
     c) Customary, cultural, economic, social, or political institutions that separate them from
        those of the dominant society and culture; and
     d) An indigenous language, often different from the official language of the country.

2.2 Legal and Institutional Frameworks on Ethnic Groups in Lao PDR

According to the 1991 Constitution, Lao PDR is defined as a multi-ethnic state, with “equality
among all ethnic groups.? Article 8 of the Constitution reads:
“The State pursues the policy of promoting unity and equality among all ethnic groups. All ethnic groups
have the rights to protect, preserve and promote the fine customs and cultures of their own tribes and of
the nation. All acts of creating division and discrimination among ethnic groups are forbidden. The State
implements every measure to gradually develop and upgrade the economic and social level of all ethnic
groups?.
The intention of the Constitution is to grant equal status to all ethnic groups, and to this end no
reference is made to distinctions between highlanders (Lao Soung) and lowlanders (Lao Loum)
and midlanders (Lao Theung). That is, from this point on, the terms Lao Loum, Lao Theung, Lao
Soung are no longer recognized as official terminology.

The 1992 ethnic minority policy, Resolution of the Party Central Organization Concerning Ethnic
Minority Affairs in the New Era, focused on gradually improving the lives of ethnic minorities,
while promoting their ethnic identity and cultural heritage. It is the cornerstone of current
national ethnic minority policy. The general policy of the Party concerning ethnic minorities can
be summarized as follows (Pholsena 2005):
     Build national sentiment (national identity).
     Realize equality between ethnic minorities.
     Increase the level of solidarity among ethnic minorities as members of the greater Lao
        family.
     Resolve problems of inflexible and vengeful thinking, as well as economic and cultural
        inequality.
     Improve the living conditions of the ethnic minorities step by step.
     Expand, to the greatest extent possible, the good and beautiful heritage and ethnic
        identity of each group as well as their capacity to participate in the affairs of the nation.

The implementation of the Party’s policy on ethnic minorities is tasked to the Lao Front for
National Construction (known colloquially as Neo Hom).

In relation to health care, the policy calls for protection against and eradication of dangerous
diseases and to allow ethnic groups to enjoy good health and long life. The Government, it
states, should provide appropriate investments to enlarge the health care network by
integrating modern and traditional medicine.

The Ethnic Minorities Committee under the National Assembly holds the responsibility to draft and
evaluate proposed legislation concerning ethnic minorities, lobby for its implementation as well
as implementation of socioeconomic development plans. Research on ethnic groups is the
responsibility of the Institute for Cultural Research under the Ministry of Information and
Culture. The lead institution for ethnic affairs is the mass (political) organization, the Lao Front
for National Construction (LFNC), which has an Ethnic Affairs Department.
2.3 Baseline information on ethnic groups in project areas
Lao PDR has a high degree of ethnic and linguistic heterogeneity. Based on data and analysis
from the LECS4, the Lao-Tai groups make-up 66% percent of Lao’s population, followed by the
Mon-Khmer (21.5%), the Hmong-Mien (8.8%) and the Sino-Tibetan (3.1%) (Lao DoS 2010).

Ethnic groups, especially those living in rural and remote areas, generally have a higher poverty
incidence than the Lao-Tai group. The LECS4 survey analysis found that people belonging to
the Mon-Khmer, Sino-Tibetan, and Hmong-Mien ethnic groups have a poverty incidence that is
two-and-a-half times higher than the Lao-Tai (Table 1). Food poverty, the ability to ensure the
supply of food to meet daily nutritional needs, is double the rate amongst ethnic groups,
suggesting that ethnic groups are more vulnerable to food insecurity and malnutrition.

         Table 1: Socio-economic indicators of Lao Ethnic Group at the National Level
                                           Share of
                                                             Poverty      Food
                     Ethnic Group            total
                                                            Headcount    Poverty
                                          population

                     Lao-Tai                  66%              18.4%     17.4%
                     Mon-Khmer               21.5%             47.3%     39.3%
                     Sino-Tibetan             3.1%             42.2%     32.5%
                     Hmong-Mien               8.8%             43.7%     39.8%
                     Other                    0.6%                 22%   34.9%
                      Source: Lao Department of Statistics, 2010


Furthermore, health indicators for non-Lao ethnic groups are low compared to the rest of the
country, due to the fact that non-Lao ethnic groups typically face significant health-care-related
disadvantages: they live in remote, isolated areas not readily accessible to the formal health
system, they are often poorer, have a lower literacy rate in Lao language, and generally lack
access to roads, schools, markets, and other services.

The CNP baseline study assesses the socio-economic and demographic characteristics in some
of the districts where CNP will be implemented. CNP will pilot interventions in 62 target health
centers in seven southern provinces. The baseline survey was administered to 1,317 households,
in 87 villages, across 6 of the southern project provinces (Bolikhamxai, Khammouane,
Savanakhet, Salavan, Champasak, and Attapu) in the catchment areas of 19 of the 62
intervention districts. The survey collected information on household, village, and health center
characteristics as well as knowledge, practice, and attitudes relating to health status and health
seeking behavior.

The districts, wherein the 19 sampled health centers are located, have a higher poverty rate
compared to the national average. In addition, most of these districts are some of the most
geographically remote and difficult to access, and almost all of them are identified as poor and
as high priority by the GoL (Table 2 and Map 1).
 Table 2: Poverty Rate and Priority Status of 19 Intervention Districts
    Province           District       Poverty Rate      Poor and Priority

Attapeu             Phouvong              61%           Poor and Priority
Attapeu             Xaysetha              44%                 Poor
Savannakhet         Thapangthong          60%                 Poor
Savannakhet         Xepon                 66%           Poor and Priority
Savannakhet         Xepon                 66%           Poor and Priority
Savannakhet         Nong                  75%           Poor and Priority
Savannakhet         Vilabouly             62%           Poor and Priority
Salavane            Taoi                  71%           Poor and Priority
Salavane            Taoi                  71%           Poor and Priority
Khammouane          Nakai                 55%           Poor and Priority
Khammouane          Xaybouathong          54%                 Poor
Khammouane          Xaybouathong          54%                 Poor
Khammouane          Mahaxay               45%                 Poor
Champasak           Pathoomphone          31%                 Poor
Champasak           Bachiang              41%           Poor and Priority
Bolikhamxay         Khamkheuth            50%           Poor and Priority
Bolikhamxai         Borlikhan             36%           Poor and Priority
Bolikhamxai         Borlikhan             36%           Poor and Priority
Champasak           Sukhuma               33%           Poor and Priority
National Average                           34%
Source: Epprecht M, Minot N, Dewina R, Messerli P, Heinimann A, 2008.
The Geography of Poverty and Inequality in the Lao PDR. Swiss National
                                                             .
Map 1: Poverty Rate of CNP project provinces and districts
Analysis of the CNP baseline survey data for ethnic composition of the sampled households
suggests that the Mon-Khmer ethnolinguistic family dominated the ethnic group landscape in
the 6 southern provinces (51.49% of sampled population). Approximately 46% of the sampled
household belonged to the Lao-Tai ethnolingustic family, and 2.99% of household were from
the Hmong-Mien ethnolinguistic family; no Sino-Tibetan groups were recorded.

              Table 3: Intervention Districts Households by Ethnolingustic Group Composition

                               Ethno-linguistic group        Percent of Sample
                               Lao-Tai                             46.24%
                               Mon-Khmer                           50.04%
                               Hmong-Mien                           2.99%
                               Other                                0.73%
                               Total                               100.0%
                          Source: CNP Baseline Study 2010


The survey also examined health status and utilization amongst households in the catchment
area of the 19 intervention health centers. The data illustrates that prevalence of sickness
amongst ethnic groups was higher for the Mon-Khmer and the Hmong-Mien, compared to the
Lao-Tai population. On the other hand, utilization of health services was higher amongst the
Lao-Tai (82.4%) compared to the Mon-Khmer (72.2%) or the Hmong-Mien (77.8%) (Table 4).

         Table 4: Prevalence of Sickness and Utilization of Health Services by Ethnic Groups
                                     Prevalence of
                                                            Utilization rate in       N of
                Ethnic Group       sickness in past 3
                                                             past 3 months2       observations
                                       months1

                Lao-Tai                   71.9%                   82.4%               454
                Mon-Khmer                 81.2%                   72.2%               554
                Sino-Tibetan                --                      --                 --
                Hmong-Mien                87.8%                   77.8%               36
                Other                     80.0%                   100%                 8
                  Source: CNP Baseline Study 2010


Reasons for not utilizing were mainly related to cost and difficulty of access. 21.8% of Mon-
Khmer and 25% of Hmong-Mien ethnic groups did not utilize because it was too expensive
compared to 15.3% of Lao-Tai. Difficulty of accessing services was found to be a major
constraint for all with 21.6% of Lao-Tai, 24.3% of Mon-Khmer and 12.5% of Hmong-Mien citing
physical access as a reason.




1   Defined as having been sick or having had an injury over the previous three months.
2   Utilization refers to both seeking advice and treatment.
The baseline study also collected information regarding the ethnic composition of villages in the
catchment areas and the knowledge of local languages amongst health center staff. Data
analysis suggests that in 10% of the health centers sampled, there was no overlap between the
languages spoken by the staff and the three major languages spoken in the catchment areas,
suggesting a potential communication barrier between staff and beneficiary that might
influence utilization of services. In a further 58% of health centers, there was only partial
overlap between the languages spoken by staff and beneficiaries.


                                   Linguistic congruence between languages spoken
                                               by health center (HC) staff
                                             and catchment area population
                                                         In 10% of HCs sampled,
                                                          staff did not speak any
                                                          of the major languages
                                                             in catchment area
                                In 32% of HCs sampled,
                                      staff spoke all
                                     major languages
                                    in catchment area




                                                                 In 58% of HCs sampled,
                                                                     staff spoke some
                                                                         but not all
                                                                    major languages in
                                                                      catchment area


                  Source: CNP Baseline Survey
   3. The Ethnic Group Development Plan

CNP is not expected to cause negative social impacts. However, there may be issues associated
with ensuring equitable access to project benefits and there are concerns that some villages will
benefit more than others due to proximity and ease of accessibility to intervention health
centers. A number of constraints in accessing health care services were identified by local
populations, especially challenges related to physical access, the high cost of services, and the
cost of transportation. Furthermore, the opportunity cost of abandoning crops in order to seek
maternal and child care services are especially high for ethnic groups living in remote villages.
To ensure equitable access to project activities, the EGDP provides an action plan that addresses
the challenges faced by ethnic groups and ensures they benefit in a culturally appropriate way.

In compliance with Operational Policy 4.10, the EGDP builds on the Social Impact Assessment
from the Health Service Improvement Project (HSIP), an ongoing health project which was
designed to cover the same provinces as the CNP, and on extensive “free, prior, and informed?
consultations with a sample of ethnic groups. The findings from both consultative processes are
outlined below.

3.1 Summary of the Social Impact Assessment

To obtain a first-hand view of the health service situation, a social impact assessment (SIA) was
carried out for HSIP. The SIA consisted of brief field studies in one district in each of the project
provinces. Districts were selected so as to include very poor, poor, and non-poor districts (as
defined by the National Poverty Eradication Program) for a more comprehensive sample.
Within each district the research teams met with district HC committees to select at least one
representative souksala (health center) and two villages within the HC catchment area. The two
villages in each case consisted of one old and one new village, and care was taken to include as
many ethnic groups as possible. The aim of the SIA field studies was to assess the systems for
delivery of services from the perspectives of the various agencies and institutions in the project
area, in particular the district, the health center (souksala), and the village. Semi-structured
interviews were held with health officials, village health volunteers (VHVs) and villagers.

The findings of the SIA are essentially that while the Health Systems Improvement Project had
no particular negative impacts, positive impacts would depend upon the degree to which an
increased effort to include ethnic group participation in the health care system could be
successful. To accomplish this, additional focus and financing would have to be directed at
programs aimed at the ethnic minorities in the form of (1) language and culture, and (2) the
integration of traditional and conventional medical systems.
3.2 Summary of free, priori and informed consultations during project preparation

In addition to the SIA for the HSIP, local consultations have also been carried out specifically for
CNP. In keeping with the principle of “free, prior, and informed consent?, consultations were
held with six ethnically distinct villages in a sample of two provinces from the project area,
during Feb. 27th and March 5, 2009. Selection of districts and village was purposive in order to
select villages which represent considerable portions of the ethnic groups’ population and with
poverty incidence rates of 60 percent and higher.

Within a series of focus group discussions, women shared their views and experiences with
respect to childbirth, pre- and postnatal care, the local clinic and hospital and contact with the
government health care system. The CNP project, as described in the project document, was
disclosed by the consultation team with special emphasis on the CCTs. The women, facilitated
by the consultation team, discussed aspects related to the CCTs.

All communications were free, prior and informed and without interference. The language of
consultations in Khamkeut was primarily Lao, with some skilled interpretations for Hmong
women. In Savannakhet, a team member was able to speak directly to women in their own
languages, though most of the women were able to speak Lao.

Both the local consultations and the SIA documented high levels of support for the proposed
CNP, as well as a wide variety of cultural practices, especially with regard to method of
delivery, alimentary interdictions, duration of the roasting period, etc. With respect to nutrition,
the consultations highlighted the variations in understandings of nutrition across the
communities. Like maternal and child caring practices, the findings emphasized the need for
flexibility in the CNP’s nutrition messaging to ensure local relevancy.

3.3 Framework of Consultations with Ethnic Groups during Project Implementation

During project implementation, DHP, together with LWU will conduct “free, prior and
informed? consultation with a selected sample of affected ethnic groups in four different HC in
two districts of Salavan and Attapeu provinces.

The objective of the consultations will be to ensure community support for the project during
implementation as well as to provide an opportunity to assess whether the design of the CNP is
succeeding in responding to the needs of ethnic groups. The consultations will be conducted
approximately four months after CCT and CBN implementation. DHP, together with LWU, will
conduct the consultations through the use of appropriate and culturally sensitive methods
(including the use of ethnic languages, allowing time for consensus building, and selecting
appropriate venues). DHP and LWU will submit to the WB a report of the outcomes of the
consultations.
   4. Plan for ensuring ethnic group’s access to project activities

Selection of health centers/intervention sites
The CNP project was designed to target poor, high priority, rural areas where ethnic groups
tend to be concentrated. Therefore, ethnic composition of a health center’s catchment area was a
variable in the selection of intervention health centers. The 62 intervention health centers were
selected by the Department of Hygiene and Prevention.

Conditional Cash Transfers
During the consultations with ethnic groups, it emerged that one of the most important reasons
for not seeking health care was the high cost of transportation and the opportunity cost of
abandoning the fields. The CCT component aims to reduce these financial barriers by providing
cash incentives for attending maternal and child care services. The CCT component will offer
reimbursements to mothers based on the distance from the health center of their catchment
area. This has been designed to favor ethnic groups, the majority of whom live in remote and
not-easily accessible areas (i.e. the incentive for those living more than 6km away is higher).
Furthermore, the CCT also provides a cash incentive to offset the opportunity cost of being
away from home and daily work, for both the mother and an accompanying person.

Ensuring enrollment of ethnic groups into the CCT program will be key in achieving the
objectives of the project. Language has traditionally been an issue; many ethnic groups are
unable to speak the Lao language, and thus disadvantaged in accessing public services,
especially health services, as staff, in most cases, are not able to communicate in the local
languages. Therefore, a translator will be available during CCT enrollment events to ensure
that women understand the meaning of the CCT pilot and their entitlements.

Community-based Nutrition (CBN)
Almost all the 500 villages in the catchment area of the 62 selected health centers will be part of
the Community-based Nutrition component, which is managed by the Lao Women’s Union.
The training material has been developed by an NGO, Health Poverty Action (HPA), contracted
by DHP in consultation with both DHP and LWU.

 Given the ethnic diversity of the project areas, the training material has been developed to be
sufficiently adaptable to diverse contexts. The training will be delivered in the local
predominant language through the use of pictorial and audiovisual material to ensure a
comprehensive understanding even in very low literacy settings. The content of the trainings is
culturally neutral and builds on ethnic sensitivity of maternal and child health and nutrition
issues. In addition, the delivery methodology is highly participatory to foster involvement from
the beneficiaries; the trainings will be implemented in a flexible manner to reflect local needs
and ensure that local concerns are addressed. The final IEC material developed by LWU and
HPA has been reviewed and approved by DHP to ensure it responds to the needs of an
ethnically diverse population. To enhance ethnic group’s participation in CBN sessions, the
training will be conducted on a monthly basis within the villages to avoid the burden of
transpiration-related costs on the beneficiaries. The training will be delivered by three
facilitators: the village head, the LWU representative and the Village Health Volunteer. The
LWU will ensure that at least one of the facilitators who are trained to deliver the CBN training
at the village level speaks the local village language.

Supportive Supervision and Community-based Distributors
The Maternal and Child Health Center of the MOH will be responsible for coordinating the
implementation of staff capacity building and the community-based distribution of MNCH
supplies. Community-based distribution (CBD) has been explicitly designed to address the
access barriers faced by very remote communities, and will only operate in the most remote and
inaccessible communities, where many ethnic groups typically live. The CBD program will rely
upon individuals from within the targeted communities; during the selection process an
emphasis was placed on strong communication skills, especially ability to speak ethnic
languages. Furthermore, CBDs deliver MNCH supplies free of charge and directly to the house,
so that no transportation or indirect costs are expected from the beneficiary.

The table below summarizes the action plan of measures to ensure ethnic groups benefit from
CNP:

  Constraint                                 Responsible
                      Key activities                              Expected Outcome             Deadline
  Identified                                   Agency
Challenges in    Transportation incentive    DHP           Increased number of ethnic group    Sept 2012
accessing                                                  women attend ANC visits and
health                                                     delivering at a health facility
facilities
                 Community based             DHP           Women from ethnic groups living     Dec 2011
                 distribution of MNCH                      in remote communities able to
                 messages and supplies                     access MNCH supplies and
                                                           information

Inadequate       Culturally-sensitive        LWU with      Improved knowledge of nutrition     Jun 2012
knowledge of     nutrition training          contracted    and maternal and child health
language and                                 NGO           amongst ethnic group women
nutrition
                 Availability of a           DHP           Increased enrollment in CCT pilot   Sept 2012
                 translator at CCT                         and correct understanding of
                 enrollment events                         CCT entitlements

High cost of     Monetary incentive to       DHP           Increased number of ethnic group    Dec 2012
accessing        counter the high                          women accessing health services
services         opportunity cost of being                 for ANC and delivery
                 away from home
   5. Cost of Financing the EGDP

The budget for implementation of the EGDP is mainstreamed under the respective project
components. There is no separate budget to target ethnic groups specifically, as they need to be
included in each project component.

For the consultations with selected ethnic groups during implementation, the DHP use
budgetary allocations under incremental operating costs.



   6. Complaint monitoring and conflict resolution mechanisms

Complaint mechanisms will be patterned along traditional institutions for conflict resolution.
These exist in varying degrees and may differ considerably among the ethnic groups in the
project areas. Complaints, and/or conflicts may arise with respect to the project as a whole, and
CCTs, in particular. Certain issues, such as the compliance with national laws, regulations,
policies and mandates are to be addressed through legal and regulatory provisions in
consultation with traditional institutions.

Regarding the project’s implementation procedures, and social safeguards (including ethnic
groups issues), complaints will be handled as follows:
    As a first stage, affected or concerned persons will present, verbally or in writing, their
       complaints to provincial project staff or advisors, who will have to provide a
       documented response to the claimants within fifteen days. Reports on each complaint
       and subsequent measures taken must be given to the DHP as attachment to
       regular/monthly reports.
    If the claimants are not satisfied with the decision, the case may be submitted to the
       Department of Hygiene and Prevention in Vientiane, as well as to local authorities (e.g.
       the Provincial Assembly or the Lao Front). Specified authorities should record receipt of
       complaints and reply to the claimants within fifteen days.

Claimants will be exempted from any administrative or legal charges associated with pursuing
complaints. The national project management team must record reports on each complaint and
subsequent measures taken.
   7. Monitoring and Evaluation

The CNP project has a monitoring and evaluation framework that aims to measure the impact
of the project on a number of indicators. Furthermore, an external endline survey is planned for
the end of the project.

In order to better monitor and evaluate the impact on ethnic groups during the lifetime of the
project, DHP has selected three indicators for which the ethnic composition will be specifically
monitored and reported:


                                   Responsibility for    Data Collection        Reporting
    Ethnic Group Indicators                                                    Requirement
                                    data collection       Instrument
  Percentage of women who
  have received at least one
  CCT and are from an ethnic              DHP              CCT Records            Annual
  group

  Number of health center staff
  who speak languages spoken              DHP               HC Records         End of project
  in the catchment area

  Numbers of CBDs trained
  who speak ethnic group                 MCHC             MCHC reports         End of project
  languages


The NGO that has been contracted for the CBN training will also undertake a qualitative
assessment of the training with specific emphasis and sensitivity for ethnic groups.




   8. Disclosure Arrangements

The borrower will translate the EGDP into Lao and publicly disclose it. The borrower also
makes the EGDP available to the affected communities in an appropriate form, manner, and
language.
References

CNP Baseline Survey (2010) “CNP Baseline Survey 2010?, Unpublished data, The World Bank:
Washington, DC

Epprecht M, Minot N, Dewina R, Messerli P, Heinimann A,( 2008) “The Geography of Poverty and
    Inequality in the Lao PDR? Swiss National Center of Competence in Research North-South and
    IFPRI


Lao Department of Statistics (2005) “Results from the Population Census 2005?, Ministry of
    Planning and Investment, Department of Statistics, Vientiane: Lao PDR

Lao Department of Statistics (2010) “Poverty in Lao PDR 2008: Lao Expenditure and
    Consumption Survey 1992/93-2007/08?, Ministry of Planning and Investment, Department
    of Statistics, Vientiane: Lao PDR

Lao People’s Democratic Republic (1991) Constitution of Lao People’s Democratic Republic,
    Adopted by the 6th session of the People’s Supreme Assembly, Vientiane: Lao PDR

Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey (2006) “The Lao PDR Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey –
    Round 3?, UNICEF, available online at
    http://www.childinfo.org/files/MICS3_Lao_FinalReport_2006_Eng.pdf

Pholsena, V. (2005) “A liberal Model of Minority Rights for an illiberal State: the Case of Lao
    PDR? in Kymlicka, W., and He, B., (2005) Multiculturalism in Asia, Oxford: Oxford
    University Press

World Development Indicators (2010) available online at http://data.worldbank.org/data-
   catalog/world-development-indicators
