                                   Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                  Report No: ICR00002725



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (TF-95274)



                                     ON A

                                    CREDIT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 2.0 MILLION

                                    TO THE

                  LAO PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC

                                    FOR A

                     COMMUNITY NUTRITION PROJECT



                                 March 26, 2014




Human Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
                                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                           (Exchange Rate Effective March 26, 2014)

                                     Currency Unit = LAK
                                    LAK 1.00 = US$ 0.00012
                                     US$ 1.00 = LAK 8039

                                       FISCAL YEAR
                                   October 1 – September 30

                            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AIDS       Acquired Immuno Deficiency             IDA         International Development Association
           Syndrome
ANC        Ante-natal Care                        IEC         Information, Education and Communication
CCT        Conditional cash transfer              IEG         Independent Evaluation Group
CED        Chronic energy deficiency              IMNCI       Integrated Management of Neonatal and
                                                              childhood illnesses
CBD        Community based distributor            ISR         Implementation Status and Results Report
CBN        Community based nutrition              IYCF        Infant and Young Child Feeding
CIEH       Center of Information and              Lao         Lao People’s Democratic Republic
           Education for Health                   PDR
CNP        Community Nutrition Project            LiST        Lives Saved Tool
CPS        Country Partnership Strategy           LWU         Lao Women’s Union
DHHP       Department of Hygiene and Health       MCH         Maternal and child health
           Promotion
DHS        Demographic Health Survey              MCHN        Maternal Child Health and Nutrition
DALY       Disability adjusted life year          MNCH        Maternal, Neonatal and Child Health
DPT        Diphtheria, Pertussis and Tetanus      M&E         Monitoring and evaluation
EGDF       Ethnic Group Development               MOH         Ministry of Health
           Framework
EGDP       Ethnic Group Development Plan          MOU         Memorandum of Understanding
ENC        Essential Newborn Care                 ORS         Oral Rehydration Solution
EU         European Union                         PDO         Project development objective
FCRRF-TF   Food Crisis Rapid Response             PMU         Project Management Unit
           Facility Trust Fund
FM         Financial management                   PNC         Post Natal Care
HPA        Health Poverty Action                  SGA         Small for Gestational Age
FPCR       Food Price Crisis Response             SUN         Scaling Up Nutrition
GDP        Gross Domestic Product                 TA          Technical assistance
GFRP       Global Food Response Project           TOT         Training of Trainers
HC         Health Center                          VF          Village facilitator
HSIP       Health Services Improvement            WHO         World Health Organization
           Project
HSIP AF    Health Services Improvement
           Project Additional Financing

                           Vice President:       Axel van Trotsenburg
                        Country Director:        Ulrich Zachau
                          Sector Manager:        Toomas Palu
                     Project Team Leader:        Ajay Tandon
                 ICR Team Leader/Author:         Ashi Kohli Kathuria
                          LAO PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
                                Community Nutrition Project



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 10
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 18
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 18
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 20
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 22
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 23
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 24
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 26
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 29
  Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 31
  Annex 6. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 37
  Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 38
  MAP 37006
A. Basic Information
                        Lao People's                                      Community Nutrition
Country:                                        Project Name:
                        Democratic Republic                               Project
Project ID:             P114863                 L/C/TF Number(s):         TF-95274
ICR Date:               03/26/2014              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          MINISTRY OF
Lending Instrument:     ERL                     Borrower:
                                                                          FINANCE
Original Total
                        USD 2.00M               Disbursed Amount:         USD 1.66M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 2.00M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Department of Hygiene and Health Promotion, the Ministry of Health
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       07/17/2008     Effectiveness:             10/03/2009       10/03/2009
                                                                                 09/19/2011
Appraisal:            04/13/2009     Restructuring(s):
                                                                                 07/25/2012
Approval:             08/27/2009     Mid-term Review:           10/31/2011       10/24/2011
                                     Closing:                   09/30/2012       09/30/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower           Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                             Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                               None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                               None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Health                                                                100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Global food crisis response                                            100

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                        At ICR                              At Approval
Vice President:            Axel van Trotsenburg                 James W. Adams
Country Director:          Ulrich Zachau                        Annette Dixon
Sector Manager:            Toomas Palu                          Juan Pablo Uribe
Project Team Leader:       Ajay Tandon                          Magnus Lindelow
ICR Team Leader:           Ajay Tandon
ICR Primary Author:        Ashi Kohli Kathuria


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
To improve coverage of essential maternal and child health services and improve mother
and child caring practices among pregnant and lactating women and children less than 2
years old in the seven southern and central provinces.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
Not applicable




                                                 ii
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target      Formally       Actual Value
                                            Values (from         Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                              approval            Target      Completion or
                                             documents)           Values       Target Years
                Percent of women aged 15-49 years that were attended at least once during
Indicator 1 :
                pregnancy in the past 12 months by a skilled health personnel
Value
quantitative or 46                          60                                75
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2010                    07/25/2012                        07/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %        The project far exceeded the target (125 percent achievement against the target)
achievement)
                Percent of women aged 15-49 with a birth in the last 12 months that delivered at
Indicator 2 :
                a heath facility
Value
quantitative or 22                          30                                30
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2010                    07/25/2012                        07/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %        The target was met (100 percent achievement against target)
achievement)
                Percentage of children aged 12-23 months receiving DPT3 before their first
Indicator 3 :
                birthday
Value
quantitative or 23                          50                                44
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2010                    07/25/2012                        07/31/2013
Comments        With about 88 percent achievement of the parget, the indicator fell short of the
(incl. %        target. The shortfall could possibly due to sub-optimal project performance, or
achievement) vaccine shortage or a combination of both.
                Percent of women aged 15-49 with a child aged 0-11 months who attended at
Indicator 4 :
                least one routine monthly check-up in the past 12 months
Value
quantitative or 10                          50                                67
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2010                    07/25/2012                        07/31/2013
Comments
                Achievement of this indicator was 134 percent of the target, indicating that it
(incl. %
                surpassed expectations.
achievement)
                Percent of women aged 15-49 with a live birth in the past 12 month that put the
Indicator 5 :
                newborn infant to the breast within 1 hour of birth
Value
quantitative or 39                          60                                64
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2010                    07/25/2012                        07/31/2013

                                               iii
Comments
(incl. %          The indicator exceeded the target, the percent achievement being 107
achievement)
                  Percent of children aged 0-23 months with diarrhea in previous 2 weeks that
Indicator 6 :
                  received oral rehydration salts
Value
quantitative or 57                        70                                71
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2010                  07/25/2012                        07/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %        The indicator exceeded the target with a percent achievement of 101.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                  Actual Value
                                                                   Formally
                                              Values (from                     Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                                Revised
                                                 approval                     Completion or
                                                                Target Values
                                                documents)                    Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Number of health centers that are operating the CCT program
Value
(quantitative     0                          62                                 62
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2010                 07/25/2012                         07/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %          The target was met (100 percent achievement)
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Percentage of eligible women who have enrolled
Value
(quantitative     0                          80                                 86
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2010                 07/25/2012                         07/31/2013
Comments
                  The target was met and slightly exceeded (107 percent achievement) as of
(incl. %
                  December 31, 2012 (reported in ISR # 6).
achievement)
                  Percent of enrolled pregnant women who received payment for delivery at the
Indicator 3 :
                  health facility
Value
(quantitative     0                          100                                78
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2010                  07/25/2012                         07/31/2013
Comments          With 78 percent achievement, the indicator fell short of the target. It likely
(incl. %          reflects the impact of the initial delays and problems in CCT implementation,
achievement)      largely on account of the low capacity.
                  People with access to a basic package of health, nutrition or reproductive health
Indicator 4 :
                  services (Core Indicator)
Value
                  0                                                             24,617
(quantitative

                                                   iv
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2010                 07/25/2012                         07/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 5 :     Births (deliveries) attended by skilled health personnel (Core Indicator)
Value
(quantitative     0                                                             2,206
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2010                 07/25/2012                         07/31/2013
Comments
                  The target was exceeded (112 percent achievement). The actual value
(incl. %
                  achievement date is December 31, 2012 (noted in ISR # 6)
achievement)
Indicator 6 :     Number of villages in which the 3 facilitators have been trained
Value
(quantitative     0                          447                                500
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2010                 07/25/2012                         07/31/2013
Comments
                  The target was exceeded (112 percent achievement). The actual value
(incl. %
                  achievement date is December 31, 2012 (noted in ISR # 6)
achievement)
Indicator 7 :     Number of villages in which CBN meeting has been held this month
Value
(quantitative     0                          400                                155
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2010                 07/25/2012                       07/31/2013
                  39 percent of the planned target was achieved. Reasons include: multiple
Comments
                  modules completed in several villages in one meeting; delays in report collection.
(incl. %
                  Measuring average meetings per quarter rather than 'this month' would have been
achievement)
                  a better definition.
Indicator 8 :     Average number of participants per month in CBN meetings
Value
(quantitative   0                            15                                 40
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2010                     07/25/2012                         07/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %        The indicator achieved more than twice the target (267 percent achievement).
achievement)
                Number of Project-supported health centers in which at least one staff has been
Indicator 9 :
                trained in the 5 module training
Value
(quantitative   0                            62                                 59
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2010                     07/25/2012                         07/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %        The indicator fell slightly short of target with 95 percent achievement.
achievement)
Indicator 10 : Number of health centers visited by the monitoring team from central and/or

                                                   v
               provincial and/or district level every 3 months (quarterly)
Value
(quantitative   0                         62                                62
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2010                  07/25/2012                        07/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %        The target was met (100 percent achievement against target)
achievement)
                Number of community-based distributors who have received micronutrient
Indicator 11 :
                training
Value
(quantitative   0                         90                                94
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2010                  07/25/2012                        07/31/2013
Comments
                The indicator achievement exceeded the target (104 percent achievement). The
(incl. %
                actual value achievement date is November 3, 2012 (reported in ISR # 5)
achievement)
Indicator 12 : Health personnel receiving training (Core Indicator)
Value
(quantitative   0                                                           59
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2010                                                    07/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 13 : Direct project beneficiaries (Core Indicator)
Value
(quantitative   0                                                           24,617
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2010                                                    07/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 14 : Female beneficiaries (Core Indicator)
Value
(quantitative   0                                                           24,617
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2010                                                    07/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)




                                               vi
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                          Actual
       Date ISR
No.                          DO                       IP              Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                      (USD millions)
  1    06/09/2010       Satisfactory            Satisfactory                     0.20
  2    11/28/2010   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory              0.21
                                                 Moderately
  3    02/21/2011   Moderately Satisfactory                                     0.24
                                               Unsatisfactory
  4    12/24/2011   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory             0.28
                         Moderately              Moderately
  5    11/25/2012                                                               0.80
                       Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory
                         Moderately              Moderately
  6    02/05/2013                                                               1.05
                       Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory
  7    07/24/2013   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory             1.65
  8    09/23/2013   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory             1.66


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                  Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Second level – Sept 19, 2011 to
                                                     (a) allow for payment to
                                                     facilities and financial
                                                     intermediaries (institutions
                                                     providing free deliveries to
 09/19/2011               MS    MU            0.26   women giving birth in these
                                                     institutions) under the CCT
                                                     component; and (b) amend the
                                                     definition of incremental
                                                     operating costs to include
                                                     translation costs and software
                                                     Second level - July 25, 2012 to
                                                     (a) grant a one year extension of
                                                     the closing date; (b) reallocate
                                                     to increase operating costs to
                                                     the Ministry of Health from
 07/25/2012               MS    MS            0.56   consultant services and Lao
                                                     Women’s Union operating
                                                     costs; and (c) amend the
                                                     indicators to ensure they
                                                     adequately and consistently
                                                     capture project impact.



                                          vii
I. Disbursement Profile




                          viii
1 Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
1.1 Context at Appraisal
1.     The Community Nutrition Project (CNP) was prepared during the period when food
prices were rising sharply in the Lao PDR, as they were globally. During the period of project
appraisal:
2.     Undernutrition in the Lao PDR was high, and had shown very little decline
notwithstanding improved economic growth. With about 14.5 percent women of reproductive
age chronically undernourished (CED)1, 36.2 percent anemic and over 40 percent of the children
under-five stunted, undernutrition in the country was high. The persistent lack of decline in child
undernutrition was of particular concern as evident from a prevalence of 40 percent underweight
in 1990 and 37.1 percent in 2006, although significant progress in reducing poverty and child
mortality had been made since the early 1990s2.
3.      Besides food insecurity, prevailing maternal, infant and young child feeding and
caring practices contributed significantly to the undernutrition challenge. While food
insecurity was a problem, with food poverty estimated at over 20 percent in 2002, key family
behaviors -- such as inappropriate breastfeeding and complementary feeding practices; food fads
associated with pregnancy and the postpartum period; high incidence of vector- and food-borne
disease; and myriad other factors -- also undermined nutritional improvements. This is indicated
by the relatively high rates of malnutrition even in better-off segments of the population3.
4.      Health service utilization rates were exceedingly low. About 71.5 percent of pregnant
women received no antenatal care and 85 percent delivered at home4, typically without skilled
attendance. There were also significant gaps in skills and practices of health professionals related
to ante-natal, birth and post-natal periods.
5.      Household vulnerability to shocks was high, increasing susceptibility of poorer
segments to undernutrition. Given the vulnerability of Lao households to natural disasters and
macroeconomic shocks, the global food price crisis and financial crises heightened the
vulnerabilities, potentially leading to a worsening of undernutrition, maternal and child caring
practices and utilization of maternal and child health (MCH) services in the country.
6.      The rationale for Bank assistance was sound and the project contributed to the
World Bank objectives as well as to the Lao PDR country strategies. The CNP proposed
risk-mitigation efforts to protect the health and nutrition of women and children from possible
long-lasting effects on their physical and cognitive development, and was designed to test
approaches that, if successful, could inform their adoption at scale. These directly supported two
of the four pillars of the World Bank’s Strengthened and Extended Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) program, 2009-2011, Improving Social Outcomes, and Strategic Approach to Capacity
Development and Partnerships, to which health and, within that, nutrition were integral. It also
contributed to the objectives of the Lao Government’s Strategy and Planning Framework for the

1
  CED or Chronic Energy Deficiency is a measure of undernutrition in adults and in women a body mass index of less than 18.5
   indicates CED.
2
  The incidence of poverty declined from 46 to 38 percent between 1992 and 2002; infant mortality declined from 104 to 70 per
1,000 live births between 1995 and 2005; and under-5 mortality declined from 170 to 98 over the same period.
3
  Estimates from Multi-indicator Cluster Survey (2006) suggest that 27 percent of children in urban households and 26 percent of
   children in the top wealth quintiles are stunted.
4
  Lao Reproductive Health Survey (2005).



                                                               1
    Integrated Package of Maternal Neonatal and Child Health Services (2009-2015); the National
    Nutrition Policy (2008); and the National Nutrition Strategy (2009).
    1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
    7.      The proposed PDO was ‘to improve coverage of essential MCH services and improve
    mother and child caring practices among pregnant and lactating women and children less than
    two years old in the seven southern and central provinces.’ The key indicators as approved
    originally are presented in Column 1 of Table 1.
    1.3    Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
    and reasons/justification
    8.      The PDO was not revised. However, several indicators (both PDO and intermediate
    results) were modified (dropped, revised, or new ones added) as seen in Table 1 below. The
    rationale for the revision of indicators was to; (a) more precisely define them so as to better align
    them with standardized indicators from other sources for better data comparability; (b) drop
    indicators for which data was unavailable or were not directly related to CNP activities; and (c)
    add new ones to better measure selected processes, e.g., the monitoring exercise.

                       Table 1: List of Original, Revised, Added and Dropped Indicators
                   Original Indicator                                     Revised/ New Indicator/Dropped
                                                          PDO
Percentage of pregnant women with 2 or more antenatal Percent of women aged 15-49 years that were attended at
care consultations with a trained health professional       least once during pregnancy in the past 12 months by a
                                                            skilled health personnel
Percentage of pregnant women who delivered in health Percent of women aged 15-49 with a birth in the last 12
facility                                                    months that delivered at a health facility
Percentage of children under 1 year of age immunized Percentage of children aged 12-23 months receiving DPT3
with DPT3                                                   before their first birthday
Percentage of children under 2 years of age who attended Percent of women aged 15-49 with a child aged 0-11 months
a well-baby consultation in the last year                   who attended at least one routine monthly check-up in the
                                                            last 12 months
Percentage of infants under 5 months of age who are fed Percentage of women aged 15-49 with a live birth in the past
exclusively with breast milk                                12 months that put the new-born infant to the breast within 1
                                                            hour of birth
Percentage of children under 5 years of age with Percent of children aged 0-23 months with diarrhea in
diarrhoea in the past 2 weeks (diarrhea is defined as more previous 2 weeks that received oral rehydration salts
than 3 loose stools in 24 hours)
Percentage of children between 6 and 59 months who Dropped
received vitamin A supplement during the last year
Percentage of women and children less than 5 years of Dropped
age who received iron supplements in the last year
Percentage of women who practice post-partum food Dropped
restrictions
Percentage of children between 6 and 23 months of age Dropped
who receive foods from 4 or more food groups
Percentage of women participating in community Dropped
meetings with appropriate hand washing behavior
                                                      Component One
Percentage of women in target areas who received at least Percentage of eligible women who have enrolled
one conditional cash payment in the last year
Percent of women who received a CCT payment for Percent of enrolled pregnant women who received payment



                                                             2
                   Original Indicator                                    Revised/ New Indicator/Dropped
delivery who deliver in a health facility                  for delivery at the health facility
Extent of leakage to non-eligible populations              Dropped
                                                    Component Two
Number of communities in which the community Number of villages in which the 3 facilitators have been
nutrition program is operating (facilitators have been trained
trained and meetings are held regularly)
Total number of community meetings organized in target Number of villages in which CBN meetings has been held
communities                                                this month
Average number of participants in community meetings       Average number of participants per month in CBN meetings
                                                   Component Three
Availability of annual report that summarizes key lessons Dropped
from implementation, drawing on routine supervision and
process evaluation
Number of project-supported health centers in which staff Number of project-supported health centers in which at least
have been fully trained on maternal, neonatal and one staff has been trained in 5 module training
children’s health course*
Number of community-based distributors who have been Number of community-based distributors who have received
trained*                                                   micronutrient training
Number of household visits by community-based Dropped
distributors in last quarter*
Number of Project-supported health centers which have Number of health centers visited by the monitoring team
received four (quarterly) supportive supervision visits in from central and/or provincial and/or district level every 3
the last twelve months*                                    months (quarterly)
    * These were added to reflect activities undertaken with the additional financing from the
    previously closed co-financing (TF097071) from the European Union (EU).

    1.4 Main Beneficiaries
    9.      The ‘primary target group’ for the project was pregnant women and mothers of children
    under two years of age and their children (less than two years of age). Indirect beneficiaries
    included the central, provincial, district and health center (HC)/village level functionaries of the
    Ministry of Health (MOH) and Lao Women’s Union (LWU) whose capacities were built as a
    result of project activities.

    1.5 Original Components (as approved)
    The project had the following components:
    10.     Component 1, Conditional Cash Transfers (CCTs) to Stimulate Demand for Key
    Maternal and Child Health Services (US$1.2 million): Key activities under this component
    included: (a) CCTs to pregnant women and women with young children (under two years old) to
    stimulate uptake of services, the payments being conditional on uptake of a pre-determined
    service/ set of services such as, antenatal and post natal consultations, facility-based delivery,
    and well-baby consultations; and (b) reimbursements of service costs to the health facilities,
    making the service free for women and children at the point of service.
    11.     Component 2, Community-based Health and Nutrition Program (CBN) to Stimulate
    Behavior Change and Mobilize Mutual Support to Improve Nutrition (US$0.45 million):
    This component included: (a) conducting monthly group meetings convened by community
    selected local female facilitators to collectively identify key health and nutrition issues and risks,



                                                            3
identify possible actions to address those risks, and mobilize the community to implement these
actions; and (b) training and support to the local female facilitators.
12.     Component 3, Project Support and Management (US$0.35 million): This component
financed incremental operating costs, as well as local and international technical assistance (TA)
to design and implement the CCT and CBN programs, support financial management (FM),
including performing internal audits and capacity development support to provinces and districts,
as well as costs of an audit firm to perform annual audits of the project.
1.6 Revised Components
13.     No component was revised. However, the project was co-financed by the EU Food Crisis
Rapid Response Facility Trust Fund (FCRRF TF) of Euros 1.44 million (equivalent to US$2.12
million) which became effective on August 12, 2010 and closed on February 29, 2012. EU funds
were used to increase the coverage of the CBN component of CNP from 150 to about 500
villages, training of health center (HC) staff, for supportive supervision activities, and for
training and support for the community-based distributor (CBD) program. The EU funds also co-
financed TA for the CCT component.

1.7 Other significant changes
14.      The project underwent two level-two project restructurings in response to emerging needs
and significant implementation start-up delays. The first (Sept 19, 2011) to allow for funding to
facilities and financial intermediaries (institutions providing free deliveries to women giving
birth in these institutions) under the CCT component, and to amend the definition of incremental
operating costs to include translation and software. The second (July 25, 2012) extended the
closing date by 1 year to September 30, 2013, reallocated funds from consultant services and
incremental operating costs for LWU to incremental operating costs for MOH, and revised the
indicators to better align them to measure results of the activities and, in some instances, to
harmonize indicator definitions with standard definitions for better comparability.

2 Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
15.     Sound background analysis supported project preparation. The problem analysis was
holistic; it took cognizance of the complex causes of undernutrition and the full set of its
determinants, including those beyond food insecurity. Given that the World Bank was at the time
supporting efforts to improve food security in lowlands and livelihood security in the upper
highlands, the project rightly focused on protecting and improving maternal and child care
practices and use of maternal and child health (MCH) services, interventions known to improve
MCH and nutrition (MCHN).
16.   The rationale for World Bank involvement in preparing/undertaking the project
was sound. Please refer to discussion of this point on page 1, section 1.1, Context at Appraisal.
17.    It built on prior CCT experience in the country as well as drew upon experiences
from other countries. The CNP design builds upon the successful CCT experience in the
country to promote tuberculosis testing and treatment, supported by the Global Fund to Fight
AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. For registering beneficiaries, the project strengthened an


                                                4
existing family system operating in some HCs. For the CBN component, the project drew upon
experiences from Nepal to promote community campaigns to enhance uptake of health and
nutrition services.
18.     CNP preparation was prolonged due to unanticipated delays. Given that Lao PDR
qualified for Global Food Response Project (GFRP) support and for the EU-supported FCRRF
TF, the project capitalized on the opportunity offered by these resources to mitigate risks of the
food price crisis to vulnerable households. However, despite the emergency nature of the project,
several factors contributed to the 13-month preparation period, importantly the protracted
discussions with the client to reach agreement on the CCT and CBN approach and on
implementation and project management modalities, and the extensive consultations with other
stakeholders to get inputs on the two approaches. Furthermore, there was a decision after the
CNP concept approval to seek additional resources from FCRRF for the project. This meant
developing another set of project documents and activities which while adding to project
resources, required additional time. Due to a combination of the above factors, despite the 13-
month long preparation phase, the team was compelled to defer the detailed design of the CCT
and CBN components to the implementation phase.
19.    Project design: The project design was strong and responsive to the situation and
context, although somewhat ambitious for the short duration of the project.
20.     The PDO is well aligned with the project’s ‘theory of change’ and the results chain.
Global evidence suggests that improvements in MCH services and child caring practices
contribute to improved maternal and child nutrition. The PDO appropriately addresses the key
problem to be tackled by the project. The provinces selected represent some of the poorest parts
of the country; therefore, the PDO also reflects responsiveness to a need to mitigate the adverse
consequences of the food price increase as well as other macroeconomic shocks amongst those
most vulnerable. However, the results framework and the large number of indicators were
overambitious relative to timeframe and capacity of the client for implementation of the project.
21.    Project components and activities reflect strong causal links with the PDO. The two
technical components, CCTs to stimulate demand for key MCH services, and CBN to stimulate
behavior change and mobilize mutual support to improve nutrition, directly support the PDO,
while the project support and management component ensures the provision of necessary TA and
operational support for the technical design and implementation of the Project.
22.     The design leveraged as well as complemented the ongoing Health Services
Improvement Project (HSIP). By co-locating the CNP in selected HSIP areas, the design of the
project leveraged the MCH efforts of HSIP, such as safe deliveries in HCs and hospitals, and
complemented as well as strengthened the integrated outreach from HCs, which had been
identified as an area for strengthening in the HSIP mid-term review.
23.     Wherever possible, the design was kept simple and flexible; it built in adequate
technical support. Recognizing the widespread need to improve demand for MCH services and
promote behavior change, and that the vast majority of households in the project catchment areas
were poor and vulnerable, the project design rightly included all women and children in the
project catchment area and did not undertake household level targeting, which would have been
very complex. Further, while the design set the broad contours of the CCT and CBN
components, it allowed for flexibility to undertake the detailed design during implementation to
allow for sufficient consultation and bringing in international experience and expertise through


                                                5
the third component. Hindsight suggests that deferring the design to the implementation phase in
a low capacity setting caused significant delays and considerably shortened the implementation
timeframe.
24.     Risk assessment and mitigation measures were satisfactory. Only one safeguard, the
indigenous peoples (4.10) was triggered and satisfactorily addressed. An Ethnic Group
Development Framework (EGDF) was developed and a round of community consultations was
conducted, findings from which were used to update the Ethnic Group Development Plan
(EGDP) developed for the HSIP. Fiduciary risk was assessed of the HSIP fiduciary capacity,
since, at preparation, the planned fiduciary arrangements were designed to draw upon the Project
Management Unit (PMU) of HSIP (with some additional consultants to be appointed). FM and
procurement risk was assessed as ‘substantial’ and adequate mitigation measures were identified
with several points included as legal covenants. However, during implementation, the anticipated
sharing of HSIP fiduciary staff did not materialize, and alternative arrangement for FM and
procurement had to be put in place which also contributed to delays.
2.2 Implementation
(a) Factors that contributed to successful implementation of planned activities
25.     Strong government commitment for health and nutrition sectors, and for the
Project. As mentioned earlier, the MOH was committed to improving maternal, neonatal and
child health (MNCH) services and nutrition outcomes as reflected through their then defined
strategy documents (see 1.1.6). The MOH commitment to the project is reflected in their full
engagement in the pilot, including their strong desire to implement the project through in-house
technical team, and the LWU, and not through the consultant staffed PMU of HSIP.
26.     Systematic and high-quality implementation support by the World Bank team.
Despite implementation delays, proactive support of the task team, including the necessary
restructuring of the project, contributed to the completion of all planned activities, and the
achievement of intended results. Frequent dialogue and communication, timely, consistent and
proactive implementation support by the task team helped resolve problems, overcome
constraints, and speed-up implementation. Several core team members were based in-country,
which helped. Additional technical support, including nutrition expertise was brought in as
necessary, and a process documentation of the CBN component was commissioned to better
understand and improve implementation. Project documents reflect that the team clearly
recognized implementation issues and appropriately addressed them.
27.     Mutual trust and respect between the client and World Bank teams and their
shared commitment to resolve issues and meet emerging needs. Several examples illustrate
the mutual commitment to monitoring issues, jointly solve problems and respond to the project
needs on the ground. For example, agreement to use the additional financing resources (FCRRF)
to strengthen supply-side constraints in the Lao health system, including those related to staffing,
training, and supervision; developing videos to supplement printed tools for the Village
Facilitators (VFs) in villages where language was a barrier to strengthen the CBN component. At
mid-term review the teams reached agreement on several critical points, such as revising the
results framework as necessary, simplifying the CCT component and harmonize it with the roll-
out of the MOH free MCH policy, and undertook the necessary restructuring of the project to
effect the changes. It was only due to the joint efforts of both teams that the project was able to
successfully clear the huge payment backlogs for the CCT component.


                                                 6
28.    Leverage of the ongoing HSIP support. CNP benefitted from the relationships built at
the central, provincial and district levels by the HSIP, the full familiarity with the health system
including its strengths and weaknesses gained through HSIP experience, and having common
team members on the two projects helped cross fertilize experiences between the projects.
(b) Factors that constrained implementation
29.     Inadequate readiness at entry and a very ambitious timeline. For reasons discussed in
section 2.1, despite the 13-month preparation period, several critical design elements including
the detailed design of the two technical components, implementation arrangements, funds flow
mechanisms, criteria for selection of HCs and villages were not finalized and these tasks were
deferred to the implementation phase. The planned timeline of three months during
implementation to accomplish all these tasks, especially in a weak capacity setting, was highly
ambitious. This, compounded by several other factors mentioned below, resulted in almost two-
thirds of the planned three year implementation period being taken up by design, HC selection,
finalizing implementation arrangements, and funds flows arrangements, among others.
30.     Newness of implementation arrangement and lack of experience and expertise, in
particular procurement and FM at the central level. CNP represents the first attempt to
integrate a World Bank-financed project into a technical department of MOH. The start-up
delays were caused primarily by the relatively limited experience of the Department of Hygiene
and Health Promotion (DHHP) with regard to setting up the institutional arrangement for
procurement and FM-related support. While such an arrangement, whereby project management
is integrated into the line Ministry does have a clear and remarkable return in terms of capacity
building and sustainability of the investment, the relatively lengthy “learning” period negatively
impacted project implementation.
31.      The CCT implementation model for cash transfers to beneficiaries was very
demanding on the HC staff. A specific constraint that slowed the pace of implementation was
the challenge related to implementation of the CCT component due to MOH’s decision not to
use third party administrators. A second obstacle was the availability of only a paper-based
information system. HCs did not have electronic information systems and all transactions related
to the transfer of funds to HCs and to beneficiaries had to be paper-based. Limited availability of
financial services (such as banks) in the project catchment areas implied that there was little
choice but to integrate these functions under the responsibility of HCs. However, this created a
large burden for the HC staff, who also were responsible for delivering health services.
32.     Coordination challenges between DHHP and LWU, the two implementing partners.
While at the central level there were initial difficulties and delays related to transfer of funds
from MOH to LWU, the coordination between the two partners at the provincial and district
levels continued to be challenging. While HCs were often the site for VF training and their staff
assisted in the training, they were not involved in supervision of VFs, for which the LWU district
staff was responsible, and the HC staff was left out of the loop.
33.     Weak capacity at provincial, district, HC and village level. The low FM capacity at
district and HC level, among other factors, contributed to the huge backlogs for the CCT
payments, and the weak capacities of the VFs affected the quality of monthly meetings. Both
necessitated additional training and supervision. However, the project had planned for only the
initial set of training and refresher training had not been planned and could not be
accommodated, especially for the VFs. The project though was responsive to the need and


                                                 7
strengthened supportive supervision to address some of these weaknesses. Although the LWU’s
network at the community level is vast, the number of LWU staff at provincial and district levels
was small with limited capacity for supportive supervision, thus constraining supervision.
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
34.     A solid M& E design. The project paper defined a clear results framework with two sets
of indicators and data sources – one set to be used for project management purposes that derived
data from the existing Health Management Information System; and the second set to evaluate
the impact of the project with data collected through two rounds of household surveys (at
baseline and endline). In order to credibly evaluate the impact of interventions and attribute the
results to the project activities, the M&E design included intervention and non-intervention
areas, although the areas were not randomized. The impact evaluation of CNP is ongoing and
being conducted independently by the World Bank’s Independent Evaluation Group (IEG). The
endline data collection has been completed, the data are currently being processed and the
evaluation is expected to be completed by June 2014.
35.     SMART 5 indicators, but too many of them and targets overly ambitious for the
project duration. The indicators in the results framework meet the SMART indicator definition.
However, as many as 11 PDO indicators and seven intermediate results indicators were
originally proposed (and four intermediate indicators were further added with the additional
financing from the EU) to measure selected processes, outputs and outcomes. The proposed
results framework was far too ambitious; it committed to achieving many feeding and care
behavior changes that did not appear feasible to attain within the short duration of the project.
Global evidence suggests, and as also indicated by the qualitative assessment from the project,
behavior change needs more intensive and sustained effort than had been planned for in the
project. At the time of project approval, the results framework (being a requirement) had to be
defined even though the detailed components and activities were deferred to the implementation
phase. Once the components and activities were designed, the results framework was revised to
simplify reporting requirements and to better capture the expected impact of the project in the
short implementation timeframe.
36.     Qualitative information to complement quantitative information. While the initial
design focused only on quantitative information, during implementation a qualitative study and
review of the CBN component was conducted, to better understand how processes were working
(or not working) and what corrective action might be required. This provides valuable lessons for
the component on what worked well and areas needing further strengthening.
37.     Overall M&E arrangements were well implemented, although there were some data
quality weaknesses with the monitoring system. Specific systems were established for
monitoring the key aspects of the CCT and CBN components that included data collection,
collation and use. The project built upon and integrated project monitoring needs into the
existing MOH and LWU management information systems and reporting channels (rather than
set up independent project systems), and it contributed to building M&E capacity and
strengthening systems for data collection, collation, analysis and use. Some weaknesses in data


5
    SMART is specific, measureable, achievable, relevant, and time-bound



                                                8
collected through the system were noted, such as delayed and incomplete information, especially
from remote and inaccessible locations, and variable quality of data due to weak capacities for
reporting and data management. This was no surprise given the weak capacity and low starting
base. However, data quality, completeness and timeliness showed improvements over time,
suggesting that the project helped strengthen the systems M&E capacity. In addition, the project
hired local consultants to travel to HCs and relevant district and provincial health offices to
collect and compile quarterly administrative data for key indicators from the government's
routine monitoring system. This likely further contributed to increased attention by the system to
data collection and collation. For the evaluation, baseline and endline surveys for the impact
evaluation were designed by the World Bank team, data collection was contracted to a
professional international agency, while data analysis is being undertaken by the World Bank’s
IEG.
38.     Information was well utilized for monitoring purposes. Good use was made of the
data for project monitoring purposes, and to take corrective actions. Preliminary analysis of
baseline survey information was regularly presented to the client during project supervision
missions to enable a greater understanding about the challenges faced by the communities
served. Costing and utilization models were informed by the outputs from this baseline survey.
With regard to routine project M&E, two keys implementation issues were informed (and
alerted) by the M&E system. First, the scale and causes for payment delays for the CCT were
informed by the M&E system. Second, issues with reporting and supervision for CBN meetings
were highlighted by the reporting system for CBN.
2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
39.     Only one safeguard policy, OP/BP 4.10, Indigenous Peoples applied and was
handled satisfactorily. The environment category was C, and only one safeguard, the
Indigenous Peoples, applied. To ensure that ethnic groups living in project areas had equitable
access to project benefits and to respond appropriately to the needs of these communities, the
project developed an EGDF based upon the EGDP for the HSIP; the disclosure of which was a
legal covenant. In line with the principle of free, prior and informed consultation, the project held
consultation in six ethnically distinct villages (selected on purpose to include representation of
distinct minorities) in a sample of two provinces from the project areas, output of which was
incorporated into the EGDF. Further, the LWU and DHHP were required to carry out free, prior
and informed consultations with a selected sample of affected ethnic groups in the project areas,
after the selection of villages was finalized. These consultations were carried out satisfactorily by
the implementing agencies, using participatory, process-oriented and culturally-sensitive
methodology, and outputs were publicly disclosed.
40.     Despite the weak fiduciary capacities, the project complied with fiduciary
requirements. Recognizing the low fiduciary capacity of the implementing agency and the high
need for appropriate FM and oversight, especially given that funds were to be handled and
accounted for at the HC level, appropriate legal covenants, such as the appointment of FM and
procurement specialist and FM consultants, the adoption of a project operational manual with
FM and procurement sections, appointment of a qualified accounting firm for internal audit and
to strengthen fiduciary capacity at provincial and district levels, were included in the Grant
Agreement. These were complied with. Annual external audits were regular, there were no
ineligible expenses and the management letters did not indicate any material weaknesses about
the project’s internal controls.


                                                 9
41.     During implementation, due to the low procurement and FM capacity, the project faced
FM and procurement challenges, including delays in appointment of consultants to develop the
operational manual, the non-materialization of initial plans to use HSIP consultants to provide
support, and problems with funds flows, among others. Regular support of the task team,
including fiduciary specialists, ensured satisfactory resolution of the issues, including meeting
the legal covenants mentioned above. For instance, in order to enable project implementation to
proceed while contracting qualified fiduciary staff, an interim arrangement to share expertise
from another World Bank financed project6 was put in place. Further, the DHHP staff deputed
for FM acquired FM and procurement capacity by working alongside these consultants (whose
contracts mandated capacity building), and the World Bank team.
2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
42.     Although the CNP was a small pilot program and its main objective was to test two
approaches to improve the utilization of MCH services and promote positive maternal and child
care behaviors, efforts were initiated before project closure to transition the CCT component to
the ongoing HSIP additional financing (AF) project. A memorandum of understanding (MOU)
was signed, and in five of the seven provinces the free deliveries element of the CCTs has been
transitioned to HSIP AF; in the remaining two provinces, the government and other donors are
planning to finance similar benefits. For the CBN component, a qualitative review undertaken by
the project outlines many lessons and indicates the need to strengthen several aspects of outreach
prior to scale-up, such as the need for greater capacity-building of the VFs, improving
supervision and the need for a more intense and prolonged engagement to bring about behavior
change than was possible during the short life of the project. Nonetheless, despite these
shortcomings and the need for refinements, the project was able to influence community level
behaviors and achieve its intended results.
43.     The project interventions have great potential to improve the utilization of MCH services
and improve household practices, and must be strengthened and supported further. There is a
strong desire on the part of the client for such support – as was clearly articulated at the highest
levels in the nutrition division, DHHP and the MOH. A similar recommendation was also made
by other donors supporting nutrition in the Lao PDR. Therefore, it is recommended that
interventions to accelerate undernutrition reductions, particularly outreach efforts to promote
behavior change around maternal and infant and young child feeding and care, should be
incorporated into any follow-up health or nutrition project, since World Bank engagement in the
sector remains critical to support country efforts to improve nutrition.
3 Assessment of Outcomes
3.1       Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
44.     The PDO, design and implementation are very relevant in the current Lao PDR
context. Not only do these remain relevant, they have assumed even greater relevance to the
current priorities of the Government of Lao PDR, global priorities as well as to World Bank’s
Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for the country.
45.    Undernutrition continues to be a challenge in Lao PDR, despite significant
reductions in poverty, infant and child mortality. While food insecurity remains high in many
6
    The Avian and Human Influenza Control and Preparedness Project.




                                                             10
households, the poor feeding and caring practices during pregnancy, and in the first two years of
a child’s life, remain significant contributors to the high undernutrition in the country.
46.     Recently, nutrition has received renewed attention by all stakeholders at the global
level, in the Lao PDR, and within the World Bank. There has been an overwhelming response
to the global ‘Scaling Up Nutrition’ (SUN) movement from country governments across the
globe, by the United Nations and other development agencies including the World Bank, private
foundations and civil society. Lao PDR is one of the SUN early riser countries since 2011.
47.     The Government of Lao PDR has accorded high priority to nutrition . Having in July
2013, established a National Nutrition Committee--a multi-sectoral ministerial committee
chaired by the Deputy Prime Minister, followed in addition by the setting up of a nutrition
center, the Government has defined arrangements to operationalize a multi-sectoral approach to
improve nutrition. The 11th High Level Round Table meeting (the Round Table process serves as
the primary platform for overseas development assistance in Lao PDR) in November 2013,
prioritized addressing the serious issue of undernutrition in the country through a multi-sectoral
convergence approach, which was endorsed by heads of key development agencies.
48.     The Lao PDR CPS 2012-16, clearly acknowledges Lao PDR’s large and persistent
undernutrition problem. It notes that nutrition will require significant intervention, especially
to achieve the MDGs on malnutrition, maternal health, immunization, access to water and
sanitation in rural areas. The CPS’ strategic objective III, Inclusive Development (outcome 3.1)
seeks increased utilization and quality of essential MCH services, and commits to continuing
support of health equity funds to pay user fees for the poor, scaling up of free MCH services in
target provinces, and promote campaigns to improve health seeking behavior.
49.     The CNP’s design explicitly integrated both center- and community-based health
and nutrition services. The CBN component promoted key behavior change for health and
nutrition, hygiene, sanitation and food diversification, and offers flexibility to incrementally add
more content, and to strengthen community actions. Thus, the approach is quite relevant to Lao
PDR’s proposed multi-sectoral response to nutrition. However, prior to scale-up, the approach
needs to incorporate the valuable lessons from the CNP pilot. The CCT provides the incentive
for using health services and, in impoverished communities, offsets the opportunity and transport
costs of visiting HCs to avail of services.
In view of the foregoing points, the relevance of the CNP in the current context is very high.
3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
50.      The objective of the CNP was “to improve coverage of essential MCH services and
improve mother and child caring practices among pregnant and lactating women and children
less than two years old in the seven southern and central provinces.” Further, the project
hypothesized that by achieving this objective, it would help mitigate potentially adverse
consequences of rising food prices and other macro shocks in some of the poorest parts of the
country, and will generate evidence and operational experiences that can inform
institutionalization and scaling up of activities over time. Assessing the achievement of the
PDOs and what the project set out to achieve would require answering three key questions,
which are provided below, along with the findings.




                                                11
 51.    Did the project improve coverage of (a) essential MCH services; and (b) improve mother
 and child caring practices among pregnant and lactating women and children less than two
 years old in project areas?
 52.     Results from the impact evaluation are not available at this point. Data from two sources,
 the baseline survey and provisional 7 estimates from the endline survey, and from the field
 monitoring reports, indicate that the project met or exceeded the planned targets for five of the
 six PDO indicators, the achievements exceeding targets dramatically in the case of two
 indicators, and in the case of one indicator while falling short of the target, showed a percent
 achievement of 88 percent (see Table 2).
      The increase in the proportion of women who used antenatal services, delivered at health
       facilities and who brought their children to well-baby clinics exceeded targets, indicating that
       the CCTs indeed succeeded in improving the utilization of health services.
      There was an overall increase in the proportion of children receiving timely DPT3
       immunization (indicated by survey as well as monitoring data), although the indicator fell
       short of the target. It is possible that the achievement of the indicator which is also dependent
       on an uninterrupted supply of DPT vaccine, was constrained by supply related issues.
       However, this requires further validation; if valid it is indicative of the need to strengthen
       supply side issues including their procurement and/or supply chain management.
      It is very significant that the two indicators related to behavior change -- the proportion of
       children with diarrhea that received oral rehydration therapy (with oral rehydration solution
       or appropriate household solution); and the proportion of newborns put to the breast within 1
       hour of birth -- met the targets. Given that behavior change takes sustained time and effort,
       and the project was able to bring about the planned change in behaviors despite the
       considerable socio-cultural barriers, the short timeframe of its implementation, the many
       operational challenges and the less than optimal capacity of the VFs that could be built over
       that period of time indicates the potential of the project’s CBN outreach strategy to promote
       behavior change.

                                                            Table 2: CNP Results
                     Project Development Objective Indicators                                              Baseline    Endline8
                                                                                                                                    Target
           (Based on sampled household survey data unless indicated otherwise)                         (June 2010)    (July 2013)
1. Percent of women aged 15-49 years that were attended at least once during
                                                                                                            46%          75%         60%
   pregnancy in the past 12 months by a skilled health personnel
2. Percent of women aged 15-49 with a birth in the last 12 months that delivered at a heath facility        22%          30%         30%

3. Percentage of children aged 12-23 months receiving DPT3 before their first birthday                      23%          44%         50%
4. Percent of women aged 15-49 with a child aged 0-11 months who attended at least
                                                                                                            10%          67%         50%
   one routine monthly check-up in the past 12 months
5. Percent of women aged 15-49 with a live birth in the past 12 month that put the
                                                                                                            39%          64%         60%
   newborn infant to the breast within 1 hour of birth
6. Percent of children aged 0-23 months with diarrhea in previous 2 weeks that
                                                                                                            57%          71%         70%
   received oral rehydration salts and/or an appropriate household solution




 7
   End-line survey indicators are provisional as these are based on an early snapshot of datasets that are being cleaned. These
    values could undergo revisions when analysis of the dataset is complete.
 8
   End-line survey indicators are provisional as these are based on an early snapshot of datasets that are being cleaned. These
    values will be revised when analysis of the dataset is complete.


                                                                             12
53.   In what ways, if any did the project activities contribute to mitigating potential adverse
consequences of rising food prices and other macro shocks of poor households in project areas?
54.     The project activities contributed to mitigating the potential adverse consequences of
rising food prices and other macro shocks in two major ways. One, through direct cash transfers,
and two, through indirect transfers in terms of benefits accrued through the utilization of child
health and nutrition services. Direct cash transfers were made to 24,617 pregnant women and
mothers of children under two. The transfers off set their opportunity and transportation cost to
seek services and provided a small incentive. The benefits of the cash transfer were further
complemented with provision of a basic package of health and nutrition services, such as
antenatal care, deliveries at health facilities, micronutrient supplementation, immunization,
feeding and hygiene practices. These benefits directly targeted the groups most vulnerable
groups to undernutrition (pregnant women and mothers of children under two), with high risk of
irreversible damage to physical and cognitive growth and loss of future productivity and human
capital. Given that none of the indicators show a declining trend, it can safely be assumed that
the project prevented further decline of undernutrition, thus had a protective effect, although it is
difficult to assess the extent of the effect. Given the strong causal links of use of health services
and mortality and morbidities, the improvements seen in the utilization of service utilization
clearly point to the project’s contribution to improving health and nutrition.
55.    Did the project generate and document sufficient evidence and operational experience to
inform further institutionalization and scaling up of activities?
56.     As mentioned earlier, the project invested in generating robust evidence to assess the
impact of the two approaches it tested – the CCT and the CBN. Data from three sources is
available, the field monitoring reports, data gathered by consultants who were contracted to
collect periodic information to validate the monitoring data, and household surveys conducted at
baseline and endline, which offers at this time results from the pre-post analysis of data. An
impact evaluation is being conducted by IEG, with baseline and endline surveys in non-
intervention areas, which will provide concrete information on the results attributable to the
project. A qualitative study commissioned to better understand operational aspects of the CBN –
its constraints and opportunities, documents the success of the strategy and provides valuable
lessons for its strengthening.
57.     The answers to the three questions indicate that the project was successful in achieving
the PDO – it met or exceed almost all of the planned targets, contributed to mitigating the
potential adverse impacts of shocks in poor households and provides a good evidence base and
operational experience of the two pilots approaches – CCT and CBN - to inform their further
expansion and scale-up, as well as built considerable institutional capacity within the MOH,
thereby contributing to learning and sustainability while achieving results. Therefore it is rated
as satisfactory.
Efficiency
58.      The CNP was a small pilot project, which targeted limited areas in Lao PDR, with the
purpose of generating evidence and operational experiences to inform subsequent
institutionalization and scaling up. The costs of designing, implementing and testing pilots is
much higher than implementation of the same interventions in large-scale programs because they
(a) lack economies of scale; and (b) have higher unit costs because of additional costs associated
with the learning, gaining operational experience, setting up institutional arrangements such as


                                                 13
for M&E, and for developing training programs, modules and material, and so on. Therefore, a
one-on-one cost-benefit analysis for the CNP is not likely to provide useful information for
large-scale implementation of the project activities. A more useful approach that is adopted in
this analysis therefore, is to outline the models for assessing the relative cost-benefits of CNP
intervention packages relative to other interventions that could help inform conduct of economic
analysis for a future large-scale health project.
59.     The project scores high on allocative efficiencies. CNP allocated resources to some of
the most cost-effective nutrition interventions to improve nutrition, reduce mortality and
morbidity and improve productivity. MCH interventions that improve nutrition are known to be
highly cost effective in saving children’s lives, protecting mothers’ health, increasing future
productivity and reducing health care costs. Today, the role of optimal infant and young child
feeding (IYCF) practices, especially breastfeeding, in reducing morbidity and mortality amongst
children, preventing childhood obesity and reducing future risk of acquiring non-communicable
diseases like diabetes and heart disease, as well as reducing breast and ovarian cancer risks in
women is well known. Recent evidence suggests a 3.5 point average increase in intelligence
tests’ performance during childhood and adolescence is associated with breastfeeding 9 (see
Annex 3 for a more detailed discussion).
60.     Benefits outweighed costs. Benefits associated with interventions to improve
malnutrition are categorized as direct or indirect. Direct health benefits often include: (a)
reduction of child and maternal mortality; (b) reduction of physical and cognitive damages.
These benefits are nonmonetary and can be measured by the gained disability-adjusted life year
(DALYs) from the health intervention, and/or the Lives saved Tool (LiST) for nutrition
interventions used in the Lancet Series on Maternal and Child Nutrition, 2013 to model the
potential effect upon child health and mortality (in 2012) of scaling up a set of 10 nutrition-
specific interventions, which may impact stunting and severe wasting (from 34 countries with
more than 90 percent of the burden of stunting).
61.     CNP results clearly indicate that the project succeeded in improving MCH services
as well as breastfeeding rates, through a combination of CCTs and community based
approach to promote behaviors. The benefits of CNP interventions, directly in terms of lives
saved and healthy years gained and indirectly through explicit monetary measurement, viz. (a)
cost savings in healthcare due to improved population health at early stage of life; and (b)
welfare gains through physical productivity, cognitive development, and school performance, are
briefly outlined below.
62.    CNP interventions were some of the best investments. Of the four nutrition packages
assessed in the Lancet series on Maternal and Child Nutrition, 2013, for their effect on child
survival, the promotion of an infant and young child feeding package (breastfeeding promotion
and appropriate complementary feeding education or provision) was only second to therapeutic
feeding for severe acute malnutrition in terms of saving the maximum number of lives. The
Lancet also notes that community support strategies suggest achieving 90 percent coverage could
increase exclusive breastfeeding by 15 percent in children below one month and by 20 percent in
children aged 1-5 months.



9
    Horta BL and Victora CG, 2013



                                               14
63.      Indirect benefits were also high. Indirect benefits are those that accrue not only to the
individual making the investment but to the society at large. At a macro level, malnutrition could
cause direct productivity losses estimated at about a 2-3 percent reduction in Gross Domestic
Product (GDP); at the micro level, undernutrition is associated with a more than 10 percent loss
of lifetime individual earnings due to cognitive development and schooling deficits.
64.     Efficiency of implementation is likely to have been affected by the many operational
challenges faced by the project. The short project duration during which optimum capacities
were not possible to build, both at the implementation as well as supervisory levels, and the
supply side constraints are likely to have compromised implementation efficiency, i.e., it
constrained the level of results that might have otherwise been achieved. However, as previously
mentioned, CNP was a pilot project and therefore, such implementation and operational
challenges were to be expected, especially in a low capacity setting; one of the purpose of the
pilot was to generate evidence and operational experience to inform institutionalization and
future scale-up of activities. Therefore, while noting that implementation issues possibly affected
efficiency, given that these were inherent in the nature of the project (a pilot to gain operational
experience), they have not been considered as negative contributory factors in determining
CNP’s overall efficiency.
3.3 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
65.     Given that the PDO indicators and the outcomes indicators were formally revised through
a restructuring in July 2012, to arrive at an overall outcome rating, the outcomes are also rated
against the original indicators and the two outcome ratings (against original and revised PDO
indicators) are then weighted in proportion to the share of actual disbursements made in the
periods before and after approval of the revision.
66.     During the restructuring the PDO was not revised. Revisions were made to the PDO
indicators for two reasons: (i) to sharpen their definitions so as to improve indicator precision
and better align them with standard indicator definitions for better data comparability; drop
indicators for which data was unavailable or which were not directly related to CNP activities,
and add new ones to better measure selected processes. As discussed earlier, the original results
framework had too many PDO indicators (eleven to be precise) which had been selected before
the specific activities had been designed, and therefore several of them were not directly relevant
to the project activities. Furthermore, no targets were proposed in the original results framework;
the targets were set according to the revised indicator list and the new indicator definitions; and
data on the dropped indicators is not available. An examination of the revised indicators and their
definitions leads to the conclusion that even though five indicators were dropped, the project
continued to have six very relevant and well defined outcome indicators, which not only serve as
robust measures to assess progress towards the objectives and are also quite sufficient to measure
outcomes related to all aspects of the PDO. Under such a scenario, it can be argued that the
achievement and rating of outcomes would not be very different for the original and the revised
outcome indicators, and both qualify for a satisfactory rating. However, to be conservative, the
rating assessed against the original outcome indicators is judged as ‘Moderately Satisfactory’.
67.     Weighting the outcome ratings prior to and after the restructuring in proportion to the
actual disbursement during the respective periods indicates an overall rating of ‘Satisfactory’
(see table below)




                                                15
68.     The relevance of the CNP continues to remain high in the current Lao PDR context.
despite implementation challenges the project succeeded in achieving or exceeding five of the
six PDO indicators and most the intermediate outcomes, and the final rating of outcomes (rated
against original and revised outcome indicators) is ‘Satisfactory’; the CNP implemented some of
the most cost effective interventions to improve maternal and child nutrition and health; and
significantly contributed to building client institutional capacity in a sustainable manner (as
demonstrated by the adoption of the CNP model of project implementation and management
model for the HSIP AF). In view of these considerations the overall outcome rating is judged as
Satisfactory. It should be noted that the PDO results are based on provisional endline data
available at the time of this ICR. Final endline results would provide definitive data for the PDO
outcome rating.
Rating: Satisfactory

3.4 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
69.     The project was specifically designed to mitigate the impact of the rising food prices
and other macroeconomic shocks on vulnerable households. It was implemented in areas
with high poverty levels, and targeted the poor with cash transfers for utilizing health services,
and provided them information on maternal and child feeding and caring practices to improve
nutrition, thus addressing non-income poverty.
70.     The inclusion of ethnic groups was achieved in two ways. Firstly, by selecting
intervention HCs based on the ethnic composition of the HC catchment areas ensured the
inclusion of ethnic groups in the project. Secondly, including all villages of the catchments in
the CCT and CBN programs also ensured that ethnic groups benefitted from the project
interventions. This was confirmed by ethnic group consultations conducted by CNP in two
provinces.
71.     Gender was a core aspect of the CNP. Aimed at improving utilization of maternal and
child services as well as mother and child caring practices among pregnant and lactating women,
the NCP design and benefits focused on women. The CCT component targeted all cash transfers


                                               16
to women; the CBN component focused on providing information to women, who are often
excluded even from receiving information on issues that affect them directly. In many of the
target villages women were either the only participants or the majority. Data shows that overall,
two thirds of participants were women, and one third were men.
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
72.     Institutional strengthening and capacity building of the implementing agency, the
MOH, and its partner agency, LWU was one of the most significant outcomes of the CNP.
It was the first time in the health sector that World Bank project management in the country was
undertaken directly by the officials and staff of the MOH, in contrast to earlier project
management models of a specially created PMU with a number of consultants hired for different
functions and a few officials deputed to the PMU. While the initial lack of expertise and
experience in FM and procurement delayed appointment of consultants, thereby delaying project
implementation and hindering funds flow, the officials and staff have since acquired expertise
and gained valuable experience in all aspects of management, i.e., planning, implementation,
supportive supervision, M&E and the use of generated data. The capacity building extended all
the way from the national to the provincial, district as well as HC and village levels, and this
aspect is highly valued by the implementing agency, and was an oft mentioned point by central,
provincial, district officials of the health sector and the LWU, as well as by the field
functionaries, the HC staff as well as the VFs met by the ICR team. Each of the World Bank task
team members in meetings with the ICR team noted the significant positive change they
observed over time in their respective counterparts at the implementing agency. The institutional
capacity built at the MOH has encouraged the adoption of a similar model of project
management for the larger HSIP AF project. This indeed is a very desirable direction and future
projects should continue to invest in building institutional capacity.
73.     The CNP contributed to institutional strengthening in additional ways . Two
additional ways in which institutional capacity was further strengthened include: (i) fostering
cross-sectoral collaboration and sensitizing counterparts to the multi-sectoral nature of programs
that would be needed to address malnutrition. This was achieved through the participation, at the
invitation of the task-team, of members from the World Bank’s water and sanitation team in
several implementation support missions which served as opportunities to share experience and
results from pilot programs that were financing interventions such as promotion of hand-washing
and other sanitary practices; and (ii) financing10 and facilitating a visit of senior officials of the
MOH to Indonesia to learn about a successful community-based nutrition program in the
country. Another South-South exchange visit is planned to share experiences and expose project
counterparts to nutrition programs in India.
74.     The CNP furthered coordination between the MOH and LWU. While acknowledging
the challenges posed in the operational coordination between the MOH and LWU, both partners
recognize and value their partnership and the role of CNP in strengthening it. For LWU, it
provided them with a much deeper understanding of the importance of MCH and nutrition as a
key women’s issue; for the MOH, it offered a vast network of community level facilitators to
further its MCH and nutrition agenda.


10
     The visit was financed by WBI’s South-South Exchange trust fund facility




                                                            17
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
75.     Unintended positive impact of including men in village meetings . Although by design
the project had planned, under its CBN component, to target only women for the monthly
meetings, as it transpired men joined in many of the meetings and about a third of the total
participants at the monthly meetings were men. This was a very positive unintended benefit. In
Laos, particularly in households living in remote, rural, ethnic communities, women do not have
much voice in decision making; husbands (or elders) are the key decision makers. Therefore, to
bring about a change in maternal and child feeding and care behaviors they are critical audience
for behavior change communication. Future efforts to share information should, by design,
include the participation of men and elders in information sharing events.
76.       The HC staff’s direct engagement in cash transfers ate into their time for health
service delivery. Due to being assigned the responsibilities for dispensing cash, accounting for
it, filling in the paper forms and maintaining records pertaining to the cash transfers, the HC staff
had to devote a considerable part of their time to these tasks. As a result, it took away from their
core responsibilities of delivering health services, and very likely exacerbated the problem of
shortage of staff at HCs, compromised service quality and increased waiting time for many
beneficiaries.
4 Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
77.      The Government of Lao PDR stays committed to improving MCHN. The
government’s policy of free deliveries at health facilities is a step towards improving the
utilization of key MCH services. Further, the continuation of a similar package as that offered
under the CCT component of the project in five of the seven provinces, and the decision to use
government resources to continue it in the remaining two provinces suggests a low risk to the
outcomes related to this component. However, despite the strong commitment to nutrition,
including a community-based strategy to promote nutrition articulated in the Lao National
Nutrition Strategy (2009) and the government’s strong desire to continue the CBN approach to
improve nutrition, resource and capacity constraints are likely to pose a significant risk to the
outcomes with respect to nutrition related behaviors, if further support from the World Bank or
other donors is not forthcoming in the foreseeable future. In consideration of the above,
combining the risk to development outcome for the CCT and the CBN components, this is rated
as Moderate.
Rating: Moderate
5 Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
78.     The World Bank task team prepared a high quality project that had high relevance
to the global and country context at the time, and was well aligned with the CAS for Lao
PDR. However, unavoidable delays affected quality at entry. The choice of interventions and
approaches as well as the results framework were technically sound, the fiduciary and safeguard
risks were adequately assessed and mitigation measures ensured. Given the triggering of BP/OP
4.0, Indigenous Peoples, consultations with ethnic groups were held and incorporated into the
EGDF. However, given the emergency response nature of the project and the considerable time
spent on consultations and reaching agreement with the client on key points, the team was


                                                 18
compelled to defer the detailed designing of the two technical components to the implementation
phase. This did compromise quality at entry; design of the two components consumed a
considerable part of the implementation period, thereby shortening the duration for which
interventions could actually be implemented. Nonetheless, the team ensured building into the
Project Support and Management component adequate measures and resources (such as the
appointment of international consultants with relevant experience and expertise for working with
the teams to design the CCT and the CBN components) as well as incorporating suitable legal
covenants in the Grant Agreement.
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
(b) Quality of Supervision (including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
79.     Despite several challenges quality of supervision was high. Due to a combination of
three key factors - deferring the design of the two technical components to the implementation
phase, the decision of the MOH to undertake project management with their own officials, and
their lack of expertise and experience in managing World Bank projects, including the fiduciary
aspects - the implementation period presented several challenges that required proactive and
innovative support from the task team. The task team successfully worked with the implementing
agency, facilitated drawing upon FM and procurement expertise from another World Bank-
financed operation to provide interim support and to build the capacity of the implementing
agency; was persistent in follow-up on issues that arose, supported the implementing agency in
making necessary revisions to project activities, indicators, including undertaking two level two
restructuring, seeking additional financing to strengthen several supply side issues, amongst
others. Notable also is the use of information from the M&E system by the task team to identify
problems, and monitor the progress of actions taken to resolve the problem, including
arrangements with consultants to collate and collect periodic data from facilities to ensure the
availability of complete data in a timely manner. The team also ensured implementation of high
quality surveys for the baseline and endline, including data collection from a set of ‘non-
intervention’ villages for the IEG to conduct the impact evaluation. The fact that despite several
challenges and issues, the project was successful in accomplishing all activities and, in some
instances, even surpassing planned results, and contributed richly to building capacity and
strengthening project management within the MOH, are a testimony to the quality of
implementation support and supervision provided by the task team.
Rating: Satisfactory
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
80.   Based on the harmonized criteria for the ICR guidelines, taking into consideration the
moderate World Bank performance at entry and the satisfactory performance during
implementation support, the overall Bank performance is rated as Moderately Satisfactory.
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
81.     As previously noted, there was strong Government ownership and commitment to the
sector and to the project. Policies, especially sectoral policies for health and nutrition, provided
an enabling environment for the project preparation and implementation, and agreement to


                                                19
transition the CCT component to the HSIP in five provinces and commitment to provide
government support in the remaining two has ensured continuation of several project
interventions; this will help sustain the gains made by the project. Further, the government has
expressed a strong desire to scale up project interventions, and in Bank support for doing so.
Rating: Satisfactory
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
82.     The implementing agency remains highly committed to achieving development
outcomes. The ownership of the project is demonstrated in their decision to manage the project
within the agency, as opposed to setting up a PMU. However, this did lead to some initial
capacity challenges, especially related to FM and procurement. The additional project tasks for
the existing staff also added to their already heavy workloads; hence, despite the best efforts of
senior officials and the team, some delays were unavoidable. Also the vacancy of the Project
Director for a period of time contributed to delays. However, over time, the team acquired
considerable capacity within themselves, especially by learning as they worked alongside
experienced consultants. The implementing agency complied with all legal covenants. Despite
the capacity and time constraints and the novelty of the operation and approach, including
results-based financing, the commitment of the implementing agency to work with the World
Bank team to resolve problems was commendable and was instrumental in the successful
completion of the project activities, achieving results, and ensuring adequate transition
arrangements for the CCT component.
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
83.     Combining the ratings of satisfactory for government performance and moderately
satisfactory for the implementing agency performance, the overall borrower performance is rated
as Moderately Satisfactory.
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
6 Lessons Learned
A. Project specific lessons learned
84.   The CNP pilot generated valuable lessons in terms of informing future scale up of the
model or its interventions package, which include the following:
(i)      CCT and CBN messaging delivered by trained local volunteers can effectively improve
utilization of key MCH services and improve critical nutrition behaviors, especially among poor
households, living in remote areas. The CNP technical intervention package has high allocative
efficiency, and as evidence indicates these are some of the most cost effective interventions to
save lives and gain healthy years of life.
(ii)    The community mobilization component, besides promoting behavior change, also
contributed to enhancing CCT enrollment, as indicated through the qualitative review of the
CBN component. Thus, a key lesson is that a combination of community-based approach and
free health service provision, with incentives to offset opportunity and transport costs (a major
barrier for poor vulnerable households to accessing health services) is an effective way to
increase utilization of MCH and nutrition services.


                                               20
(iii) The CBN model is a flexible one that provides opportunity to incrementally add
interventions. For example, with additional financing obtained through the EU FPCR TF,
micronutrient distribution through CBDs was added to the package of services in remote areas.
This lesson is of high relevance in the Lao PDR context where a multi-sectoral approach to
address under-nutrition is planned to be pursued. Not only is the CBN approach amenable to
incremental addition of modules/thematic areas, the model of having three key local persons at
the village level as facilitators offers the possibility for sectoral distribution of responsibilities
between the three facilitators.
(iv)    Further sharpening of and refinements to the CBN technical package are possible, which
are likely to further enhance the positive results it has demonstrated. Key amongst these are:
   (a) Behavior change requires provision of more intense and sustained support to women
   beyond the provision of messages, such as help to solve problems (e.g., initiation of
   breastfeeding), involving other members of the household to support behavior change (e.g.,
   elders, husbands). This will require a strengthened training package, counselling tools,
   supervisory support and longer implementation duration.
   (b) Given the cost-effectiveness of a high coverage of a full package Infant and Young Child
   Feeding practices, the technical intervention package will be more effective with an increased
   focus on these practices.
6.1    Operational lessons from the CNP implementation are important. These include:
   (i) For cash payments against CCT, it is more efficient to use a third party arrangement
   rather than the use of HC staff. There are considerable trade-offs in involving HC staff in cash
   transfers, such as compromised service provision to beneficiaries (e.g., increased waiting time
   and shorter per unit service delivery time).
   (ii) Funds flow arrangements must be well defined and standards must be set and enforced
   for the number of days within which transfer of funds (to the next level or to another entity at
   a parallel level) must occur. The standards must take into consideration the processes
   involved, including clearances needed.
   (iii) Paper reporting forms are time consuming to fill and collate. Automation and innovative
   use of information technology, such as use of mobiles or hand-held devices will increase
   efficiency.
   (iv) Training must be offered on a regular basis. While this is true for all training, it is
   particularly important in the case of VFs who are not highly educated and have little or no
   skills to deliver health and nutrition messages.
   (v) Effective supervision (combining the two dimensions of support and control) undertaken
   by the next level up at a desirable frequency is critical to enhance performance of workers,
   especially the HC staff and VFs. Supervision should happen along the full chain of hierarchy
   and not just be limited to that of only the grassroots level workers. A model where each one
   supervises one level below him/her should be considered.

B. Lessons of wide general application
6.2    The CNP offers many lessons that have more generic application. These include:



                                                 21
  (i) While building demand, it is equally important to ensure that the service provision side is
  strengthened and facilities and providers are adequately equipped to provide timely, efficient
  and quality services to beneficiaries. Thus, adequate and trained staff and facilities with a core
  set of equipment and infrastructure are most important. Until such time that all HCs can be
  adequately staffed and equipped, it might be important to map each HC according to the
  services that it is equipped to offer, and beneficiaries must be accordingly referred.
  (ii) With careful implementation support and TA, it is possible to building institutional
  capacity even in weak capacity settings. While these do pose implementation challenges, there
  are considerable payoffs as shown by CNP. The project management capacity built at MOH is
  supporting HSIP AF project implementation.
  (iii) Behavior change requires sustained effort and time to happen. In order to promote
  changes in behavior, a longer duration of on-the-ground implementation should be planned.
  (iv) Indicators to measure progress towards the PDO as well as intermediate outcomes should
  be carefully selected and defined, and targets proposed must be realistic taking into
  consideration baselines, implementation capacity and intensity, the pace of change expected
  for each indicator amongst others. Further, while a full set of indicators may be necessary to
  track implementation progress by the implementing agency and the Bank team, the number of
  indicators in the results framework should be limited in number which requires some hard
  choices.
  (v) Process evaluation is a very useful tool to understand implementation gaps and
  constraints. Such studies must form an integral part of projects to inform mid-course
  corrections.
  (vi) For partnerships to be effective and well-coordinated it is important that the roles,
  functions of each partner at every level be clearly defined; specific areas that require
  coordination be identified; and adequate coordination mechanisms spelled out.
  (vii) The CNP experience reinforces the lesson that project design completed during
  preparation, including implementation arrangements mitigates implementation risks and
  challenges and saves valuable implementation time.
  (viii)       The project further reinforces that effective project management requires
  proactivity, including undertaking necessary restructuring to respond to on-ground realities
  and align project activities, timelines, resources to address implementation and other
  challenges.
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
85.    Borrower/implementing agencies: The implementing agency has reviewed the draft ICR
and note that they completely agree with the report and have no additional comments.




                                                22
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                            Actual/Latest
                                   Appraisal Estimate                          Percentage of
          Components                                        Estimate (USD
                                    (USD millions)                              Appraisal
                                                              millions)*


             Total Baseline Cost                 0.00                   0.00
1. Conditional Cash Transfers            1,200,000.00                                71
2. Community Based Health and              450,000.00                                80
Nutrition Groups
3. Project Support and                     350,000.00                               131
Management
Price Contingencies
                                                                  0.00              0.00
             Total Project Costs         2,000,000.00           1,662,268.00
Front-end fee PPF                          0.00                   0.00              .00
Front-end fee IBRD                         0.00                   0.00              .00
     Total Financing Required            2,000,000.00           1,662,268.00


86.     The funding disbursed under the CCT component was less than originally anticipated
(71%) due to the shorter than planned implementation period resulting from a combination of
factors such as a large part of implementation period being taken for the design, HC selection,
finalizing implementation arrangements, funds flows arrangements, and the time taken to
adequately train staff at all levels in FM given the low FM capacity at district and HC level.
Further, the initial problems with funds flow and the designated account ceiling leading to the
CCT payment backlog, the need for and time taken to make institute modifications and
corrective measures during implementation in response to the experience on the ground further
affected the actual implementation period available for the component. The second component
was also underspent against the original (80%) due to increased funding which was made
available through the EU. The third component was overspent (131%), reflecting the project’s
response to improve implementation through more intensive/frequent supervision of the
communities and facilities where services were provided.

(b) Financing
                                                       Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                         Type of                                   Percentage of
           Source of Funds                             Estimate       Estimate
                                       Cofinancing                                  Appraisal
                                                     (USD millions) (USD millions)
Borrower                                                 0.00           0.00            .00
Special Financing                                        2.00           1.66             83




                                              23
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

 S.No.                                 Component wise outputs
1.      Component 1: The Conditional Cash Transfers (CCT)
   1.1. Enrolled a total of 24,617 eligible women (pregnant women and mothers of children
        under two. Estimates indicate that 85% of all eligible women in the catchment area of
        the 62 HCs enrolled in the pilot, higher than the target of 80%
   1.2. Developed the following manuals:
           CCT Manual
           FM Manual`
     1.3. Trainings conducted:
           98 participants trained on CCT training in 7 provinces (In each province: 2 from Provincial
            Health Office, 2 from Provincial LWU, 3 from District Health Office, 2 from HCs and 3
            from VF
           Central and provincial officers trained on FM (initial and continued training)
2.      Component 2: Community Based Nutrition (CBN)
   2.1. 1,272 meetings organized with a total of 61,551 participants of which 38,969 were
        female. On an average, 165 CBN meetings were held per month, and between January
        2012 and July 2013 there was an average participation of 45
   2.2. The following manuals were developed:
         Manual on CBN
         Food processing manual and posters
   2.3. The following trainings were completed to promote and stimulate the CBN activities:
         Core training for 1 LWU staff per district, 1 LWU staff per province and central
           level staff
      Training to 1 LWU staff and 1 MCH staff per district and to 1 LWU, Center of
        Information and Education for Health (CIEH) and 1 MCH from provincial level by
        the core trainers
         HC level training to 1,500 VFs in 500 target villages
         CBN refresher training to the trainers
         Training of Trainers (TOT) for trainers from the central team, 7 target provinces
           and 26 districts (central LWU = 6, CIEH = 2, Maternal and Child Health Center
           (MCHC) = 2, DHHP = 2)
   2.4. Other Material Developed:
         IEC Material developed and printed
         Promotion kits (containing umbrellas, shirts and bags) procured and distributed to
           CNP members from central provinces, districts and VF
         VDO of training developed and distributed to 500 villages
         Review of CBN component CNP conducted and report prepared
3.      Component 3: Project support and management




                                                  24
S.No.                                 Component wise outputs
  3.1. Following manuals were developed and printed:
         Manual on five module training covering areas such as basic emergency obstetric
          and newborn lifesaving skills; essential newborn care; ANC/PNC; family planning
          and integrated management of neonatal and childhood illnesses
         400 copies of supervision manual (200 for trainers and 200 for trainees)
         300 books on CBD manual
  3.2. Following trainings were conducted:
         Training on the five modules for 62 HC’s
         Training on supportive supervision for 230 heath staff (58 at central level, 42 at
          provincial level and 130 at district level)
         Training on distribution of micronutrients for 94 CBD’s




                                             25
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis)
87.     The CNP was a small pilot project, which targeted limited areas in Lao PDR. Its purpose
was to generate evidence and operational experiences to inform subsequent institutionalization
and scale up of activities. The costs of designing, implementing and testing pilots is much higher
than implementation of the same interventions in large-scale programs because: (a) they lack
economies of scale; and (b) unit costs are higher because of additional costs due to the inbuilt
learning, gaining operational experience, setting up institutional arrangements such as for
monitoring, evaluation, and for developing training programs, modules and material, and so on.
Therefore, a one-on-one cost-benefit analysis for the CNP is not likely to provide useful
information for large-scale implementation of the project activities. A more useful approach that
is adopted in this analysis therefore, is to outline the models for assessing the relative cost-
benefits of CNP intervention packages relative to other interventions that could help inform
conduct of economic analysis for a future large-scale health project.
88.      CNP results clearly indicate that the project succeeded in improving MCH services as
well as breastfeeding rates, through a combination of conditional cash transfers and community
based approach to promote behaviors. A comparison of baseline and endline PDO indicators
gives an estimate of the impact of CNP on key health- and nutrition-related outcomes and the
extent to which the interventions have been effective (Table 2, page 12). Economic analysis of
CNP looks at not only the effectiveness of the project but also at its cost-effectiveness. Cost-
effectiveness analysis implies measuring the effects of interventions in terms of healthy time
(i.e., in terms of reductions in morbidity and mortality). Furthermore, if the effects are
monetized, then a cost-benefit analysis can also be conducted and CNP can be compared with
interventions in other sectors as well.
89.     The benefits of CNP interventions, directly in terms of lives saved and healthy years
gained and indirectly through explicit monetary measurement, viz. (a) cost savings in healthcare
due to improved population health at early stage of life; and (b) welfare gains through physical
productivity, cognitive development, and school performance, are briefly outlined below.
90.     In order to assess cost-effectiveness, improvements in coverage and child-caring
practices (such as skilled attendance, DPT3 immunization, breastfeeding) are assessed in terms
of reductions in morbidity and mortality. Benefits associated with project interventions on
malnutrition are categorized as direct or indirect. Direct health benefits often include: (a)
reduction of child and maternal mortality; (b) reduction of physical and cognitive damages.
Those benefits are nonmonetary and could be measured by the gained disability-adjusted life
year (DALYs) from the health intervention. Although the intervention costs for each of the
practices is difficult to segment out in the analysis, recent literatures have suggested that
community based and antenatal care packages to reduce maternal and neonatal mortality in EAP
region are highly cost-effective.11 Table 3 provides detailed cost effectiveness results of selected
interventions analyzed by WHO.12 It shows that interventions for newborn care at the community
level are highly cost effective (for example, promotion of breast feeding), followed by selected
antenatal care interventions, then interventions for normal delivery care by a skilled attendant.


11
   Adam T, Lim S, Mehta S, Bhutta ZA, Fogstad H, Mathai M, Zupan J, Darmstadt GL. Cost effectiveness analysis of strategies
   for maternal and neonatal health in developing countries. British Medical Journal, 331: 1107 (Nov 11, 2005)
12
   Table 2 only includes interventions that are relevant to the project activities. A full research report is available at:
   http://www.who.int/choice/results/mnh_wprob/en/index.html


                                                            26
                                  Table 3: Health benefits of CNP interventions
                                                                Cost per year (I$,   DALYs averted per    Average Cost
                      Interventions (coverage)                   millions) per one      year per one       per DALY
                                                                million_population   million_population     averted

Support for breastfeeding mothers (50%)                                0.05                2,301              22
Tetanus toxoid                                                         0.05                2,103              26
Normal delivery by a skilled attendant (50%)                           0.09                1.264              71
Management of very low birth weight babies (50%)                       0.04                 85                412


91.      As Lao PDR faces large regional and socioeconomic inequalities in outcomes and access
to care, infant and maternal mortality rates are significantly higher in the poorer regions
compared with national averages. Given the geographic targeting of the pilots to poor rural areas,
the project has benefited the poorer segments of the population, and given the relatively low
initial level of health outcomes, the project’s impact on improving health outcomes is likely to be
higher in the project sites than in other parts of the country.
92.    CNP allocated resources to some of the most cost-effective interventions (See Box 1
below).

                             Box 1: Cost-effective maternal and child nutrition interventions

Undernutrition (fetal growth restriction, suboptimum breastfeeding, stunting, wasting, and deficiencies of vitamin A
and zinc) causes 45% of all deaths of children under 5 years, representing more than 3 million deaths each year
(2011). Fetal growth restriction and suboptimum breastfeeding together cause more than 1·3 million deaths, or
19·4% of all deaths of children younger than 5 years, representing 43·5% of all nutrition-related deaths (Lancet
series on maternal and child nutrition, 2013)

Nutritional status of women at the time of conception and during pregnancy influences her own health and for
ensuring healthy fetal growth and development. 32 million babies are born small-for-gestational-age (SGA)
annually—representing 27% of all births in Low and Middle Income Countries. Fetal growth restriction causes more
than 800 000 deaths each year in the first month of life—more than a quarter of all newborn deaths. Neonates with
fetal growth restriction are also at substantially increased risk of being stunted at 24 months and of development of
some types of non-communicable diseases in adulthood. (Lancet series on maternal and child nutrition, 2013)

221, 000 out of 1 million under-five lives would be saved with delivery of an infant and young child nutrition
package, including breastfeeding promotion and promotion of complementary feeding; and 145,000 lives would
be saved with micronutrient supplementation. (Lancet series on maternal and child nutrition, 2013)

Lack of sufficient breastfeeding increases the risk of ovarian cancer by 27% to 40% ( Ness RB et al, 2000;
Whittemore AS, Harris R, Itnyre J, 1992; Gwinn ML et al, 1990 ) and breast cancer by 40% to 80% (Zheng T et al,
2000; Lipworth L, Bailey R, Trichopoulos D, 2000; Romieu I et al, 1996, Yoo K-Y et al, 1992).

93.     The Lancet Series on Maternal and Child Nutrition, 2013 used a LiST for nutrition
interventions to model the potential effect on child health and mortality (in 2012) of scaling up a
set of ten the nutrition-specific interventions that could affect stunting and severe wasting (from
34 countries with more than 90 percent of the burden of stunting). As seen in table 4, of the four
nutrition packages assessed for their effect on child survival showed that the promotion of an
infant and young child feeding package (breastfeeding promotion and appropriate
complementary feeding education or provision) was only second to therapeutic feeding for
severe acute malnutrition in terms of saving the maximum number of lives. The Lancet also


                                                           27
notes that community support strategies indicated that achieving 90 percent coverage could
increase exclusive breastfeeding by 15 percent (7-22) in children younger than one month and by
20 percent in children aged 1-5 months.


               Table 4: Effect of packages of nutrition interventions at 90% coverage

                           Interventions                                      Number of lives               Cost per life-year
                                                                                 saved*                          saved#
Optimum maternal nutrition during pregnancy
Maternal multiple micronutrients to all                                                                  $571 (398-1911)
Calcium supplementation to mothers at risk of low intake**                         102,000
Maternal balanced energy protein supplements as needed                        (49,000-146,000)
Universal salt iodization**

Infant and young child feeding
Promotion of early and exclusive breastfeeding for 6 months                                              $175 (132-286)
and continued breastfeeding for up to 24 months                                   221,000
Appropriate complementary feeding education in food secure                   (135,000-293,000)
populations and additional complementary food supplements
in food insecure populations

Micronutrient supplementation in children at risk
Vitamin A supplementation between 6 and 59 months age                              145,000               $159 (106-766)
Preventive zinc supplements between 6 and 59 months age                       (30,000-216,000)

Management of acute malnutrition
Management of moderate acute malnutrition                                         435,000                $125 (119-152)##
Management of sever acute malnutrition                                       (285,000-482,000)
Data are number or cost in 2010 international dollars. *Effect of each package when all four packages are scaled up at once.
#
  Cost per life-year saved assumes that a life saved of a child younger than 5 years saves on average 59 life-years, based on
WHO data (2011) that life expectancy at birth on average in low-income countries of 60, and that most deaths of children
younger than 5 years occur in the first year of life. To convert to cost per discounted life-year saved multiply these estimates by
59/32 (i.e. 1.84). **Intervention has effect on maternal and child morbidity, but no direct effect on lives saved. ##Cost per life-
year saved by management of severe acute malnutrition only, costs for supplementary feeding or moderate acute malnutrition
are currently unavailable.

Source: Lancet Series, Maternal and Child Nutrition, 2013




94.     Indirect benefits are those that accrue not only to the individual making the investment
but to the society at large. At a macro level, malnutrition could cause direct productivity losses
estimated at about a 2-3 percent reduction in GDP; at the micro level, undernutrition is
associated with a more than 10 percent loss of lifetime individual earnings due to cognitive
development and schooling deficits.

95.       In sum, the CNP was highly cost-effective in terms of its interventions.




                                                                 28
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                                  Responsibility/
            Names                              Title                   Unit
                                                                                    Specialty
Lending
Magnus Lindelow              Senior Health Economist                  EASHD    Task Team Leader
Chandra Chakravarthi         Program Assistant                        EASHD    Support
Phetdara Chanthala           Health Specialist                        EASHD
Chinnakorn Chantra           Procurement Specialist                   EASHD    Procurement
Dan Gibson                   Senior Social Scientist                  EASHD
Hope Phillips                Senior Operations Officer                EASHD    Technical
Nipa Siribuddhamas           Senior Financial Management Specialist   EASHD    FM Management
Sophavanh Thitsy             Program Assistant                        EASHD    Support
Juliana Williams             Senior Program Assistant                 EASHD    Support
James Chamberlain            Social Scientist (consultant)            EASHD    Technical Support
Chantelle Boudreaux          Consultant                               EASHD
Harold Alderman              Adviser                                  AFTSP    Peer reviewer
Alessandra Marini            Economist                                LCSHS    Peer reviewer
Supervision/ICR
Chantelle Boudreaux          Consultant                               EASHD
Helene Monika Carlsson Rex   Senior Social Development Specialist     EASER
Phetdara Chanthala           Health Specialist                        EASHH
                                                                      EASRP-
Chinnakorn Chantra           Procurement Specialist
                                                                        HIS
Roch Levesque                Senior Counsel                           LEGAM
Nipa Siribuddhamas           Financial Management Specialist          EASFM
Souphanthachak Sisaleumsak   Procurement Specialist                   EASR2
Ajay Tandon                  Senior Economist (Health)                EASHH
Sophavanh Thitsy             Operations Analyst                       EASHH
Siriphone Vanitsaveth        Financial Management Specialis           EASFM
Hope Phillips                Senior Operations Officer                EASHH
Lingzhi Xu                   Senior Operations Officer                ECSH1
Wei Aun Yap                  Consultant                               EASHH
Rong Li                      ET Consultant                            EASHH
Ashi Kohli Kathuria          Senior Nutrition Specialist              SASHN




                                                29
  (b) Staff Time and Cost


                             (Bank Budget and Trust Funds)
 Stage of project
                                                US$ thousands
 cycle and fiscal
                       No. of staff weeks   (including travel and
    year (FY)
                                               consultant costs)
Lending
FY09                                12.38                   60,262
Total                               12.38                   60,262

Supervision/ICR
FY09                                 3.33                    4,817
FY10                                25.38                  333,011
FY11                                 54.2                  374,816
FY12                                58.75                  274,960
FY13                                32.35                   94,597
FY14                                25.11                  123,219
Total                              199.12                1,205,420




                                            30
Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

1. Background

96.    Lao PDR is facing both macro and micronutrient malnutrition. Forty percent of Lao
population is stunted and 37 percent of women in reproductive age group are anaemic. Also, 40
percent of children under five are anaemic and an equal percentage are vitamin A deficient. Food
insecurity, food and fuel price volatility and insufficient food production are some of the causes
associated with poor nutritional outcomes. Inappropriate breastfeeding and complementary
feeding practices, food taboos, and food-borne infections and diseases are some of the other
reasons associated with poor nutritional status of Lao population.

2. Project Design

97.     The Community Nutrition Project (CNP) is financed by the World Bank, and is
implemented by the Department of Hygiene and Health Promotion (DHHP), Ministry of Health.
The overall objective of the program is to improve the coverage of essential maternal and child
health services and to improve mother and child health care practices among pregnant and
lactating women and children less than two years of age in the middle and southern provinces.
CNP is a pilot project being implemented in 62 HCs with the aim of proving evidence and
information for informing future policy-making with regard to maternal and child health and
nutrition. The main components of CNP are:

(i)    A conditional Cash Transfer (CCT): This component provides cash incentives to
pregnant women and women with children less than two years of age to stimulate use of key
maternal and child health services at selected health facilities. It includes one-time cash incentive
for enrollment in the pilot, followed by utilization based incentives for antenatal care visits
(ANC) up to four visits, free delivery, post natal care (PNC) visits as well as regular well-baby
and child outpatient visits for children under two years of age.
(ii)   Community-based nutrition program (CBN): This component is for improving
knowledge and awareness of maternal and child nutrition issues in catchment villages of pilot
HCs. It is implemented by the Department of Development, and the Central Lao’s Women Union
(LWU). It includes two activities: CBN training and food processing training, which are being
implemented in 500 target villages. Additionally, a local female facilitator is appointed, who
convenes a monthly meeting with women’s groups to identify key health and nutrition issues,
possible actions to address those issues and mobilize the community to implement those actions.
(iii) Project support and management: This component finances the incremental operating
costs and the costs for providing technical assistance. An international consultant will be
appointed to develop the detailed design and implementation arrangements for the CCT program.
An international organization, with a long history of working in Lao will be contracted to help
the MOH in the design and implementation of the CBN program.

98.    Apart from these three components, the side and supply side activities of the project
include supportive supervision and training in maternal, neonatal and child health (MNCH) to
improve services at the health center (HC) as well as community based distribution of
micronutrients.


                                                 31
Financing: A total of US$4.12 million including a US$ 2 million grant from Food Price Crisis
Trust Fund. Additional EU financing of €1.44 million from European Union Food Crisis Rapid
Response Facility Trust Fund.

3. Achievement of Project Indicators

99.     The achievements of the project development objectives are rated as satisfactory and are
listed below:

Conditional Cash Transfer (CCT): The main achievements of the CCT component are:
(i) The dissemination of CNP through seven provinces was completed;
(ii) A CCT manual for providing guidance on the instructions, summary, project objectives,
       components, design process, data base management, etc. was developed’
(iii) CCT training was completed to a total of 98 participants from 7 provinces in November
       2011.
(iv) A manual on financial management was developed to provide guidelines to the staff
       regarding source, flow and utilization of funds, delegation of responsibilities, disbursement
       procedures, internal controls, financial and accounting policies, etc.
(v) Training on financial management to target central and seven provincial officers was
       completed in December 2011 and continued training was given at province level.
(vi) Enrollment rollout at all target HCs was organized from November to December 2011.
(vii) Project received “no objection” in January 2012 and in February 2012 budget transfers to
       the provinces begun.
(viii) CCT backlog payment campaign was completed in two phases, one in November 2012 and
       the other in February 2013 throughout the seven provinces.
(ix) All new enrollments were closed in April 30, 2013 and all CCT related payments to
       beneficiaries were closed by July 31, 2013.
(x) MoUs were signed in September 2013 to handover free MCH implementation.

Community Based nutrition (CBN): The main achievements of the CBN component are:
(i) A CBN manual was developed and printed by LWU in collaboration with the Ministry of
     Health.
(ii) IEC materials pertaining to 10 nutritional topics including food groups, malnutrition,
     breastfeeding, growth monitoring, water quality, etc. were developed and printed.
(iii)Utility kits were procured and distributed to CNP members from central and provincial
     districts and village facilitators for promoting and disseminating the project.
(iv) TOT of core trainers in Vientiane was completed with an objective to make trainers
     understand the participatory methodologies, management, planning of training, monitoring
     and report methodologies by using presentations, demonstrations and group discussions.
(v) Core trainers trained the remaining trainees in Vientiane with support from central level
     trainers and HPA staff.
(vi) Training to 1500 VFs in 500 target villages at HC level was completed. Training was
     imparted by district and provincial trainers.
(vii) Monthly village meetings by the VFs were conducted on topics pertaining to health,
     nutrition, breastfeeding, water quality and hygiene with an average of 48 participants in each
     monthly meeting, including men.



                                                32
(viii) 2000 copies of the food processing manual and posters on food processing (8000 sets of
     design 1 and 2000 sets of design 2) were developed and printed.
(ix) Monitoring visits of the target villages were conducted according to the action plan and
     responsibilities.
(x) CBN refresher training was conducted for the trainers in March 2013.
(xi) For the inclusion of different ethnic groups in CNP, Ethnic Group development Plan (EGDP)
     was organized in Saravan and Attapue provinces. The project also provided cash incentives
     and transportation cost to the beneficiaries to enable them to access health services.

4. Achievement of CNP-related output indicators

Project Support and Management:
 (i) The project procured technical staff (financial management specialist, project assistants,
      international procurement specialist and international financial specialist) to support the
      implementation of the project.
 (ii) This component also received financial support for capacity building of health staff on –
        Five module training: Modules on (a) Basic emergency obstetric and newborn lifesaving
       skills; (b) Essential newborn care (ENC); (c) ANC/PNC; (d) Family Planning; and (e)
       IMNCI; were developed and printed and 62 HC staff members were trained using these five
       modules.
        Supportive Supervision: The project developed and printed 200 books on supportive
       supervision manual for the trainers and 200 books for trainees. A total of 230 health workers
       were trained in supportive supervision.
        Community Based Distributor (CBD): 300 books on CBD manual for both trainers and
       trainees were developed and printed. Also, a total of 94 CBDs were trained in family
       planning, basic MCH and micronutrient distribution. CBD kits were procured and
       distributed for outreach activities.

5. Outcomes

100. As compared to the targets, all chosen indicators were achieved to a considerable
percentage, except the percent of children aged 12-23 months receiving DPT3 before their first
birthday. The end-line survey, CBN review and results of EGDP workshop highlighted
behavioral changes especially an improvement in the following behaviors:

   a. Increased uptake of services at HC level – ANC, delivery, well-baby checkup, child health
      care practices, growth monitoring and following the doctor’s instructions.
   b. Improvement in hygiene and sanitation including the use of latrines, hand washing and
      cleaning of houses, clothes and cooking equipments.
   c. Early initiation of breastfeeding after delivery, exclusive breastfeeding and introduction of
      appropriate complementary foods at the right time and right age.
   d. Eating three food groups.
   e. Sleeping under mosquito nets, planting vegetables, ensuring that the children are clean,
      covering food before and after eating.




                                                 33
6. Outputs

101. For the CCT component, two out of three specific output indicators were achieved to a
great extent. Also, it was observed that the percentage of enrolled women who received payment
for delivery at HC was lower than percent of eligible women enrolled, thus indicating a problem
in the CT payments.

102. For the CBN component there were three specific output indicators. For indicator 1
(number of trained facilitators in target villages), three facilitators each from502 villages were
trained which exceeded the target of 447 villages. The second indicator (number of villages in
which CBN meetings have been held this month) was far from being achieved due to issues
pertaining to monitoring and data collection. Indicator 3 (average number of participants per
month in CBN meetings) was achieved well, as the average number of participants (48) and the
average number of attending females (31) was much higher than the target of 15.

103. For component 3, all indicators were achieved indicating that the management of CNP
was smooth. All target HCs had three trained staff members in the 5 modules, were visited
regularly and enrolled women who received CCT at the health facility they used.

7. Key factors affecting preparation, implementation and Outcomes

104.   The factors that affected the project implementation and achievements are as follows:

Conditional Cash Transfer (CCT)
  The implementation period, efficiency and effectiveness of intervention reduced as the
   project took long in selecting target HCs, the preparation of manuals, forms and budget to
   implement the CCT’s activities. The short duration of training affected the training quality
   and, as a result, the project staff had low understanding of technical and administrative
   issues. Some HCs did not have essential equipment for carrying out deliveries.
  The delay in submission of technical, financial and other relevant reports further delayed the
   budget transfer for CCT payments to the beneficiaries and reimbursement of user fee to the
   health facilities.
  There were financial issues with the project from the beginning as neither the beneficiaries
   nor the health facilities received the money and the clearing of backlog begun from May
   2012.
  There were language, tradition and cultural barriers as some ethnic groups could not
   understand Lao language.
  There were communication and transportation challenges as villages were located far from
   HCs and sometimes there were no signals for making telephone calls. This prevented the
   populations from visiting the HCs for health services.

Community Based Nutrition
  The project implementation was delayed and the actual period was reduced to one-third of its
   original term of three years. This may affect the process and sustainability of behavior
   change.
  There were delays and problems in the transfer of money to LWU by MOH and consequently
   from Central LWU to provincial LWU. There were also delays in transfer of money for DS


                                               34
   to carry out monitoring activities at the village level during CBN meetings. There were
   shortcomings in the provision of support and monitoring of VF’s which discouraged them
   from continuing to disseminate CBN lessons at critical times.
  Project preparation, design and assessment of design quality took a lot of time.
  The project did not trigger any environmental or social safeguards but the fiduciary
   performance was without any shortcomings.

8. Assessment of Project Outcomes
  Project Development Objectives: Utilization of MCH services (except immunization)
   increased considerably from the baseline. The change of behavior of mothers was seen as the
   breastfeeding within one hour after birth increased from 39.1% in 2010 to 64% in 2013.
  As compared to the baseline, there was an increase in the utilization rate in target HCs, which
   indicates that communities had confidence in the health staff.
  Factors like conditions of roads, cultural beliefs, education levels and understanding of
   communities affected the utilization rates of the HCs. E.g. the HC’s with good road
   conditions had higher utilization rates than others.

9. Assessment of Borrower and Bank Performance
Borrower Performance: The government of Lao PDR facilitated the smooth implementation of
project and satisfactory achievement of the objectives. Supervision of activities in the provinces,
districts, HCs and villages was also satisfactory.
Bank Performance: The Bank performance was rated as satisfactory. Financial and technical
support was provided by the Bank. The project activities were monitored on quarterly and semi-
annual basis. The Bank maintained good coordination with the ministries, organizations and
related stakeholders.

10. Lessons Learned
Conditional Cash Transfer: There should be adequate preparation period for firm documentation
and sound financial arrangements. Provincial and district level participants should report to the
director of PHO, DHO for their acknowledgement and actions. The data collection and reporting
formats should be simple and the focus of monitoring should not be merely on numerical data as
it limits the ability to respond to actual issues and find solutions to problems at the grassroot
level. Proper training on financial procedures and reporting is crucial for better CCT
implementation and monitoring.

Community Based Nutrition: The coordination at the provincial and district level was an issue,
thus, “project management training” should be given before the commencement of the project.
Because of high staff turnover rate, the new staff members or volunteers should be given
continued training. Health center staff members were the missing link in the chain of support for
VFs. Fund transfer was a problem and it led to delays in project implementation. In order to
increase the staff competency and confidence, regular refresher trainings should be given.
Monitoring needs to be strengthened and the focus should not be merely on numerical data.




                                                35
11. Recommendations

  Health sector should be involved at all levels as it has the technical knowledge and staff that
   would be able to provide support to communities. Detailed orientation for all involved, in
   addition, to a formal declaration of commitment to coordination, should be undertaken at the
   start of the project period. If not, then the project should be implemented solely by MOH and
   the health department. For a multi-sectoral approach, coordination by the Provincial/District
   Governor’s Office should be set up.
  Criteria for selection of village level facilitators should also include ability to understand the
   local language (Lao) and gender i.e. women volunteers for women group and males for male
   group.
  Training should focus on training least able participants, and the most able participants
   should support the weaker ones. Also, training should be conducted in the local language.
  In order to increase the ownership at local level, incentives should be provided to VFs to
   increase the effectiveness of the project. However, the decision on use of funds should be
   entirely of VFs.
  Health Center staff should take on the role of supervisors and their role should be extended to
   monitoring of the CBN meetings and supporting the VFs. Further, the quarterly meetings for
   VFs should be held at the health centers to strengthen the monitoring at village level.
  Recruitment criteria should be more precise and the staff should be clear about their roles and
   responsibilities. Because of high turnover rates, the staff should be given continuous training.
  As men play an important role in the decision making and in behavior change, their active
   participation should be built into the project design.
  A more holistic and integrated approach should be followed in order to reduce malnutrition.
   Different departments should be encouraged to disseminate the information and accelerate
   behavior change.




                                                36
Annex 6. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

105. The EU cofinanced the CNP through the European Union Food Crisis Rapid Response
Facility Trust Fund (EU FCRRF TF). The EU grant ended in February 2012 and the final report
for the EU-financed portion of CNP was prepared and commented on by the EU. The Executive
Summary of the report is placed below:

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY (final report of EU FCRR TF GRANT NUMBER TF097071)

106. The Community Nutrition Project (CNP) pilots two innovative interventions –
conditional cash transfer (CCTs) and community-based nutrition (CBN) – aimed at improving
maternal and child health and nutrition in the catchment area of 62 selected health centers (HCs)
across seven central and southern provinces of Lao PDR (Bolikhamxai, Khammouane,
Savanakhet, Salavan, Xekong, Champasack, and Attapu). CNP is supported through two sources
of financing: (a) the Food Price Crisis Response Trust Fund (FPCR TF) of US$2 million which
became effective on October 3, 2009 and closes on September 30, 2012; and (b) the European
Union Food Crisis Rapid Response Facility Trust Fund (EU FCRRF TF) of US$2.12 million
equivalent which became effective on August 12, 2010 and closes on February 29, 2012.
European Union (EU) funds were used to increase the coverage of the CBN component of CNP
from 150 to about 500 villages. EU funds also provided resources for five-module training of
health center staff, for training and implementation of supportive supervision activities, and for
training and support for the community-based distributor (CBD) program. In addition, EU funds
were used to co-finance technical assistance for the CCT component.

107. The project had a very slow start, primarily a result of the low capacity and inexperience
with procurement, financial, and overall project management of the implementing agency. This
was the first World Bank-project where implementation was managed directly by technical staff
within the Ministry of Health. Project implementation was also constrained by the lack of a
computerized information based system and low capacity at the district and health center levels.

108. Despite a relatively slow start, the project has made good implementation progress across
all components. CBN activities have begun in the target areas and are helping raise awareness
about the importance of nutrition and child care practices. Five-module training and training of
staff on supportive supervision and of CBDs have been successfully completed. More than
10,000 eligible women and children are now enrolled in the CCT pilot program. There is strong
ownership of the project, and the experience with CNP has helped enhance capacity in the
Ministry to manage and implement projects. CNP is also providing valuable lessons to inform
the proposed implementation of the government’s free maternal and child health (MCH) policy
and helped facilitate national discussions on the proposed scaling-up of nutrition interventions in
the near future in the country.

109. Although EU financing of CNP closed on February 29, 2012, the project continues to
implement with financing from FPCR TF. Due to ongoing complementary activities, final
outcome and impact will be measured following the close of the overall project through a results
framework of indicators that measures both improvements in access to care and behavior change.
An end-line survey is planned soon after the project closes in order to obtain data on outcome
and impact indicators for the project.


                                                37
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


1. Emergency Project Paper, Community Nutrition Project, Lao PDR, (Report No: 48162-LA)
2. Re Restructuring Paper, Community Nutrition Project, Lao PDR, Sept 19, 2011
3. Restructuring Paper, Community Nutrition Project, Lao PDR, July 25, 2012
4. Emergency Project Paper, Community Nutrition Project, Lao PDR (Report No: 53612-LA)
5. Food Price Crisis Response Trust Fund Grant Agreement, Community Nutrition Project,
   October 3, 2009
6. Aide Memoires of all missions conducted under the project
7. Implementation Status and results Report (ISR) documents from the project
8. Report of the review of the Community Based Nutrition (CBN) component of CNP
9. Country Partnership Strategy, 2012-2016, Lao PDR
10. Country Assistance Strategy Report, 2007, Lao PDR
11. Strategy and Planning Framework for the Integrated Package of Maternal Neonatal and Child
    Health Services, 2009-2015, Ministry of Health, Government of Lao PDR
12. National Nutrition Policy, 2008 and the National Nutrition strategy, 2009, Government of
    Lao PDR
13. Borrower’s Project Implementation Completion Report. Community Nutrition Project,
    Ministry of Health, Department of Hygiene and Health Promotion, Government of Lao PDR,
    September 2013.




                                              38
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IBRD 37006
 100°                                                      102°                                                    104°                                                                   100°                            105°                   110°




                                                                                                                                                                      MYANMAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CHINA
                            CHINA                                                                                                                                                                LAO
                                        Yotou /                                                                                                              20°
                                                                                                                                                                                                PEOPLE'S                          Gulf               20°
                              (Lantus, CHINA)
                                                                                                                                                                                               DEM. REP.                           of
                                                                                                                                                                                        Vientiane                                Tonkin
22 °                                                                                                                                                22°
                                                       1A

                                                                                                                                                                                         THAILAND
                                       Boun Nua             19    Phongsaly                                        VIETNAM                                   15°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     15°




                                                                                                                                                             Andaman Sea
                                                          Banyo
                                                                   PHONGSALY                                                                                                                                                           VIETNAM
                                                            1B
MYANMAR                                                            Pak Namnoy 2E                                                                                                                          CAMBODIA
                             17                                                                                                                                                                                                                        21°
                               Luang                                                                          Bandan
                             Namtha                                                                                                 Pahang                   10°
                                                                                                                                                                                           Gulf
                              LUANG              Muang                                                                                                                                      of                                                       10°
                                                                                                                Sam Sopbao
      g




                BOKEO                               Sai
      n




                             NAMTHA                                                                                                                                                      Thailand
  Meko




                                                                 13N
                        3
                                                                                                                Neua
                 Ban                                                                                                          Hanglong                                            100°                          105°                         110°
                                             OUDOMSAI
                 Huaisai                                                                                                            6
                                             2W                                             1C
       Chiang                                                               LUANG
                                                                                                                         HOUAPHAN                                                                                         This map was produced by
        Kong                                           g                   PRABANG                                                                                                      106°
20°                               Pak Beng          kon                                                                                                                                                                   the Map Design Unit of The
                                                  Me                                                                                                                                                                      World Bank. The boundaries,
                                                                        Luang                                                                                                                                             colors, denominations and
                                                       4B
                                                                        Prabang         XIANG                                                                                                                             any other information shown
                            SAYABOURY                                                                                                                                                                                     on this map do not imply, on
                                                                                       KHOANG                                                                                                                             the part of The World Bank
                                             4A                                                      7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Group, any judgment on the
                                                                                       Xiang                                                                                                                              legal status of any territory,
                                    Sayaboury                                         Khoang                                                                                                                              or any endorsement or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          acceptance of such
                                                                        13N                                                                                                                                               boundaries.

  THAILAND                                                 Vang Vieng                            5
                                                          VIENTIANE                    Xisomboun
                                             4
                                                                                      XAISOMBOUN
                                                                                                                   1D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GULF
                                                                 Pone                                                    BOLIKHAMSAI
                                                                                                              Paksane
                                                                 Hong             Nam Ngum                                                                                                                                       OF
                                           ng




                                                                                                                        Namkading
                                           eko                                   10
                                                                                   Reservoir
                                       M




                                                            11
                                                                                                                            13S                8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TONKIN
                                                                                                                       Me




                                   Sanakham                      Nam                         Thanaleng                                                                                                                                               18°
                                                                                                                        ko




18°                                                              Sang                 A12                                            Ban
                                                                                                                         ng




                                                                        Sykhai
                                                                                            PREFECTURE OF                           Nongsu           1E
                                                            VIENTIANE
                            Kenethao                                                        VIENTIANE                                     KHAMMOUANE
                                                                                                                                                   12
                                                                                                                                          Thakhek



                                                                                                                                                                            1F

                                                                                                                                          9A
                                                                                                                             Keng Kabao
                                                                                                                                                     Seno        9
                                                                                                                          Savannakhet
                            LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC                                                                                   9B    Ban     SAVANNAKHET
                                                                                                                                                      Laksamsipha

                 COMMUNITY NUTRITION PROJECT                                                                                                                                               1G
                                                                                                                                                                                                               15                                    16°
16°

                              PROJECT PROVINCES                                         AIRPORTS                                                                                 SALAVANE
                                                                                                                                                                                               15         Salavane
                                                                                        TOWNS                                                                                                       1H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Sekong
                                                                                                                                                                                          20                                  SEKONG
                              PRINCIPAL HIGHWAYS                                        PROVINCE HEADQUARTERS                                                                                       16
                                                                                                                                                                           16                            16B
                              HIGHWAYS                                                  NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                             1I
                                                                                                                                                            Champassak CHAMPASAK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Attapeu
                              OTHER ROADS                                               PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     18B
                                                                                                                                                                                                    18A
                                                                                                                                                                                 g




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ATTAPEU
                                                                                                                                                                                Mekon




                              BORDER CROSSINGS                                          INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                    13S                              1J


                                                                                            0            50      100         150 Kilometers                                Khong

14°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  14°

                                                            102°                            0        25          50 104° 75               CAMBODIA
                                                                                                                                    100 Miles                                                        CAMBODIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              JUNE 2009
