Report No. PID604
Project Name                     China-Animal Feed Project (@)
(formerly - Feed Industry Development)
Region                           East Asia and Pacific
Sector                           Agriculture
Project ID                       CNPE3563
Borrower                         People's Republic of China
New                              Implementing Agency Agricultural
Bank of China
Foreign Funds Division
5/F, Yu Long Hotel
40 Fu Cheng Road
Beijing, China
Tel: 8610-6846-5812
Fax: 8610-6841-6011
E-mail: zhzz@intlabocom.com
Date PID Prepared                June 25, 1998
Date PID Initially Prepared      January 25, 1994
Project Appraisal Date           March 21, 1995
Project Board Date               September 26, 1995
1.      Country/Sector Background.   China's modern animal feed sector was
established in the 1970s to support the increasing intensification and
expansion of livestock production and has since developed, in terms of feed
output, into the second largest in the world. Manufactured feed production in
1993 stood at 39 million tons, and is projected to reach 117 million tons in
2010. This massive rate of increase will not be achieved without addressing
growing constraints, not the least of which is the country's low capacity
utilization rate of 52 percent of its 12,000 mostly small feed mills. This
paradox of low capacity utilization in the face of rapidly increasing demand
arises because of the poor quality feed and inefficient operations that
characterize the small mills at county level and below, that make up the
majority of the feed sector's mills. At current rates of growth, mill-
produced feeds will account for only 65 percent of manufactured feed by the
year 2000. Increasing requirements for these feeds are driven by two factors:
(a) increasing livestock intensification by shifting from backyard to
commercialized production, and (b) increasing consumer demand for more and
better quality livestock products. In addition to a growing feed output gap,
the feed sector is also falling increasingly behind in its ability to match
intensifying livestock production with the necessary technical support
services, feed additives supply, more efficient mill capacity utilization,
production technologies, managerial and technical skills, feed mill
specialization into vitamin/mineral and high-protein feed concentrates,
industrial research and development, and improved integration of livestock
production with feed production systems.
2.      The Project.   The proposed project's objectives are in line with the



Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for the China agriculture sector with
regard to enterprise transformation, increased production efficiency and
technology acquisition. The project's objectives are also responsive to the
recommendations of the 1993 Animal Feed Sector Study completed by the Bank and
GOC to provide the objectives and rationale for the proposed project. The
project's objectives are to strengthen China's animal feed industry in four
ways: (a) the restructuring of project enterprises to effect greater corporate
efficiency and commercialization, (b) the alleviation of supply constraints of
critical feed ingredients, (c) improving and expanding the utilization of
agroindustrial byproducts for use as high-quality livestock feeds, and (d)
improving the organizational efficiency of the feed sector thorough
specialization and integration.
3.      Rationale for Bank Group Involvement.   The proposed project is
responsive to two of the Bank Group's areas of focus, as outlined in the 1995
CAS for China, and applied to the animal feed subsector. These include, (a)
removing infrastructure bottlenecks (through the proposed feed commodity
wholesale markets and the alleviation of critical supply shortages), and (b)
supporting structural reforms, including enterprise financial sector reforms
(through independent onlending by a commercial financial intermediary). A
very important reason for the Bank Group to support this project is the unique
position the Group can play as facilitator in guiding feed industry investment
priorities on a sector-wide basis. The Bank Group's continued support for
lending to China's agriculture sector, and its desire to collaborate with
other institutions in cofinancing projects, as is under negotiation with CIDA,
are additional rationales for Bank Group support.
4.      Concept and Description.   The proposed project would have as an
important objective the provision of coordinated sectorial support in
developing China's feed industry. The project would support domestic capacity
building to alleviate critical shortages of feed additives, processing
equipment, commodity markets and integrated feed and livestock production. It
would do so through focused investment in pilot ventures sponsored by
commercialized enterprises. The project has also several special objectives,
related to enterprise reform, new technology acquisition, and commercial
onlending through a financial intermediary.
The proposed project would comprise subprojects grouped in seven
components representing feed industry disciplines. The project would (a)
assist in upgrading domestic production capacity for feed additives and
processing equipment, (b) increase enhanced-protein feed supplies through oil
seed detoxification and processing and the manufacture of high-protein feeds
from converted agro-industrial byproducts and abattoir wastes, (c)
agroenterprise reorganization into vertically integrating production units
with specialty feed mill, supplying feeds to contract farmers raising
livestock, with in-house support services, processing and marketing, and (d)
introduce feed commodity wholesale markets to facilitate the trading of feed
grains and feed additives. Feed subsector development would be supported by
the establishment of a Ministry of Agriculture Feed Industry Center (MAFIC),
financed by the Canadian International Development Agency and by a Bank loan
for an experimental feedmill, coordinating management training and skills
development, upgrading of equipment design institutes, improving feed research
and development, feed quality assurance, and policy planning,
5.      Specifically, the four capacity building components would comprise, (a)
-2 -



feed additives production of synthetic lysine, feed vitamins and minerals; (b)
protein feed synthesis from agroindustrial byproducts including oil seed
detoxification and processing, and single-cell protein feed production; (c)
feed processing equipment involving larger-capacity feed and premix
compounding equipment and essential pelleted feed equipment spare parts
manufacture, linked to equipment design institute development, computerized
mass production and steel tempering technologies; and (d) integrated feed and
livestock production comprising nucleus agro-enterprises supplying specialty
compound feeds to contract pig, poultry or fish producers, supported by
technical, marketing and processing services.
6.      Environmental Aspects.   The project has received an overall
environmental assessment A categorization (see attached EO), based on the A
rating of one subproject to be involved in the mining and purification of feed
minerals. Mitigation plans have been prepared for all subprojects, which have
been approved by the China Environmental Protection Agency, and the subproject
sponsors. Most mitigation relates to the control of N02, S02 and ashes
emitted from the coal-fired steam plants providing energy for many of the
subprojects. Lesser contaminants include organic, mostly biodegradable wastes
from factory effluents. The investment costs related to pollution control
equipment, and associated training and monitoring have been determined.
7.      The project will positively impact on the environment through the
proposed recovery and upgrading of agro-industrial effluents into value-added
high-protein feed ingredients. Such initiatives would also be pursued in the
proposed integrated feed mill/livestock production pilot areas, all of which
would serve as models for further replication.
8.      Implementation.   The proposed project will be managed by the financial
intermediary, the Agricultural Bank of China (ABC), with the National Feed
Industry Office (NFIO), under the Ministry of Agriculture serving as technical
advisor. ABC has established a Project Management Office responsible for
administrative and financial project management, feed sector strengthening,
and communications with participating agencies. The ABC branches in those
provinces in which subprojects are to be undertaken will be directly
responsible for subproject appraisal and monitoring and subloan management,
and will report directly to ABC Headquarters branch in Beijing. A Project
Coordinating Committee will periodically review project progress, resolve
constraints impinging of project implementation, and approve annual work
plans. Subproject managers will be responsible for the preparation of
administrative, financial and technical information required by ABC.
9.      Project Benefits.   The prime justification for the project will be the
introduction into the feed sector of the necessary enabling environment
conducive to institutional strengthening, capacity building, rationalization
and commercialization. Project inputs have been carefully selected in line
with the previously completed sector assessment. The project would
specifically benefit the developing feed sector by introducing technical,
managerial and institutional improvements which would, in turn, promote
greater production efficiency and more highly skilled labor resources. These
benefits would especially impact in two main areas: (a) improved feed
utilization efficiency through better feeds, feeding practices, and support
services, and (b) increased supplies of essential feed ingredients, high-
protein feeds, feed processing equipment and services.
- 3 -



Contact Point:           Abraham C. Brandenburg
The World Bank
1818 H St., N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202) 458-4068
Fax No.: (202) 522-1674
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending June 3, 1998
- 4-



