Page  1
CONFORMED COPY     
LOAN NUMBER 4001 CHA
Agreement Amending Loan Agreement
(Animal Feed Project)
between
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated March 4, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4001 CHA
AGREEMENT AMENDING LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 4, 1998, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS, (A) by the Loan Agreement dated June 7, 1996 between the Borrower and 
the Bank for an Animal Feed Project (the Original Loan Agreement), the Bank agreed to 
extend Loan No. 4001-CHA to the Borrower to assist in financing the Project described 
in Schedule 2 to the Original Loan Agreement (the Project), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Original Loan Agreement, and by the Project Agreement of 
same date between the Bank and China Agribusiness Development Trust and Investment 
Corporation (CADTIC) (the CADTIC Project Agreement), CADTIC agreed to carry out the 
Project and to undertake such other obligations as are set forth in the CADTIC Project 
Agreement;
(B)
the People’s Bank of China has designated the Agricultural Bank of China 
(ABC) as the legal successor to the rights and obligations of CADTIC under the CADTIC 
Project Agreement, and ABC has requested, in its capacity as legal successor to 
CADTIC, that the Bank agree to the termination of the CADTIC Project Agreement and its 
substitution with the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and ABC 
(the Project Agreement);
(C)
in consequence of the designation of ABC as the legal successor to 
CADTIC, the Borrower has requested that the Bank agree to amend certain terms and 
conditions in the Original Loan Agreement; and
Page  2
WHEREAS, the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
terminate the CADTIC Project Agreement and substitute it with the Project Agreement, 
and to amend the Original Loan Agreement, upon the terms and conditions set forth in 
this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
1.
Articles I through VI and Schedules 1 through 6 of the Original Loan Agreement 
are hereby amended to read as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. 
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modifications set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement (the General Conditions), 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"ABC" means the Agricultural Bank of China, a commercial bank established 
and operating under the laws of the Borrower and in accordance with (i) Business 
License No. 10000547-4, dated December 10, 1994, issued by the Borrower’s State 
Administration of Industry and Commerce; (ii) Banking License No. 02-0001, dated March 
1, 1992, issued by the People’s Bank of China; and (iii) the ABC Charter.
(b)
"ABC Charter" means the Circular of the Borrower’s State Council on the 
Restoration of the Agricultural Bank of China, dated February 23, 1979 (State Council 
Document No. (1976) 56) as such circular may be revised from time to time.
(c)
"free-limit Sub-loan" means a Sub-loan, as so defined, which qualifies as 
a free-limit Sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of Part D.4(b) of Schedule 1 to the 
Project Agreement.
(d)
"Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which ABC proposes to make 
or has made a Sub-loan.
(e)
"Investment Project" means a specific development project to be carried 
out by an Investment Enterprise under the Project utilizing the proceeds of a 
Sub-loan.
(f)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and ABC in 
respect of Loan No. 4001-CHA, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement.
(g)
"Project Coordinating Committee" means the project coordinating committee 
for the oversight of the implementation of the Project, referred to Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(h)
"Renminbi" means the currency of the Borrower.
(i)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement.
(j)
"Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by ABC out of the 
proceeds of the Loan to an Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project.
(k)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and ABC pursuant to Section 3.01(c) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
Page  3
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and “Subsidiary Loan” means the loan provided under the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. 
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to one 
hundred and fifty million dollars ($150,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement: 
(i)
for amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by 
ABC on account of 
withdrawals made by an Investment Enterprise under a 
Sub-loan to meet the 
reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Investment Project in 
respect of 
which the withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested; and
(ii)
for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) 
in respect of 
the reasonable cost of training and services 
required for Part C of the Project and 
to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of  the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a bank and on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. 
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, 
and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment 
Date to, but 
excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this Agreement.
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered 
rate for six-month deposits in dollars for 
value the first day of such Interest 
Period (or, in the case of 
the initial Interest Period, for value the Interest 
Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest Period), 
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 
of one percent 
(1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such Interest 
Period, below (or above) 
the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, 
for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank's outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency loans or 
Page  4
portions 
thereof made by it that include the Loan; as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per 
annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months' notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis.  The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. ABC is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, 
shall cause ABC to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement 
all the obligations of ABC therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all 
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, 
necessary or appropriate to enable ABC to perform such obligations, and shall not take 
or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such 
performance.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to ABC under a 
subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and ABC, under terms 
and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank and which shall include the 
following:
(i)
the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan shall be denominated 
and repayable in 
dollars;
(ii)
the Subsidiary Loan shall be made for a period not to exceed 
fifteen years, 
including five years of grace;
(iii)
ABC shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Subsidiary 
Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the 
rate applicable to the Loan 
pursuant to Section 2.05 of this 
Agreement; and
(iv)
ABC shall pay a commitment charge on the principal amount of the 
Subsidiary Loan 
not withdrawn from time to time at a rate 
equal to the rate payable pursuant to 
Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Page  5
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to the 
Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by ABC 
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, 
records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one year after 
the Bank has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section and 
those for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six (6) 
months after the end of each such year the 
report of such audit by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested, 
including a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied 
upon to support the 
related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and 
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
ABC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
Page  6
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that ABC will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c)
The ABC Charter shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed 
or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of ABC to perform any 
of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of ABC or for the suspension of its 
operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified :
(a)
any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and
(b)
any of the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 5.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People’s Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64l45(MCI)
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Page  7
  Amount of the
     % of 
  Loan Allocated
 Expenditures
Category
(Expressed in Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Sub-loans
     149,800,000
100% of amounts
paid by ABC
(2)
Consultants’ services
  200,000
100%
and training under
Part C of the Project
     __________
Total
     150,000,000   
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
expenditures under either Category (1) or Category (2) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule unless evidence (including legal opinions) 
satisfactory to the Bank shall have been furnished to the Bank that (i) this Loan 
Agreement as amended by the Agreement Amending Loan Agreement has been duly authorized 
or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and is legally 
binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms; (ii) the Project Agreement has 
been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, ABC and 
is legally binding upon ABC in accordance with its terms; and (iii) the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on 
behalf of, each of the Borrower and ABC, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and 
ABC in accordance with its terms;
(b)
a Sub-loan unless the Sub-loan has been made in accordance with the 
procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 1 to 
the Project Agreement; or
(c)
payments made prior to June 7, 1996 (i) for expenditures under Category 
(2) or (ii) by ABC under Sub-loans; except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount 
not to exceed the equivalent of $5,000,000, may be made on account of payments made by 
ABC under Sub-loans prior to said date but after January 1, 1996.
3.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for payments made by ABC:  (a) under Sub-loans; (b) under 
contracts for the employment of consulting firms for Part C of the Project costing 
less than $100,000 equivalent; (c) under contracts for the employment of individual 
consultants for Part C of the Project costing less than $50,000 equivalent, and (d) 
for training; all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower to: (1) alleviate 
supply constraints of critical animal feed ingredients; (2) improve and expand the 
utilization of agro-industrial by-products for use as high-quality livestock feeds; 
(3) improve feed sector efficiency through specialization, new technology transfer and 
integration; and (4) improve the corporate efficiency and commercialization of 
Investment Enterprises.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Financing, through the provision of Sub-loans to enterprises in the animal feed 
sector, of specific capacity-building projects, including projects for:
Page  8
(1)
production by agro-enterprises of specialty feeds and pre-mixes so as to 
integrate production, processing and marketing of livestock, poultry and fish;
(2)
expansion and upgrading of production capacity with regard to essential feed 
additives;
(3)
expansion of manufacturing capacity with respect to large-capacity feed milling 
and mixing equipment and pelleting machine replacement parts;
(4)
expansion of capacity to synthesize enhanced-protein feed ingredients;
(5)
development of integrated protein feed crop production capabilities; and
(6)
establishment of feed commodity wholesale markets.
Part B:
Financing, through the provision of a Sub-loan, of the construction of a feed 
mill to be operated for experimental and commercial purposes.
Part C:
Strengthening the capacity of ABC at the head office and branch level to provide 
loans for investment projects, through the provision of training and consultants’ 
services.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal  
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in dollars)*
December 15, 2001
3,185,000 
June 15, 2002
3,280,000 
December 15, 2002
3,375,000 
June 15, 2003
3,475,000 
December 15, 2003
3,575,000 
June 15, 2004
3,680,000 
December 15, 2004
3,790,000 
June 15, 2005
3,900,000 
December 15, 2005
4,015,000 
June 15, 2006
4,135,000 
December 15, 2006
4,255,000 
June 15, 2007
4,380,000 
December 15, 2007
4,510,000 
June 15, 2008
4,640,000 
December 15, 2008
4,775,000 
June 15, 2009
4,915,000 
December 15, 2009
5,060,000 
June 15, 2010
5,210,000 
December 15, 2010
5,365,000 
June 15, 2011
5,520,000 
December 15, 2011
5,680,000 
June 15, 2012
5,850,000 
December 15, 2012
6,020,000 
June 15, 2013
6,200,000 
December 15, 2013
6,380,000 
June 15, 2014
6,565,000 
December 15, 2014
6,760,000 
June 15, 2015
6,960,000 
December 15, 2015
7,160,000 
June 15, 2016
7,385,000
Page  9
___________________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars to be repaid, except 
as provided in 
Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
The Borrower shall maintain a project coordinating committee, with terms of 
reference, membership and other resources acceptable to the Bank, to be responsible 
for providing policy advice to ABC on issues relating to the development of the animal 
feed subsector and assisting ABC in liaising with other government agencies involved 
in the Project.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of: 
(i)
the reasonable cost of training and consultants’ services required 
for Part C of 
the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan allocated from time 
to time to Category (2) as 
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
the 
Loan Agreement; and 
(ii)
amounts paid by ABC under Sub-loans to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 
1 to this Agreement; provided, 
however, that notwithstanding the 
provisions of Part D.4(b) of Schedule 1 to the 
Project 
Agreement, payments for expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of 
free-limit Sub-loans may be made out of the Special Account before the Bank 
shall 
have authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect 
thereof.  Such 
expenditures, however, shall qualify as 
eligible expenditures only if the Bank 
shall subsequently 
authorize such withdrawals; and
(b)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equal to $10,000,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equal to 
$6,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of $50,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank 
requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.
Page  10
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On 
the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such 
amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and 
other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of 
all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the 
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
Page  11
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6(a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Modifications of General Conditions
1.
For the purposes of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows:
(1)
The following subparagraphs are added to Section 2.01:
"22.  The term "Project Agreement" has the meaning set forth in Section 
1.02(f) of the 
Loan Agreement."
"23.  The term "ABC" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.02(a) of the 
Loan Agreement."
(2)
Section 6.03 shall be amended to read:
"Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspended 
with respect to any amount of the 
Loan for a continuous period of thirty 
days, or (b) at any time, the Bank determines, after 
consultation with the 
Borrower, that an amount of the Loan will not be required to finance the 
Project’s costs to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any time, 
the Bank 
determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged 
in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Loan during 
the procurement or the execution of such contract, without the 
Borrower 
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the 
situation, and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would 
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, or (d) at any time, 
the Bank determines that the procurement 
of any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan is 
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement and 
establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such contract which would 
otherwise have 
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan, 
or (e) by the date specified in Part 
D.5(c) of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement, 
the Bank shall, in respect of any portion of the 
Loan (i) have received no 
applications or requests permitted under subparagraphs (a) or (b) of 
said 
paragraph, or (ii) have denied any such applications or requests, the Bank may, by 
notice to 
the Borrower and ABC, terminate the right of ABC to submit such 
applications or approvals or of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan 
Account, as the case may be, with respect to such 
amount or portion of the Loan.  
Upon the giving of such notice, such amount or portion of the 
Loan shall be 
canceled."
2.
The amendments set forth in this Agreement Amending Loan Agreement shall take 
effect as of the date first above written. 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Xian Zhu
Authorized Representative
Page  12
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Yukon Huang
Acting Regional Vice President 
East Asia and Pacific
