Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4001 CHA
Project Agreement
(Animal Feed Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
AGRICULTURAL BANK OF CHINA 
Dated March 4, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4001 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 4, 1998, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and AGRICULTURAL BANK OF CHINA  (ABC).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement dated June 7, 1996 between the People’s 
Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Bank (the Original Loan Agreement), the Bank 
has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount equal to one hundred fifty 
million dollars ($150,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Original 
Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the China Agribusiness Development Trust 
and Investment Corporation (CADTIC) agree to undertake such obligations toward the 
Bank as are set forth in a Project Agreement dated June 7, 1996 between the Bank and 
CADTIC (the CADTIC Project Agreement);
(B)
the People’s Bank of China has designated the Agricultural Bank of China 
(ABC) as the legal successor to the rights and obligations of CADTIC under the CADTIC 
Project Agreement to ABC, and ABC has requested, in its capacity as legal successor to 
CADTIC, that the Bank agree to the termination of the CADTIC Project Agreement and its 
substitution with the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and ABC 
(the Project Agreement);
(C)
by an Agreement Amending Loan Agreement (the Loan Agreement or the 
Agreement Amending Loan Agreement) of even date herewith between the Borrower and the 
Bank, the Bank has agreed to amend the Original Loan Agreement and to terminate the 
CADTIC Project Agreement, but only on condition that ABC agree to undertake such 
obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
(D) by a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
ABC, the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be relent to 
ABC on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS ABC, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Agreement Amending 
Loan Agreement with the Borrower and the Bank’s agreement to terminate the CADTIC 
Project Agreement, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective 
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project; 
Management and Operations of ABC
Section 2.01. (a) ABC declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project and conduct its operations and affairs in accordance with sound financial 
standards and practices, with qualified management and personnel, and in accordance 
with the Charter.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and ABC shall otherwise agree, ABC shall carry out the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, ABC shall:  (i) 
make Sub-loans in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set 
forth or referred to in Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (ii) exercise its rights in 
relation to each Investment Project in such manner as to protect its interests and the 
interests of the Bank, comply with its obligations under this Agreement and the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement and achieve the purposes of the Project.
(b)
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) ABC shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
(b)
For purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions, and without 
limitation thereto, ABC shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank 
not later than six (6) months after the 
Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this 
purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to 
ensure the continued achievement of the objectives of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
ABC on said plan.
Section 2.04. ABC shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, ABC shall not take or concur 
Page  3
in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or 
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof. 
Section 2.05. (a) ABC shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with the 
Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under 
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to 
the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
ABC shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of Loan, or the performance by ABC of its obligations under this Agreement 
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. 
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) ABC shall maintain procedures and records adequate to monitor 
and record the progress of the Project and of each Investment Project (including its 
cost and the benefits to be derived from it) and to reflect in accordance with 
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations and financial 
condition of ABC.
(b)
ABC shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of 
income and expenses and related statements) 
for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months 
after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of its financial statements 
for such year as so 
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and 
financial statements as well as the 
audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably 
request.
Section 3.02. ABC shall take such steps satisfactory to the Bank as shall be 
necessary to protect itself against risk of loss resulting from changes in the rates 
of exchange between the various currencies (including Renminbi) used in its 
operations.
Section 3.03. ABC shall inform the Bank of any changes in the ABC Charter.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect as of the date 
first above written.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of ABC 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify ABC thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Page  4
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For ABC:
Agricultural Bank of China
25 Fuxing Road
Beijing
China
Cable address                
Telex:
 
1053                       22017 ABC CN
Beijing
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of ABC may be 
taken or executed by its President or such other person or persons as said President 
shall designate in writing, and ABC shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of 
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Yukon Huang
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific 
AGRICULTURAL BANK OF CHINA
By /s/ Wang Chuan
Authorized Representative
Page  5
SCHEDULE 1
Procedures for and Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans 
A.
Eligibility
1.
Each Sub-loan for an Investment Project shall be made to an Investment 
Enterprise which shall have established to the satisfaction of ABC on the basis of 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, that:
(a)
it possesses enterprise legal person status;
(b)
it has been operating profitably in the animal feed industry for the 
three years preceding its application for a Sub-loan, or in the case of a new 
enterprise, its founders have been operating profitably in the animal feed industry 
for the three years preceding such application;
(c)
it is able and has undertaken to contribute at least 30% of the total 
estimated cost of the Investment Project (including working capital) in the form of 
equity;
(d)
it is creditworthy, or has obtained a guarantee, acceptable to ABC, of 
its performance and payment obligations under its respective Sub-loan; it is able and 
has undertaken to maintain a debt service coverage ratio of not less than 2:1; it has 
undertaken not to incur any debt if, after the incurrence of such debt, its ratio of 
debt to equity would be greater than 3 to 1; and it has the managerial, technical and 
other resources required for the efficient carrying out of the Investment Project;
(e)
if the Investment Enterprise requires access to proprietary technology in 
order to carry out the Investment Project, it has made appropriate arrangements to 
obtain such technology; and
(f)
in the case of a Sub-loan to be made under Part A of the Project, the 
Investment Enterprise has prepared and has undertaken to carry out a suitable 
enterprise transformation work plan for its corporate restructuring.
2.
Each Sub-loan shall be made for an Investment Project which ABC shall have 
determined, on the basis of an appraisal, carried out in accordance guidelines 
acceptable to the Bank, meets the following requirements:
(a)
it has been designed so as to alleviate a supply constraint of a critical 
ingredient, make greater economic use of available raw materials, contribute to 
improved quality or efficiency of industrial processes or improve organizational 
efficiency through specialization and integration;
(b)
it is technically feasible and financially viable, and is calculated to 
have a financial rate of return of not less than 12% and an economic rate of return of 
not less than 12%;
(c)
it is in compliance with all applicable laws of the Borrower relating to 
health, safety and environmental protection and has been developed in accordance with 
the recommendations of an environmental impact assessment which has been approved by 
the environmental protection bureau responsible for the locality in which said 
Investment Project is located; and
(d)
if the Investment Project involves involuntary resettlement of persons, 
it includes a suitable resettlement plan, approved by ABC, and, if more than 200 
persons are affected, approved by the Bank, providing for compensation of such persons 
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
B.
Terms for Part A of the Project
1.
The principal amount of each Sub-loan made for an Investment Project under Part 
A of the Project shall be denominated and be the equivalent in dollars or in Renminbi 
(or both) (determined as of the date or respective dates of withdrawal from the Loan 
Account or payment out of the Special Account) of the value of the currency or 
currencies so withdrawn or paid out on account of the cost of goods and services 
Page  6
required for such Investment Project.
2.
Each Sub-loan under Part A of the Project:
(a)
shall be made for a period not exceeding seven years, inclusive of a 
grace period of up to two years;
(b)
shall be charged interest:  (i) on the principal amount thereof 
denominated in dollars and withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at an annual 
rate not less than the sum of (A) the rate of interest payable by ABC pursuant to 
Section 3.01(c)(iii) of the Loan Agreement plus (B) 2.0%; and (ii) on the principal 
amount thereof denominated in Renminbi and withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
at a rate equal to the rate charged by ABC for loans of similar maturity at the time 
the Sub-loan is approved by ABC; and
(c)
shall be charged a commitment charge on the principal amount of the 
Sub-loan not withdrawn from time to time at a rate equal to three-fourths of one 
percent (0.75%).
C.
Terms for Part B of the Project
1.
The Sub-loan for Part B of the Project shall be made to an entity, acceptable to 
the Bank, to be responsible for the implementation of such Part. 
2.
The principal amount of the Sub-loan made for the Investment Project under Part 
B of the Project shall be denominated and repayable in dollars and be equal to the 
amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account or paid out of the Special Account 
on account of the cost of goods and services required for such Investment Project.
3.
The Sub-loan made under Part B of the Project:
(a)
shall be made for a period not exceeding fifteen years, inclusive of a 
grace period of up to five years;
(b)
shall be charged interest on the principal amount thereof withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time at an annual rate not less than the sum of (i) the rate 
of interest payable by ABC pursuant to Section 3.01(c)(iii) of the Loan Agreement plus 
(ii) 1.0%; and
(c)
shall be charged a commitment charge on the principal amount of the 
Sub-loan not withdrawn from time to time at a rate equal to three-fourths of one 
percent (0.75%).
D.
General Terms and Conditions
1.
No Sub-loan shall be made to an Investment Enterprise in which ABC holds 
majority ownership or exercises a controlling interest.
2.
The total amount of all Sub-loans for any one Investment Project shall not 
exceed the lesser of (a) 55% of the total estimated cost of the Investment Project 
(including working capital) and (b) $12,000,000 equivalent.
3.
No Sub-loan shall be made for an Investment Project involving commodity markets 
until appropriate guidelines, acceptable to the Bank, for the operation of such 
markets, consistent with market principles, shall have been established.
4.
No expenditures for goods or services required for an Investment Project shall 
be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan unless:
(a)
the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been approved by the 
Bank and such expenditures shall have been made not earlier than one hundred eighty 
(180) days prior to the date on which the Bank shall have received the application and 
information required under paragraph 5(a) of this Schedule in respect of such 
Sub-loan; or
(b)
the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been a free-limit 
Sub-loan for which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account and such 
Page  7
expenditures shall have been made not earlier than one hundred eighty (180) days prior 
to the date on which the Bank shall have received the request and information required 
under paragraph 5(b) of this Schedule in respect of such free-limit Sub-loan. For the 
purposes of the Loan Agreement and this Agreement, a free-limit Sub-loan shall be a 
Sub-loan for an Investment Project in an amount to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan; which shall not exceed the sum of $5,000,000 equivalent, when added to any 
other outstanding amounts financed or proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan or of any other loan, provided for in any outstanding loan agreement between 
the Bank and the Borrower entered into before the date of this Agreement, the proceeds 
of which have been or are being used for financing goods and services directly and 
materia
lly related to such Investment Project, the foregoing amount being subject to change 
from time to time as determined by the Bank.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the first 
two Sub-loans under Part A of the Project and the Sub-loan under Part B thereof shall 
not be deemed to be a free-limit Sub-loan.
5.
(a)
When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit Sub-loan) to the Bank 
for approval, ABC shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form satisfactory to 
the Bank, together with (i) a summary description of the Investment Enterprise and an 
appraisal of the Investment Project, including a description of the expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the proposed terms and 
conditions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization of the Sub-loan; 
and (iii) such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b)
Each request by ABC for authorization to make withdrawals from the Loan 
Account in respect of a free-limit Sub-loan shall contain: (i) a summary description 
of the Investment Enterprise and the Investment Project, including a description of 
the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; and (ii) the 
terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization therefor.
(c)
Applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions of 
sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph shall be presented to the Bank on or 
before December 31, 2000.
6.
Sub-loans shall be made on further terms whereby ABC shall obtain, by written 
contract with the Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate legal means, rights 
adequate to protect the interests of the Bank and ABC, including the right to:
(a)
require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate its Investment 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, 
financial, managerial and environmental standards, and, if applicable, the 
resettlement plan approved pursuant to Part A.2(d) of this Schedule, to maintain 
adequate records and to provide, promptly, as needed, the funds, facilities, and other 
resources required for the purpose;
(b)
require that: (i) the goods and services required for the Investment 
Project of said Investment Enterprise and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and (ii) such goods and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying 
out of said Investment Project;
(c)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank, if the 
Bank shall so request, such goods and the sites, works, plants and construction 
included in the Investment Project of the Investment Enterprise, the operation 
thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
(d)
require that: (i) the Investment Enterprise shall take out and maintain 
with responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as 
shall be consistent with sound business practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon 
the foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the 
place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a 
currency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or repair such goods;
(e)
require that each Investment Enterprise shall: (i) maintain policies and 
procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in 
accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank and ABC, the carrying out of its 
Page  8
Investment Project; (ii) prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank and 
furnish to ABC for forwarding to the Bank in accordance with the provisions of Part B 
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, semi-annual reports not later than March 1 and 
September 1 of each year, summarizing said monitoring and evaluation activities 
carried out during the preceding calendar semester; (iii) afford the Bank and ABC a 
reasonable opportunity to exchange views with said enterprise on each said report; and 
(iv) thereafter, promptly take all measures required to ensure the continued efficient 
carrying out of its Investment Project, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of said report and the views of the Bank and ABC on the matter;
(f)
obtain all such additional information as the Bank or ABC shall 
reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and 
financial condition of the Investment Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived 
from the Investment Project;
(g)
require that each Investment Enterprise shall further: (i) maintain 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained 
sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition; (ii) have its 
financial statements for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; and (iii) furnish to ABC as soon as available, but in any event not later than 
four months after the end of each such year, for forwarding to the Bank in accordance 
with the provisions of Part B.2 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, certified copies of 
its financial statements for such year as so audited, and the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as ABC (or the Bank) may request; and
(h)
suspend or terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise to the use of 
the proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform its 
obligations under its contract with ABC.
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works 
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B: 
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped into bid 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $5,000,000 or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower (excluding 
the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region).
Part C: 
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Works
Page  9
(a)
National Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part C.1(b) of this Section I, works shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of 
the Guidelines.
(b)
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations 
obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written 
invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, 
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award 
shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required 
work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
2.
Goods
(a)
Shopping
Except as provided in Part C.2(b) of this Section I, contracts for goods 
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $5,000,000 may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of shopping procedures acceptable to the Bank, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Direct Contracting
Goods which should be procured as an extension of an existing contract or must 
be purchased from the original supplier to be compatible with existing equipment or 
are of a proprietary nature may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
 Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost $5,000,000 or more, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract to be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of Part C.2 of this Section, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier or execution of any 
contract under shopping 
procedures, a report on the comparison and 
evaluation of quotations received shall 
be furnished to the Bank;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct 
contracting or 
shopping procedures, a copy of the 
specifications and the draft contract shall be 
provided to 
the Bank; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
Page  10
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
 Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 3
Implementation Program
Page  11
A.
Project Management
1.
In order to facilitate the proper implementation of the Project, ABC, through 
its International Department, shall participate in the Project Coordinating Committee 
and provide progress reports to such Committee with frequency and format acceptable to 
the Bank.
2.
In order to ensure proper Project management, ABC shall employ and assign to its 
headquarters not later than March 1, 1998, two analysts, whose terms of reference, 
qualifications and experience shall be satisfactory to the Bank, to be responsible for 
assisting in management of the Project.
B.
Monitoring and Evaluation
1.
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.03 of this Agreement, ABC 
shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project (including each Investment Project);
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank: (i) semi-annual reports not later than March 31 and September 30 of each 
year, summarizing the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) during the preceding calendar semester, consolidating the reports 
furnished to it by the Investment Enterprises pursuant to Part D.6(e) of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement, and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the continued 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of its objectives; and (ii) 
a mid-term report not later than December 31, 1999, summarizing such monitoring and 
evaluation activities to date and setting out measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of its objectives; and
(c)
after furnishing each report referred to in paragraph (b) hereof, review 
said report with the Bank, and promptly take all measures required on its part to 
ensure the continued efficient implementation of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of said report 
and the Bank's views thereon.
2.
ABC shall prepare, in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank annual reports not later than July 1 in each fiscal year 
summarizing the financial statements and audit reports for the preceding fiscal year 
furnished to it by the Investment Enterprises pursuant to Part D.6(g) of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement.
C.
Institutional Strengthening
ABC shall carry out training under Part C of the Project in accordance with a 
training plan acceptable to the Bank.
