Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4001 CHA
Loan Agreement
(Animal Feed Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 7, 1996
LOAN NUMBER 4001 CHA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 7, 1996, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
China Agribusiness Development Trust and Investment Corporation (CADTIC) 
will carry out the Project with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such 
assistance, the Borrower will make available to CADTIC the proceeds of the Loan as 
provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and 
CADTIC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 with the 
modifications set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Page  2
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"CADTIC" means the China Agribusiness Development Trust and Investment 
Corporation, a corporation established and operating under the laws of the Borrower 
and in accordance with (i) Business License No. 10000747-x(1-1) dated December 12, 
1994 issued by the Borrower's State Administration of Industry and Commerce and (ii) 
the CADTIC Charter.
(b)
"CADTIC Charter" means the Charter of CADTIC, approved by the State 
Administration of Industry and Commerce on October 27, 1993, as the same may be 
amended from time to time.
(c)
"CAU" means China Agricultural University, a university established and 
operating under the supervisory authority of the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture.
(d)
"free-limit Sub-loan" means a Sub-loan, as so defined, which qualifies as 
a free-limit Sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of Part D.4 (b) of Schedule 1 to the 
Project Agreement.
(e)
"Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which CADTIC proposes to 
make or has made a Sub-loan.
(f)
"Investment Project "means a specific development project to be carried 
out by an Investment Enterprise under the Project utilizing the proceeds of a 
Sub-loan.
(g)
"NFIO" means the National Feed Industry Office within the Borrower's 
Ministry of Agriculture.
(h)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and CADTIC of 
even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement.
(i)
"Renminbi" means the currency of the Borrower.
 
(j)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
(k)
"Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by CADTIC out of the 
proceeds of the Loan to an Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project.
(l)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and CADTIC pursuant to Section 3.01(c) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and "Subsidiary Loan" means the loan provided under the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to one 
hundred and fifty million dollars ($150,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for amounts paid 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by CADTIC on account of withdrawals made 
by an Investment Enterprise under a Sub-loan to meet the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Investment Project in respect of which the withdrawal from 
the Loan Account is requested.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a bank and on terms and conditions satisfactory 
Page  3
to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. 
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, 
and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment 
Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this Agreement.
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered 
rate for six-month deposits in dollars for 
value the first day of such Interest 
Period (or, in the case of 
the initial Interest Period, for value the Interest 
Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest Period), 
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 
of one percent 
(1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such Interest 
Period, below (or above) 
the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, 
for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank's outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency loans or 
portions 
thereof made by it that include the Loan; as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per 
annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months' notice to the Borrower 
of the  few basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually in 
arrears on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. CADTIC is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
Page  4
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, 
shall cause CADTIC to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project 
Agreement all the obligations of CADTIC therein set forth, shall take or cause to be 
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other 
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable CADTIC to perform such obligations, and 
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with 
such performance.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to CADTIC under a 
subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and CADTIC, under 
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank and which shall 
include the following:
(i)
the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan shall be denominated 
and repayable in 
dollars;
 
(ii)
the Subsidiary Loan shall be made for a period not to exceed 
fifteen years, 
including five years of grace;
 
(iii)
CADTIC shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Subsidiary Loan withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time at a rate 
equal to the rate applicable to the 
Loan pursuant to Section 
2.05 of this Agreement; and
(iv)
CADTIC shall pay a commitment charge on the principal amount of 
the Subsidiary Loan 
not withdrawn from time to time at a rate 
equal to the rate payable pursuant to 
Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by 
CADTIC pursuant to Section 2.03(a) of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, 
records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
Page  5
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one year after 
the Bank has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records.
 
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section and 
those for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six (6) 
months after the end of each such year the 
report of such audit by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested, 
including a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied 
upon to support the 
related withdrawals; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and 
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
CADTIC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that CADTIC will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c)
The CADTIC Charter shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of CADTIC to 
perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of CADTIC or for the suspension of 
its operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and
(b)
any of the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 5.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
Page  6
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and CADTIC.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
CADTIC, and is legally binding upon CADTIC in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Borrower and CADTIC and is legally binding upon the Borrower and CADTIC in 
accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64l45 (MCI)
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Li Daoyu
Authorized Representative
Page  7
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Russell Cheetham
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The proceeds of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account to finance 100% 
of payments made by CADTIC under Sub-loans.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
a Sub-loan unless the Sub-loan has been made in accordance with the 
procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 1 to 
the Project Agreement; or
(b)
payments made by CADTIC under Sub-loans prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of $5,000,000, may be made on account of such payments made before that 
date but after January 1, 1996.
3.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for payments made by CADTIC under Sub-loans, under such 
terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower to: (1) alleviate 
supply constraints of critical animal feed ingredients; (2) improve and expand the 
utilization of agro-industrial by-products for use as high-quality livestock feeds; 
(3) improve feed sector efficiency through specialization, new technology transfer and 
integration; and (4) improve the corporate efficiency and commercialization of 
Investment Enterprises.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Financing, through the provision of Sub-loans to enterprises in the animal feed 
sector, of specific capacity-building projects, including projects for:
(1)
integrated production by agroenterprises of specialty feeds and pre-mixes;
 
(2)
expansion and upgrading of production capacity with regard to essential feed 
additives;
(3)
expansion of manufacturing capacity with respect to large-capacity feed milling 
and mixing equipment and pelleting machine replacement parts;
(4)
expansion of capacity to synthesize enhanced-protein ingredients;
 
(5)
development of integrated protein feed crop production capabilities; and
 
Page  8
(6)
establishment of feed commodity wholesale markets.
 
Part B:
Financing, through the provision of a Sub-loan to a feed industry center to be 
established under the auspices of CAU, of a project for the construction of a feed 
mill to be operated for experimental and commercial purposes by such center.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in dollars)*
 
December 15, 2001                                     3,185,000
June 15, 2002                                         3,280,000
December 15, 2002                                     3,375,000
June 15, 2003                                         3,475,000
December 15, 2003                                     3,575,000
June 15, 2004                                         3,680,000
December 15, 2004                                     3,790,000
June 15, 2005                                         3,900,000
December 15, 2005                                     4,015,000
June 15, 2006                                         4,135,000
December 15, 2006                                     4,255,000
June 15, 2007                                         4,380,000
December 15, 2007                                     4,510,000
June 15, 2008                                         4,640,000
December 15, 2008                                     4,775,000
June 15, 2009                                         4,915,000
December 15, 2009                                     5,060,000
June 15, 2010                                         5,210,000
December 15, 2010                                     5,365,000
June 15, 2011                                         5,520,000
December 15, 2011                                     5,680,000
June 15, 2012                                         5,850,000
December 15, 2012                                     6,020,000
June 15, 2013                                         6,200,000
December 15, 2013                                     6,380,000
June 15, 2014                                         6,565,000
December 15, 2014                                     6,760,000
June 15, 2015                                         6,960,000
December 15, 2015                                     7,160,000
June 15, 2016                                         7,385,000
___________________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars to be repaid, except 
as provided in 
Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
 
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall maintain a central project management office within NFIO, 
with terms of reference, staffing and other resources acceptable to the Bank, to be 
responsible for providing policy advice to CADTIC on issues relating to the 
development of the animal feed sub-sector and technical assistance to CADTIC in the 
appraisal, supervision and monitoring of Investment Projects and assisting CADTIC in 
liaising with other government agencies involved in the Project.
2.
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions 
Page  9
the Borrower shall, through said central project management office:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank: (i) semi-annual reports not later than March 31 and September 30 of each 
year, consolidating the reports furnished to it by CADTIC pursuant to Part B.1 of 
Schedule 3 to the Project Agreement, integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed by NFIO pursuant to paragraph (a) hereof on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the preceding calendar 
semester, and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the continued efficient 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; and (ii) a 
mid-term report, on or about December 31, 1997, consolidating the reports furnished to 
it by CADTIC pursuant to Part B.1 of Schedule 3 to the Project Agreement, integrating 
the results of such monitoring and evaluation activities to date and setting out 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of its objectives; and
(c)
after furnishing each report referred to in paragraph (b) hereof, review 
said report with the Bank, and promptly take all measures required on its part to 
ensure the continued efficient implementation of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of said report 
and the Bank's views thereon.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of amounts 
paid by CADTIC under Sub-loans to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement provided, however, that 
notwithstanding the provisions of Part D.4(b) of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement, 
payments for expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of free-limit Sub-loans 
may be made out of the Special Account before the Bank shall have authorized 
withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect thereof. Such expenditures, however, 
shall qualify as eligible expenditures only if the Bank shall subsequently authorize 
such withdrawals; and
(b)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equal to $10,000,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equal to 
$6,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of $50,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank 
requests for deposits into the Special 
Page  10
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On 
the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such 
amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures.
 
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and 
other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of 
all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the 
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
Page  11
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6(a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Modifications of General Conditions
For the purposes of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows:
(1)
The following subparagraph is added to Section 2.01:
 
"21.  The term "Project Agreement" has the meaning set forth in Section 
1.02(h) of the 
Loan Agreement."
 
(2)
The words "the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, terminate the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such amount. Upon the giving of such 
notice, such amount of the Loan shall be cancelled" set forth at the end of Section 
6.03 are deleted and the following is substituted therefor:
"or (e) by the date specified in Part D.5(c) of Schedule 1 to the Project 
Agreement, the 
Bank shall, in respect of any portion of the Loan: (i) have 
received no applications or requests  
permitted under subparagraphs (a) or (b) of 
said paragraph; or (ii) have denied any such 
applications or requests, 
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and CADTIC, terminate the right 
of CADTIC to 
submit such applications or approvals or of the Borrower to make withdrawals from 
the Loan Account, as the case may be, with respect to such amount or portion of 
the Loan. Upon 
the giving of such notice, such amount or portion of the 
Loan shall be cancelled."
