Page  1
October 9, 2001
Ms. Zou Jiayi
Acting Director-General
International Department
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820 
People’s Republic of China
Dear Ms. Zou:
Re:
Animal Feed Project (LN 4001- CHA)
 
Amendment of the Loan Agreement 
I refer to the Loan Agreement dated June 7, 1996, between the Republic of China 
(the Borrower) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (theBank) 
for the above referenced Project, as amended by an Agreement Amending Loan Agreement 
dated March 4, 1998, and a Letter Agreement dated May 16, 2000, between the Borrower 
and the Bank (together the Loan Agreement).  I refer also to your communication dated 
April 3, 2001, requesting the Bank to amend the Loan Agreement to advance the Closing 
Date to December 31, 2001. 
I am pleased to inform you that the Bank agrees with your request and hereby 
agrees to amend Section 2.03 of the Loan Agreement to read as follows: 
"Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001 or such later 
date as the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower 
of such later date."
Except as specifically amended by this letter, all other provisions of the Loan 
Agreement otherwise remain in full force and effect.
Please confirm your agreement to the amendment set out above by having an 
authorized representative of the Borrower sign and date the form of confirmation on 
the enclosed duplicate original of this letter and returning it to us for our files.  
Upon receipt of the copy of this letter countersigned on behalf of the Borrower, this 
amendment shall become effective as of the date of countersignature.
In view of their interest in the matter, I am sending a copy of this letter to 
the Agricultural Bank of China.
Sincerely,
By /s/ Yukon Huang
Country Director, China
East Asia and Pacific Region
CONFIRMED
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Ju Kuilin,
Authorized Representative
Deputy Director-General
Date: December 31, 2001
