Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4001 CHA
Project Agreement
(Animal Feed Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
CHINA AGRIBUSINESS DEVELOPMENT TRUST
AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION
Dated June 7, 1996
LOAN NUMBER 4001 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 7, 1996, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and CHINA AGRIBUSINESS DEVELOPMENT TRUST AND INVESTMENT 
CORPORATION (CADTIC).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between People's 
Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available 
to the Borrower an amount equal to one hundred fifty million dollars ($150,000,000), 
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition 
that CADTIC agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in 
this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and CADTIC, the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be 
relent to CADTIC on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement;  and 
WHEREAS CADTIC, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this  
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective 
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project;
Management and Operations of CADTIC
Section 2.01. (a) CADTIC declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
carry out the Project and conduct its operations and affairs in accordance with sound 
financial standards and practices, with qualified management and personnel, and in 
accordance with the Charter.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and CADTIC shall otherwise agree, CADTIC shall carry out the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, CADTIC shall: (i) 
make Sub-loans in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set 
forth or referred to in Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (ii) exercise its rights in 
relation to each Investment Project in such manner as to protect its interests and the 
interests of the Bank, comply with its obligations under this Agreement and the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement and achieve the purposes of the Project.
(b)
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods and 
consultants' services required for  the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) CADTIC shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land  acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
(b)
For purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions, and without 
limitation thereto, CADTIC shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank 
not later than six (6) months after the 
Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this 
purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to 
ensure the continued achievement of the objectives of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
CADTIC on said 
plan.
 
Section 2.04. CADTIC shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, CADTIC shall not take or 
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or 
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) CADTIC shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with 
the Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations 
under this Agreement and under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
CADTIC shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes 
or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of Loan, or the performance by CADTIC of its obligations under this Agreement 
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Page  3
Section 3.01. (a) CADTIC shall maintain procedures and records adequate to 
monitor and record the progress of the Project and of each Investment Project 
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it) and to reflect in 
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations and 
financial condition of CADTIC.
(b)
CADTIC shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of 
income and expenses and related statements) 
for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months 
after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of its financial statements 
for such year as so 
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and 
financial statements as well as the 
audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably 
request.
Section 3.02. CADTIC shall take such steps satisfactory to the Bank as shall be 
necessary to protect itself against risk of loss resulting from changes in the rates 
of exchange between the various currencies (including Renminbi) used in its 
operations.
Section 3.03.  (a) CADTIC shall:  (i) prepare and furnish to the Bank for 
comment by  January 1, 1997 a recapitalization plan designed to enable it to achieve a 
risk-weighted capital adequacy ratio of not less than 8 percent not later than 
December 31, 1998; and (ii) thereafter, duly implement said plan, taking into account 
the comments of the Bank thereon, and maintain such ratio at not less than 8% for each 
fiscal year after its fiscal year ending December 31, 1998.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section, "risk-weighted capital adequacy ratio" 
shall have the meaning set forth in the Agreement for establishing minimum capital 
levels in banking, established by the Bank Committee on Banking Legislation and 
Supervision Practices, issued in 1988 (the Basel Agreement), as calculated in a manner 
acceptable to the Bank.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of CADTIC 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify CADTIC thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
Page  4
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
 
For CADTIC:
China Agribusiness Development
Trust & Investment Corporation
No. 5 Deshengmenwai Street
Beijing 100088
China
Telex:
222683 CABTI CN
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of CADTIC may be 
taken or executed by its President or such other person or persons as said President 
shall designate in writing, and CADTIC shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence 
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Russell Cheetham
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
CHINA AGRIBUSINESS DEVELOPMENT
   TRUST AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION
By /s/ Li Daoyu
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procedures for and Terms and Conditions
of Sub-loans
Page  5
A.
Eligibility
 
1.
Each Sub-loan for an Investment Project shall be made to an Investment 
Enterprise which shall have established to the satisfaction of CADTIC on the basis of 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, that:
(a)
it possesses enterprise legal person status;
 
(b)
it has been operating profitably in the animal feed industry for the 
three years preceding its application for a Sub-loan, or in the case of a new 
enterprise, its founders have been operating
profitably in the animal feed industry for the three years preceding such application;
(c)
it is able and has undertaken to contribute at least 30% of the total 
estimated cost of the Investment Project (including working capital) in the form of 
equity;
(d)
it is creditworthy, or has obtained a guarantee, acceptable to CADTIC, of 
its performance and payment obligations under its respective Sub-loan, and it is able 
and has undertaken to maintain a debt service coverage ratio of not less than 2:1 and 
has the managerial, technical and other resources required for the efficient carrying 
out of the Investment Project;
(e)
if the Investment Enterprise requires access to proprietary technology in 
order to carry out the Investment Project, it has made appropriate arrangements to 
obtain such technology;
(f)
in the case of a Sub-loan to be made under Part A of the Project, the 
Investment Enterprise has prepared and has undertaken to carry out a suitable 
enterprise transformation work plan for its corporate restructuring; and
(g)
in the case of the Sub-loan to be made under Part B of the Project, the 
Investment Enterprise has developed and undertaken to implement a suitable time-bound 
program for the strengthening of its capabilities in providing the following services 
for the animal feed subsector: (i) managerial, technical and vocational outreach 
training and skills development; (ii) coordination of research planning; (iii) 
identification and testing of new production and design technologies; (iv) improved 
feed quality control and feed formulation standardization; and (v) policy and 
technical advice on national feed security issues. Such program shall include the 
employment of consultants with terms of reference, qualifications and experience 
acceptable to the Bank, the furnishing to the Bank of the recommendations of said 
consultants, and implementation of such recommendations, taking into account the 
comments of the Bank thereon.
2.
Each Sub-loan shall be made for an Investment Project which shall have been 
determined, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank:
(a)
to be designed so as to alleviate a supply constraint of a critical 
ingredient, make greater economic use of available raw materials, contribute to 
improved quality or efficiency of industrial processes or improve organizational 
efficiency through specialization and integration;
(b)
to be technically feasible and financially viable, and to be calculated 
to have an internal rate of return, after adjusting for inflation, of not less than 
12%;
(c)
to be in compliance with all applicable laws of the Borrower relating to 
health, safety and environmental protection; and
(d)
if the Investment Project involves involuntary resettlement of persons, 
to include a suitable resettlement plan, approved by CADTIC, and, if more than 200 
persons are affected, by the Bank, providing for compensation of such persons in 
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
B.
Terms for Part A of the Project
 
Page  6
1.
The principal amount of each Sub-loan made for an Investment Project under Part 
A of the Project shall be denominated and be the equivalent in dollars or in Renminbi 
(or both) (determined as of the date or respective dates of withdrawal from the Loan 
Account or payment out of the Special Account) of the value of the currency or 
currencies so withdrawn or paid out on account of the cost of goods and services 
required for such Investment Project.
2.
Each Sub-loan under Part A of the Project:
 
(a)
shall be made for a period not exceeding seven years, inclusive of a 
grace period of up to two years;
(b)
shall be charged interest: (i) on the principal amount thereof 
denominated in dollars and withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at an annual 
rate not less than the sum of (A) the rate of
interest payable by CADTIC pursuant to Section 3.01(c)(iii) of the Loan Agreement plus 
(B) 2.3%; and (ii) on the principal amount thereof denominated in Renminbi and 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate charged by 
CADTIC for loans of similar maturity at the time the Sub-loan is approved by CADTIC; 
and 
(c)
shall be charged a commitment charge on the principal amount of the 
Sub-loan not withdrawn from time to time at a rate equal to three-fourths of one 
percent (0.75%).
C.
Terms for Part B of the Project
 
1.
The principal amount of the Sub-loan made for the Investment Project under Part 
B of the Project shall be denominated and repayable in dollars and be equal to the 
amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account or paid out of the Special Account 
on account of the cost of goods and services required for such Investment Project.
2.
The Sub-loan made under Part B of the Project:
 
(a)
shall be made for a period not exceeding fifteen years, inclusive of a 
grace period of five years;
(b)
shall be charged interest on the principal amount thereof withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time at an annual rate not less than the sum of (i) the rate 
of interest payable by CADTIC pursuant to Section 3.01(c)(iii) of the Loan Agreement 
plus (ii) 0.5%; and
(c)
shall be charged a commitment charge on the principal amount of the 
Sub-loan not withdrawn from time to time at a rate equal to three-fourths of one 
percent (0.75%).
D.
General Terms and Conditions
 
1.
No Sub-loan shall be made to an Investment Enterprise in which CADTIC holds 
majority ownership or exercises a controlling interest.
2.
The total amount of all Sub-loans for any one Investment Project shall not 
exceed the lesser of (a) 55% of the total estimated cost of the Investment Project 
(including working capital) and (b) $20,000,000 equivalent.
3.
No Sub-loan shall be made for an Investment Project involving commodity markets 
until appropriate guidelines, acceptable to the Bank, for the operation of such 
markets, consistent with market  principles, shall have been established.
4.
No expenditures for goods or services required for an Investment Project shall 
be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan unless:
(a)
the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been approved by the 
Bank and such expenditures shall have been made not earlier than one hundred eighty 
(180) days prior to the date on which the Bank shall have received the application and 
information required under paragraph 5(a) of this Schedule in respect of such 
Sub-loan; or
Page  7
(b)
the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been a free-limit 
Sub-loan for which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account and such 
expenditures shall have been made not  earlier than one hundred eighty (180) days 
prior to the date on which the Bank shall have received the request and information 
required under paragraph 5(b) of this Schedule in respect of such free-limit Sub-loan. 
For the purposes of the Loan Agreement and this Agreement, a free-limit Sub-loan shall 
be a Sub-loan for an Investment Project in an amount to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan which shall not exceed the sum of $15,000,000 equivalent, when 
added to any other outstanding amounts financed or proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan or of any other loan, provided for in any outstanding loan 
agreement between the Bank and the Borrower entered into before the date of this 
Agreement, the proceeds of which have been or are being used for financing goods and 
services directly and materially related to such Investment Project, the foregoing 
amount being subject to change from time to time as determined by the Bank. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the first Sub-loan for an Investment Project under each 
of Parts A(1) through A(6) of the Project and the Sub-loan under Part B thereof shall 
not be deemed to be a free-limit Sub-loan.
5.
(a)
When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit Sub-loan) to the Bank 
for approval, CADTIC shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form satisfactory to 
the Bank, together with (i) a
description of the Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment Project, 
including a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, 
including the schedule of amortization of the Sub-loan; and (iii) such other 
information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b)
Each request by CADTIC for authorization to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account in respect of a free-limit Sub-loan shall contain: (i) a summary 
description of the Investment Enterprise and the Investment Project, including a 
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, and (ii) the terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule of 
amortization therefor.
(c)
Applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions of 
sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph shall be presented to the Bank on or 
before December 31, 1999.
6.
Sub-loans shall be made on further terms whereby CADTIC shall obtain, by written 
contract with the Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate legal means, rights 
adequate to protect the interests of the Bank and CADTIC, including the right to:
(a)
require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate the Investment 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, 
financial, managerial and environmental 
standards, and, if applicable, the resettlement plan approved pursuant to Part A.2(d) 
of this Schedule, to maintain adequate records and to provide, promptly, as needed, 
the funds, facilities, and other resources required for the purpose;
(b)
require that: (i) the goods and services to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement and (ii) such goods and services shall be used exclusively in the 
carrying out of the Investment Project;
(c)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank if the 
Bank shall so request, such gods and the sites, works, plants and construction 
included in the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records 
and documents;
(d)
require that: (i) the Investment Enterprise shall take out and maintain 
with responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as 
shall be consistent with sound business practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon 
the foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the 
place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a 
currency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or repair such goods;
Page  8
(e)
obtain all such information as the Bank or CADTIC shall reasonably 
request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial 
condition of the Investment Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived from the 
Investment Project;
(f)
require that each Investment Enterprise shall further maintain records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound 
practices its operations and financial condition, have its financial statements for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, furnish to 
CADTIC as soon as available, but in any event not later than four months after the end 
of each such year, for forwarding to the Bank (if so requested by the Bank), certified 
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited, and the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as CADTIC (or the Bank) may request; and
(g)
suspend or terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise to the use of 
the proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform its 
obligations under its contract with CADTIC.
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
 
Part A:
General
 
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as 
applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of Contracts
 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped into bid 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $5,000,000 or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Works
 
(a)
National Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in Part C.1(b) of this Section I, works shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of 
the Guidelines.
(b)
Procurement of Small Works
 
Works estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations 
Page  9
obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written 
invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, 
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award 
shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required 
work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
2.
Goods
 
(a)
Shopping
 
Except as provided in Part C.2(b) of this Section I, contracts for goods 
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $5,000,000 may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of shopping procedures acceptable to the Bank, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Direct Contracting
 
Goods which should be procured as an extension of an existing contract or must 
be purchased from the original supplier to be compatible with existing equipment or 
are of a proprietary nature may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Procurement Planning
 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
 
With respect to each contract estimated to cost $5,000,000 or more and each 
contract for proprietary items, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, 
time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on the standard form of contract 
for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have 
been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been 
issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. 
However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to (a) the terms of 
reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably  determined by the Bank, (d) 
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract 
value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the 
Page  10
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent 
or above.
SCHEDULE 3
Implementation Program
A.
Project Management
 
In order to facilitate the proper implementation of the Project, CADTIC, through 
its International Finance Department, shall maintain with the central project 
management office referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement, 
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, for the provision by said office of the 
assistance described in said paragraph 1.
B.
Monitoring and Evaluation
 
1.
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.03 of this Agreement, CADTIC 
shall supervise, monitor, evaluate and report on the implementation of the Investment 
Projects in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank. Such guidelines shall 
include the preparation, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnishing to the Borrower, for consolidation in the reports to be furnished by the 
Borrower to the Bank pursuant to paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement, of 
progress reports on such implementation during the period under review, at least one 
month prior to the date on which the Borrower is required to furnish its consolidated 
report for such period to the Bank.
2.
CADTIC shall prepare, in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the 
Bank, and furnish to the Bank annual reports not later than July 1 in each fiscal year 
summarizing the financial  statements and audit reports for the preceding fiscal year 
furnished to it by the Investment Enterprises pursuant to Part D.6(f) of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement.
C.
Institutional Strengthening
 
1.
CADTIC shall undertake a program to strengthen its organization, management and 
operations through (a) institutional reorganization, (b) development of strategies to 
ensure capital adequacy and liquidity, (c) modernization of accounting and management 
information systems, (d) adoption of policies and procedures to improve risk 
management, and (e) expansion of its financial services. In order to assist CADTIC in 
developing and carrying out such program, CADTIC shall employ, not later than July 1, 
1997, consultants whose terms of reference, qualifications and experience shall be 
satisfactory to the Bank. CADTIC shall furnish to the Bank, promptly upon their 
preparation, the recommendations of said consultants, and implement such 
recommendations of said consultants as shall have been agreed between the Bank and 
CADTIC.
2.
CADTIC shall:  (a) undertake a review of  its lending operations for the purpose 
of improving supervision and control by consolidating its credit operations into one 
department; (b) on the basis of  such review, prepare and furnish to the Bank, by 
January 1, 1997 a time-bound plan for such consolidation; and (c) thereafter, 
implement such plan taking into account the Bank's comments thereon.
