Report No. 667a-PH
Philippines
Appraisal of a Small and Medium
Industries Development Project
(In Two Volumes)                                                                RETURN TO
Volume 1: The Appraisal Report                                               REPORi S DESCK
April 18, 1975
EAP Projects Department
Not for Public Use                        F               6utl 
[Do uineilt of lhe International Banik for Reconstruction and Developmenri
Thlis rei)r;xn   wa.s pri'parod 10; otfic.ral LiC' onl    bv hv 1    [ank Grouip. It rmay riot
tLit p,>ibli ,sk*i c I. v (I u o t  li I or c ted  witout l ani k (ar; I Up    it,L itnor ;  Iha hinn k hL.pank     d0 ii'
not ii. re p(i '!:Iits.   tio   t  iw u li r on r  oT rnpi     ot tencSz   otte rporlt



CLER0NCY EQUITVALENTS
US$1              -  .     97 00
Pi1               - -           143
P1 million                 US$1h3,000
1l billion.                Us$143 million
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS
ASM        -        Annual Survey of Manufacturers
BDT        -        Bureau of Dormestic Trade, Department of Trade
BOI        -        Board of Investmaents
CB         -        Central Bank
DLC/ILD - Department of Loans and Credits, Industrial
Loan Division
DRBSLA - Department of Rural Banks and Savings and Loan
Associations
CBCI       -        Central Bank Certificates of Indebtedness
CCC        -        US Commodity Credit Corporation
CWB        -        Canadian Wheat Board
CSMI       -        Commission on Small and Yedium Industry
DAP        -        Development Academy of the Philippines
-       Development Eank of the Philippines
BAAD   Branches and Agencies Department
IPD - Industrial Projects Department
DCP        -        Design Center of the Philippines
D3I        -       Department of Industry
FTI        -        Food Terminal Incorporated
GSIS       -        Government Servir.e Insurance System
IGLF       -       Industrial Guarantee and Loan Funcd
STD - Special Tine Deposits
CPA - Counterpart Project Agreement
KfW        -       Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
MASICAP    -        Medium and Small InCkustry Coordinated Action Program
NACIDA     -       National Cottage Industries Development Authority
NEA        -        National Electrification Authority
NEDA       -        National Economic Developpment Authority
NIDC       -        National Investment and Development Corporation
NMYC       -        National Manpower aiid Youth Council
NPC        -       National Power Corporation
PDCP       -       Private Development Corporation of the Philippines
PDB        -        Private Development Banks
PFLGC      -       Philippine Foreign Loan Guarantee Corporation
PITC       -       Philippine International Trading Corporation
PNB'       -       Philippine National Bank
RFC        -       Rehabilitation Finance Corporation
RTAC       -       Regional Technical Assistance Center
SEC        -       Securities and Exchange Commission
SSS        -       Social Security System
UPISSI     -       University of the Philippines Institute for Small-Scale
Industry



PHILIPPINES
APPRAISAL OF A SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Volume 1)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND RECOMMENDATIONS .............................       i-vi
I.   INTRODUCTION   .....................................         1
II.   THE ECONOMY AND INDUSTRIAL SECTOR  .................         1
III.   PHILIPPINE SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES ............  .       2
IV.   THE PROJECT  .......................                         8
The Project Package ...........................         8
SMI Lending through the Development Bank
of the Philippines ..........................         9
The Industrial Guarantee and Loan Fund ........        13
NEA's Industrial Co-operatives Program    ........     17
Regional Technical Assistance Centers .... .....       18
Project  Costs   .................................     19
Distribution of Sub-Loans under the Project ...        20
Project Supervision ...........................        22
V.   ECONOMIC IMPACT ....................................        23
Impact of Sub-Projects to be Financed .... .....       23
VI.   OBJECTIVES AND FEATURES OF THE PROPOSED LOANi .......       25
Objectives of the Proposed Loan ....     ...........   25
Main Features of the Loan .....      ................  26
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AT NEGOTIATIONS ....      .............  29
This report was prepared by Messrs. Percy Mistry, Aswin Kongsiri, and
David Steel and Miss Kathleen Di Tullio following their visit to the
Philippines in October/November 1974. Miss Kathleen Jordan assisted
with the preparation of the economic data in Volume II.



-2-
ANNEXES
(Volume I)
1   -    Recent Developments in the Philippine Economy, and the
Industrial and Financial Sectors
2   -    Government of the Philippines' Program for the Promotion
of Small and Medium Industry
3   -    Development Bank of the Philippines
4   -    DBP - Small and Medium Industry Lending Program
5   -    The Industrial Guarantee and Loan Fund
6   -    The National Electrification Administration
7   -    NEA Industrial Cooperatives
8   -    The Department of Industry Project for the Establishment
of Regional Technical Assistance Centers
9   -    Costs and Risks in SMI Lending
10   -    Analysis of Project Costs Eligible for Bank Financing
11   -    Disbursement Schedule
12   -    Analysis of Economic Impact
PHILIPPINE SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES
(Volume II)
Part 1    -    The Role of Small and Medium Industries in the
Manufacturing Sector
Part 2    -    Technical Assistance Programs for Small and
Medium Industries



PHILIPPINES
APPRAISAL OF A SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND RECOMMENDATIONS
i.        In response to a request from the Government, a Bank loan of
US$30.0 million is proposed to assist the development of small and medium
industries (SMI) in the Philippines. The loan will finance a project package
with an estimated total cost of US$50.3 million, which will address two
priority needs of Philippine SMI: (i) increased access to institutional
sources of credit; and (ii) technical assistance aimed at directly solving
the operating problems which small entrepreneurs confront. The principal
beneficiaries under the proposed loan would be enterprises in the modern
manufacturing sector with total fixed assets (including land) not exceeding
about US$145,000 equivalent, although a small proportion of the loan (about
10%) would assist medium enterprises with fixed assets not exceeding
US$570,000. The average size of sub-loan is expected to be around US$40,000
equivalent, compared to an average of about US$600,000 under the Bank's
previous loans for industrial development in the Philippines.
ii.       Philippine SMI account for 81% of the total number of establish-
ments employing 20 or more workers. They account for 27% of the labor force
employed by this group and contribute 21% to gross value-added. Geographically
they are clustered around principal urban centers with nearly 60% of all SMI
establishments being located in Mletropolitan Manila and Cebu City where they
have easy access to sources of raw materials supply, infrastructure is well
developed, and supporting services are available. Records of the principal
term-lending institutions show that in the past two years there has been a
noticeable increase in the establishment of SMI firms in smaller regional
and provincial capitals; this trend is expected to be reinforced under the
proposed project. Most SMI output is aimed at local domestic markets; a
small (but increasing) proportion is exported. Between 1968-71 the growth of
SMI establishments was constrained by a policy environment which generally
favored the development of larger, vertically-integrated and capital intensive
manufacturing enterprises. Since 1971, measures have been taken to ameliorate
the distortions caused by those policies and in 1973 a policy commitment was
made to actively encourage SMI growth.
iii.      The main constraints on increased SMI productivity and growth in
the Philippines are: (i) deficiencies in the-quality, quantity and suitab-
ility of capital goods employed; (ii) inefficiencies caused by insufficient
access to investment and working capital; (iii) lower levels of labor skills
employed; (iv) deficiencies in organization and management capability; and
(v) an inability to formulate investment plans in a manner acceptable to
financial institutions. The Government has already embarked upon a program
to alleviate these constraints. Bank participation in this program is
expected to assist government efforts through: increasing the supply of
long-term and working capital; encouraging greater responsiveness to SMI
needs on the part of existing lending institutions; increasing the network



- ii -
of commercial lending institutions which would provide assistance to SMI;
supporting an innovative, experimental, co-operative approach to SMI develop-
ment in rural areas; and narrowing gaps in existing technical assistance
efforts.
iv.       Of the proposed US$30.0 million loan to the Government; US$29.3
million will be relent as follows:
(i) US$15 million to the Development Bank of the Philippines
(DBP) for on-lending to about 360 small and medium enter-
prises;
(ii) US$12 million to the Industrial Guarantee and Loan Fund
(IGLF) for on-lending to about 550 small enterprises
through a variety of financial institutions; and
(iii) US$2.3 million to the National Electrification
Administration (NEA) for financing 24 industrial
co-operatives in rural areas which have already been
electri fled.
The balance of US$0.7 million will be channelled through the Department
of Industry's (DOI's) budget for the financing of seven Regional Technical
Assistance Centers (RTACs) aimed at providing direct assistance to small
entrepreneurs located outside the Metropolitan Manila area. The loan
would have a commitment horizon of two years (FY 76-77) and is expected
to be disbursed over four years.
v.        DBP, with its network of 32 branches and 24 agencies, is the
single largest source for term-lending to SMI. In response to a Govern-
ment directive it embarked on a special SMI financing program and created
a new department, Industrial Projects Department II (IPD II) to execute
it. Until recently SMI lending was constrained by organizational, staffing
and procedural problems, particularly in the branches, which led to long
loan processing times. These problems are gradually being overcome through
various actions taken by DBP's management over the past few months. Further
progress is being made toward the alleviation of these problems and the re-
duction of loan processing time to a maximum of 60 days for SMI loans. DBP's
appraisal of SMI loans is of acceptable quality, but in many instances it
tends to be unnecessarily detailed. Follow-up, on the other hand is poor
and arrears on SMI loans (41.5% of principal oustanding) are unduly high.
DBP's program for improving follow-up and reducing arrears was discussed
during negotiations and found to be satisfactory. The volume of DBP's SMI
lending has been growing; it rose from P 2.8 million in FY72 to P 40 million
in FY74 and approvals have already reached P 37.0 million in the first half
of FY75. DBP is expected to commit a total of about P 79 million in FY75
and nearly P 209 million between FY76-77. The US$15 million (P 105 million
equivalent) coursed through DBP under the proposed loan will therefore cover
about 50% of its total SMI financing requirements over that period.



- iii -
vi.       The IGLF is a long-term compensatory financing and guarantee fund
owned by the National Economic Development Authority (NEDA) and administered
by the Central Bank's (CB's) Department of Loans and Credits. After a long
hiatus in its activity, IGLF was revived in mid-1973 to encourage a variety
of financial institutions ("sponsoring banks") to participate in the financ-
ing of SMI by providing them with special time deposits (STD's) against their
SMI loans at 5% (the on-lending rate was fixed at 10% thus allowing inter-
mediaries a spread of 5%) and guaranteeing up to 80% of their loans for a
guarantee fee of 2% of the amount guaranteed. In the 18-month period since
its re-activation, IGLF has been remarkably successful in expanding its
operations through an increasing number of intermediaries. STD approvals
increased from P 1.6 million in FY73 to P 5.7 million in FY74 and reached
P 17.9 million in the first four months of FY75. No guarantees were pro-
vided independently of STD's but the demand for guarantees combined with
STD's has grown rapidly. In future, a guarantee of 60% will automatically
be combined with all STD's to allow IGLF to cater mainly to the under-colla-
teralized small borrower. At present appraisals under the IGLF scheme are
carried out by the CB. While acceptable in quality, appraisals suffer from
a lack of knowledge about local conditions. Follow-up is carried out by
sponsoring banks and its quality varies widely. With the number of approvals
increasing rapidly, a system of appraisals and follow-up carried out centrally
by the CB is likely to prove inefficient and costly.  An accreditation scheme
has therefore been devised to delegate project appraisal and follow-up to
sponsoring banks which would be better placed to execute these functions.
Under this scheme only institutions capable of undertaking sound project
evaluation and follow-up would be eligible for IGLF funding, with the CB
monitoring their performance.
vii.      The NEA, empowered to accelerate electrification of Philippine
rural areas and to develop productive programs for generating economic
levels of demand for power, recently embarked on a program of industrial
co-operative (IC) development, based on its success in establishing elec-
tricity co-operatives in rural "barrios". Adopting a trial-and-error
approach, NEA has established 5 industrial co-operatives with mixed
success. However, with the rectification of earlier oversights, the
program provides promising signs of viability and employment creation
at a very low cost (about P 4,700 per job created). The execution of
the IC program is entrusted to NEA's Power Use Directorate (PUD) a well-
managed department with capable but insufficient staff. The Bank's insti-
tution-building effort with NEA will be aimed at: building up PUD staff;
improving the quality of feasibility studies prior to the establishment
of each co-operative; and setting up an evaluation and monitoring unit
to evaluate the impact of the program. In its efforts to foster the devel-
opment of the 5 IC's established so far NEA has subsidized them unduly through
low cost loans (6%), and indefinite management assistance on a cost-free
basis. To avoid breeding inefficient production units, the NEA agreed,
during negotiations, to a substantial reduction in such subsidies by in-
creasing the lending rate to 12%. Cost-free management assistance would
be provided for a fixed 6-month period after which assistance, if required,
would be provided on a paid consultancy basis. To avoid unnecessary delays



- iv -
in the establishment of IC's, the Government agreed, during negotiations,
to expedite IC registration with the Department of Local Governments and
Community Development (DLGCD).
viii.     The seven RTAC's to be established by the DOI over a 2-year period
would be staffed with 6-8 professional personnel, and would concentrate pri-
marily on providing direct consultancy assistance to 514 in their respective
regions. The RTAC's would also provide an essential link between DOI's
existing field assistance teams and its central support staff in Manila.
Present plans call for these centers to be set up in Cebu, Davao, Legaspi,
Cagayan de Oro, San Fernando/La Union, Tuguegarao and Tacloban. The total
cost for these seven centers is expected to be about P 10.8 million. The
proposed US$0.7 million for this component would cover about 45% of this
amount. It would finance capital expenditures and part of the pre-oper-
ating and operating budgets for the first 2 years. The RTAC's would be
fully funded through the DOI budget thereafter.
ix.       Over 900 sub-projects and 24 industrial co-operatives would be
financed under the proposed loan. When these sub-projects and co-operatives
are in full operation they are expected to result in additional investment in
SMI of about P 300 million (in 1975 price equivalents) and in the generation
of 12,300 additional jobs, with a substantial proportion of these being in
rural areas. The project is expected to result in additional annual grost,
value-added of about P 150 million and additional annual returns to lr.c'r
of about P 48 million. These effects are expected to increase annual SMIl
employment growth rates from 0.5% to 3.0%; growth rates of value-added from
4% to 7.0% in real terms; and wage-bill growth from 0.1% to 3.0% in real
terms annually over the 4-year disbursement period. At full production,
growth in value-added is expected to increase to 7.5% and the wage bill to
4.5% annually. Prior calculation of individual economic rates of return
for this number of diverse sub-projects is clearly not possible. Tne aggre-
gate internal financial return for the roughly 900 sub-projects, however, is
expected to be over 38% assuming an average 10 year sub-project life. The
internal financial return for the 24 NEA co-operatives is estimated at about
32%. An evaluation and monitoring system for measuring the economic impact
of the project will be implemented by DBP, CB/NEDA, NEA and DOI. Apart from
substantially increasing the flow of resources to SMI, providing them with
greater access to institutional credit and contributing to a greater regional
dispersal of investment, the project would also achieve important institution
building objectives in strengthening the capability of DBP, CB and the spon-
soring banks, NEA, and DOI to service the needs of the SMI sector.
x.        As mentioned in paragraph (iv) the proposed loan would be made
to the Government; apart from US$0.7 for the RTAC's it would be relent to
B3P (US$15.0 million); IGLF (US$12.0 million); and NEA (US$2.3 million).
A fixed amortization schedule of 16 years including a 4 year period of
grace is recommended. The Government would relend Bank funds on the same
terms to DBP, IGLF and NEA at the prevailing Bank rate of 8.5%. The on-"
lending rate paid by the ultimate sub-borrower would be 12%, the statutory



- v 
maximum. Thus DBP would receive a spread of 3.5%. Sponsoring banks under
the IGLF scheme would receive a spread of 5%, since STD's would be made
available to them at 7%; IGLF would collect a further 1.2% by way of a
guarantee fee. The NEA would receive a spread of 3.25%. It would re-lend
to electricity co-operatives at 11.75% with the funds being on-lent to indus-
trial co-operatives at 12.0%. Sub-loans under the proposed loan would finance
both fixed and permanent working capital requirements of small enterprises and
would be made in local currency. The foreign exchange risk on the entire loan
would be borne by the Government. As with other credit loans, procurement for
sub-loans and for RTAC's under the proposed loan would be in accordance with
the normal procurement practices and procedures of DBP, IGLF, NEA and DOI
which have been found satisfactory. The Bank would disburse against 75% of
the loan amounts (or STD's) disbursed by DBP, IGLF and NEA. Disbursements
for the RTAC's would be made against evidence of actual expenditures incurred
by DOI. The maximum size of sub-loan to be financed would be P 2.5 million
(about US$360,000) for the DBP and P 800,000 (about US$115,000) for the IGLF
and NEA.
xi.       During negotiations the following assurances were obtained from
government and the agencies concerned:
(i)  DBP would implement necessary actions (e.g. rescheduling,
improved follow-up, longer maturity periods etc.) to
achieve a reduction in arrears on SMI loans (para 4.06);
(ii) the on-lending rate on IGLF backed loans would be increased
from 10% to 12%; the STD rate charged to sponsoring banks
increased from 5% to 7%; and an additional guarantee fee
of 2% would be levied on the 60% guarantee (paras 4.09 and
6.13);
*(iii) the permanent capital of IGLF would be increased by way
of a cost-free Government contribution of P 30 million
(para 4.14);
(iv) the good quality of IGLF's portfolio notwithstanding, arrears
data would be collected and compiled by CB on all outstand-
ing IGLF loans within 6 months of loan signature and arrears
data would be submitted to the Bank on a quarterly basis
thereafter (para 4.13);
(v) where necessary audits would be carried out by CB of the
SMI portfolios of those sponsoring banks not audited under
standards satisfactory to CB (para 4.15);
*    Condition for loan effectiveness.



- vi -
(vi) DBP and CB would submit to the Bank monthly reports on all
SNa loan approvals and all appraisal reports for loans
above P 500,000 (para 6.12);
(vii) NEA would ensure that the Power Use Directorate was
adequately staffed at all times and would establish a
project monitoring and evaluation unit within one year
of loan signature (paras 4.18 and 4.24);
(viii) the Government would expedite the registration of IC's
with DLGCD (para 4.19); and
(ix) NEA would increase interest rates on its loans to IC's
from 6% to 12% (para 4.22).



PHILIPPINES
APPRAISAL OF A SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      In 1973 the Philippine Government (GOP) requested the Bank's
participation in its newly-launched program for promoting the development
of small and medium scale industries (SMI). A pre-appraisal mission was
mounted in January 1974 and a field appraisal in October/November 1974.
This report recommends a loan of US$30.0 million which would address two
priority needs of small and medium enterprises: increased access to insti-
tutional sources of credit; and technical assistance aimed at directly
solving the basic problems of production, marketing and accounting that
most small Filipino entrepreneurs confront.
1.02      The Bank Group has long been associated with the development of
the Philippine industrial sector. Five Bank loans totalling US$145 million
have been made for industrial investment through both the Private Develop-
ment Corporation of the Philippines (PDCP) and the Development Bank of the
Philippines (DBP). In addition the International Finance Corporation (IFC)
has provided a total of US$76.2 million by way of eleven loans and seven
equity investments in privately owned Philippine enterprises. This assist-
ance of over US$220 million to industry has been primarily directed to
medium and large scale industrial undertakings in need of foreign exchange
for the importation of capital goods in both import-substituting and, more
recently, in export-oriented enterprises. Sub-loans financed by the Bank
Group through PDCP and DBP have averaged around US$600,000 in size. These
loans have generally gone to finance enterprises with total fixed assets of
well over US$2 million. With the proposed project, Bank assistance, for the
first time in the Philippines, would be directed towards a much smaller size
of enterprise, with maximum fixed assets of about US$145,000 1/ and with sub-
loans averaging around US$40,000. Such enterprises would generally be more
widely dispersed throughout the Philippines serving essentially local markets
and would generate a significantly higher number of jobs at a lower capital
cost than their larger counterparts.
II. THE ECONOMY AND INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
2.01      The latest Bank economic report was distributed to the Executive
Directors on November 7, 1974. In addition to summarizing recent develop-
ments in agriculture and manufacturing, the report analyses the major eco-
nomic problems confronting the Philippines at the moment (viz. a high rate
1/   In a few instances, medium-sized enterprises with maximum fixed assets
of US$570,000 would also be financed through the DBP. Financing for
such projects is unlikely to exceed US$5.0 million.



- 2 -
of inflation, the balance of payments impact of increased oil prices and an
abrupt deterioration in the external terms of trade) and their implications
for future economic policy.  A Basic Economic Mission which will undertake
an in-depth analysis of the Philippine economy and development strategy has
just returned from the field. Annex 1 briefly outlines key characteristics
of the Philippine economy and the industrial and financial sectors.
III. PHILIPPINE SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES
3.01      Definition:  Small and medium industries (SMI) in the Philippines
are defined by the Government as those with total fixed assets (including
land) of between P 100,000 and P 4,000,000 1/.  Using this definition, there
were 1,654 firms in the 1971 Annual Survey of Manufactures (ASM) which fell
in this category 2/.  Together they accounted for 81% of the total number of
establishments in the "modern sector" 3/ (i.e. with 20 or more workers). In,
that year thev employed 27% of the manufacturing labor force and contributed
21% to gross value added (Table 1). Their characteristics and role are more
fully discussed in Volume II of this report.
1/   The term "small" covers firms with total fixed assets between P 100,000
and P 1,000,000 while "medium" covers firms with total fixed assets
between P 1,000,000 and P 4,000,000. An analysis of the ASM for 1971
shows that in employment terms small firms employed between 20-99
workers while medium firms, employed between 100-199.
2/   The total number of firms considered eligible for financing under the
proposed loan would, however, be significantly higher. Allowing for:
(i) the effects of inflation; (ii) the net entry of new SMI establish-
ments during the past year, following the Government's policy emphasis
on SMI; and (iii) the inclusion of small and medium firms in the
construction sector and in the transport related services sector,
the total number of eligible firms would be between 4,000 - 4,500.
Analysis in this report is concentrated on small and medium firms in
the manufacturing sector since these are expected to absorb most of
the resources provided under this project.
3/   The "modern" sector is defined in this report as establishments with
20 or more workers while the "organized' sector is defined as those
with 5 or more workers.



- 3 -
Table 1:  CONTRIBUTION TO THE MODERN MANUFACTURING SECTOR
BY SIZE OF ESTABLISHMENTS, 1971
(Current Prices)
(P million)
Gross      Average-_
Definition       Scale         Establishments Employment Value-Added   Fixed
Assets  Workers   No.      %      No.    %   Amount   %    Assets
(P 000's) (No.)
Small     100-1,000   20-99 1,363   66.7  56,489  16.0   693.2   9.7  0.47
Medium  1,000-4,000 199-199   291   14.2  40,222  11.4   790.3  11.1  1.93
Large   4,000+         200+    391   19.1 256_297__Z 72.6 5,640.6  79.2 14.59
Total                         2,045  100.0 353,008 100.0 7,124.1 100.0  3.38
/1   Book Value
3.02      Factor Proportions and Use:  As the table below shows, Philippine
SMI are more labor intensive than large industries. Labor employed per unit
of capital is highest in the smallest firms and declines with an increase in
establishment size. Capital, on the other hand, is employed most productively
by medium size firms, while small firms are only marginally better than large
firms in this respect. Labor productivity, which is lower in SMI than in
large firms, accounts for the gap between percentage of manufacturing employ-
ment in SMI and contribution to gross value added. While labor productivity
and average wage rates are lower in small industries, the wage content of
gross value added    is higher, suggesting that SMI contribute to better
income distribution.
Table 2: LABOR INTENSITY AND FACTOR PRODUCTIVITY IN MANUFACTURING, 1971
Size of Firm         Capital      Labor      Labor     Output      Output
Labor     Capital    Output    Capital    Labor
Small                 11.4         .088       .082        1.1       12.3
Medium                14.0         .072       .051        1.4       19.6
Large                 22.3         .045       .045        1.0       22.0
Total                 19.6         .051       .050        1.0       20.2
3.03      Regional Distribution:  SMI show a marked tendency to cluster in
urban areas close to principal sources of supply and major consumption mar-
kets, and where infrastructure facilities and other services are well developed.
The Metropolitan Manila area alone accounts for 52.5% of all SMI establish-
ments, with a further 6.9% located in or around Cebu City. (Volume II,



-4-
paragraph 1.05). Smaller firms in the Philippines find it costly to locate
outside urban areas. Communications, infrastructure, and power facilities
are inadequate; supporting services such as those provided by banks, suppliers,
consultants, transporters, wholesalers, and other industries for intermediate
and finishing processes and maintenance are difficult to find in areas other
than Manila, Cebu and Davao. If the objective of decentralizing industrial
activity through the SMI vehicle is to be achieved, concomitant developments
in other sectors will need to keep pace. The programs combining financial
and technical assistance to SMI in the regions under this project, coupled
with development of other sectors, are expected to assist in the decentral-
ization of Philippine industry.
3.04      Markets:  The output of Philippine SMI is aimed principally at
meeting domestic market requirements (Volume II, paragraph 1.08).   Small
firms usually sell directly to local markets and reach regional markets
through middlemen who purchase at the factory gate for transport and resale.
A small share of SMI output in industries such as furniture, specialized
textiles, leather, wood products, and prepared foods, is exported. There
has been a noticeable increase in export demand in these and other manu-
factured goods (e.g., garments, handicrafts, and small electrical machinery
and appliances) over the last 2 years. At present SMI firms confront several
production problems, especially with product design and quality, and they are
generally considered incapable of reliably supplying large batch orders for
export. These (design, quality, and quantity) problems are compounded by
a lack of know-how in dealing with export markets. Under this project, and
through other independent efforts, SMI would be provided with assistance in
improving product quality and efficiency and in marketing arrangements and
export financing, which would enable them to increase their exports.
3.05      The Role of SMI in Manufacturing.  The growth pattern and impact
of SMI as compared to large scale manufacturing have changed substantially
between 1962-1971 (Volume II, paragraphs 1.10-1.15). As Table 3 below shows,
between 1962 and 1968 the growth of SMI far exceeded the growth of large
firms. Between 1968 and 1971, however, there was a reversal in the growth
pattern. Small industries showed an absolute decline and medium sized
firms grew very slowly. The relatively higher growth rate of SMI in the
mid 1960's was reflected in their increased share of manufacturing employ-
ment (in the modern sector) from 29% in 1962 to 33% in 1968; of output from
25% to 30%; and of gross value added from 19% to 25%. Between 1968 and 1971,
however, the share of SMI in manufacturing employment fell to 27%; gross
output to 25%; and value added to 21% (Volume II, paragraph 1.11). Although
at the aggregate level it would be reasonable to expect a relative diminution
in the share of SMI concomitant with an acceleration in the growth of
large-scale industries, these declines in the Philippine case have been
large and appear to have been encouraged by the introduction of investment
and export incentives which, by their very nature, have been more beneficial
to large, capital-intensive industry (paragraph 3.06).



- 5 -
Table 3: AVERAGE ANNUAL RATES OF GROWTH IN MAkNUFACTURING, 1962-68 AND
1968-71
(1965 constant prices)
Scale       Establishments    Employment    Gross Output          Gross Value Added
62-68    68-71     62-68 68-71   62-68    68-71   62-68            68-71
Small       -0.5       -8.0      2.2  -6.5      4.8      -2.0      4.2        -2.7
Medium       3.0        1.5      2.9   1.6       7.4       4.6    10.0         1.1
Large        1.0        3.3    -0.7   5.6        2.0      8.9      0.7        10.8
Total        0.8       -5.0      0.2   2.8       3.1      6.8      2.0         7.8
However, with recent efforts being directed towards support for SMI through
the provision of greater access to institutional credit and technical assist-
ance, small and medium sized firms are expected to reassert their role in
industries in which economies of scale are not of critical importance. In
the mid-1960's the share of SMI in employment and production increased
notably in manufacture and sub-assembly for capital goods industries
(transport equipment, electrical and non-electrical machinery, appliances
and apparatus), and to some extent in intermediate goods (rubber products,
chemicals and chemical products) and consumer goods (food and textiles).
The growth of SMI in these major product groups can be explained, in part,
by the relative scope for import substitution and the levels of protection.
During the 1960's the ratio of imports to domestic availability was relatively
high in these product groups, but at the same time the effective rate of
protection realized was higher than the effective rate for all manufacturing 1/,
thus making these industry groups more attractive for entry and growth of SMI
(Volume II, paragraph 1.14).
3.06      Policy Framework.  The industrialization policies and practices
adopted in the Philippines through the 1960's militated against the growth
of SMI firms. These conditions notwithstanding, SMI succeeded in penetrat-
ing certain markets but their position in these markets was unstable.
Industrialization policies which unwittingly discriminated against small
scale, labor intensive manufacturing resulted in the concentration of
production in large-scale, capital intensive firms that benefited from
inducements (e.g. artificially suppressed interest rates, an unrealistically
low exchange rate and easy access to credit) which effectively made the
scarce factor, capital, artificially cheap and encouraged the indiscriminate
import of capital goods. These policies resulted in the creation of excess
capacity, accelerated capital labor substitution, and favored the vertical
integration of manufactured goods production that could otherwise have been
efficiently carried on in smaller independent units. In the early 1970's
there was a basic shift in the policy environment with various measures
being taken (e.g. the devaluation of the peso, import controls, tariff
1/   IBRD Report No. 78a-PH, entitled "Current Economic Position and Pros-
pects of the Philippines" dated July 25, 1973, Volume II, pg. 17.



-6-
reforms, and the introduction of labor-intensity criteria in the granting
of incentives) to correct some of the distortions caused by previous policies.
These measures represent major steps in the right direction.
3.07      Constraints on SMI productivity:  The relatively less efficient
use of capital and lower labor productivity in the smaller Filipino enter-
prises are attributable, at least in part, to: (i) deficiencies in the
quality and suitability of capital goods employed; (ii) inefficiencies (e.g.
low equipment utilization) caused by a lack of access to external sources of
both investment and working capital; (iii) lower levels of skills employed;
and (iv) inefficiencies caused by lack of expertise in organization, manage-
ment and choice of technology. The alleviation of these constraints in
the shortest possible period of time requires a package of services to be
provided to ensure that small firms have access to financial and technical
assistance through an efficient delivery system. Long term capital is
needed to replace outmoded and inappropriate machinery to permit the
manufacture of products of good quality and design, and for expansion
in the same or related lines of production where demand is increasing.
A large proportion of SMI firms have underutilized capacity because of a
shortage of permanent working capital to build up inventories of materials
and finished goods beyond one production run. Confronted with restricted
access to institutional sources of financing SMI have been forced to rely
heavily on insufficient internal resources, or short term borrowing from
non-institutional sources at rates averaging 5-10% per month (depending on
the amount). This has severely restrained the ability of existing small
firms to modernize or expand, and of new firms to get established. Tech-
nical assistance aimed at better management, simple improvements in plant
layout and advice on inventory control and accounting is needed by small
entrepreneurs to better marshal and manage their resources. Technical assist-
ance is also required to assist small entrepreneurs with the more general
and immediate problems they face in firming up project ideas, preparing
feasibility studies, and organizing their information in a form which meets
the minimum requirements of financing institutions.
3.08      The Interest Rate Structure as a Constraint:  As previous Bank
economic and appraisal reports have noted, the structure of deposit and
lending rates in the Philippines have been out of line with the estimated
opportunity cost of capital. This distortion has inevitably resulted in
an excess of demand for credit over the supply of loanable funds. The
Anti-Usury Law of 1916 (now amended) previously limited lending rates to
12% and 14% per annum on secured and unsecured loans respectively without
specifying any rigid limits for add-on charges 1/. With compensatory balance
requirements and advance interest collection practices effective lending
rates on commercial bank loans, however, nave been and continue to be 4 to 6
1/   These additional charges have now been limited to a maximum of 2% of
the loan amount for secured and 3% for unsecured loans.



-7-
points higher than these nominal rates. In the past, statutory interest rate
limits on deposits and loans resulted in distorting both the mobilization and
allocation of capital resources and led to the growth of an unorganized
"private" market.  With a rate of inflation varying between 10-15% in the
1970-73 period and jumping to 36% in 1974 depositors have received a negative
rate of interest I/ with a consequent depression in the flow of private
savings to the banking system. Although the rate of inflation is expected
to subside to around 20-25% in 1975 it is unlikely that banking institutions
will be able to mobilize a significantly greater volume of domestic savings
even with the recent increases in deposit rates. Up to now they have not
been in a position to compete for funds with the money market (whose rates
are not covered by the Law) or even with short-term Government instruments
which yield between 12 and 14%. Although the Monetary Board is now empowered
to adjust interest rates to prevailing economic conditions, the structure
which persists does not allow the interest rate mechanism to play any alloca-
tive role. The resulting availability of credit has had the unintended
effect of discriminating against small-scale labor-intensive enterprises.
This is because financial institutions in providing loans have tended to
rely heavily on collateral and co-makers' guarantees rather than on the
potential earning capacity of viable projects. With an excess demand for
funds and little opportunity for preferential yields on higher risk clients
who also have to be served at an inevitably higher administrative cost, the
institutions have tended to lend to the larger well known corporations that
are established low-risk clients. As a result of this distribution of credit
there has been an acknowledged underinvestment in small-scale regionally
dispersed enterprises.
3.09      The Governmment's Program for SMI.  The potential of Philippine
SMI in employment creation and in assisting more equitable income distribu-
tion has been recognized by Government and by external advisory agencies 2/.
A draft program (Annex 2) for promoting the development of SMI was prepared
1/   Until 1974 the rate on savings deposits was 6% while time deposits
ranged between 6.5% to 8%. In July 1974, the Monetary Board raised
time deposit rate ceilings for commercial banks and established a range
from 8% (for 90-day deposits) to 11% (for 2-year deposits). Thrift
banks were permitted to offer 0.5% more than commercial banks on all
deposit rates. Ceilings on deposit rates for deposits of over 2 years
were removed altogether, but the Monetary Board's resolution did not
specify a concomitant removal of the ceiling on inrerest rates for
loans with maturities of over 2 years.
2/   The role of small and medium modern manufacturing units was recently
stressed by the ILO employment mission in their report (the Ranis
report) titled: Sharing in Development: a programme of employment,
equity and growth for the Philippines (1974)



-8-
in September 1973 and adopted in early 1974. The main elements of the
program were substantial increases in SIMI lending through DBP and the
Industrial Guarantee and Loan Fund (IGTF) and the provision of technical
assistance through the Department of Industry (DOI). A Commission on Small
and Medium Industries (CSMI) has been established with the major task of
implementing and coordinating programs of such assistance to SMI, especially
those located in the regions. The basic approach is to reach small and
medium firms at their places of business. Field teams of generalists have
been formed which are responsible for assisting entrepreneurs with project
feasibility studies, loan applications and the many other time consuming
steps which often pose the greatest bottlenecks in moving a project a,long.
These teams are supported in their efforts by a central support unit in
DOI. This unit is being equipped to provide more specialized assistance
directly from its own staff resources and, where necessaryi to tap the re-
sources of other appropriate agencies with the required expertise. Thus
far the field program, which was started in late 1973 on a modest experi-
mental basis to determine the real assistance needs of small entrepreneurs
in the regions, has proven successful. Experience gained from this effort
suggests that another link in the technical assistance chain is required.
Accordingly the establishment of seven small Regional Technical Assistance
Centers (RTACs) has been proposed for financing in the start-up phase under
this project. These centers would provide greater depth and breadth in the
technical services provided to entrepreneurs located outside Manila. The
organization and role of the DOI and CSMI and the functions and performance
of the field assistance teams are discussed in more detail in Volume II,
Part 2 of this report.
3.10      Other Initiatives:  Various other initiatives towards the develop-
ment of SMI are being taken. One such effort is an innovative and promising
program launched by the National Electrification Administration (NEA) to
establish industrial co-operatives in rural areas to reach unemployed and
underemployed rural families dispersed throughout the country. One of
NEA's criteria in establishing such co-operatives is the availability of
local skills and a traditional base on which to build the production effort.
As a result, workers in rural areas who are engaged in cottage type manufac-
turing usually on a part-time basis with low productivity and wages would be
absorbed into full-time and more productive jobs in these new projects. The
NEA experiment is expected to establish a practical approach of assistance
to organizing fragmented cottage industry activity into viable small co-
operative production units. This program, which is proposed as a component
of this project, is fully described in Annex 7.
IV. THE PROJECT
The Project Package
4.01      The proposed project package calls for a Bank loan of US$30.0 mil-
lion equivalent to the Philippine government. Apart from a small element
(US$0.7 million) to be retained for the Department of Industry, the proceeds
of the loan would be relent as follows:



-9-
(i) US$15 million equivalent through DBP: for financing over
360 small and medium enterprises. (paragraphs 4.02 to
4.08 below and Annexes 3 and 4).
(ii) US$12 million through IGLF: for on-lending to about
550 small entrepreneurs through a network of various
qualified financial institutions (paragraphs 4.09 to
4.16 below, and Annex 5).
(iii) US$2.3 million to NEA: to help finance the establishment
of 24 small industry producer co-operatives under its
power-use program (paragraphs 4.17 to 4.24 below, and
Annex 6).
The remaining US$0.7 million will be channelled through the DOI budget for
financing 7 Regional Technical Assistance Centers (RTAC's) to be established
under the DOI (paragraphs 4.25 to 4.27 below, and Annex 8).
SMI Lending through the Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP)
4.02      Until 1973 DBP 1/ was virtually the sole institutional source of
term credit for small entrepreneurs. At present, it remains the single
largest provider of long-term resources to the SMI sub-sector 2/.  DBP's
ownership, overall organization, and management are discussed in Annex 3,
1/   DBP is the largest term-financing institution in the Philippines.  It is
a wholly Government owned multipurpose development bank which finances
virtually every sector of economic activity. DBP's institutional
characteristics have been fully described in a report to the Executive
Directors entitled "Appraisal of a Loan to the Republic of the Philip-
pines" (Report No. 424a-PH, dated May 5, 1974) and are summarized in
Annex 3. As of December 31, 1974 DBPts total assets amounted to
P 6.75 billion and it had additional contingent liabilities of over
P 3.0 billion through its guarantee operations. SMI loan approvals
totalled nearly P 40 million in FY74, and a further P 37.0 million in
the first half of FY75. SMI operations accounted for about 7.6Z of
total loans outstanding as of end FY74 and for 13.6% of loan approvals
in that year. In the first half of FY75, SMI approvals accounted for
7.1% of total loan approvals.
2/   DBP does not have data available on loans by size of clients' assets.
On the basis of a survey of its appraisal reports the mission arbitra-
rily chose cut-off points at P 50,000 as the "floor" for SMI lending
and P 2.5 million as the "ceiling". Loans below P 50,000 are classified
as "cottage industry loans" and those above P 2.5 million as "large
industry loans".



- 10 -
paragraphs 2 and 3. Its lending to small industry is done principally through
Industrial Projects Department II (IPD II) at its Head office in Manila and
through its network of 32 branches and 24 agencies whose activities are co-
ordinated by a Branches and Agencies Department (BAAD) at the Head Office.
Until recently DBP confronted problems in staffing and organization in IPD
II, BAAD and the branches (Annex 3, paragraph 4). These problems, although
not serious, resulted in operational inefficiencies and constrained the
growth of DBP's SMI lending. In September 1974 DBP stepped up its program
for recruiting additional qualified staff and noticeable progress had been
made by December in strengthening both IPD II and the branches. DBP's plans
for effecting further organizational and staffing improvements were discussed
during negotiations and were found to be satisfactory. Loans to medium scale
firms are handled by IPD I, a well managed department which is currently en-
trusted with handling the Bank loan of US$48 million for large industrial
investment.
4.03      DBP's SMI project appraisals in general are of acceptable quality
despite difficulties in obtaining accurate data on clients' operations and
on local market conditions. In content, reports tend to be detailed and
descriptive with a heavy emphasis on collateral evaluation, but often fail
to reflect the quality of analysis or the judgements exercised on project
merits. Several recommendations made by the appraisal mission for achiev-
ing substantive improvements in appraisal and the presentation of appraisal
reports have been discussed with and accepted by DBP's management (Annex 4,
paragraph 19). A major weakness in DBP's present SMI lending operations is
inadequate follow-up. Required information is submitted on a regular basis
by only a few clients; when submitted it is of poor quality and is reviewed
on a systematic basis by DBP staff only when the client is badly in arrears.
Project site vists are rarely undertaken. Recognizing the importance of
follow-up in reducing high default rates and of developing closer rela-
tionships with SMI clients DBP's management has begun taking steps toward
overhauling its supervision mechanism in accordance with the mission's
recommendations (Annex 4, paragraph 21). Its present plans call for the
installation of a sound follow-up system by December 1975.
4.04      DBP's loan processing procedures are complicated and centralized.
In the past, it has taken an average of 8-9 months to approve SMI project
applications (vs. 3-4 months for medium/large loans). Processing delays,
which resulted in project cost increases of 40-70% in some instances, were
mainly due to insufficient delegation of authority and the shortage of
qualified industrial project appraisers in the branches (Annex 4, paragraph
14). Following a review of its procedures with the appraisal mission DBP's
management has implemented a program to reduce loan processing time to a
maximum of 60 days by June 30, 1976. DBP's lending policies for SMI were
liberalized in 1973. DBP has since taken steps to ensure that existing
policies (particularly on collateral) are fully implemented and to further
modify policies on working capital, cost overrun financing, and loan/equity
proportions.



- 11 -
4.05      The volume, distribution and nature of DBP's lending to SMI is
shown in Annex 4, Appendices 1 to 8. SMI lending has picked up recently
from P 2.8 million in FY72 to nearly P 40 million in FY74 with approvals
being distributed across a broad range of industries (although two, food
processing, and apparel and footwear, accounted for over 38% of approvals
between FY72-74). Geographically, DBP's SMI loans are becoming increasingly
diversified with the share of investment in Greater Manila dropping from
nearly 84% in FY72 to 48% in FY74. The average size of DBP's SMI loans in
FY74 was about P 320,000 (roughly US$45,700 equivalent) with loans in the
Manila area being somewhat larger (P 372,000 average) than those outside
(P 260,000). Total SMI loan approvals in FY74 grew by 125% over FY73; on
the basis of performance in the first six months approvals are expected
to double in FY75.
4.06      DBP's financial position and performance (Annex 3, paragraphs 10
and 11) improved significantly in FY74. DBP's capital structure is sound
(long-term debt/equity ratio 1.06:1) 1/ and it is sufficiently liquid
(current ratio 2.45:1). However, accumulated provisions for doubtful
accounts still seem inadequate, although provisions set aside in FY74
exceeded those made in the previous year by 190%. Net income after taxes
and provisions also rose significantly to a level of 4.9% of average out-
standing assets (compared to 2.9% in FY73). In a year of rampant inflation
DBP managed to hold administrative costs down to 1.2% of average assets,
with such costs showing a decline of 6.2% over the previous year. Adminis-
trative costs on its SMI lending operations were far higher, a conservative
estimate 2/ (Annex 9) being 2.35% of average SMI loans outstanding. With
the implementation of more intensive follow-up on SMI loans, these costs
are expected to rise to over 3%. DBP's cash flow improved remarkably in
FY74 with a much higher level of collections. Consequently debt service
coverage rose from 0.88 in FY73 to 2.55 in FY74. DBP's arrears position
as of June 30, 1974 is analysed in Annex 4, paragraphs 5 and 6. The
table below summarizes the arrears situation and indicates the magnitude
of arrears among various types of industrial loans:
1/   Inclusive of contingent liabilities the ratio is 2.59:1.
2/   As DBP does not have its income or expenses broken down on a profit
center basis, earnings or costs related to specific activities are
difficult to establish with any accuracy; this estimate was based on
rough assumptions about the allocation of indirect costs which tended
to underestimate the share attributable to SMI operations.



- 12 -
DBP'S INDUSTRIAL LOAN ARREARAGES AS OF 6/30/74 /a
(figures in parenthesis relate to Head Office loans)
(Pesos in millions)
Loans                                       Principal
Outstanding               In Arrears           Affected
iio      Amt       io    %/b    Amt.   /b    Am t ./
"Cottage"           4,068    16.40    n.a.   n.a.    8.07   49.2    n.a.  n.a.
(up to P 50,000) (2,017)   (8.04) (1,901) (94.2)  (5.09) (63.3)  (7.14)(88.59)
SMI (P 50,000-      1,090   362.46    n.a.   n.a.  150.36   41.5    n.a.  n.a.
P 2.5 million)      (893) (334.70)   (683) (76.5)(141.52) (42.3)(254.79)(76.1)
"Large" (P 2.5         119 1,003.43       71   59.7  144.66   14.4  534.65  53.3
million +)          (119)(1003.43)    (71) (59.7)(144.66) (14.4)(534.65)(53.3)
Total          5,277 1,382.29   4,294   81.4  303.09   21.9  817.24  59.1
(32029)(1,346.17)(2,655) (87.7)(291.27) (21.6)(796.58)(59.2)
/a   Some breakdowns were not available for Branch arrearages; data relating
to Read Office operations have therefore been provided in parenthesis
for illustrative purposes. DBP has agreed to provide the Bank with a
full breakdown of arrears by May 1975.
/b   As a percentage of outstanding industrial loans in each category.
As these figures show, amounts in default on SMI loans are three times those
for larger loans, while those for cottage industry loans are still higher.
Although S,ka as a group pose a higher lending risk than larger established
firms for any financial institution (Annex 9) these arreages reflect an
abnormal situation exacerbated to some extent by DBP's own past practices.
Most of DBP's SMI clients face genuine and constant cash flow difficulties
caused by unrealistically tight amortization schedules. Furthermore with
all their collateral pledged to DBP, these firms are in a poor position to
raise much needed working capital to keep their plants fully utilized. DBP's
own working capital loan policies are not liberal enough to accommodate the
special problems small firms face. As a result of these factors, combined
with an absence of good follow-up on DBP's part to provide early warning
that clients may be getting into difficulties, arrears of this magnitude
were almost inevitable. At negotiations DBP agreed to reduce arrears
through: timely reporting; improved project follow-up and loan collec-
tions; realistic rescheduling of existing loans; setting more appropriate
maturity periods in the future; and liberalizing its working capital loan
policies. Its plans were fully discussed during negotiations and found to
be realistic and satisfactory.



- 13
4.07      DBP's loan commitments for SMI projects are expected to total
about P 209 million in the FY76-FY77 period. The expected distribution
of its lending is shown in Annex 4, Appendices 1-7 and is further analyzed
in paragraphs 4.29 to 4.31. DBP will require mainly peso resources but they
will finance projects in which the estimated direct and indirect foreign
exchange component is about 64% of total project cost (Annex 10). These
requirements, together with DBP's other long-term peso requirements, are
expected to total between P 1.5 to 2.0 billion in the next 2-year period.
It is unlikely that DBP can raise more than 25-30% of this amount from the
private capital market on a long-term basis 1/. It has already taken steps
to issue "country-side development bonds" totalling P 500 million (9% tax
free, 5 year maturity) in FY75. It will have to rely for the remainder
on traditional government sources 2/ and on external official assistance
sources. Tie proposed Bank loan of US$15 million will meet 50% of DBP's
total resource requirements for SMI lending over the next 2-year period
(Annex 3, paragraph 13).
4.08      At the time of the Bank's last industrial loan to DBP (May 1974),
it was agreed that an audit evaluation of DBP would be undertaken with assis-
tance from the Bank and that a mutually agreed upon program for effecting
any necessary improvements would be implemented by DBP shortly thereafter.
An auditing expert appointed by the Bank accompanied an appraisal mission
to DBP in May 1975 and undertook the agreed upon evaluation. Steps to be
taken for implementing the required changes will be discussed with DBP as
soon as his final report has been reviewed within the Bank.
The Industrial Guarantee and Loan Fund (IGLF)
4.09      IGLF is a long-term compensatory financing and guarantee fund
owned by NEDA and administered by CB. It was established with USAID assis-
tance in 1952 to encourage private banking institutions to provide long-
term financing to small entrepreneurs. Its compensatory financing function
is discharged through a special time deposit (STD) provided to sponsoring
banks (paragraph 4.16) at an interest rate of 5% (to be on-lent at 10%) with
the same maturity as the loan made to the ultimate borrower and repayable
according to the same amortization schedule. IGLF also provides, jointly
with or separately from the STD, a guarantee for up to 80% of the amount
being loaned. Sponsoring banks are allowed to lend guaranteed loans at
12%. The guarantee is provided at a cost of 2% of the amount guaranteed
1/   Its ability to do so is constrained by the absolute size of the private
market, its competitive position vis-a-vis other financial institutions,
and a regime of constrained interest rates which discouraged investment
in long-term issues.
2/   In particular the Government Services Insurance Scheme (GSIS) and the
Social Security System (SSS).



- 14 -
which accrues to the IGLF. This cost was formerly borne by the sponsoring
bank but is now passed on as an additional cost to the borrower. During
negotiations assurances were obtained that the on-lending rate charged by
sponsoring banks to the ultimate sub-borrowers would be increased from 10%
to 12%. The borrower would also be required to pay a guarantee fee (2% of
the guaranteed amount) for an automatic 60% guarantee. This would effec-
tively result in an interest rate of 13.2% for the proposed combined STD/
Guarantee.
4.10      The administration and mechanics of IGLF lending are fully detailed
in Annex 5, paragraphs 6 and 7. Loan processing procedures were rationalized
earlier in 1974 and are now quite efficient. Project appraisals have, so far,
been carried out by the Industrial Loans Division (ILD) in CB's Department of
Loans and Credits. ILD is a well managed unit with a staff of 16 competent
and qualified professionals. Staff strength has tripled over the past year
to cope with the increase in applications (paragraph 4.12). however, as
proposed in paragraph 4.16 below, ILD staff efforts will now be changed
from evaluating applications to reviewing and monitoring the performance
of sponsoring banks. Project appraisals carried out by ILD staff have gen-
erally been adequate. As with DBP, appraisal reports have tended to be
descriptive rather than analytic; along with the usual problem of unreliable
or unavailable data they have suffered from a remoteness from local conditions
which have led judgements to be somewhat rigid and standardized (Annex 5,
paragraphs 9-12). Follow-up work is carried out by sponsoring banks but its
quality varies widely and is generally restricted to clients in arrears. At
present only commercial banks and larger well-established rural banks are
geared towards adequately analyzing the operating problems of small entre-
preneurs or providing them with needed advice. In discussions with the
appraisal mission CB and NEDA officials felt that the alternative of a large
central bureaucracy created to appraise and supervise IGLF financed projects
was clearly less desirable than entrusting these functions to individual spon-
soring banks which had the required capability. The banks have closer con-
tact with clients, more direct knowledge of local conditions and greater
opportunity for close follow-up. The implications of this transfer of the
appraisal and follow-up burden from the CB to sponsoring banks is further
discussed in paragraph 4.16.
4.11      IGLF financing is guided by NEDA's Four Year Development Plans
and the investment priorities of the BOI, with emphasis ork projects which
are labor intensive, export-oriented or located outside the major urban
areas. Through its guarantee mechanism IGLF aims at channelling funds
toward collateral deficient entrepreneurs with sound projects. Its pol-
icies on interest rates, maximum loan sizes, maturity periods and loan/
equity proportions were reviewed and the changes suggested by the appraisal
imission (Annex 5 paragraphs 34 and 35) have been made.
4.12      IGLF's operations are analyzed in detail in Annex 5, paragraphs
13-19. As of October 31, 1974 financial assistance totalling nearly P 193
million for 375 projects had been approved with STD approvals accounting
for 92% of the total (P 177.3 million) and guarantees for the remainder.



- 15 -
Roughly P 154 million was approved prior to the restructuring of IGLF in
July 1973. Approvals averaged roughly P 10-12 million annually between
1952-1965 but fell off sharply to P 2-3 million annually between 1965-72.
Total approvals in FY73 amounted to P 1.63 million for 4 projects. In
contrast approvals in FY74 were P 5.65 million for 31 projects and nad
climbed to P 17.88 million for 97 projects in the first four months of
FY75. As Annex 5, Appendix 2 shows, the average size of STD prior to
FY73 was about P 660,000. IGLF assistance was directed to a number of
industries (5 industries 1/ however, accounted for nearly 60% of approved
assistance) but was geographically concentrated in the Manila area. Since
FY73 the average size of STD has dropped to P 183,000. STDs are now more
concentrated in three or four industries but are geographically more widely
dispersed; in the first 4 months of FY75 less than 49% of all investments
were in the Ianila area compared to over 76% in the period before the re-
structuring of IGLF. IGLF's straight guarantee operations have been insig-
nificant. Only 13 straight guarantees totalling P 15.7 million were approved
in IGLF's 22 year history. However guarantees provided together with STD's
have increased substantially. Prior to 1973, combined STD/G's accounted for
about 8.5% of STD approvals by number and 8.1% by amount over the entire
period. In FY74 they accounted for 42% of STD approvals by number and 19.4%
by amount and in the first 4 months of FY75 these proportions had risen to
51.5% by number and 59.9% by amount. Total guarantee cover provided since
July 1, 1973 amounted to about P 9.4 million. In the future a guarantee
of 60% will automatically be combined with all STD's to allow IGLF to cater
mainly for the under-collateralized small borrower.
4.13       IGLF's portfolio has been of remarkably good quality because spon-
soring banks are required to repay their STD's whether or not their own
clients default. Very little historical information is available on the
default rates of IGLF financed projects 2/ since most previously financed
accounts are no longer outstanding while most newly approved projects have
not yet entered the repayment phase. Sponsoring banks do not at present
compile such data separately from their other accounts or provide them to
CB. At negotiations it was agreed that CB would collect and compile arrears
data on all outstanding IGLF financed projects within six months of loan
signature and on a quarterly basis thereafter.
1/   Food processing, textiles, wood and wood products, metal products,
and non-metallic minerals.
2/   The appraisal mission's discussions with a few sponsoring banks which
previously used IGLF facilities suggest that default rates (i.e. prin-
cipal and interest in arrears) on their IGLF backed loans ranged between
30-40% of total amounts outstanding at any given time.



- 16 -
4.14      IGLF's resource requirements for the 2-year period July 1, 1975-
June 30, 1977 are estimated to be about P 110-120 million (Annex 5, para-
graph 20). The expected distribution of its loans over the commitment
period is shown in Annex 5, Appendix 3 and is analyzed further in para-
graphs 4.29 to-4.31. As of January 1975, IGLF had virtually exhausted its
resources and its requirements between January-June 1975 are being covered
by a special GOP loan. The US$12 million (about P 84 million equivalent)
provided under the proposed Bank loan would cover about 70% of IGLF's FY76-
77 requirements. The government has indicated its willingness to provide
a further P 30 million as a cost free contribution to IGLF's permanent
capital.  This was confirmed during negotiations and is a condition of
loan effectiveness.
4.15      IGLF's portfolio and finances are audited by the Auditor GeneraLl's
Office in accordance with the strict internal auditing standards of the CB.
Sponsoring banks are subject to varying types of audit. Private commercial
banks and larger non-bank financial institutions are generally audited by
qualified auditing firms that apply acceptable auditing standards. Rural
banks and private development banks generally are not audited by private
firms but are stubject to the CB's close scrutiny. At negotiations it was
agreed that the SMI portfolios of sponsoring banks would be subject to an
audit by CB over and above any other audits that are conducted unless CB
was satisfied that "normal" audits adequately covered these portfolios.
4.16      A wide range of financial institutions are presently eligible to
become sponsoring banks under IGLF (Annex 5, paragraphs 28-31), the princi-
pal exceptions being non-bank financial intermediaries (e.g. DFC's, investment
houses, savings and loan associations etc.). Despite open eligibility only
a handful of commercial, rural and private development banks have used IGLF
facilities so far mainly because of IGLF's previous image as a bureaucracy
ridden entity. Present eligibility criteria stress the establishment of as
wide a network of sponsoring banks as possible. While coverage and "reac:h"
are clearly important considerations, the present criteria do not suffi-
ciently stress the ability of such institutions to finance and administer
SMI portfolios on a sustained basis. Accordingly, accreditation criteria
have been drawn up (Annex 5, Appendix 6) which would ensure that only insti-
tutions capable of appraising, supervising and financing a reasonable number
of SNI projects on a sustained basis would be eligible for using IGLF facil-
ities. Such institutions would include non-bank intermediaries. The accred-
itation scheme has been designed to restrict eligibility to those institutions
which presently have, or can readily develop SMI lending capabilities without
heavily backed central administrative support. Under these criteria it is
expected that most commercial banks (with their extensive branch networks)
would qualify immediately along with several non-bank financial intermedi-
aries and some of the larger rural banks. Many of the latter are already
being provided with assistance from the CB's Department of Rural Banks and
Savings and Loan Association (DRBSLA) to develop the requisite capabilitiLes.
With accreditation being based on the capacity of sponsoring banks to ade-
quately appraise and supervise projects, CB staff would be expected to con-
centrate on: evaluating sponsoring banks' capabilities; auditing their SMI



17 -
portfolios, and monitoring their performance; conducting ex-post reviews of
appraisal reports on a sample basis; and reporting periodically to the Review
Committee and to the Bank on the utilization and allocation of IGLF funds.
NEA's Industrial Co-operatives (IC) Program
4.17      The IC program is one of two major experimental power-use programs
(irrigation being the other) which NEA (Annex 6) has launched to generate
minimum economic levels of demand for electricity and to create productive
employment and raise income levels in rural areas. The 5 IC's established
so far by the NEA show promising signs that such units can be financially
and economically viable and can generate employment at a low capital cost.
4.18      NEA's administrative and organizational framework is discussed
in detail in Annex 6, paragraphs 1 to 3. Responsibility for the IC pro-
gram rests with the Power Use Directorate (PUD), a small but rapidly
growing department which is well managed and staffed with qualified and
well trained personnel. With a present staff complement of 32, PUD carries
out feasibility studies prior to co-operative establishment, provides man-
agement teams to run co-operatives in their early stages, and supervises
co-operative loan accounts. NEA plans to build PUD's staff strengthi up to
75 within a year to cope with a greater number of co-operatives and to im-
prove its planning and project evaluation and monitoring capabilities. PUD's
feasibility studies deal principally with the potential for economic produc-
tion of specific products in areas where electricity co-operatives have been
established. In its future studies NEA has decided to take detailed account
of specific problems in: organization and transition between the phasing
out of NEA's management team and take-over by local IC officials; marketing
finished products; specific production processes; and training both produc-
tion workers and IC managers.
4.19      The process of IC establishment, organization and registration is
fully dealt with in Annex 7, paragraphs 3 to 6. At present, NEA provides
substantial inputs into the formation of IC's, assistance with the appoint-
ment of management and with organizing (in concert with other GOP agencies)
training programs for IC members and managers. NEA's experience in co-op-
erative organization notwithstanding, ICs have to be registered with the
Department of Local Government and Community Development (DLGCD). DLGCD's
registration procedures and requirements have been a major bottleneck in
the establishment of the existing co-operatives. At negotiations the gov-
ernment agreed to expedite the registration of NEA's industrial co-operatives
with DLGCD. In future an industrial co-operative would be registered within
30 days of NEA's Board approving its support for that co-operative.
4.20      Over the FY76-77 period NEA plans to establish a further 24 IC's
dispersed throughout the Philippines (Annex 6, paragraph 16) mostly in
poorer rural regions. The IC program is expected to create roughly 5,800
new jobs over this period at a total capital cost of P 27 million, an aver-
age of P 4,700 per job. Of this amount about 20% would be contributed by



- 18 -
the co-operative members and 80% would be financed by an NEA loan.  The pro-
posed Bank loan would be disbursed against 75% of NEA's disbursements and
would thus finance roughly 60% of total project costs for each cooperative.
4.21      NEA's financial position is sound (Annex 6, paragraph 7).  Its
resource requirements for the industrial co-operatives program over the
next 2 years will be about P 22.0 million (Annex 6, paragraph 11). Taking
account of what NEA expects to receive from GOP, it will be faced with
a resource gap of P 16.0 million which would be covered by the re-lent
proceeds of the proposed Bank loan (US$2.3 million).
4.22      The 5 IC's which have been established by NEA so far have been
heavily subsidized by way of interest rate subsidies (funds are provided
at 6%) and by substantial inputs of technical/managerial assistance from
the NEA for which the co-operatives are not charged any fees (Annex 6, para-
graph 14). Continued provision of such assistance on preferential terms for
indefinite periods would run the risk of breeding a large number of ineffi-
cient production units not capable of standing on their own feet and with-
standing the normal pressures of a business environment. At negotiations
it was agreed that IC's would be required to pay a 12% interest rate (the
statutory maximum) on NEA loans. Free technical assistance would be pro-
vided by NEA for a 6-month start-up period during which IC management
counterparts would be appointed and trained by NEA's management teams.
After 6 months, consulting services would be provided by NEA on a cost-
paid basis. Co-operatives have also been subsidized indirectly by delib-
erately lax collection procedures. Following discussions with the appraisal
mission NEA has begun to apply its normal rigorous collection practices and
levy its standard penalty charges on amounts in default.
4.23      Procurement of equipment and machinery has, so far, been directly
undertaken by IC management under the loose guidance of NEA's large procure-
ment staff. On the basis of its previous experience NEA has decided to
exercise much tighter control over procurement by co-operatives, including
the checking of specifications for equipment suitability, and by requiring
IC's to request at least 3 competitive quotations from local suppliers before
authorizing purchase. Disbursement would continue to be made against evi-
dence of actual purchase and installation which would be checked on site.
4.24      In view of the experimental nature of the IC program, a sound
project monitoring and evaluation mechanism would be needed. Accordingly,
at negotiations NEA agreed that it would establish a project monitoring
and evaluation unit in PUD within one year of the date of loan signature.
Regional Technical Assistance Centers (RTAC's)
4.25      Seven RTAC's (Annex 8) are to be established by DOI between
July 1, 1975 and June 30, 1977. These centers, staffed with between 6-8
professional personnel, would concentrate primarily on providing direct
consultancy assistance to small and medium enterprises in their regions



- 19 -
(Annex 8, paragraphs 3 to 6). Assistance directly provided by RTAC's would
initially be restricted to addressing production, financial/accounting, and
marketing problems of a fairly general nature which are experienced by most
small firms in all industry branches. Specialized problems with production
processes or marketing/export would be referred by RTAC's to DOI's central
support staff in Manila and consulting experts in specialized fields would
be hired on an ad-hoc basis to assist particular clients who would have to
pay for their services. RTAC's would also serve as a hierarchical link
between DOI's MASICAP field teams (Volume II, Part 2) and its central staff
in Manila.
4.26      The organization, staffing pattern and budgets of the RTACs are
discussed in Annex 8, paragraphs 11 to 19. In the initial phases, the
Institute for Small Scale Industries (ISSI) and the Development Academy
of the Philippines (DAP) would be expected to provide training and support
services on a contractual basis far training RTAC personnel before start up
and for consulting assistance in the operating stage.
4.27      The total cost for the seven RTACs is expected to be about P 10.8
million, inclusive of pre-operating and first 2-year operating costs (Annex
8, paragraph 16). The proposed Bank loan would cover about 45% of total
costs, the balance being funded by GOP. Bank financing would cover all
capital expenditures excluding the cost of land, and would cover roughly
half of the pre-operating and first 2-year operating budgets. RTAC's would
be fully funded through the DOI budget thereafter.
Project Costs
4.28      The project as described above has a commitment horizon of 2 years
(the proposed loan is expected to be disbursed within 4 years) during which
financing would be provided for over 900 sub-projects (360 through the DBP
and 550 through the IGLF); 24 industrial co-operatives under NEA's program;
and 7 RTAC's, at a total cost of P 352.4 million (approximately US$50.3
million equivalent). Project costs would be financed in accordance with
the following table:



- 20 -
(Pesos in Millions)
Entrepreneurs  GOP/Agency          IBRD         Total
Amount    %   Amount    %       Amount  %   Amount   %
DBP Loan              35.0    20.0   35.0   20.0   105.0  60.0  175.0  100.0
IGLF                  28.0    20.0   28.0   20.0    84.0  60.0  140.0  1100.0
NEA Loan                5.3    20.0    5.3   20.0    16.0  60.0   26.6  1100.0
RTAC's                 __       __      5.9   54.8      4.9  45.2   10.8  100.0
Total        /a
Total            68.3   19.4    74.2   21.0   209.9-/59.6  352.4  100.0
/a   US$30.0 million equivalent.  The Bank loan would cover about 60% of
the total cost of sub-projects or slightly less than their estimated
foreign cost component (64%).
Distribution of Sub-Loans under the Project
4.29      Projections of sub-loan demand and the distribution of sub-loans
made by DBP (Annex 4, Appendices 1-7) and IGLF (Annex 5, Appendix 3) have
been based on their firm pipeline of projects and augmented by specific
knowledge of projects (being developed by DOI's field teams) which are now
in the identification, feasibility analysis and preparation stages. On an
industry basis sub-loans are expected to be distributed fairly widely across
a range of projects in manufacturing (90% of total commitments) and in the
construction and service sectors (10%). Eight industry branches (shown
below) are each expected to account for more than 5% of total SMI invest-
ment under the proposed project; together they account for over 70% of the
total:



- 21 -
Employment (1971)   Value-Added (1971)
% of Total  % of       % of       % of       % of
Industry Branch      Investment  SMI /a  Industry /b  SMI /a  Industry /b
Food Processing         20.2      11.4        16.6      11.4         9.4
Footwear & Apparel      11.2       8.4       38.8        2.8        34.7
Wood & Cork Products    9.1        9.3       23.7        4.9        24.7
Non-Metallic
Minerals               8.3       2.9       14.6        1.6         6.9
Chemicals and
Chemical Prod.         5.5      10.6       42.2       23.3        35.7
Basic Metals             5.5       4.0       34.7        3.5        29.5
Metal Products           5.5       7.6       48.4        5.7        39.8
Furniture
and Fixtures           5.1       2.9       66.6        0.1        59.7
/a   Percent share of total employment or value-added in the SMI sector.
/b   Percent share of total employment or value-added in the Industry
Branch.
SMI investment demand in food processing reflects the growing tendency to
localize such activity in the major food producing areas and is expected
to assist the regional dispersal of investment. Investment in the footwear
and apparel, wood and cork, and furniture and fixtures industries are all
expected to result in export oriented output while investment in the re-
maining four industries will expand the role of SMI in the production of
intermediate goods for the domestic market. The two industries which are
expected to attract less than 1% of total investment, beverages (0.6%) and
tobacco (0.6%), are those in which economies of scale are critical.
4.30      Geographically the distribution of investment under the proposed
loan will represent a marked shift away from Manila into other parts of
Luzon and in the Visayas and Mindanao.



- 22 -
% of SMI       Concentration (No. of Est.) 1971/
Investment     % of SMI             % of Industry
Greater Manila               37.8           52.5                   50.0
Luzon (excl. Manila)         32.0           27.2                   27.8
Visayas                       15.6          12.9                   13.5
Mindanao                      14.6           7.4                    8.6
/a   Concentration in terms of numbers of establishments is a proxy measure
for existing investment. However, this measure understates the levels
of investment in Manila (where land values tend to be much higher and
the average size of establishment much larger) and overstates it in
other areas, particularly the Visayas and Mindanao.
Apart from these broad regional shifts, the geographic distribution of in-
vestment within these areas is expected to favor the underdeveloped regions.
In Luzon, the bulk of the investment is expected to shift from Southern
Tagalog to the Northern and Central Regions; in the Visayas from Cebu to
the Western and Eastern islands; and in Mindanao from the Southern to the
Northern and Western parts of the island.
4.31      No discrimination in favor of any particular geographic areas or
towards specific industry branches is proposed under this project. The
implementation capacity of the local intermediaries is considered to be
satisfactory and is not expected to pose a constraint to nationwide cover-
age. However, under the Government's proposed program which sets the
guidelines for DBP and IGLF lending, preferential treatment (in terms of
lower collateral requirements, higher loan/equity proportions, etc.) will
be given to SMI investment outside the major urban centers of Manila, Cebu
and Davao. No basis presently exists for discriminating in favor of devel-
oping SMI in any particular industrial branch. The DOI is presently under-
taking studies in various industrial sectors one of the aspects of which
will be to determine the potential for SMI development within particular
sectors and to establish whether special incentives will be required in
the future for such development to take place.
Project Supervision
4.32      The proposed project is expected to have a wide impact and yield
substantial benefits (paragraphs 5.01-5.06) but there are'associated costs
and risks which need to be recognized at the outset (Annex 9). Minimizing
these risks will require substantial supervision and monitoring effort on
the part of the financial intermediaries coupled with intensive efforts
by the DOI in the provision of technical assistance. Moreover, close super-
vision will be required by the Bank in the early stages of project implement-
ation to ensure sound resource allocation and good follow-up by all inter-
mediaries involved. This supervision effort will probably require an
estimated 35 man-weeks of Bank staff time in the first year. The large
number of sub-loans involved, the nature of lending to small enterprises,



- 23 -
and the need for speedy approval and commitment of SMI loans will require
the use of monitoring devices other than the free limit to ensure quality
control in project appraisal. The Bank appraisal mission was satisfied
that the appraisal standards of intermediaries under the proposed loan
were adequate and that prior approval of small sub-loans would not be
necessary. 1/ Instead of a free limit, DBP and IGLF would be required
to submit monthly data on loan approvals together with appraisal reports
for all sub-loans over P 500,000. 'NEA would be required to submit feasibil-
ity studies for all its co-operative loans. A review of these reports cou-
pled with frequent and intensive supervision missions would suffice to ensure
that resources were being soundly allocated.
V. ECONOMIC IMPACT
Impact of Sub-Projects to be Financed
5.01      Over 900 sub-projects and 24 co-operatives would be financed under
the proposed loan. Estimates of the direct impact of World Bank funds on
total investment in SMI, employment, and annual output generated when these
sub-projects and co-operatives are in full operations are as follows:
Total Additional Capital Investment in SMI            P 305 million (approx)
Annual Additional Gross Output                        P 475 million (  "   )
Annual Additional Gross Value Added                   P 150 million (  "   )
Annual Additional Returns to Labor                    P  48 million (  "   )
Additional Employment Generated                      12,300 jobs    (  "   )
1/   In DBP, Industrial Projects Department I, which will handle all loans
above P 1 million is already entrusted with a free limit of US$1 mil-
lion under a previous Bank loan. Sponsoring banks under IGLF will be
restricted to maximum loan sizes of P 800,000 and will be accredited
on the basis of their appraisal and follow-up capability. Their
appraisals will be closely monitored by the CB (which has satisfac-
tory standards) and by the Bank. On the basis of these considerations
the supervision mechanism proposed above is felt to be the most effi-
cient for this type of project.



- 24 -
5.02      The accelerated SMI financing program, which will make available
a significantly greater amount of funds than previously, coupled with great-
er efficiency in the use of these resources, is expected to increase pre-
viously modest SMI annual employment growth rates from 0.5% to 3.0%; value
added from 4% to 7.0% in real terms; and the wage bill from 0.1% to 3.0% Ln
real terms annually over the 4 year disbursement period. Thereafter, when
projects are in full production the rate of growth of value-added is expected
to increase to 7.5% and the wage bill to 4.5% annually. As the funds will be
directed primarily to less-developed regions, the increased growth in SMI
will effect a more equitable regional distribution of jobs and income, in
terms of returns to labor as well as to small investors. In addition, the
availability of manufactured goods and services in closer proximity to local
markets will benefit the consumer in the form of lower prices. '
5.03      Prior calculation of individual economic rates of return for this
number of different sub-projects is cl'arly not possible.  Tne aggregate
internal financial rate of return for these sub-projects is estimated at
over 38% (Annex 12). The rate of return for the 24 NEA industrial co-opera-
tives is estimated to be nearly 32%. These rates of return are based on in-
cremental gross output resulting from additional capital investment under
the proposed project as the principal benefit versus investment and produc-
tion costs over a conservatively estimated average life of 10 years for all
sub-projects. To monitor the economic impact of the project, the mission
has recommended that an evaluation system be implemented, whereby a sample
of sub-projects would be earmarked for follow-up in the field by the Busi-
ness Research Department (BRD) in DBP and by the Bank's supervision missions.
The 24 co-operatives would be similarly evaluated by NEA.  In addition, data
submitted periodically to the Bank as part of normal reporting requirements
from DBP, IGLF and NEA would also enable evaluations of economic impact from
time to time. The Information and Planning Unit in the DOI's Commission on
Small and Medium Industries would also assist in collecting economic data
and conducting periodic analyses.
5.04      A project monitoring and evaluation system has also been recom--
mended for the Regional Technical Assistance Centers. The direct and in--
direct impact of these centers (which would provide technical services in a
variety of fields to both new and established firms) on increased employment,
productivity, sales, and efficiency cannot yet be estimated. The proposed
evaluation system is expected to facilitate planning for future expansion
into services most in demand and to derive estimates of the direct impact
of such services.



- 25 -
VI. OBJECTIVES AND FEATURES OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
Objectives of the Proposed Loan
6.01      With the proposed loan the Bank would play a useful and timely
institution-building role and contribute to the achievement of GOP's small
and medium industry development objectives. In terms of resource transfer,
the proposed loan would enable GOP to:
(i) substantially increase the flow of resources to SMI:
over the next 2-year period direct investment in
SMI under the proposed project alone would total
over P 340 million;
(ii)  provide SMI with greater access to institutional credit:
between FY76-77 lending to SMI through DBP would be almost
double the total amount lent between FY72-75 while lending
through IGLF would have quadrupled. In addition the number
of financial institutions lending to SMI under IGLF and
their "reach" would be increased substantially;
(iii)  contribute to a greater regional dispersal of investment:
in FY74 about 48% of DBP's loans to SMI and 57.4% of
IGLF's STD's were provided for projects in the Manila
area. By FY77 these proportions are expected to fall to
37% and 40% respectively. This would mean a fivefold
increase in the amount invested outside Manila between
FY74 and FY77 compared to a tripling of investment in the
Manila area. The NEA co-operative program would be a
further step towards attempting a unique approach to the
development of modern small industry in rural areas.
(iv) contribute significantly to employment creation: The
roughly 900 sMI sub-projects financed through DBP and
IGLF are expected to result in the creation of 6,500
additional jobs, whilst NEA's industrial co-operatives
will add a further 5,800.
6.02      Under the proposed loan GOP and the Bank would expect to see the
following institution-building objectives achieved.
(i)  DBP:  reductions in loan processing time and improvements
in operational efficiency; improvements in the management
of SMI lending operations; improved organizational arrange-
ments at head office and in the branches; improved appraisal
and follow-up; improvements in DBP's information and record-
keeping system for SMI operations; qualitative and quantitative
strengthening of staff in IPD-II, BAAD, and in the branches;
improved implementation of existing policies and a gradual



- 26 -
re-orientation of present lending policies for SMI loans
especially those concerning collateralization and working
capital financing.
(ii)  IGLF:  a restructuring of IGLF's existing operating mechanism;
encouraging the building up of more widespread SMI lending
capabilities in a variety of financial institutions through
a sound accreditation system; improved appraisal and follow-up
practices coupled with improvements in local financial services
available to smaller entrepreneurs located outside Greater
Manila; further streamlining of CB's monitoring and review
procedures; and improvements in record-keeping and SMI project
monitoring through the compilation of better information on
arrearages.
(iii)  with the industrial co-operatives:  greater systematization in
NEA's approach to the establishment of industrial co-operatives
through improved planning and more sharply focussed feasibility
studies; qualitative and quantitative improvements in PUD
staff; a lessening of co-operatives' dependence on indefinite
NEA assistance; elimination of interest-rate subsidies; improve-
ments in co-operative management; improvements in procurement
practices; and improvements in monitoring and evaluating the
process of co-operative development.
(iv)  with RTAC's:  creation of an institutional framework for
providing technical assistance to smaller entrepreneurs
outside Greater Manila; and improvements in DOI's technical
assistance and support capabilities both in Manila and in the
regions.
6.03      At a more general level, the Bank, through its involvement with
several agencies in the SMI sub-sector, can also hope to contribute to
better inter-agency co-ordination at policy making levels and render more
effective the functioning of the Commission on Small and Medium Industries
(CSMI) on which these agencies are represented.
Main Features of the Loan
6.04      Form of Bank Lending:  The proposed loan of US$30.0 million would
be made to GOP which would relend the proceeds to DBP (US$15 million), IGLF
(US$12 million), and NEA (US$2.3 million). The remaining US$0.7 million for
financing the RTAC's would be retained by the Government and appropriated
as an addition to the DOI budget.
6.0       Purposes of the Loan:  Sub-loans financed through the proceeds of
the proposed loan would be used to finance both fixed assets and permanent



- 27 -
working capital 1/ for a wide range of SMI sub-projects in manufacturing,
agro-industries, transportation services, engineering repair facilities of
various types and small construction industries (paragraph 4.29). However,
this loan would not be used to finance projects already covered by other
IBRD loans through DBP (viz. grain processing, livestock, fisheries and
medium/large industries) 2/ and the rural credit loans through CB. Loans
to medium sized firms (i.e. sub-loans over P 1 million) would be made only
by DBP and would absorb up to a maximum of US$5 million (P 35 million) or
about 17% of the proposed loan amount.
6.06      Currencies:  As virtually all goods to be financed under the pro-
posed loan would be locally procured (paragraph 6.08), sub-loans advanced
by the DBP, IGLF and NEA would be made in local currency. The portion ear-
marked for the RTAC's would also finance local currency expenditures.
6.07      Foreign Exchange Risk:  In this instance it would be difficult to
pass on the foreign exchange risk to sub-borrowers who will be borrowing in
local currency to make purchases locally. Although local purchases are ex-
pected to have a lhigh import content (80-85% for equipment and machinery;
55-60% for buildings and civil works) most items when purchased would al-
ready have been imported and the exchange risk incurred by the importer/
distributor. In accordance with normal Bank lending practices the financial
intermediaries would not bear the exchange risk. As with the livestock,
grain-processing and fisheries loans through DBP and the rural credit loans
through CB the risk would be borne entirely by the Government.
6.08      Procurement:  The Bank's normal requirements for international
competitive bidding (ICB) would be clearly inappropriate for application
to the sub-projects financed under this loan. The diversity of sub-projects
across industry branches, their geographic dispersal and differences in the
timing of investment also militate against the possibility of bulked pro-
curement. DBP and IGLF (and sponsoring banks under IGLF) have adequate
procedures to ensure that purchases from their sub-loans are made with due
regard for economy and efficiency. For the industrial co-operatives the
Bank would require NEA to apply its normal practices for close supervisory
control over procurement by the co-operatives. The Government's procure-
ment procedures, which are satisfactory to the Bank, would be applied for
the procurement of office equipment and vehicles for the RTAC's.
1/   Defined as capital requirements for "the initial stock of raw mate-
rials and supplies needed for the commencement of operations or the
increase in such stock needed for the expansion of operations".
2/   The issue of overlap between the proposed loan and the previous DFC
type loan of DBP for industrial investment is further discussed in
Annex 4, paragraph 26.



- 28 -
6.09      Proportion of Bank Financing and Disbursement:  The estimated
foreign exchange component of sub-projects (including co-operatives) to
be financed under this project is an average 64% of total cost (Annex 10).
Under the proposed loan the Bank would finance 60% of total project cost,
the financial institution 20%, and the entrepreneur (or co-operative mem-
bers) 20%. For administrative simplicity disbursements would be made
against 75% of the value of DBP's and NEA's loans and IGLF's STD's against
supporting evidence of disbursements by DBP, IGLF and NEA on a quarterly
basis. Disbursements for the RTAC's would be made on a direct expenditure
basis upon submission of satisfactory evidence by DOI. The estimated dis-
bursement schedule for the loan is shown in Annex 11.
6.11      Amortization.  with over 900 sub-loans the administrative com-
plexities involved in an amortization schedule based on an aggregate of
the amortization schedules of individual sub-loans would be considerable.
Consequently, a fixed amortization schedule stretching over a 16-year
period with a 4-year period of grace has been recommended. Sub-loans under
the project would have a maximum maturity of 12 years with a maximum grace
period of 2 years. It is expected that the proceeds of the proposed loan
would be committed in 2 years and disbursed within 4 years of the signing
of the loan.
6.11      Sub-Loan Sizes:  The maximum size of sub-loan to be financed under
the proceeds of the proposed loan would be P 2.5 million (about US$360,000
equivalent) for the DBP (paragraph 6.05) and P 800,000 (about US$115,000
equivalent) for the IGLF and NEA. Average sizes of loans however are ex-
pected to be about P 390,000 (or US$55,000 equivalent) for the DBP and
P 210,000 (or US$30,000 equivalent) for the IGLF.
6.12      Free Limits:  As indicated in paragraph 4.32 the free limit
mechanism is not considered to be an appropriate mechanism for project
monitoring or for influencing the quality of appraisals under the pro-
posed loan. Instead, DBP and IGLF would be required to submit monthly
summary statements of loans approved along with key information on such
approvals, together with appraisal reports for all loans above P 500,000
which would be reviewed on a post approval basis. These reviews coupled
with more frequent supervision missions in the early stages of project
implementation should suffice to ensure that sub-loan approvals are based
on sound financial, technical, market and economic considerations.
6.13      Relending and On-lending Rates:  Sub-loans under the proposed
loan would be on-lent to ultimate borrowers at 12%, the statutory maximum
applicable to secured long-term loans in the Philippines. The re-lending
rate between GOP and the intermediary financing institutions would be the
prevailing Bank rate of 8.5%. The spread on Bank funds to the DBP and to
sponsoring banks under IGLF would be 3.5%. The spread to NEA would be 3.25%
since loans to industrial co-operatives would be made through the electricity
co-operatives for a fee of 0.25 % (Annex 6, paragraph 15).  In the event of
an increase in the statutory ceiling on interest rates, DBP, IGLF and NEA
would consult the Bank on the new on-lending rate to be charged to ultimate
borrowers and on the disposition of the increased spread.



- 29 -
6.14      Spread to Sponsoring Banks undder IGLF:  Although the spread to
sponsoring banks on Bank funds would be 3.5%, such funds would be blended
with a cost free GOP contribution to IGLF's permanent capital to make STD's
available to sponsoring banks at an average 7% thus providing them with an
overall spread of 5%.  This size of spread is considered the minimum margin
necessary to induce sponsoring banks to absorb bothi tiie much higher adminis-
trative costs and default rates associated with SHI lending (Annex 9).
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AT NEGOTIATIONS
7.01      During negotiations the following assurances were obtained from
representatives of GOP (i.e. DOI and-NEDA), DBP, and NEA:
The Government agreed to:
(i)  increase the on-lending rate to be paid by
ultimate sub-borrowers for IGLF backed loans
from 10% to 12% (paragraph 4.09);
(ii) charge an additional guarantee fee of 2% of the
amount guaranteed to be paid by the ultimate
sub-borrower for the automatic 60% guarantee
coverage (paragraph 4.09); the guarantee would
accrue to IGLF with the sponsoring bank acting
as its collection agent;
(iii) increase the interest rate on STD's charged to
sponsoring banks from 5% to 7% resulting in a 5%
spread for sponsoring banks (paragraph 6.13); and
(iv) expedite the registration of NEA's industrial
co-operatives with DLGCD (paragraph 4.19).
DBP agreed to:
(i)  reduce arrears on SMI loans; improve arrears
reporting by branches (paragraph 4.06); and to
submit complete data on SMI loan arrearages to
the Bank on a quarterly basis; and
(ii) submit to the Bank monthly reports (by IPD-II)
on all loan approvals, and appraisal reports
for all loans over P 500,000 (paragraph 6.12).



- 30 -
With respect to IGLF, assurances were also obtained on:
(i)  the collection and compilation of arrears data
by CB's Industrial Loans Division on all out-
standing IGLF backed loans (paragraph 4.13) and
submission to the Bank of such data within six
months of loan signature following which arrears
would be reported on a quarterly basis;
(ii)  audits of the SMI portfolios of sponsoring banks
being carried out by CB in those instances where
CB felt that coverage in a sponsoring bank's
normal audit was not adequate (paragraph 4.15); and
(iii)  submission of monthly reports by CB's Industrial
Loans Division on all loan approvals under IGLF
and of all appraisal reports for loans over
P 500,000 (paragraph 6.12).
In addition iNEA agreed to:
(i)  increase interest rates on NEA loans to industrial
co-operatives from 6% to 12% (paragraph 4.22); and
(ii)  set up and staff a project evaluation and
monitoring unit in PUD within 12 months of
loan signature (paragraph 4.24).
Condition of Loan Effectiveness
Prior to the loan being declared effective, the Govern-
ment agreed to increase by P 30 million IGLF's permanent
capital as of December 31, 1974 through a cost-free
government contribution (paragraph 4.14).



ANNEX 1
Page 1
RECENT DEVELOPMENTS IN THE
PHILIPPIIE ECONOMY, MD THE INDUSTRIAL AND FINANCIAL SECTORS
A. The Philippine Economy 1/
1.        background.  In contrast with the economy's sluggish performance
prior to 1972, the last two years have seen a sharp increase in economic
activity in the Philippines. In 1973 real GNP grew by 10%, double the 5.6%
average for the preceding decade; despite turbulence in the international
economy the growth momentum was maintained in 1974. Economic recovery in
the Philippines resulted from the combined effect of increased export prices
in 1973, a strong recovery in agricultural and industrial production for the
domestic market and an expansion in public and private investment. However,
in 1974, external terms of trade deteriorated abruptly, the rate of infla-
tion rose appreciably, and unemployment and underemployment continued to
pose serious problems. The Government's record in introducing a number of
needed social and economic reforms has been impressive, particularly in
land and agrarian reform, taxation, customs administration, tariff revision
and the restructuring of banking and government organization. It will be
some time, however, before the full impact of these measures is felt. Action
remains to be taken in other policy areas, for instance in revising the dis-
torted interest rate structure which has effectively blocked the development
of an efficient market for the mobilization of long-term resources.
2.        Current Performance.  In 1974 real GNP grew by 5.9%.  Favorable
price trends caused a 47% increase in export receipts to US$2,504 million,
despite a reduction in volume. Non-traditional exports increased by 45%.
Imports, however, doubled to US$2,877 million with substantial price and
volume increases being recorded in raw materials imports and machinery
and equipment. The merchandise trade deficit of US$373 million (compared
to a surplus of US$293 million in FYi3) was offset by substantial increases
in invisible transactions and foreign capital inflows resulting in a balance
of payments surplus of nearly US$70 million. International reserves as of
December 31, 1974 stood at US$1,150 million, the increase of US$274 million
in FY74 being largely derived from the Central Bank's (CB's) compensatory
borrowings amounting to US$204 million. The growth performance of major
economic sectors was mixed. Growth in manufacturing, mining, construction
and commerce slowed down considerably while growth in the agricultural and
services sectors (particularly tourism) increased. Agricultural crop pro-
duction continued to grow at an annual rate of 10%.  Tre freely floating
I/  For a detailed discussion please refer to the latest economic report
entitled "Current Economic Position and Prospects of the Philippines"
(Report No. 568-PH dated November 7, 1974).



AeNEX 1
Page 2
peso dropped in value against the dollar from an average of P 6.72 to 12 7.07
in November 1974 (a depreciation of 4.5%) at which level it has since stayed.
Investment continued at high levels in 1974, with a 20% increase in durable
equipment purchases.  Prices, however, continued their climb at a steep rate,
the CPI rising at an average annual rate of 36% in 1974. Toward the end of
the year inflation showed some signs of abating with the CPI in December
reflecting a year-to-year increase of 27.3%.
3.        Future Directions and Prospects for Growth.  The Government remains
committed to its strategy for a continued increase in incomes and employment.
As enunciated in the 1974-77 Development Plan its objectives are to achieve
a long-term annual growth rate of 7% coupled with an annual rate' of employ-
ment creation of 4%. Priority is being given to:  achieving self-sufficiency
in food production; export production; and accelerating the development of
local energy resources. The achievement of GNP growth at 7% annually through
the rest of the decade depends largely on the domestic market. Tile bank's
recent economic mission considers prospects bright for a 4-5% increase in
agricultural output with a concomitant increase in real agricultural incomes.
This together with continued expansion in public and private investment: should
help sustain industrial output expansion, although perhaps at lower than 1973
rates. To ensure a stable climate for continued growth the Government has
given top priority to reducing the present rate of inflation. With its pol-
icy of absorbing excess liquidity and with the passage of the worst cost-
push pressures from higher import prices, the rate of domestic inflation is
expected to subside to 20-25% by early 1975. Monetary policy will probably
continue to be directed at countering undue expansion in domestic liquidity
and holding down price increases.
B. The Industrial Sector 1/
4.        The Role of Industry.  Over the long-term, heavy reliance is
being placed on industrial expansion in achieving income and employment:
growth targets. In view of the failure of the industrial sector over the
past decade to provide employment opportunities commensurate with levels
of investment, the Government's thrust is toward the promotion of employ-
ment opportunities through the encouragement of labor intensive methods of
production, increasing foreign exchange earnings througJh the rapid expan-
sion of manufactured exports, the strengthening of intra- and inter-industry
linkages and the intensification of efforts at a wider regional dispersion
of investment. Accordingly, the Government has given high priority to in-
vestments in export-oriented projects and to the further development of
small- and medium-scale industrial enterprises.
1/   The Industrial Sector is discussed in detail in IBRD Report No. 280-PH
"Industrial Development Problems and Prospects in the Philippines",
dated March 19, 1974.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
5.        Recent Growth.  Industry (manufacturing, mining and construction)
represents the third largest sector in the Philippine economy (after agri-
culture and services), accounting for 28/o of net domestic product in 1974,
absorbing over a third of total fixed investment and providing employment
for 15% of the total labor force. Reflecting tne strong recovery of the
economy in 1973, industry grew by around 11%, a markedly higher rate than
the average growth rate of 6% in the 1960's and early 70's. Faced with
higher production costs and declining domestic demand industrial growth
was arrested in 1974. An increasing proportion of manufacturing output
is export-oriented.  Non-traditional manufactures accounted for over 11.8%
of total exports in 1973 and 15.5% in the first six months of 1974 compared
with less tnan 5.7% in 1969. The value of such exports increased from US$49
million in 1969 to US$200 million in 1973 and US$190 million in the first
semester of 1974.
6.        Structure.  Manufacturing, which accounts for over two-thirds of
all industrial activity, is predominantly privately owned and is generally
concentrated in large-scale, vertically integrated, relatively capital-
intensive units.  In 1971, organized manufacturing units with between 3-19
employees accounted for 80% of the total number of registered enterprises
but for less than 17% of industrial employment, 8% of the payroll, 4.3%
of value added and 5.5% of total assets of manufacturing enterprises.
Within the group of establishments with more than 20 workers small and
medium scale industries (i.e. establishments with between 20-199 employees)
accounted for 81% of the number of establishments, employed 27% of manu-
facturing labor and contributed 21% to gross value-added. By sectors,
food and beverages represent the largest industry group, with chemicals
and petrochemicals secohd, and textiles ranking third. Geographically,
over 60% of manufacturing enterprises are concentrated in the Greater
Manila and Southern Luzon area, with increasing industrialization taking
place in Mindanao.
7.        Orientation.  Its growing export orientation notwithstanding,
Philippine manufacturing is geared mainly to production for the domestic
consumer market. This is attributable to an industrialization strategy
which previously (in the 1950's and 60's) placed excessive emphasis on
import substitution, resulting in a domestic market highly protected by
both direct import controls and high tariffs. The industrial investment
and output thus encouraged tapered off with the exhaustion of possibili-
ties for easy import substitution. For a time, the protected market, the
lack of any direction and regulation of investment, and cheap capital re-
sulted in chronic overcapacity in several industries and created severe
financial difficulties for several large enterprises. However, with
better markets at home and abroad, a more realistic exchange rate and
better regulation of investment this situation has improved considerably
in the last three years. With the exception of a few sectors, mainly
linked to weakening export markets (e.g. the wood industry), industry
has been operating at relatively high levels of capacity utilization
throughout 1974. Increased investments will be needed to meet the
expected growth in demand for a wide range of consumer and intermediate
goods in the next few years. Moreover the rapidly increasing cost of



ANNEX 1
Page 4
many imported goods has broadened the range of possibilities for further
import substitution. The current emphasis is on the more effective use
of installed capacity and on promoting the development of small and
medium scale modern enterprises to produce for both domestic and export
markets. Hiowever, as the recent economic report has pointed out, growing
export demand also seems to justify a wider range of investments in the!
late 1970's in large-scale, capital intensive projects, particularly in
the mineral-based processing industries. The development of such large
scale strategic industries would not only strengthen industrial linkages
but also reduce dependence on imported capital and intermediate goods
over the long run as well as expand the industrial export base. The
Government plans to locate these lafge industrial projects on estates to
facilitate the development of satellite medium and small service industries.
Tne total cost of such major projects in the pipeline (which include copper
and aluminum smelters, iron ore sintering, ship building, an integrated
steel mill, fertilizer plants and wood processing) is expected to exceed
US$3 billion (in 1974 prices).
8.        Employment in Industry.  Pnilippine industrialization through
the 1960's and early 1970's contributed disappointingly little toward
alleviating the persistent problems of unemployment and underemployment
Between '960-71 emr.ployment in manufacturing grew at an annual rate of
.flout 2.5%; in 1972 it fell by 0.3% and again in 1973 by 3.3%.  The
share of manufacturing in total employment has actually dropped from
12.1% in 1960 to 10.7% in 1973. The distribution of manufacturing employ-
ment in the Pnilippines is unusually dualistic in its concentration in the
"unorganized" cottage sector and in very large firms. Employment growth
in the former has been very slow (1.6% annually) while in the latter it
nas been moderately rapid (5.4% annually).  However large-scale firms are
unlikely to make a significant contribution to the surplus labor problelm
because of their capital intensity.  The recent Ranis mission 1/ which has
focused on employment concluded that ---- "if the manufacturing sector is
to play its assigned role in the missionts employment strategy, much more
of the employment growth must come from modern small and medium sized
firms".
9.        Policies.  Since 1968, the industrial sector has been affected
by several policy changes. The most important of these include: (i) a
reform of investment and export incentives and the establishment of the
Board of Investments (B OI); (ii) the exchange rate adjusthent; and (iii)
tariff policy. In July 1974, a new Department of Industry (DOI) was
created to develop and co-ordinate policies in the industrial sector
and to monitor industrial performance. DOI's organization and functions
are detailed in Volume II of this report.
1/   ILO Report entitled Sharing in Development:  A programme of employment,
equity and growth for the Philippines, 1974.  (esp. pp. 141-148).



ANNEX 1
Page 5
10.       Investment and Export Incentives.  The Investment Incentives
Act (R.A. 5186) of 1967 reformed and subsumed the previous fragmented
structure of incentives; it was supplemented by the Export Incentives
Act (R.A. 6135) in 1970.  both acts were amended in 1973 with a "labor-
intensity"1 criterion being introduced. These Acts resulted in a reduction
of taxes and tariffs foregone from 20% of annual gross investments (between
1965-68) to 10% (between 1968-72) and in a change in the composition of
taxes forgiven.  Exemptions have emphasized income and sales tax relief
(which do not discriminate against domestic products) and reduced reliance
on import duty. Export incentives, which have been widely availed of,
have assisted the growth of exports and the diversification of the export
product range.
11.       The Board of Investments (BOI). Tne responsibility for deter-
mining the eligibility of and registering projects for incentives and
regulating private industrial investment lies with the BOI. Accordingly,
it: issues an annual Investment Priorities Plan (IPP) listing those
activities which qualify for incentives; determines the additional capac-
ity required in industries; and approves individual investment projects in
line with the annual IPP. The BOI also draws up a periodical list of "over-
crowded industries" in which the Government discourages further investments
by refusing incentives and foreign exchange for imports. The BOI plays a
central role as an "evalution and appraisal" body which delves deeply into
the technical, financial and economic viability of industrial projects.
Its project evaluation is of high quality. BOI is, in addition, an active
promotional agency, which by virtue of its powers to provide or refuse in-
centives guides investment and reshapes project design. It also assists
private investors with arrangements for domestic and international market-
ing and subcontracting, and undertakes specific industry and market studies
for them. BOI has been endeavoring to improve its operations, policies and
procedures, and to that end has received, since 1972, the technical assis-
tance of tine UNDP in a program for which the Bank is the Executing Agency.
About one-half of new industrial investment in the Philippines now goes
into projects approved by bOI.
12.       Exchange Rate.  The floating of the peso in Februarv 1970 resulted
in a large de facto devaluation of about 60% (from p 3.9 to P 6.7 to LUS$1).
Since then the peso has been allowed to float freely.  Toward the end of
1974 it depreciated further against the dollar, the present exchange rate
being P 7.07 = US$1.00. Tne more realistic excaange rate has reduced dis-
tortions in the price of inputs, discouraged currency speculation through
over-invoicing, and made Philippine manufactured exports more competitive.
The original devaluation also hit very hard those industrial firms heavily
dependent on imported inputs and with sizeable foreign debts.  The problems
of debt-servicing thus created have slowly been ironed out. The initial
'ishock" of the devaluation has now7 worked itself through the system and
the maintenance of a more realistic exchange rate will probably have a
salutary effect on future resource allocation.



ANNEX 1
Page 6
13.       Revision of Tariffs.  A number of changes and improvements took
place in the structure of protection with the passage of Presidential Decree
No. 34 which took effect on January 1, 1973. Although introduced princi-
pally as a revenue measure, the new tariff code has simplified and re-
arranged the previous structure.  A minimum tariff rate of 10% is imposed
on raw materials which have to be imported and on capital goods not yet
manufactured in the Philippines. Higher rates, of between 30-70%, are
levied on intermediate and consumer goods, with a maximum 100% rate applied
to products manufactured domestically and to luxury items. Tne element of
protection in the tariff structure is reinforced by an import licensing
system administered in consultation with BOI for industrial products and
capital goods for which domestic capacity exists or is planned.' BOI can
also recommend changes in tariff rates for industries included in the IPP.
Because of licensing and the fact that nominal rates for complete products
are higher than for inputs or components, the level of effective protection
for domestic finished products is generally higher than the nominal rate.
14.       Policy-Making and Implementation.  The BOI, originally designed
as the principal regulatory agency which would guide industrial investment,
has, by default, been increasingly involved in policy-making. To relieve
it of the resulting overload two new Government agencies are expected to
play an important role alongside the BOI in formulating and implementing
industrial policies. The first is the National Economic Development Author-
ity (NEDA). Created in 1973, NEDA is now the principal apex policy-making
institution, and is responsible for the preparation of the 4-year Develop-
ment Plan. The second is the newly established Department of Industry (DOI).
15.       Industrial Investment.  Manufacturing investment maintained the
real growth rate of about 9% recorded in 1973 through 1974. The paid-in
capital of newly registered manufacturing firms in the first half of 1974
increased by 77.3% over a similar period in 1973 to P 146.1 million. In-
vestments in 1301 registered firms nearly tripled to P 876.5 million over
the first half of 1973 with an increasing share being channeled to agro-
based industries, mineral processing, and metal based industries. Direct
foreign investments in the Philippines grew by about 170% to P 567.8 mil-
lion between January-June 1974. There was a significant increase in
Japanese foreign investment which accounted for nearly 40% of total foreign
investment in the period. Domestic investment increased by 235% over the
first half of 1973 to P 308.7 million. NEDA's tentative development plans
call for total industrial investment over the 4-year period 1975-78 to be
around P 25 billion (in 1974 prices) or over 27% of total fixed capital
formation. This represents a real increase of about 60% over the previous
4 years. Investment in manufacturing will account for over 67%, increasing
in real terms by an average of 13% annually between FY75-78. The Govern-
ment expects 79% of these requirements to be financed through domestic
sources, 1/ 2% from direct foreign investment and 19% from guaranteed com-
mercial foreign borrowings. This level of investment will require more
1/   Apart from cash generated internally by firms, and personal savings
this figure also includes foreign resources mobilized by domestic
financial intermediaries such as (DBP, CB and PDCP) from official
multilateral and bilateral aid sources.



ANNEX 1
Page 7
than a doubling in resource mobilization from traditional domestic sources,
the prospects for which, under the present interest rate regime, are not
particularly bright. Tne main sources of industrial finance are discussed
below.
C. The Financial Sector
16.       Overview.  The Philippines has a relatively well developed finan-
cial system with Manila becoming a regional financial center of increasing
prominence. The core of the system is a large and sophisticated commercial
banking sector regulated by the Central Bank of the Philippines (CB). There
are in addition a variety of specialized financial institutions e.g. indus-
trial term financing institutions, investment houses, and savings and loan
associations. The Land Bank was recently revitalized to finance the Gov-
emmnent's agrarian reform program. Over the last 5-6 years the Government
has encouraged the rapid development of a network of small independently
owned and operated rural banks and private development banks which would
concentrate on providing needed financial services to their localities.
There is also a well-developed (perhaps over developed) short-term money
market on which a variety of good quality commercial and industrial issues
circulate. The present statutory ceilings on long-term interest rates
however have prohibited the development of a sound long-term capital
market. Although two stock exchanges exist, activity on them is heavily
concentrated on speculative issues.
17.       Commercial Banks.  There were, as of December 31, 1974, 30 pri-
vately-owned Filipino commercial banks, and two owned by the Government.
Branches of four foreign banks also operate in the Philippines. Over half
of the Filipino banks have been established in the last decade. They oper-
ate under a branch banking system (there are over 720 branches) and are the
main sources of working capital and trading credits. The largest bank is
the Government-owned Philippine National Bank (PNB). With 161 branches,
it accounts for about 24% of the banking system's total assets (over P 40
billion at the end of 1974). The banking system has grown rapidly in 1972
and 1973, doubling its assets in that two-year period. Domestic credits
provided by commercial banks in 1974 amounted to nearly P 27 billion, about
one-third of which went to the manufacturing sector, mainly for short-term
working capital. To strengthen and rationalize the commercial banking
system, CB has instituted a program aimed at doubling the capital base of
the commercial banking system to P 3 billion by end-1975. This would be
achieved through: an increase in paid-in capital; merger and consolida-
tion; and foreign equity participation. So far commercial banks seem to
have opted for the first and last of these courses, with very few mergers.
A large amount of foreign equity has been attracted to the banking sector.
In the 15-month period ending April 1974, 18 foreign banks had arranged
to contribute a total of US$75 million to the capital of local banks.



ANNEX 1
Page 8
18.       Development Finance Institutions,  Two institutions, DBP and
the Private Development Corporation of the Philippines (PDCP) are the
main providers of long-term finance with DBP (total assets of P 6.75 bil-
lion) by far the larger of the two. PDCP's total assets as of the end of
1974 were P 747 million, with outstanding loans to industry amounting to
P 580 million.  Its foreign resources are derived mainly from the Bank
Group (US$110 million so far) and the Asian Development Bank (US$45 mil-
lion).
19.       Other Term-Financing Institutions.  Besides DBP and PDCP,
several institutions provide term finance, a very small proportion of
whichl goes to industry.  These include:  (i) the National Investment
and Development Corporation (NIDC), a subsidiary of PUIB; (ii) private
investment houses; (iii) insurance companies; and (iv) pension and trust
funds including the Government Service Insurance System (GSIS) and the
Social Security System (SSS), whose resources for industry are funnelled
mainly through DBP.  While the outstanding loan portfolios of these insti-
tutions now total over p 8 billion, the bulk of their lending is for real
estate (60%) and consumer loans (25%).
20.       Rural Banks.  There are now about 690 rural banks established
all over the Philippines with, total assets of about P 1.6 billion and a
deposit base of about P 0.8 billion. These institutions are generally
small regional "unit banks" (average paid-in capital of about P 350,000)
that lend mostly to local farmers (average loan size of P 1,000) who
account for 87.2% of their total business and businessmen (average loan
size P 1,200) who account for 12%. The growth of these institutions is
being fostered by the Central Bank's Department of Rural Banks and Savings
and Loan Association (DRBSLA). Under a 4-year development plan for rural
banks, their number is expected to increase to 1,015 by 1977 and their
loaning capability is expected to grow from P 1.2 billion to P 3.1 bil-
lion. Rural banks receive counterpart equity contributions, loans and
technical assistance from CB along with tax exemption privileges and
special rediscounting schemes to supplement their credit extension
abilities.
21.       Private Development Banks (PDBs).  These institutions, of which
there are now 32, have been promoted by DBP in various regions (with much
the same assistance as provided by CB to rural banks) to specialize in the
mobilization and lending of long-term resources for small local ventures.
As of June 30, 1974, total assets of PDB's amounted to about P 243 million
and they had a deposit base of about P 130 million. Loan investments of
PDB in 1974 totalled about P 65 million, 75% of which were in the form of
medium and long-term loans. Agricultural loans (average size P 7,400)
accounted for about 50% of total lending while industrial loans (average
size P 12,700) accounted for a further 30%, the remainder being for trading/
commercial firms.
22.       Savings Banks.  There are 10 savings banks in the Philippines
with a network of 56 branches. Drawing funds mainly from households and
individual savers in the form of time, deposits these thrift institutions



AXUEX 1
Page 9
had aggregated total assets of P 1,047 million and deposits of P 853 mil-
lion as of June 30, 1974. Of all financial institutions, savings banks
have exhibited the fastest rate of asset growth over the last 4 years (an
average 23% per annum) as a result of their aggressive marketing campaigns
aimed especially at lower income groups. They lend mostly for housing and
real estate, although in the past 2 years an increasing proportion of their
resources have been channelled into Government securities.
23.       Savings and Loan Associations (SLA's).  SLA's, of which there
are over 100, can be either "stock" (36) i.e. they can engage in deposit
and banking business with the public at large or "non-stock" (66) when
they are limited in their banking transactions to members only (credit
unions). Two thirds of all SLA's are located in the Greater Manila area.
As of June 1974, SLA's had total assets of about P 230 million and a deposit
base of P 121 million. Most of the business of "stock" SLA's is in the fi-
nancing of home mortgages while non-stock associations specialize in per-
sonal consumption loans. With the assistance of CB, SLA's are beginning
to diversify their lending operations into financing agricultural and
small aome-based cottage industries.
24.       Investment Houses.  Defined in Presidential Decree No. 129 as
any enterprise which engages in the underwriting of corporate securities
an investment house is prohibited from engaging in deposit banking busi-
ness. However, it can engage in "quasi-banking" operations through the
generation of deposit substitutes. The minimum paid-in capital require-
ment for an investment house is P 20 million and the majority must be
owned by Filipino nationals. Although there are now 14 investment houses,
5 institutions dominate the industry.  Most are linked with major interna-
tional financial institutions and with large local commercial banks. Their
operations and revenues so far have been heavily based (about 80% on aver-
age) on money market activity rather than on development of the securities
market or the provision of corporate merchant banking services. Total
assets of the investment houses amounted to about P 2.0 billion at the
end of 1974.
25.       Finance Companies.  There are 198 finance companies registered
with the SEC, the 25 largest accounting for 70% of their business. These
companies, mostly subsidiaries of major commercial banks, are heavily
engaged in financing consumer durables on installment payment plans,
short and medium term credits for local manufacturers or-traders for fi-
nancing inventory, receivables or transport equipment. A few such com-
panies have diversified into equipment leasing. Such firms typically
rely on paid-in capital and direct borrowings for cash generation; a
few have successfully placed medium term debentures with the public.
L6.       Suppliers' Credits.  Foreign commercial borrowings guaranteed
by domestic financial intermediaries (principally DBP) have in the past
accounted for 30-35% of investment in manufacturing. Prior to 1970, such
borrowings were obtained on relatively hard terms. As a result of the
stringent debt management measures taken since 1970 by the Central Bank



AiNEX 1
Page 10
which stipulated minimum terms for foreign credits, and the substantial
increases in export earnings, the burden of servicing such debt has been
reduced to a manageable level. DBP's outstanding guarantee (contingent)
liabilities presently stand at close to P 3 billion and account for over
70% of its financial assistance to large industries.
27.       The Money Market.  The Philippine money market provides the
mechanism through which commercial banks and large corporations keep
their liquidity positions in balance. There are basically three spe-
cialized sub-markets:  (i) interbank; (ii) government securities; and
(iii) inter-company.  The government securities market is the principal
segment with the government being the largest trader in funds. The main
security instruments traded in this market are short-term Treasury Bills,
medium-term Central Bank Certificates of Indebtedness (CBCI's) and Treasury
Notes, a5>-!i long-term Progress Bonds issued by DBP. Direct trading in Treas-
ury Bills is generally quite heavy; trading in lbnger term securities howq-
ever is mainly "indirect" i.e. the securities themselves are not traded,
they serve as collateral for "repurchase" agreements between sellers and
buyers. Participation in the intercompany market is restricted to finan-
cial and non-financial public firms with prime credit ratings. A major
deficiency in the money market is the absence of a secondary market for
dealing in and discounting commercial paper. Interest rates on short-
term transactions are not regulated and rates on the money market have
fluctuated between 10-25% in the past year.
28.       The Securities Market.  There are two stock exchanges in the
Philippines, one in Manila (established in 1930) and the other located
in the Makati financial district (established in 1963).  Trading is
heavily oriented towards speculative mining and mineral issues although
the more stable financial and industrial stocks are slowly gaining in
prominence. After a remarkable recovery in 1973 (following a three year
slump between 1969-72) when trading reached an all time high of over P 6
billion, the stock market slumped again reflecting the steady worsening
of the world economy, and the problem of rapid inflation wlhichl nas de-
pressed corporate performance and profits. The substantial gains in
capital market activity in 1973 were attributable to several factors such
as the general recovery of the economy, a decline in money market rates,
and structural reforms based on the recommendations of a joint IMF-Central
Bank Commission.  The reforms included such measures as a reduction in tie
stock transfer tax; exemption from capital gains on the securities of pre-
ferred productive enterprises; repatriation of foreign capital and profits;
a tax amnesty which returned several hundred million pesos from the "Dlack
market" to the capital market; and a compulsory dividend declaration rule
for companies generating profits in excess of reasonable capital expansion
requirements. With the stock market on the decline the Philippine Securi-
ties and Exchange Commission (SEC) banned "short-selling" in July 1974 to
stop the further erosion of confidence in the stock market. The SEC is
considering the introduction of a new system of "matching" (i.e. matching
demand and supply for a particular stock on a daily basis) instead of the



ANNEX 1
Page 11
present system of "posting"' so as to systematize local trading operations,
streamline the trading process and minimize the potential for irregular
trading practices.
29.       Recent Developments in the Financial Sector.  Three major devel-
opments have-taken place in the financial sector over the last year. In
July 1974 the CB raised interest rates on time deposits for up to 2 years
by between 2-3% and removed the ceiling altogether for deposits of over
2 years. Moreover thrift institutions were allowed an 0.5% interest advan-
tage over commercial banks. CB also placed a ceiling of 2% for commercial
banks and 3% for thrift banks on financial charges other than interest rates,
with the intention of substantially reducing effective rates charged by fi-
nancial institutions (add-on charges formerly went as high as 67.). The
second major development was the establishment of a Philippine Foreign Loan
Guarantee Corporation (PFLGC) with an authorized and subscribed capital of
P 1 billion. Its main role will be to alleviate the contingent liability
burdens presently carried by DBP and NIDC and to ensure a steady availabil-
ity of foreign supplier's credits on reasonable terms. PFLGC, in addition
to directly guaranteeing foreign loans, will also be able to counter guaran-
tee the guarantees of other private financial institutions. Lastly, in
August 1974 a special bank - the Philippine Amanah Bank - was created to
serve the interests of the Moslem community.
EAP Projects Department
February 24, 1975



ANNEX 2
Page iL
PHILIPPINES
Government of the Philipines' Program
For the Promotion of Small and Medium Industry
1.        Background. In August 1973, at the direction of the President,
the BOI drew up a program of assistance for ESMI. The main objective of
the program was to coordinate and integrate the activities of the various
agencies involved with the development of SMI; it also set out the
Government's definition of small and medium industry and proposed certain
policy guidelines for providing assistance to SMI. Only a few of the
original proposals have been implemented and some are already out-of-date.
Nevertheless, the Government's program is important in that it sets out
the Government's policy towards SMI, and has already influenced the way
in which the various agencies have set up their own programs for assistance
to SMI. The full text of the Government's program is attached as Appendix 1.
The following is a synoptic presentation of the mission's assessment of the
program in the light of developments since it was first drawn up.
2.       Location and _Tpe of SMI to be Promoted.  The Governmentts program
places heavy emphasis on promoting rural and labor-intensive SMI. While
this emphasis is justified in terms of better income and employment
distribution, the mission feels that it should not be at the expense of
ignoring the legitimate needs of established SMI in the urban areas. Most
SMI   are presently located in the Greater Manila and other urban areas,
and many of them are in urgent need of assistance to improve their financial
structure, production and management methods,and physical plant and machinery.
The mission's view is that while the various agencies should be encouraged to
develop special programs with liberalized policies to promote SMI growth in
rural areas, as is already being done, direct financial and technical
assistance should be provided to both rural and existing urban SMI. Ihe
Government's original criterion for labor intensity (less than F12,00C worth
of imported equipment per worker), was recognized as a loose criterion which
would be difficult to apply. It has since been dropped.
3.       Financial Assistance.  The Government has,since the drafting of the
proposed program,also accepted the view that rather than having small firms
deal with a multiplicity of financial institutions meeting specific financing
needs (i.e. long-term or short-term)it would be better to have all lending
institutions providing both fixed and/or working capital loans to SMI
enterprises. Commercial banks, with the help of ILF, would be encouraged
to undertake term-lending to SMI.
4.       Rural and Private Development Banks.  With the present definition of
small-scale industry the mission feels that there is little scope for rural
and private development banks to participate effectively in financing 13MI.
Very few of them are likely to have the resources and the technical skills
required to undertake project appraisal and follow-up for these sizes of
projects. Since "cottage industry" now includes units capitalized up to



ANNEX 2
Page 2
F100,000, the mission's view is that rural and private development banks
should, with the assistance of NACIDA (National Cottage Industries Develop-
ment Authority), concentrate on this credit segment in their industrial
lending. Howiever some of the larger and better managed rural and private
development banks may be able to obtain accreditation under the proposed
GILF scheme (Annex 5) and thus become involved in SMI financing.
5.       Technical Assistance.  The program correctly identifies the technical
assistance needs of SEE entrepreneurs.  As envisaged by the program, the
Department of Industry has established field teams (MASICAP) to assist pro-
spective entrepreneurs in conceptualizing, organizing and preparing pro-
jects for presentation both to DBP and to IGLF-sponsored institutions. A
new development since the program was drafted, is the introduction of the
Reglwonal Technical Assistance Centers which will be set up under the pro-
posed loan (Annex 8).
6.       Marketing Assistance.  The program identifies the marketing and
purchasing problems of SMI and their causes and makes several concrete
proposals for action. However, it seems unlikely to the mission that the
efforts of the GMTFM (Greater Manila Terminal Food Market, since renamed
the Food Terminal Incorporated), and the actions proposed on the export
front will have more than a marginal impact on alleviating the marketing
problems of SMI. Following discussions with the appraisal mission, the
DOI and the agencies concerned felt that the marketing problems of SMI were
perhaps b-est approached on an industry-by-industry basis rather than uniform
solutions being developed to address essentially different types of problems
encountered in different industries.
7.       Promotion Programs.  The program deals adequately with the necessary
elements of a promotional campaign at the apex. The more difficult but vital
task of building up a 'grassroots' promotional organization in the provinces
has not been dealt with, despite the Government's recognition of its importance
Support of the provincial governments has been sought in establishing inter-
agency coordinating committees on which would be represented the financial
and technical assistance agencies together with local administration
officials. These committees would use area studies already conducted by
DBP and UPISSI to identify and develop sound project possibilities and
'marry' them to available local entrepreneurial talent, perhaps with the
help of MASICAP teams. This approach represents a useful starting point
for strengthening support at the local level and needs to be actively
pursued if the objectives of SMI dispersion are to be achieved.
EAP Projects Department
February 241, 1975



ANNEX 2
Appendix 1, Page 1
FROMOTION AND DEVELOPMNT OF SMALL- AND-
IVEDIUM-SCALE INDUSTTlIES (SMSI) IN RURAL AREAS
The President directed the formulation and recommendation of a
comprehensive program to encourage, assist and accelerate the establishment
of small- and medium-scale industries in the rural areas.  This responds to
that directive. -
Most of the elements of this program derive from the suggestions
and proposals received from various agencies of government, including:
Central Bank                 Bureau of Internal Revenue
NEDA                         Bureau of Customs
SSS                          Department of Labor
GSIS                         NMYC
PNB                          Department of Trade
NACIDA                       UP-ISSI
BOI                          DBP
A.        Coverage:  What is a small or medium scale enterprise?
It is proposed that the following definitions be observed for
the purpose of determining the coverage of the program, noting however
that applicability of some assistance schemes will be limited to certain
categories of enterprises within the program's coverage.
According to the NACIDA Law (R.A. 5326) a cottage industry is
one with capitalization or not more than P15,000 the work is basically
performed in the home of the owner, and he himself, perhaps with his
family, is engaged in the production activity. Under R.A. 5326, certain
incentives are provided to the cottage industry, including exemption from
business taxes and from the Minimum Wage Law. It is proposed that all
enterprises complying with the definition of a cottage industry in RA 5326,
and with total assets up to P100,000 be considered cottage industries.  It
is further proposed that once assets reach P50,000 it shall be given a period
of three years within which phase-out of exemptiun from business taxes and
the Minimum Wage Law shall take place, provided that when their assets reach
P100,000 at any time they cease to become cottage industries and lose all
rights to the exemptions provided under the NACIDA Law. It is further
recommended that BIR, Customs, Department of Labor and NACIDA be directed to
jointly draw up the implementing guidelines and amending legislation to
effect the foregoing.
Cottage industries are the responsibility and are under the
supervision of NACIDA, so that they wlil not be further touched upon in this
proposal, which will consider as small- and. medium-scale industry enterprises
whose total assets exceed P100,000.



AN1IEX 2
AppendTx 1, Page 2
It is proposed to consider in terms of total assebs:
Small-scale industries  --   l00,000 to ?1,000,000
Medium-scale industries  --  Pl,000,O0O to -P4,000,000
The million peso mark may be considered a convenient dividing
kine   An enterprise with total assets less than a million pesos is pro-
posed to be considered as small-scale industry. On the other hand, con-
sidering the rule of thumb that equity investment (i.e., owner's share of
capital) should be a minimwu  of 25% of total assets, a medium-scale industry
is one where total assets exceed Pl million but is less than F4 million and
owners equity in the venture is hence expected to be not more than one
million pesos.
Further distinction in degree of assistance to be extended will
be made between "rural" and"urban" medium- and small-scale industries.  It
is proposed that "urban" include those located:
a.  Within the Greater Manila area.  Definition of this area
needs to be made, for this purpose.
b. Within the city boundaries of Cebu City and Mandaue City.
c.  Within specified districts of Davao City.
d.  Other localities that may be added from time to time.
'Rural" industries would be those not located in "urban" areas,
as above defined.
It is also proposed that only SMSI's which are labor-intensive,
be considered to fall within the assistance program. Although exceptions
may later be made for different categories of needed projects, is proposed
that SMSI's which will require more than P12,000 worth of equipment of imported
origin to employ one worker be considered to fall outside the financial
assistance program.
B.        Financial Assistance
The funds to be made available for establishment and expansion
of SMSI's (small- and medium-scale industries) may be considered of two
types:
a. Fixed capital
b. Working capital
It is proposed that bouh the fixed capital and working capital loan
requirements for establishment of new SMSI' s be borne by LBP and other develop-
ment banking institutions since these funds should normally be supplied as term
loans ranging from 5 to 10 years.  Investment houses, such as PDC?, Bancon and
others should be invited to participate in the capital raising effort, especially
for the medium-scale industries. Further working capital loan needs
should be borne by the banking system--commercial, savings and rural baxks,



ANNEX 2
Appendix 1, Page 3
with the assistance of Central Bank, as will be later illustrated.  This
suggestion is not meant to exclude banking institutions other than iBP from
providing long-term loan funds. It is anticipated, however, that banlcing
institutions, whether commercial banks, rural banks or savings and loan
associations -would rarely be willing to grant loans with terms as long
as 5 years.
B.1       Term Loans
The funding for term loans to SMSI's should not be a problem
over the next year. In its SMSI loan program in FY72-73 (with a P500,000
loan ceiling) DBP approved P55.2 million in industrial loan to 277 borrowers,
an average loan per borrower of P200,000. Even if there should be a four-
fold increase in such loans for FY73-74, because of the program, this
increase would be easily handled by DB?, especially if supported by funds
deposited by SSS and GSIS, and not taking into consideration possible
reiending lines from World Bank and Japanese loans later during the fiscal
year.
It is proposed that the SSS small industries loan fund be merged
with DBP's. This is a 10 million fund, established in 1970 of which P1.7
million has already been lent.  The ceiling for any single loan from this
fund is P100,000.  Repayment experience is reported by SSS as "somewhat
satisfactory"l.
In its report, DBP cites the liberalizations already made in
its collateral and equity requirements. Further liberalization of these
requirements is proposed for the rural small-scale industries (P100,000 to
31,000,000 total assets), and to become uniform with the SSS small-industries
loan fund requirements as follows:
a.  Loan value of up to 90% (instead of 80%) or real estate
appraised value.
b.  Loan value of up to 80% (instead of 60%) on machineries
and equipment.
c.  Loan value of up to 80% on plant buildings.
The rural small-scale industry on this plan would be likely to obtain a
portion, though possibly not all, of its working capital requirements as
a long-term loan.
It is proposed that the term loans to urban small-scale industry
and to medium-scale industry continue with the same requirements as now
imposed by DBP on its small-scale industry loans (F500,000 ceiling).  Future
liberalizations may be considered as IBP's experience with the rural small-
scale industries new financing plan may indicate to be appropriate.
B.2       Working Capital Loans
Tne supplementary loans for working capital of new SMSI's, and
for the expansion of operations of existing small-scale and rural medium-
scale industries should be obtained through the commercial and rural banking



ANNEX 2
Appendix 1, Page h
system as suggested by the Central Bank.  These loans would be guaranteed
by the Industrial Guarantee and Loan Fund, to the extent of 85%.  Hence,
the coliateral requirement for these working capital loans would be
significantly reduced.
Central Bank indicates the need to establish a seed fund of up
to P50 millioni which would initially be deposited as special time deposits
-with participating banks for these SMSI loans.  Further fundiing would be
provided by CB's rediscounting the SMISI promissory notes.
The financing assistance scheme of Central Bank should not
preclude supporting term loans by the banking institutions for both
equipment and working capital.
B.3       Supervised Industrial Credit
The more liberal collateral regulations, Central Bank redis-
counting and the promotional efforts to be mounted to encourage establish-
ment of SMSI's, wJll attract the "hi-fi" and "quick buck" operators.  The
possibility also exists that some banking institutions-will attempt to
represent as loans to SMSI's what are actually loans to its stockholders,
or loans for real estate, or speculative ventures, in order to be entitled
to liberalized rediscounting privileges and/or the Industrial Guarantee and
Loan Fund.
For this reason, the banking institutions participating in the
Central Bank SMSI financing program should be required to employ Supervised
Industrial Credit technitcians, much in the same manner that Supervised
Agricultural Credit techniicians are used for the rice production program.
DBP will also need to supervise its atSI credits more closely and train
employees for this function.  This poses another training need.  It is
suggested that because of the specialized training needed, such be done
at the Development Academy.
B.4       The RaiLsing of Equity by SMSI's
The foregoing measures will operate to reduce the collateral
and equity needed to be raised by SMSI1s.  It would seem unsound, however,
to dispense entirely with collateral and equity requirements. It is
axiomatic that the owners of a business must have some stake in it.  Other-
wise their interest and their determination to make the business succeed
will be considerably lessened.                            I
The question is often raised that marn' entrepreneurs may have
project ideas and managerial capabilit,ies but no capital. The avenue is
always open to them of interestirg someone in the community to go into
partnership with them or to form a corporation, contributing to the equity
of the enterprise at least the land on which the factory will stand.  It
is possible to devise corporate structures by which the entrepreneur
becomes an industrial partner, gets a share of the corporate profits, and
uses this to gradually build up his ow-nership of the corporation until the



ANNEX 2
Appendix 1, Page 5
pre-agreed proportion is reached. Brochures can be issued to suggest
alternative schemes for this purpose.
B.5       Organizational Changes:  have been suggested to be necessary
in the financial institutions which will participate in the SMSI financial
assistance program.
a.  DBP believes it necessary to establish a separate
department for small-and medium-scale industries,
which will be oriented to the requirements of these
smaller industries and towards promoting SMSI projects.
b. It may be advisable for Central Bank to require banks
participating in its SMSI financing program to require
the banks to have special units or sections with
competent, trained personnel to handle the program
for the bank, including Supervised Industrial Credit
technicians.
C.        Technical Assistance
Professional assistance is required by the SNSI at each of the
three stages of development of the SMSI project:
a.  At conceptualization--for investigating the project
feasibility and drawing up the project stuyr.
b.  At organization--to advise on appropriate capital
structure, sources of funiding, management organization,
staffing, worker recruitment and training, seiecting
channels of distribution purchasing of materials, pricing
of products, establishing books of account and accournting
systems, and other aspects of starting the business.
c. Upon operation--for improving the production and
marketing operations, financial management, worker
training management development, product design, etc.
C.1       At Project Conceptualization
Both DBP and SSS have observed that the small-scale entrepreneur
especially from the rural areas finds great difficulty in organizing his
information. Often he will be relatively familiar, or even experienced,
in one aspect of the business, which will most often be either in pro-
duction or marketing. He will rarely have sufficient expertise in finance,
Since, however, he will have ultimately to cast the project in financial
terms, in a logical project package, he will need assistance to do so,
and to examine the other aspectE of the project which his background does
not permit to do with adequate competence.



ANNEX 2
Appendix 1, Page 6
The entrepreneur's first need, therefore, is for assistance in
documenting the project concept, and organizirng its elements:
a. to presenttheimarket for the product, the prices at which
it can be sold, and the customers who will buy it.
b. to present the facilities (equipment, buildings and land)
required to produce the product, the costs of raw materials,
supplies, utilities such as power and water labor costs
and worker requirements, depreciation, maintenance,
administrative overhead and other elements of cost.
c.  to present the capital requirements to acquire and biLld
production facilities, working capital to get the project
started, the estimated income from operations, payments
of interest and loan amortizations--what are often referred
to as income and cash f-low projections.
The above process can be made easier if a brochure describing
a similar project is available to the entrepreneur and those assisting
him. Although he can not just copy the figures in the brochure for his
own study of the project, the brochure will provide a model, or matrix
into which the entrepreneur's own estimates can be factored. In many
cases, he will still need professional assistance, but the assistance
work can thus be considerably lessened, because the brochure will have
pre-done some of the work.
C.2       At Project Organization
Once the project study has beern completed, and the project is
proven to be technically and economically feasible, it is still necessary
to assist the entrepreneur in obtaining necessary loans, suggest means of
raising equity, and in generally orgarnizing his proJect to the point where
he can satisfy his potential lenders and investors that they should invest
their money in the project and that there is a concrete and practical plan
of operation.
Once the funds necessary for the project are committed, the
entrepreneur then has to start purchasing equipment, constructing plant,
recruiting supervisors and workers, preparing for plant operation, buing
raw materials, and arranging for the marketing of those products. It is
often necessary at this stage for him to be able to avail of expert
counsel to discuss with him the various alternatives that he may have
to solve the various problems which now confront him.
C.3       Upon Project Operation
Once the project is operating the entreprenuer-manager faces
different problems, and he would benefit from having a professional. group
from whom he could seek advice and assistance as he needs to solve newi
problems he has not faced before.



AM EX 2
Appendix 1, Page 7
C.4       Organization for Technical Assistance
Technical assistance for project conceptualization and proiect
organization will have to be provided by a group separate from the bank
which will lend money to the project, or else check and balance would
not exist. Besides, if the bank provides these types of pre-operational
technical assistance, it is likely to become so identified and involved
with the project that it could not take measures that a bank must be
able to use if the project becomes a financial failure.
It is proposed, therefore, that an organization be created,
separate from but coordinating with DBP branches, to provide technical
assistance to prospective entrepreneurs for project conceptualization and
organization. Units of this organization would be located in the sane
localities as DBP branches. These units would report to a head office
staffed with various specialists, to whom the local units could ref er
problems which may be too technical for the local unit to handle
successfully.
Assistance to the project during its operation could be handled
jointly by the DBP branch and the technical assistance organization. The
DBP branch would be responsible for loan supervision, and avail of the
expertise of the technical assistance organization to help the entrepreneur
solve operating and management problems and improve operations.
The training would be focused on:
1. The entrepreneur--for the development of entrepreneurial
skills and attitudes.
2. The managers and supervisors--for management and
supervisory skills imprcvements.
3. The workers--for the development of technical skills
and work proficiency.
Liaison must be established not only at the level of the head
office, but more importantly at the level of the branch office, among
DBP, ISSI, and NMYC for the selection of trainees, the formulation of
the training curriculum, and the measurement of training effectiveniess.
Conscious effort should be made to draw in the commercial bank
branches in the area which have loans to SMSIPs, to identify enterprises
which would benefit from the consultancy and training programs. In
addition, the Supervised Industrial Credit technicians employed by the
banking institutions participating in the CB's program for SMSI financing
should themselves be able to avail of the services of the technical
assistance organization for improvement of their own client SYSI's. It
is proposed that the technical assistance organization referred to in
this section be part of the Department of Industry.



ANNEX 2
Appendix 1, Page 8
D.        Marketing and Purchasing
Among the major handicaps for the small- and medium.-scale industry
in the rural areas, is the increased difficulty and cost in purchasing needed
materials and supplies and in marketing its products. This handicap arises
because it is far from centers of commerce and shipping, and also because it
is small.
l.hile large-scaie comparnies maintain offices in the Greater Manila
area to facilitate purchasing, the SM3SI can not afford this. Furthermore,
since the SMSI's monthly materials requirements are relatively small, and
its working capital limited, the volumes of materials purchased by the S3NSI
and delivered to it at any one time may not be sufficient to warrant direct
purchases from the manufacturers of the purchased items. In many cases, the
S33SI firnds itself buying from sub-wholesalers and incurring the extra cost
of the profit margins on its purchase as a result of having gone through
the extra layers of distribution. This higher cost of its materials already
places the SMSI at a disadvantage vis-a-vis the large firm.
Marketing is also a difficult problem for the rural SSIL.  The
marketing difficulties vary with the final destination of the product.
D.1       The Rural SMSI Selling to the Market of its Region:  has to
contend with a distributidn structure established and operating to sell
goods from the metropolitan centers.  This structure is geared to receiving
(importing) goods from outside the egion.  Generally, the distributors of
the region receive credit from the Manila (or Cebu) wholesalers, and have
long-established relationships with them. Assistance is, therefore, needed
by the rural SMSI for marketing of this product, more particularly as the
jobber or manufacturer's whole-saler, which will buy the product fror. the
rural SSi43  and distribute it to the sub-wholesalers and retailers of the
region. It is proposed that the GMITFN consider extending its operations
of buying agricultural produce to certain other urban centers besides
Greater Manila, and as a corollary operation, also perform distribution
functionls for rural SMSI's selling consumer products for either the regional
or the metropolitan Manila market.  However, it is doubtful whether the
rural 314SI' s could be expected to carry on sign-.icant produc tion for the
metropolitan markets, with the important exception of the agricultural
processing industries, such as animal feeds, coconut coir, dressed chickens
and other meats, etc.
D.2       The Rural SMSI Producilng for the ExporT  Market:  has more com-
plex problems.  The exports market of manufactured products is such that
often very large aminzts are required to serve even individual orders.
We are aware of instances where large orders for such items as abaca
slippers, prelabricated components for housing garmen-ts, knit goods, etc.
were not accepted by Philippine export firms because the production and product
gatnering/purchasing capabilitles required were greater than possessed boy the
export firm receiving the inquiry.  In other cases, although the production
capabilities were available, the financing and raw materlals purchasing
capabilities to supply the required inputs to the producers were not big
enough to enable handling the order.



ANNEX 2
Appendix 1, Page 9
The r ural SAST -finds difficulty with expert products for  reasons
other than financing and production capabilities.  It needs quick and
frequent contacts with foreign buyers, with internaTional market trends, with
quality requirements for exujort products.  It needs to conti-nually iqnrove
product designs and product qualities. It needs to meet precise delivery
schedules, packaging standards, requirements for proper export documentation.
These are tasks beyond the sophistication level of aLnost all rural SSTI's.
Most rural STSI's producing export products do so for export traders, but
these products are mainly handicrafts at the present time.  The export
traders in manufactured products are generally located in Manila, some in
Cebu, and a few in the region where their export products (mainly handi-
crafts) are produced, such as abaca handicraft export traders in Legaspi.
D.3       Export Trading Firms:  must, thereF ore, be relied upon by the
rural SMSI's to find, and ship to, export markets for their products. Three
measures are recormended to develop the marketing/purchasing assistance
which the rurai SMSI's will need:
1.  Encourage formation of more Filipino (including joint-
venture) export trading firms which will develop export;
markets and place orders with rural SNSI's, induced by
the export incentives under the Export Incentives Act,
and assisted by special loan assistance to the extent
that their exports are purchased from rural SMSI's, and
they have to extend financial assistance to these SM3I's.
2. Form a strong export marketing division within the
Philippine International Trading Corporation (PITC),
with the directive to develop supplies from rural
SlMSI's, and obtain export orders for their products.
This subject needs more extensive treatment which will
be done in a subsequent report on the PITC.
3.  Attract foreign companies to establish offices in such
cities as Cebu, Davao, Cagayan de Oro which will act as
buyers for handicrafts and non-traditional manufactured
exports, so as to create outlets for rural SMSI's. If
we allow a few additional U.S., European and/or Japanese
trading companies to establish branches here on the
condition that they will also establish such buying offices
in designated towns and cities, this might serve as a strong
inducement. The additional condition could be that they
must progressively attain desired ratios between import sales
and  exports of products from rural SMSI's.
The export trading firms -would normally also assist the smail-
and mediwn-scale industries to purchase their material needs.
D.4       Design of Export Products
Mention should also be made of the valuable contribution that the
Design Center project (of the First Lady) could make towards generatirg
more marketable designs for export products of rural SMSI's and improving
quality of exports of both manufactured products and handicrafts.



ANNEX 2
Appendix 1, Page 10
E.        Promotions
Much needs to be done irn the way of generating interest among our
middle and upper-middle classes towards establishing SMSI's in the non-
metropolitan areas. The thrusts suggested to generate this interest are
two:
1. 'Glamorize'":the rural SIvSI.
2.  Publicize SMSI "success stories".
The "glamorization" of the rural SMSI could be done through media,
the schools and civic groups.  Publicity of SMSI success stories could also
be done through media. These aspects will be worked out with the Department
of Public Information.
As suggested previously, momentum could be generated to accelerate
format,ion of rural SMSI' s through publicizing the approval of DBP loans and the
establishment of DBP-assisted SMSI's.  This sePies of stories could be
weekly for the first three months, then twice a week for the next three months,
or a total of 39 projects within a six-monith period. There is a sufficient
inventory of projects on application, or approved but funds not yet released,
with DBP to provide the material for this series.
It is, of course, not enough to generate interest in establishing
SMSI's.  It is also necessary to provide concrete outlets in the forrm of
project possibilities.  Towards this end, it is proposed ;o prepare and
distribute SMSI project brochures. These brochures would contain generalized
feasibility studies on SMSI projects which could be established in various
places in the Philippines.  The project broch-ures would be prepared on the
basis of information available in DBP records, and incorporate the experience
of ongoing similar projects financed by DBP.  The Asian Institute of Manage-
ment is willing to cooperate in this effort, and there are 32 graduate
students who have volunteered to do this work. Arrangements can be made to
have these students work with DBP for this purpose.
F.        Coordination Mechanism
It is presumed that coordination of this program and its overall
success will become the responsibility of the Department of Industry,
although the different tasks are operational responsibilities of various
agencies of government.
In order for the Department of Industry to exercise this
coordination, it is proposed that there be:
1.  A class statement of responsibilities of each of the
agencies involved with the program.
2. Formulation as early as possible of quantitative targets
for attainment at specified dates, say by the end of each
calendar quarter. Targets should be set at least once each



ANNlI X
Appendix 1, Page 11
year and may be moditied by the agency concerned.
3. A system of reporting progress of work, achievements versus
targets, and problems encountered. The format of the reports
shall be standardized and recipients of the reports pre-
determined. The report would be made by the head of agency
concerned and submitted to the President. Department of
Industry would get a copy of all reports, and submit its
evaluation of program progress and actions required. Coordinat-
ing meetings of the heads of agencies involved shall meet at
least once each quarter.  Minutes of these meetings shall be
furnished the Execu live Secretary.
The manner of coordination suggested above does not vest formal
authority in any agency to give orders to any other. However, because of
the interdependence of the performances of the different agencies on each
other, it is expected that they will find it to their advantage to
coordinate actions, rather than create situations in which the President
will find it necessary to intervene and give direct orders that individual
agencies take specific steps.
Upon the President's approval of the different facets of this
program proposal, the agencies concerned can meet to draw up the above
mentioned statements of responsibility, formulate targets, draw up in
more detail their respective programs of activity, which will become
integrated into a master program.
The program could in the meantime be started off selectively
inaugurating those activities, such as financing, which are nearly ready
for implementation.  It is appropriate to mention that sections A,B, and C
of this draft have already been referred to DBP, Central Bank, Department
of Labor, and NEDA, and cormments received from the first two have already
been reflected in this report.
EAP Proj*cts Dpartzent
February 24, 1975



ANNEX 3
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHLIPPINES
The Institution and its Characteristics
1.          Background.  The Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP), a
development finance institution wholly owned by the Government, was established
in 1958 as a successor to the post-war Rehabilitation Finance Corporation.
Under its Charter the DBP is empowered to engage in a wide range of financial
activities, including the following;
i) the granting of loans for the establishment or development
of any agricultural or industrial enterprise, including
public utilities, mining, livestock and fisheries, and
for home financing projects.
ii) the purchase of equity investments in any agricultural
or industrial enterprise.
iii) the guarantee of loans and other obligations incurred
for the development of agriculture or industry.
iv) the granting of loans to provincial and municipal
governments for self-liquidating or income producing
projects.
The bulk of its activities, however, has been in loans and guarantees for
industry and agriculture (para. 5). Since 1971 DBP has acted as the
financial intermediary for IBRD loans for grain processing, livestock,
fisheries, medium- and large-scale industrial investment, and shipping.
DBP's bonds and other debt instruments, which may be issued upon recommenda-
tion of the Secretary of Finance and with the approval of the President,
are exempt from taxation and fully guaranteed by the Government. However,
such obligations may not exceed an aggregate amount equivalent to ten times
DBP's paid-in capital and surplus.
2.          Management. Overall management of DBP is entrusted to a Board
of Governors consisting of the Chairman and eight other members (four full-
time and four part-time) appointed by the President for seven-year terms.
The present Chairman of the Board of Governors, who is also the chief
executive officer, Mr. Leonides S. Virata, was appointed in February 1970.
With the help of able advisers, the Chairman has continued his efforts to
strengthen DBP's management and staff and to improve its organizational
structure. However, DBP is a large and unwieldy institution. Much still
needs to be done to improve its efficiency and make it more responsive



ANEX:_
Page 2
to its clients' needs. Under the executive supervision of the Chairman
and four full-time Governors are eighteen departments covering the wide
range of activities undertaken by DBP (Chart No. 9380). DBP also has a
widespread network of 32 branches and 24 agencies (para. 4). The number
of branches will be increased to 34 by June 30, 1975.
3.          Organization.  Following a reorganization of Head Office
departments in October 1973, industrial financing operations are handled
by three industrial projects departments grouped under one full-time
Governor. Industrial Projects Department I (IPD I) handles large loans
(over P 1 million), and IPD II small loans (below P 1 million). IPD III
handles loans (any size) for utilities and transportation services
operating under a public franchise. These include transportation,
communications, electric power and uater systems. In addition to IPD II,
DBP's Branches handle a small but rapidly growing proportion of DBP's
lending to small-scale industry, although their main orientation has
traditionally been towards agricultural financing. Loans processed by
the Branches which exceed the Branch manager's commitment authority
Cpr.estly P20,000) are reviewed by the respective projects departments
in Head Office before submission to the Board of Governors for approval.
Administrativelr, supervision of the Branches is the responsibility of
the Branches and Agencies Department (BAAD). The proposed Bank loan will
be handled principally by IPD II and the Branches, and to a lesser extent
by IPD I.1/ IPD II's management is relatively new but staff are generally
experienced. Since its establishment the department has made good progress
in developing the required capability to manage the small industry financing
program. The quality of management in the Branches is varied; for the most
part branch managers and senior staff are competent and experienced. The
Branches have until very recently been handicapped by inadequate staffing
(Annex 4, para. 15), and they continue to operate with cumbersome procedures
(Annex 4, paras. 14-15), and insufficient authority (Annex 4, para. 15). IPD
I is well-managed and the IBRD loan for industrial investment which it is
already administering is progressing smoothly. The projects departments and
Branches are responsible for both appraisal and follow-up work on thei.r loans.
4.         Staffing. As of December 31, 1974, IBP had a total staff of 2,843,
of whom 2,32 were in professional and sub-professional categories. T'he staff,
who must have civil service eligibility to be recruited, is of generally good
calibre.  Salaries are competitive with other Government financial institutions,
and above those of the general civil service structure. IPD II has a budgeted
staff complement of 60 professionals and 15 support staff. As of December 31,
1974, all of the professional positions were filled. Of these 22 are industrial
appraisers (15 with engineering backgrounds), and 35 are financial analysts with
backgrounds in accounting and commerce. DBP's Branches have a total staff of
1,559 of whom 339 are in the Investment and Project Development Division and
111 are in the Project Supervision and Acquired Assets Division. Between
1/   IPD I will handle all loans above P1 million (i.e. principally to medium
sized enterprises).



Page 3
September and December 1974, 33 additional engineers were recruited for
placement in the Branches as industrial project appraisal staff. As of
January 1975 Branches are expected to have between 2-5 appraisal staff
working full-time on SMI lending operations. The organization and staffing
of IPD II and the Branches are further discussed in Annex 4, paras.16 and 17.
5.        Overall Operations.  In FY74 DBP approved 18,234 loans for
agriculture, industry, real estate and provincial and mwnicipal governments
totalling P262.6 million. It approved four equity investments totalling
P78.5 million, foreign guarantees amounting to US$409.1 million and domestic
guarantees of P12.0 million. As shown in Table 1 below, industrial lending
accounted for 3.8% of the total number of loans and 36.1% of the total loan
amount in FY714, compared with 1.7% and 26.6% respectively in FY73. There
was a sharp drop in the average size of DBP's industrial loarns, from about
P250,000 in FY72 to P200,000 in FY73 and to about P140,000 in FY74 reflecting
mainly the increasing proportion of S14I lending in total industrial lending
operations. Between July 1 - December 31, 1974 (FH75), DBP approved a further
10,984 loans totalling P519.8 million an increase of nearly 300% over FY74 on
an annual basis.  In this period it also made t-wo equity investmen-s totalling
P60 million and guaranteed 21 loans and credits for a further P312.36 million.
The average size of loan in FH75 shot up to P680,000 as MP substituted direct
lending (from the recent IBRD loan of US$48.0 million) for operations which
previously it was forced to guarantee. This has been reflected in the very
low level of guarantees for the period (para. 6).
Table 1. DBP - Loans and Guarantees APproved FY72-FH7~
(P million)
_ Y72 FY73_   FY7                         July-Dec.'74
No.    Amt.  No.   Akt.    No.   Amt.    No.    Amt.
Loans
Agriculture         8,840   54i7  12,858  109.5  13,706  120.4  9,303   129.4
Industry             246   61.4      277   55.2      684   94.9    472   322.7
Real Estate        1,768   21.8   3,437   38.3   3,834   33.7  1,207    61.3
Government             5    8.0        8    4.9      ,l0   13.6      2      6.4
Capital Subscriptions
and Advances to Rural and
Private Development
Banks               143  16.3       429   25j       338   3.4      63    13.4
Total     11,002  162.2  17,009  233.6  18,572  293.0 11,047   533.2
Equity Investment      2  149.0      -      -   _      4   78.5      2    6o.
Grand Total     1100     3      17,029   233.6 !8.576  2.1L5 11,049   593.2
Guarantees
Foreign (US$ million)  $201.9       $233.9            $409.1          $37.5
Domestic (P million)      10.4        16.7              12.0           12.0



ANNEX 3
Page 4
6.      Guarantees.  rBP's foreign currency guarantees increased by 75g in
FY74 compared with a moderate increase of 16% in FY73 but dropped sharply
by 81% in the first six months of FY75. DBP's 'regular' foreign guarantees
(those generally relating to private suppliers' credits for importation of
industrial capital goods) more than doubled between FY73 and FY74 ($164W.8
million to $397.8 million), while foreign currency guarantees administered
by DBP under the U.S. Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) and Canadian Wheat
Board (CWB) credits mainly for imports of raw cotton, tobacco and wheat,
flour declined from $69.1 million to $11.6 million. In FH75 regular foreign
currency guarantees fell to $29.2 million while CCC and CWB credits act,ually
increased (on an annual basis). Domestic currency guarantees in FH75 wrere
doubled the level for a similar period in the previous year.  'Lhe fall-off
in regular foreign currency guarantees has been due both to the substitution
of guarantees by direct lending (para. 5) and to the establishment of a new
guarantee corporation (para. 10) which is expected to assume a larger share
of the guarantee burden.
7.      Industrial Loans.  Of the 684 industrial loans approved in FY74,
503 were in the very small loan and cottage industry category (i.e. loans
below P50,000) and accounted for only F3.1 million in loan amount; the
average loan size in this category was only F6,oo0 compared with an average
of over P500,000 for the remaining 181 loans. The latter amounted to P91.8
million of which the bulk went to cement (32%), ice plants and cold storage
(11%), food processing (12%), and apparel (7%).  A breakdown of approvals
by industry branch is sho-rn in Table 2. The four equity investments were
in banking (F5.0 million), housing (F37.5 million), air transportation
(F20.0 million) and a steel mill (F16.0 million). In comparison, in FH75,
of the 475 industrial loans approved 312 (66%) were below P50,000 in size,
and accounted for P2.7 million in amount (or 0.8% of the total amount
approved). The average size of loan in this category was P8,600, compared
to an average of P2 million for the remaining 160 loans. Regional and
industry breakdowns for approvals in FH75 were not available.
Table 2. DBP - Industrial Loans Approved FY72-74
(P million)
FY72             FY73               FY7
No.    Amt.   No.         Amt.    No.    Amt.
Food                            3      0.2     14        8.0      18      :Lo.8
Beverage & Tobacco              1      0.2      -        -         1        2.3
Textiles                        2      o.6      3        0.4       3       2.7
Footwear & Apparel              1      0.1      1        0.3      18       6.3
Wood & Cork                     -      -         1       1.8.      2        1.0
Furniture & Fixtures            5      0.4      9        1.2      16        3.0
Printing                        -      -        4        0.5       2       0.4
Leather                         1      -        4        0.8      12        2.8
Rubber                          -      -        1        0.2       2       0.9
Chemicals                       -      -        -        -         1       0.4
Non-Metallic                   21     34.3      40      16.5      31       32.1
Metal                           1     19.5       2       o.6       6       1.7
Non-electrical Machinery        -      -       10        1.5      23        4.8



ANNEX 3
Page5
Electrical Machinery            -      -        2        0.2       3       0,3
Transport Equipment & Repair   3       ).1     16        2.4       7       4.2
Miscellaneous                   1      0.3    12         4.4       7       1.3
Mining                          4      1.6       6       1.7       1        0.4
Public Utilities & Services!/  5       1.6     11       .29      28       16.
Sub-Total           48      1.9    T         54.4    181        91.8
&nall Loans            121       0.4   106        0.4      393       1.7
Cot tage Industries          0      0 * 1   g                 110
Toaal              188I/  59.4   277         55.2       X       94.9
8.       Geographic Distribution of Loans. Table 3 shows the geographical
distribution of flBP's industrial lending.  Although there was a sharp drop
in the share of induatrial lending going to Central &nd Southern Luzon in
FY73 (from 78, to 38%), this was not maintained in FY74 (60%). The Greater
Manila Area alone (Manila, Quezon City and Rizal) still accounted for 35% of
DBP's industrial lending in FY74, an increase over its 30% share in FY73, but
still well belou the 412A  level of FY72.  'The share of X?  indust-iai lend-
ing in the Visayas and Niindanao more than doubled in FY73 (21% to 46%), but
then declined to a level of about 26% in FY74. The DBPJs countryside develop-
mient program, which was introduaced in Sepr,erber 1971 to encourage greater
lending for agriculture, cottage industries, and small and medium industry
in the provinces, has not yet resulted in a significant diver3ion of
industrial lerding outside Central and Southern Luzon. The very large
increase in the share of lending in the Visayas and 1i{indanao in FY73 was
partly due to tba steep decrease in lending in Central and Southern Luzon
(from F48 million to P21 million) and the overall decline in industrial
lending of 10% in the same year. Better results are expected in FY75,
particularly for small and medium industry financing (See Annex 6, para.3).
Table 3. DBP - Geographical Distribution of Industrial Loans FY72-74
(F million)
FY72               FY73                FY74
So.     Amount     No.      Aaount     No.     Amount
Manila                  4          .1      14        4.3       21       4.1
Central Luzon          73        20.6      33        6.6       63      23.4
Southern Luzon         47        27.3      64       14.6      199      33.5
Northern Luzon         28          .3      26         3.6     148       4.8
Bicol, Mindoro &
Palawan              15          .3      15          .5      39       4.1
Sub-total (Luzon)   167       48.6      152       29 6      470      69.9
Western Visayas          6         .3      10         1.0      20       4.3
Eastern Visayas        41         3.7      72         8.2     105       7.2
Sub-total (Visayas)  47         4.0      82        9.2      125      11.5
1/   Includes ice plants and cold storage.
2/   Excludes 58 loans to the rice and corn industryj for a total of P1.97
million.



ANNEX 3
Pag e '6
FY72               FY73                FY74
No.     Amount     No.     Amount      No.     Amount
Northern Mindanao    10          .5      13        1.1      35        7.4
Southern Mindanao    22        8.3       30       15.3      54       6.1
Sub-total(Mindanao)32        8.8      43        16.4      89      13.5
Total             2462/     61.41/   277        55.2     684      94.9
_           _        _         _         _       _ _
9.        Disbursements.  Disbursements under DBP's industrial loans
amounted to P122 million in FY74 compared with P223 million in FY73. The
decline reflects the gradual completion of disbursements on the very large
loan commitments made in FY70.
10.      Financial Position.  DBP's financial position continued to
improve in FY74. Summary balance sheets for FY71-FH75 are provided in
Appendix 1. As of June 30, 1974 DBP's total assets (excluding trust funds)
amounted to P5.3 billion having increased by 15% from the previous year.
The rate of growth accelerated to over 26% during the first six months of
FY75 and total assets reached P6.7 million as of December 31, 1974. The
composition of DBP's assets was significantly affected by DBP's efforts
to initiate foreclosure proceedings against seriously delinquent accounts
in its portfolio, particularly its advances on guarantees (defaults on
DBP's guarantees which were converted into advances on guarantees). During
FY74 outstanding advances on guarantees dropped sharply from P1,067 million
to P787 million (a 36% decline), while acquired assets and assets under
litigation jumped from P244 million to P813 million. Loans outstanding
(excluding advances on guarantees and litigation and acquired assets
accounts) increased moderately from P2,082 million to F2,126 million but
declined as a proportion of total assets. Advances on guarantees as a
percentage of total loans outstanding declined from 35% to 27% litigation
and acquired assets accounts increased from 8% to 28%. Apart from these
structural changes, DBP also increased its investments in bonds and securi-
ties by 47% and divested itself of most of its holding of private development
bank stocks. In the first half of FY75 holdings of acquired assets increased
by 66% and together with accounts under litigation accounted for 19% of^ DBP's
total assets as of December 31, 1974. On the other side of the balance sheet,
total liabilities amounted to P3.3 billion, an increase of 21% over the
previous year.  In the first half of FY75 they rose a further 41% to P4.6
million, mainly due to increased time and savings deposits and long-term
foreign debt. Paid-in capital and reserves increased from P1,859 million
to F1,986 million at the end of FY74 and to F2,042 million as of December
31, 1974. As a result of the very large structural changes noted abovie,
there was a considerable improvement in DBP's current ratio from 0.47:1
to 2.45:1 but it declined again in the first half of FY75 to 1.82:1. DBP's
contingent liabilities continue to have a dominant influence on its financial
structure. Foreign guarantees outstanding increased by 23% from US$345
million to US$423 million in FY74. This was only partially offset by a
decline in domestic currency guarantees and guarantees under the CCC and CWB
1/   Includes 58 loans amounting to F1.97 million for the rice and con=
industry. Loans to the rice and corn industry were not included in
industrial loans after FY72.



ANIEX 3
Page 7
Credits (para. 6). Overall outstanding guarantees increased by 16%.
Despite this increase (and the large increase in foreign guarantee co mitments
in FY74), IDBP's management expects guarantee activities to decline in FY75
due to the establishment of the Philippine Foreign Loan GLLarantee Corporation
(FFLGC) in Septeaber l974   P LG'C, a wholly Government-owned institution,
has an initial authorized capital stock of Fl billion, and is empowered to
counter-guarantee obligations of other firnancial institutions as well as to
make direct guarantees. Guarantees outstanding have in fact remained
practically stationary during the first half of FY75, although this was also
partly due to the substitution of guarantees by direct lending.  Including
contingent liabilities DBP's long-term debt/equity ratio was 2.6:1 as of
June 30, 1974, and 2.9:1 as of December 31, 1974. The debt/equity limit
under DBP's Charter is 10:1.
11.        Financial Performance.  Income statements for FY71-FH75 are
shown in Appendix 2. During FY74 net income rose from P40.7 million to
P96.0 million, arn increase of 136%. -Interest income on loans increased
by 30% and income from securities more than doubled, while interest and
other financial expenses increased 16% and salaries and other administrative
expenses actually declined by 6%. The result was a sharp across-the-board
improvement in DBP's performance ratios as can be seen in Appendix 2. Net
income in the first half of FY75 declined by 15% compared with the first half
of FY74. However DBP's expenses in the second quarter of FY75 included a
change of P26.4 million against depreciation on its acquired assets. In
previous years DBP's depreciation changes have been insignificant. The result
has been a significant decline in DBP's profitability ratios in the first half
of FY75, although they are still an improvement over FY73.
12.       Audit. Under DBP's Charter, its accounts are audited by DBPts
Audit Department, an independent unit consisting of Government auditors
appointed by and responsible to the Commission on Audit of the Government.
The audit although in most respects thorough and detailed, does not provide
judgements to be made on the quality of DBP's portfolio (arrearages are
still fairly high) and the adequacy of IBP's reserves. DBP's audit and
auditing procedures were carefully examined by an independent expert
appointed by the Bank at the time of the last appraisal mission to DBP in
May 1975.  DBP has agreed to review, jointly with the Bank, the findings
of this examination, and to take necessary action based upon such findings
to conduct an audit and install auditing procedures considered mutually
satisfactory to the Bank and DBP.
13.       Resource Position.  DBP's Charter provided the following principal
sources for DBP's financial resources: (a) capital stock and surplus, (b)
bonds, debentures, securities and other obligations, (c) investment in DBP's
bonds of 25 percent of the investible funds of two Governm.ent financial
institutions GSIS and SSS, (d) DBP's share of the Export (Stabilization)
Tax levied from July 1970, (e) time and savings deposits, (f) various trust
funds administered by DBP on behalf of Government institutions, and (g)
foreign borrowings, most of which are guaranteed by the Government or
obtained by the Government and relent to DBP. DBP's resource position and
long-term foreign borrowings are summarized in Appendix 3 and Appendix 4
respectively.



ANNEX '3
Page M
14.         Resource Requirements.  At present DBP does not have any
resources specifically ear-marked for financing SNI operations.  Although
Appendix 4 shows that as of December 31, 1974 DBP had long-term domestic
and foreign currency resources available for commitment totalling P282
million, a large part is for specific purposes, such as the three IBRI)
loans for grain processing, livestock and fisheries and the IBRD loan for
industrial investment for large- and medium-scale industry. DBP's SMI
commitmenits are expected to amount to P78.9 million in FY75 and P208.6
million in FY76-77.  These requirements together with DBP's other long-term
peso commitments are expected to amount to about P2 billion during FY76-77.
Part of these requirements will be met by borrowings already contracted, and
by internal cash generation. Apart from these sources, DBP is unlikely to
be able to raise more than about P500 million from the private capital market
during this period owing to the relatively small size of the private market, its
competitive position vis-a-vis other financial institutions, and the
artificially suppressed interest rate structure which discourages invest-
ment in long-term issues. it has, however, already taken steps to issue
"countryside development bonds" totalling P 500 million (9 percent tax
free, 5 year maturity) in FY75. For the balance of its resource requirements
DBP wil] have to continue to rely on time and savings deposits, loans,
notes -nd  bonds taken up by its traditional Goverrnment sources, in particular
the Government Services Insurance Scheme (GSIS) and the Social Security
System (SSS), as well as borrowings from official external assistance sources.
The portion of the proposed Bank loan to be channelled through the DBP will
cover only 50 percent of DBP's projected resource requirements for SMI
lending during FY76-77.
EAP Projects Department
February 24, 1975



ANN4EX 3
Appendix 1
PHILIPPINES
DEVELOPMENT sANK oi THE valLieiINts
Balance Sheets, June 30, 1971-74 and December 31, 1974
June 30                               Dec. 31
1971           1972            1973            1974           1974
ASSETS
Cash and due from banks                         112,635           86,902       105,599         117,062         381,047
Investments in securities                       300,740         440,602        598,337         881,415         778,374
Agricultural loans                              383,502          391,944       622,736         705,967         804,382
Industrial loans                              1,840,612       2,180,884    2,373,739        2,061,670        2,217,193
Real estate loans                               182,794          187,129       180,126         173,930         224,928
Government and landed estate loans               55,842           54,448        49,741          58,790          61,923
Stocks - PDB                                     24,744           24,959        24,364           1,829           2,203
Advances and rediscounts - PDB                   25,627           29,C39        31,862          35,221          41,645
Miscellaneous investments                        65,123           80,843       117,393         178,862         586,257
Bank premises, furniture and fixtures            53,656           56,765        54,059          61,404          62,578
Other resources                                 231,208          324,123       420,626       1,003,297 1/   1519,986
Total - Bank Proper                       3,276,483        3,857,638    4,578,582        5,279,447        6,680,516
Total - Trust Funds                          .80,150         186,671        124,299          77,847          7,444
Total - Bank Proper and Trust Funds   3,456,633            4,044,309    4,702,881        5,357,294        6,757,960
LIABILITIES, SPECIAL FUNDS AND CAPITAL
Long-term liabilities:
Foreign                                     129,666          607,420    1,087,696           977,635       1,521,789
Domestic                                  1,522,128        1,524,060        895,148      1,110,447       1,245,264
Short-term liabilities:
Foreign                                                       19,545         13,517          28,217          45,403
Domestic                                     'I-,'50         258,666         38,907         152,567         152,568
Time and saving deposits                        .48,103          336,962       446,465         618,818       1,075,657
Interest and other payables                     -S91 166         278,962       192,308         350,548         400,305
Deferred credits                                 25,860           43,195        43,006          54,225         196,277
Special funds (stabilization tax)                6-5,5l4         267,888         2,222           1,279           1,579
Capital paid-in                                 390,370          397,035    1,703,051        1,735,545       1,745,693
Surplus and reserves                             12,626          123,905       156,262         250,166         295,981
Total - Bank Proper                       3,276,433        3,857,638    4,578,582        5,279,447        6,680,516
Total - Trust Funds                                          186,671        124,299          77,847          77,444
Total Bank Proper and Trust Funds         3-   61          4,044,309    4,702,881        5,357,294        6,757,960
CONTINGENT ACCOUNTS
Guarantees outstanding:
Foreign ($'000)                              _33,381         361,856        345,084         422,935         432,521
Local (P'000)                                 _327            33,425         40,852          32,431          34,678
CCC and CWB credit ($'000)                       A; 770        __24,523         28,592          13,813           9,950
Total (P'000 equivalent) 2/               2                2,660,802      2,58',849      2,999,654        3.006.755
Total Liabilities & Guarantees               _6705,111                    7,284,730      8,356,948        9,764.715
RATIOS
Long-term debt/equity 3/          .       .        ::1          4.18:1         1.06:1          1.06:1          1.37:1
Total debt/equity 3/                            -.11:1           4.72:1        1.15:1          1.05:1          1.47:1
Current ratio                                   0.2':1           0.21:1        0.47:1          2.45:1          1.82:1 4/
(Long-term debt & contingent liabilities/
equity)       (1,oL:Z)         (9.39:1)       (2.47:1)       (2.59:1)         (2.86:1)
1/  Of these amounts  acquired assets and assets under litigation accounted for F244,196 in 1973,
P813,160 in 1974, and P1,279,751 in December 31, 1974.
2/  Exchange rate:  P 6.72 to US$1 for 1974, - 6.8 to US$1 for 1972 and 1973; P 6.4 for 1970 and 1971.
3/ In these calculations, provisions for doubtful accounts as shown below, were deducted from equity.
V Estimate
J3une 30                          Dec. 31
1970      1971      1972      1973      1974          1974
8,581    9,603    ('0,698   11,741   20,002           22,120
ZAP Projects Department
March 14, 1975



ANNEX 3
Appendix 2
PhILIPPINES
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
Income Statemnents for Years Ended June 30, 1971-74 and July 1 - December  j1. 1974
(P '000)
JUlY 1 - June 30                               July 1 - December 31
1971           1972           1973              1974           1973              1974
EARNINGS
Interest - Agricultural Loans                               28,280         29,691          39,101           61,079          23,182           25,116
Interest - Industrial Loans                                115,206        134,887         154,309          191,097          77,832           77,099
Interest - Real Estate Loans                                17,457         17,874          20,480           25,620          10,147            7,368
Interest and Dividends - Private Development
Bank Accounts                                         2,138           2,291          2,975             2,741          1,332            1ia-2
Interest and Dividends - Securities                         20,376         15,600          21,435           43,611          17,223           41,336
Income from Trust Funds                                      1,119          1,121           1,026               547            426               125
Miscellaneous Bank Fees                                     31,128         47,347          45,284           59,838 I/       23,144            28 645
Other Earnings                                              16,167         19,123          44,726           59,472 -        54 342 2/        87.021 
Total Earnings                       231,871        267,934         329,336          444,000         207,629           268_172
EXPENSES
Salaries and Employee Bsnefits                              45,300         45,571          37,285           38 223         19,303            25 359
Other Administrative Expenses                               16,908         17,513          29,007           44,958  /      18,748            48:383 _/
Interest and Other Financial Expenses                      149,334        186,230        220,074           234,791        113,513           147,623
Provision for Income Ta                                     -7,609         6j191            8,044           26,791          4,693            2_643
Total Expenses                       219,151        255,505         294,410          344,763         156,257          224_008
NET INCOME                                                  12,720         12.429          34,926          100,860          51.372          44_164
Appropriated to Increase in Reserve for
Contingencies                                        1,200           1,200          1,200             8,400          2.400             2,400
Net income - Bank proper                            11,520          11,229         33,726            92,460         48,972            41,764
Net income - Trust Funds                             7,106           7,824          7,017             3,546          3.126               862
Total Net Income                      18,626         19,053          40,743           96,006          52,098           42_626
RATIOS
v/            4              7,                7,
Net income/average equity
(DBP only)                                           2.4            2.2             2.9              4.9              5.2              4.2
(DBP & Trust Funds)                                  3.7            3.7             3.4              5.0              5.3              4.1
Profit before taxes/average total assets
(DBP only)                                           0.65           0.49            0.99             2.42             2.18              1.49
(DBP & Trust Funds)                                  0.84           0.67            1.12             2.44             2.26              1.49
Administrative expenses/average total assets
(DBP & Trust Funds)                                  2.0            1.7             1.5              1.7              1.5               1.2
1/  Includes a foreign exchange gain of F 5,097,130 and extraordinary income from capital gains on securities
of  P40,011,658.
2/ Includes extraordinary income from capital gains on securities of P40,011,658.
3/  Includes income from acquired assets of P39,298,827 and extraordinary income from capital gains on securities of P29,077,320.
4/  Includes write off on foreign exchange losses of P19,427,975.
5/  Includes write off on foreign exchange losses of P2,604,259, previous years' adjustments of F6,362,790 and depreciation on
acquired assets of P26,358,080.
EAP Projects Department
March 14, 1975



PHILIPPINES
ANNEX 3
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES              Appendix 3
Actual Cash Flow Statements, FY73 and FY74
(F million)
1973            1974
Cash balance - Beginning                                     86.9           105.6
Sources
Net income after tax                                      33.7           100.9
Items not affecting cash                                 48.3             45.9
Cash from operations                                      82.0           146.8
Collections on loans                                     200.8           225.8
Collections on advances on guarantees                    128.6           146.1
Collections on CCC & CWB & PL-480                        428.4           412.6
Sale/redemption of securities:
- Collateral preferred shares                         47.7             11.4
- Treasury bills, notes, etc.                        256.1         1,800.3
- Private development banks and others                20.8            63.1
Sub-Total                              324.6         1,874.8
Borrowings
Foreign loans and deposits                           497.3             65.4
Domestic loans, notes, etc.                           107.0          437.8
Time and savings deposits (net)                       109.6           122.4
Progress bonds                                         14.7            17.6
Sub-Total                              728.5           643.2
Export tax proceeds                                        -               8.4
Reparations accounts                                      12.9            10.9
Other receipts                                            33.5           173.4
Total sources of funds                1_939.4         3.06.7
Applications
Disbursement on loans                                    372.6           330.5
Investments                                              543.7         2,158.0
PSB assets absorbed                                        -              64.7
Sub-Total                              916.3         2,553.2
Debt service (principal):
Foreign loans and deposits                           111.0            330.5
Commodity credits & PL-480                           362.0            370.1
Advances on guarantees                               442.8            323.4
Progress bonds                                         12.2             -
Other domestic obligations                            45.5            166.7
Sub-total                              973.5            984.4
Tax Payments                                               -              25.5
Other miscellaneous disbursements                         30.9           132.0
Total application of funds                         1,920.7         1.873.8
Change in cash                                             18.7           11.6
Cash balance - Ending                                    105.6           117.2
Debt service coverage                                    0.88:1          2.55:1
EAP Projects Department
December 16, 1974



ANNEX 3
Appendix 4
PHILIPPINES
DEVELOPNENIT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
long Term Resource Position as of December 31, 1974
Domestic Currency
Paid-in capital                                                        1,745.69
Reserves and surplus                                                     283.62
Subtotal                                                      2,029.31
Bonds and notes                                                        1 ,217,25
Drawn down on IERD lines through Government                               24.67
9ubtotal                                                      1,241-93
Time and savings deposits                                                687.32
Trust funds                                                               77.44
Subtotal                                                        764.76
Total domestic resources                                      4,036.00
Foreign Currency
Foreign Governments                                                      785.63
Commercial banks                                                         685.31
Foreign currency deposits                                                 90.21
Subtotal                                                      1,561.15
Borrowings not yet drawm  upon 4                                         675.09
Total foreign resources                                        2,242.28
Total resources                                                5,278.28
Less:   local currency loans outstanding                               3,391.72
oquity and securities investments                   6            486.40
Fixed assets, miscellaneous investments, and other             1,677.01
Trust funds                                                       77-44
Subtotal                                                       9,532.57
Resources available for disbursements                                    645.71
Less:   Loans approved but not disbursed                                 363.91
Resources available for approvals                                        281.80
1/  Excludes reserve for contingencies.
/ Time deposits maturing beyond one year plus National Government deposits considered
as more or less permanent.
/ Total Time and Savings Deposits of P 618.82 million less portion kept by DBP on call
p 306.85 million.
4/ This amount relates to the undisubrsed portion of three IBRD agricultural
projects and the industrial loan.
5/  Stocks in private development banks and long-term investments in securities.
F/  'Other' stands for loans in litigation and acquired assets.
EAP Projects Department
March 12, 1975



ANNEX 3
PHfl.JPPEIES
DEVELOPMEN bANC OF THE PBILIPPINES
Long-Term Borrowings as of june 30, 1974
(Us$ million equivalent)
Date      Original    Amount       Amount
ComsAercial Banks                Contracted    Amount  Disbursed  Outstanding          Interest Charged        Maturity                Remarks
Consortium of Banks 1/             11/28/72        50.0       50.0       50.0       2% above 6 months LIBOR   1975-78        Guaranteed by Government
Franklin National Bank             04/16/73         5.9        5.9         4.7      2% above 6 months LIBOR   1973-78        For payment of foreign loan
of client guaranteed by DBF
Deutsche Bank                      12/29/69         4.5        4.5         3.8      3.75% above Deutsche         1973-78     Tied credits for relending to
Bundesbank official rate                 specific projects of Government-
controlled corporations.
Foreign Currency Deposits          1972/73          16.7      16.7        13.7       Generally 1.5-2X above    Various       Foreign comserciel bank- and
6 months LIBOR                          financial institutions
Sub-Total                             77.1       77.1        72.2
International Organizations
and Foreign Government
CCC and CWB                          1970         202.0      200.6        57.6              6-8%                 1973-76     See Annex  5,  Para. 10
KfW                                07113/64        15.7       15.7        10.3              3.5%                1973-82      Guaranteed by Government:
for shipping projects
USAID                              04/18/68         4.9        4.9         3.7              4.57.                1972-88    For a cement project
VSAID                              08/31/68         3.5        3.4        3.4               3.5%                1974-94     For rural electrification
US Exim Bank                       10/03/68         3.0        3.0         1.5              6.0%                 1972-77     For imports of industrial
capital goods and breeding stock
IBRD 720 PHR                       02/04/71        14.3        0.5         0.5              7.25%               1975-90      Grain processing and storage
IBRD 823 PH 2/                     05/25/72         7.5        1.0        1.0               7.25%               1979-86      Livestock
IBRD 891 PH 2/                     05/21/73        11.6        0.4        0.4               7.257%              1979-90      Fisheries
IBRD 998 PH -                      06/12/74        50.0        -          -                 7.257.              1979-92      Industrial investment and
tree farming
General Telephone and Electric
International                      12/18/68         4.5        4.5         1.3              8.0%                1974-76      Loan from parent company to
subsidiary through DBP. DBP
has discontinued this type
of relending.
Sub-Total                          317.0     234.0        79.7
Total Long-Term Debt                        394.1     311.1       151.9
1/ Consortium of 29 American, European and Japanese Banks; agents are First Chicago Ltd. and Bank of Tokyo.
2/  IBRD loans are lent to tse Government and recent (in pesos) to DBP. Amounts disbursed and outstanding
relating to IBRD loans are shown in DBP's balance sheet as long-term domestic debt.
EAP Projects Department
December 16, 1974



ANNEX 4
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
Snall and Medium Industry Financing
A.  3nall and Medium Industry (SMI) Lending Programs
1.        Background.  Although DBP has been making small loans for industrial
projects since the establishment of its predecessor, the Rehabilitation
Finance Corporation in 1947, it first instituted a special lending program
specifically for small-scale industries in FY71 in conjunction with the
University of the Philippines Institute for Small-Scale Industries (UPISSI).
In September 1971 DBP launched a countryside development lending program,
part of which was aimed at stimulating the growth of small and medium
industry outside the Greater Manila Area. As DBP's lending to SMI began
to expand in FY73 and the beginning of FY74L, a separate industrial projects
department (IPD II) was formed in November 1973 to be responsible handling
small loans (below P1 million). This change reflects ]BP's awareness that
small-scale borrowers require a different approach with a different kind of
lending relationship from large-scale borrowers. It also enables the staff
of IPD II to concentrate more fully in the special problems of small-scale
industry. Loans above R1 million are handled by IPD I, a department of
proven ability (Annex 3, para. 3). DBP's Branches are also handling an
increasing number of SMI loans. However, Branch Managerst commitment
authority is presently limited to P20,000 (increased from F5,000 in FY73),
so all SMI loans have to be reviewed by either IPD I or IPD II before
submission to the Board of Governors for final approval (para. 15).
2.         Definition.  DBP has adopted the Government's definition of a small-
scale industrial enterprise as one with total assets of between P100,000 and
F1,000,000, and a medium-scale industrial enterprise as one with total assets
of between F1,000,000 and P4,000,000.  DBP has also introduced a Home Industries
Financing Program to cater for firms with assets of less than P100,000. In its
lending operations, however, DBP does not classify its borrowers by size of assets.
An analysis of DBP1s industrial loans during FY72-FY74 shows that on the whole
loans of P50,000 or more have been made to borrowers with assets over P100,000.
Only a very few loans of P50,000 or more have been made to borrowers with assets
under F100,000. Similarly, hardly any loans of under P50,000 have been made to
borrowers with assets over P100,000. At the upp.er level, the analysis showed
that borrowers with assets of under P4,000,000 never availed of loans over
P2,500,000 due to debt/equity constraints. There are, however, a few cases
where firms with assets of over Pl4,000,000 have borrowed amounts of less than
P2,500,000. These cases are easily identifiable. The mission has therefore
decided to use loan sizes of between P50,000 - F1,000,000 and P1,000,001 -
P2,500,000 to classify DBP's small-scale industry and medium-scale industry
lending operations respectively.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
3.        Past SMI Operations.  During the three fiscal years (FY72-74)
since the countryside development program was launched DBP has made 206
loans amounting to P60.4 millioni for SMI as defined above. After a slow
start in FY72, SMI lending increased rapidly in FY73 and FY74 (Appendix 1).
By FY74 the Branches accounted for 45% of the projects and 37% of the amount
lent.  Appendix 7 shows the distribution of SMI approvals by LBP Branches
and Appendix 6 the distribution by industry suo-branches.  In FY74 SMI
lending represenQed about 42% of l BP's total lending to industry compared
with less than 5% in FY72. This rate of increase has been achieved with
virtually no promotional efforts on the part of DBP and despite DBP's
long processing time (para. 14) and stiff collateral requirements (para.ll).
This reflects both DBP's dominant role in financing SNI which has only
recently been challenged by the availability of IGLF financing, and the
large underlying demand for financing by SMI entrepreneurs of which DBP
finances only a small sha-re. Its present collateral and other requirements
discourage all but the fairly affluent and well collateralized enterpreneurs
from approaching it for finance (paras 10 and 11).
4.        Projected Operations.  DBP's SMI operations are expected to
increase very rapidly again in FY75 on the basis of projects already approved,
applications under processing in DBP, and the number of projects being
prepared for DBP financing by the Department of Industry's MASICAP teams
(Volume II, P-rt 2).  DBP'sSMI pipeline is shown in Appendix 5. After FYT75
DBP's SMI operations have been projected to increase only moderately, partly
due to the larger role to be played by IGLF and partly because of capacity
constraints within DBP.  DBP Branches, however, are expected to account for
a greater proportion of DBP's SMI lending as a result of the industrial
dispersal policy and the concentration of DOI/MASICAP efforts in areas
outside the provinces in the vicinity of Manila. Projected SNI lending
operations broken down by size of loan, DBP Branches, and industry sub-
branches are shown in Appendices 1, 6 and 7. In aggregate DBP is projected
to make 531 SMI loans in FY76 and FY77 amounting to P 208.6 million.
Medium-scale industry is expected to account for 6% of the number
of loans and 28% of the loan amount. About half of the SMI lending
is expected to originate in DBP's Branches. Industry distribution is expected
to follow the past pattern of DBP's 31I lending, with food processing,
cement and hollow block manufacturing, apparel and footwear, wood processing,
agricultural machinery, machine shops and foundries accounting for over 60%
of the total.
5.         Industrial Loan Portfolio.  As of June 30, 1974 DBP had a total of
5,277 industrial loans outstanding amounting to F1,382.3 million of which SMI
accounted for P229.4 million (or 16.6%). Principal and interest in arrears
were equivalent to 22% of the total principal outstanding. 74% of the number
industrial loan accounts (accounting for 49% of total principal outstanding)



ANNEX 4
Page 3
have been in arrears for over a year. The table below summarizes the arrears
for industrial accounts since FY72,
Table 1. DBP - Sumary of Industrial Accounts (as of June 30)
FY72        FY73        FM
(percent)  (percent)    percent)
Number of accounts in arrears over
one year/Total number of accounts          86          84           74
Principal and interest in arrears/
Outstanding portfolio                      23          22           22
Principal outstanding for loans in arrears
over one year/outstanding portfolio-       56          54           49
As can be seen, the measures DBP has taken to remedt the situation have begun
to take effect and there has been a gradual but significant improvement in
the arrears on all industrial accounts.
6.         Appendices 10 and 11 summarize the arrears situation, and indicate
the magnitude of arrears between various types of industrial loans. As these
appendices show amounts in default on SMI loans are nearly three times higher
than for larger loans, while those for cottage industry loans are higher still.
These arrearages are too high; to a large extent they reflect the stringency
of DBP's own policies and practices with respect to: amortization schedules
which are generally too tight; collateral (para 11); and working capital (para 8)
which do not take account of the cash flow problems which confront smal-L
entrepreneurs. The weakness of DBP's follow-up has also contributed to these
high arrears. The appraisal mission discussed the arrears problem with DBP
and outlined various courses of action to reduce default rates through improve-
ments in arrearages accounting, loan follow-up and collection, and the setting
of more realistic maturity schedules. Although the arrears situation is improving
gradually, a major improvement will only be possible with the rescheduling of
existing debt along more realistic lines coupled with a well conceived and
executed program of loan follow-up (para. 21).
7.         Lending Priorities.  In making SMI loans DBP gives priority to SMI
outside the Greater Manila Areal/and outside the boundaries of Cebu and Davao
cities, and to export-oriented, labor-intensive, domestic-resource using aMI
in urban areas. This is in conformity with the Government's industrial
dispersal policy and with its SMI promotion program.  While the financing of
SMI in urban areas is not discouraged, especially for providing capital for
expansion of plant and inventory, urban SMI are not given the preferential
treatment (e.g. lower collateral requirements, higher loan/equity proportions
etc.) applicable to SMI in rural areas.
1/   Defined as the following area; on the north up to Malolos, Bulacan;
on the south down to Calamba, Laguna; on the east up to Angono and
Teresa, Rizal; and on the southwest down to Rosario and Cavite.



ANNEX 4
Page hT
8.        Use of DB?'s Loans.  loan proceeds can be used for the acquisition,
construction or improvement of fixed assets including land, buildings,
machinery and equipment, and for working capital.  The purposes for which
industrial loans have been approved in FY73 and FY74 are shown in Appendix
8.  No breakdown by size of loan is available.  In actutal practice DBP has
been restrictive in financing the working capital requirements of its
smaller borrowers and has tended, somewhat rigidly, to confine such financing
to cover 1-2 months working capital requirements. The mission feels that
DBP's financing of working capital requirements should be based on case-by-
case estimates of the requirements for a single complete production run.
Furthermore in view of the difficulty that small industry clients face in
dealing with several financial institutions, and the fact that most SMI
clients financed by DBP have nearly all their collateral mortgaged with
DBP (para. 11), the mission has recommended that DBP consider financing
working capital loans, separate from fixed asset financing, for existing
clients whose collateral would already cover the loan amount requested.
DBP should not, however, engage in making purely short-term trade accommo-
dations, but rather consider medium-term (2 - 3 years) loans which would
enable clients to increase their output on a sustained basis.
9.        Interest Rate and Maturity Period.  An interest rate of 12%,
the statutory maximum for secured loans, is charged on all SMI loans. DBP
presently allows maturity periods ranging from a minimum of 5 years to a
maximum of 10 years. On the basis of a review of recent SMI appraisal
reports, the mission feels that there is considerable room for more flexi-
bility in determining the maturity periods of SMI loans. Unduly heavy
emphasis is placed or. early repayment based on unrealistic cash generation
expectations which do not take sufficient account of growing working capital
needs as businesses develop (para. 6). More weight should be placed on the
productive life of financed assets in determining maturity periods. More
flexibility in this regard would also help to alleviate the relatively high
rate of arrearages for SMI loans and the frequency of account restructuring.
In addition to the interest rate, DBP also charges filing and processing
fees based on the size of the loan application. The schedule of fees is
shown in Appendix 9.
10.       Loan/fcuity Proportions.  D3P's policy requires that the borrower
put up a minimum equity contribution of 25% of total project cost
either in cash, in kind or in the form of collaterals. The mission feels
that a relaxation of the 75:25 ratio to 80:20 would make it considerably
easier for small entrepreneurs to avail of DBP financing. The 20%
equity contribution (together with existing collateral requirements)
still represents a substantial stake in -the project for small entrepreneurs.
11.       Collateral Requirements. DBP's policy requires that its SMI loans
are secured by a first mortgage on titled or untitled real estate, buildings,
machineries and equipment and other mortgageable assets either already owned
by the borrower or to be acquired with the proceeds of the loan. In the
case of corporations, the principal stockholders and officers may be required



ANNEX 4
Page 5
to sign as co-obligors. The maximum loan values allowed by DBP on various
types of collateral are as follows:
Collateral                              As % Appraised Value
a.  Titled land                                     90
b.  Untitled land                                   80
c.  Buildings and improvements
on titled land                                90
d.  Buildings and improvements
on untitled land                              80
e. Machinery and equipment                          80
On paper DBP's collateral requirements are more liberal than most term-
loan financial institutions, although many entrepreneurs still feel that DBP
is too collateral conscious. An analysis of recent SMI loans indicates
that loan amounts averaged about 50% of the appraised value of
collaterals accepted as security for the loan. No information is available
on the number of loan applications turned down, or loan amounts reduced,
because of insufficient collateral. As a first step the appraisal mission
has recommended that Branch and Departmental managers be urged to implement
DBP's collateral policies less conservatively. Performance should be
monitored by comparing loan amounts approved with the loan value of
collaterals accepted as security. The mission has also suggested that
a record be kept of applications turned down or loan amounts reduced
because of insufficient collateral, with a view to reviewing DBP's
collateral policies within the next year.
12.       Refinancing.  DBP's policy allows for the restructuring of its
own accounts where SMI clients have serious debt-servicing problems, but
not for the refinancing of obligations due to other institutions. In some
cases DBP also assists applicants in arranging short-term interim financing
with other financial institutions (particularly the Government-owned
Philippine National Bank) to cover their requirements while the DBP loan
is being processed.
13.       Contingencies and Cost Overrun Financing.  DBP does not at present
include any contingency allowances in its SMI loans, nor is it willing to
consider financing cost overruns due to increased prices. Many of DBP's
SMI clients feel that this is unfair since it is often DBP's long delays in
loan processing that contribute to their increased costs. Part of this
problem can be met by reducing DBP's long loan processing time (para. 15).
DBP should also make explicit allowances for price increases. These
measures notwithstanding, the mission believes that, in view of the very
high rates of inflation in the Philippines and elsewhere, there is still
a case for a policy permitting overrun financing up to 2% of total



ANNEX 4
Page 6
project cost with only a brief review of the project's continued viability.
It should also be part of DBP's decentralization measures to give Branch
and Departmental Managers the authority to approve overrun financing within
a certain ceiling, so that such financing could be made available with
minimum delay.
14.       Loan Processing Procedures.  The flow of present loan processing
procedures for loans above P 20,000 (i.e. above the Branch and IPD II        C
Managers' commitment authority) is depicted in Chart No. 9383. As can be
seen the procedures are needlessly complicated and there is much duplication
of work. Even worse, the process is extremely time-consuming. An analysis
by the mission of a random sample of recent &4I loan appraisals indicated
an average loan processing time (from payment of the application fee to
first release of funds) of 244 days for loans processed through the branches
and 196 days processed through IPD II. A separate study of IPD II's loan
processing procedures by the Development Academy of the Philippines (DAP)
in September 1974 showed that loan processing took about 100 days for loans
below P 20,000, and about 172 days for loans above p 20,000. Apart from
bureaucratic complexity and duplication of work, the following factors are
cited as additional causes of delay: -
(i)  The filing of incomplete loan aplications.  In many cases
collaterals are deficient, loan/equity requirements have
not been met, or financial statements are lacking. However,
much of the problem lies with DBP's loan examiners who
often accept applications (and application fees) which are
not complete. The problem is exacereated because
applicants are usually not fully informed about DBP's
lending policies, particularly DBP's method of appraisal
of collaterals which is very detailed and elaborate.
(ii)  Difficulty in contactng applicants, especially in the
Branches. The DAP study showed that frequent follow-up
by the applicant usually resulted in a faster processing
time.
(iii) Slow communications between Branches and Head Office.
During October 1974 DBP introduced a courier systEm
which has already improved the situation.



ANNEX 4
Page 7
(iv) lack of manpower and equipment. There are still many
unfilled positions in the Branches and IPD II, especially
in the operational divisions. Staff are hampered by the
shortage of vehicles and basic office equipment. DBP
has already accelerated its recruitment program
and is implementing an equipment replacement
program within its budgetary constraints.  This situation
has been aggravated by the substantial increase in the
number of loar. applications. The problem is not so acute
in Head Office where functional lines are clear-cut. In
the Branches, all loan applications, whether agricultural,
industrial or real estate, are handled by one division.
As of September 30, 1974 there were 18,627 loan applications
pending processing in the Branches (compared to 10 in I;PD II),
17,071 of which were agricultural loans, and 60 were industrial
loans above 100,000. Because agricultural loans are often given
greater priority, most of the Branches' scarce manpower -tends to
be allocated to agricultural lending.
(v) Delays in credit reports for loans above P 100,000.
Credit investigations are done by a separate department
(Credit Department). The DAP study found that in many
cases, credit investigation took longer than the project
evaluation.
15.       Recommendations.  In the mission's view, the loan processing problem
is the most serious one affecting DBP's SMI lending program, as reflected
in the criticism voiced both by SNI entrepreneurs and other government
agencies. The mission discussed this problem at length with DBP's management.
The conclusion was that it was both desirable and feasible to reduce DBP's
loan processing time to a maximum of 30 days for loans within the conmit-
ment authority of Branch Managers and the IPD II Manager, and 60 days for
loans that require the Chairman's or the Board's approval. The missicn
believes that the following measures need to be taken to achieve this target:
(i) Decentralization by increasing the commitment authority of
Branch Managers to P 200,000, and that of the IPD II Manager
to P500,000. The mission is strongly of the view that
these increases are essential and timely and would not
affect the quality of investment decisions made, or subject
DBP to unduly high risks.  Apart from the duplication involved,
the mission found that most Branch Managers are deeply resentful



ANNEX 4
Page o
of the present system under wlhich loans they have approved
are rechecked by relatively junior staff in Head Office. 1/
The present check should be replaced by a post-approval
review system in Head Office to monitor Branch Managers'
performarnce. The commitment authority limits should be
reviewed annually to adjust for inflation and for the
increased competence of Branch Managers and staff.
(ii) Procedural changes in the form of a simplification of
existing procedures and the elimination of unnecessary or
duplicated steps. The proposed changes are shown in
Chart Nos. 9384, 9385 and 9386.
(iii) One-man project appraisals of SMI projects by well-qualified
and thoroughly trained industrial appraisers at the Branches
and Head Office.  Credit investigation would be done
separately by a credit investigator, but within the same
department or division.
(iv) Streamlining of project appraisal reports.  Shorter and more
succinct appraisal reports need to be prepared. At present
reports tend to be rather long, descriptive and lacking in
analysis.
(v) Simplification of application and evaluation requirements.
DBP's application requirements for documents and project
information for SMI loans are unnecessarily complicated
and elaborate; if simplified they could considerably lighten
the appraisal load and make DBP financing more attractive
to SKI entrepreneurs. DBP has attempted to simplify appli-
cation requirements by introducing a questionnaire to replace
project feasibility studies for applications below P 500,000.
However, the questionnaire is extremely complex and requires
as much, if not more, information than the project feasibility
studies, and has met considerable resistance from entre-
preneurs, rJASIGAP teams and even DBP's own Branch staff.
DBP is presently revising the questionnaire to take into
account the comments of its Branches and the MkSICAP teams.
In addition DBP needs to provide more information and better
pre-filing counselling services to its clients, as well as
to screen applications more carefully, to avoid processirng
delays.
1/ An analysis of the rechecking done by the Head Office revealed that
very little was contributed by way of substantive judgements and that
investment decisions were never changed.



ANNEX 4
Page 9
(vi)  OrGanizational changes. Although DBP has recently comrpleted
some major organizational changes, both in Head Office and
in the Branches, the mission believes that the current
organization of each Branch, of IPD II and of BAAD can still
be considerably improved to utilize more efficiently ]3BP's
scarce specialized manpower resources (para. 16).
(vii)  Staffing Changes and Traning will be essential to support
recommendcations (i), (iii), and (iv) above.  These are
discussed in detail in paras. 17 and 18.
(viii) Improved Branch - Head Office communications. A systematic
review is needed to ensure that Branches are awrare of and
are imp lementing current DBP po'licies.  Prirt of this would
be covered urder the post-approval rev-.ew system mentioned
in (i) above. However, Branches sho-ld be made aware of
new policies as soon as they come into effect. The mission's
visits to 9 Branches indicated that Branches were rarely aware
of major policy changes for upto 3 - 4 months following their
introduction.
All the above recormendations were discussed at length with DBP's management.
DBP's management felt that a maximum processing time of 60 days was both
desirable and achievable. DBP has now adopted this objective as a target
to be reached as soon as possible. On the other recommendations made by the
mission DBP indicated that following internal discussions it would take them
up further during negotiations.  DBP has set up a Systemis Study Committee
chaired by the Manager of the Branches and Agencies Department, and has
h.-ed a consultant to carry out a stu&r and make recommendations.  T'he results
o3  the study have been sent to the Bank and have been found satis.factory.  DBP
has on the basis of this study instituted a program of action to achieve farther
red ct- 4 cs in loan prccessing time and more flexibi-l ity in its Lendtr;ng t-o S:4! I.
16.       Organization for &II Lending.  Taking full account of the problers
posed by DBP's disparate fields of activity, the appraisal mission has
suggested that DBP management consider organizing the Branches, IPD II and
BaAD along the lines shown in Chart Nos. 9382, 9377 and 9379. These proposals
entail some changes in the qualifications of staff required and the systems
and procedures currently being used.  They would not result in any overall
increases in staff requirements; in some instances they would result in
reductions.  The principal changes suggested are:
('I  Bra-cieS:.  ep.ara`ion of agrict;urai iendain  operati Olls frorn
SMI, real estate and other operations; combinataon of appraisal
anrd fc-llow--ap functions; and separation of very small (under
F5,i'00  for agriculture and un-der ai20,,C0O  for others) loans from
a, er ' oans in each of the two broad divis sions (Chart No. 938) .
(ii)  IPD II:  two broad divisions - project evaluat,ion and proJect
sunervision, with each of these divisions having one section
dealing with loans under P 20,000 and 4 - 5 other sections
differentiated along industry lines (Chart No. 9377).



ANN EX 4
Page 10
(iii) Branches and Agencies Department. two broad divisions -
performance audit and budget analysis (Chart No. 9379).
17.       Staffing.  Staffing changes are essential to support the
recommendations in paras. 15 - 16'. These include:
(i) Branches: at least 1 - 2 engineers with training in
financial and marketing analysis to concentrate solely
in SMI lending and follow-up in the smaller Branches and
3 - 4 such staff in the larger Branches. These could be
substituted for existing positions, such as loan examiners,
which would no longer be needed under the proposed loan
processing procedures.
(ii) IPD II: less specialized, broadly qualified project
evaluators for both appraisal and follow-up work to replace
the six different categories of specialized staff.
(iii) Branches and Agencies Department (BAAD): generalist
Branch performance auditors (one for every two Branches)
with practical experience in Branch operations and
trained to appraise all aspects of Branch operations.
They would, on occasion need to borrow specialists from
DBP's operating departments to look into specific
technical problems. These would replace the five cate-
gories of staff presently in the Branch Management and
Evaluation Division of the BAAD.
18.       Training.  Essential programs in support of the above reccommenda-
tions would include: -
(i)  Project evaluation for SNI projects:  an intensive 3 - 4 months
course for Branch and IPD II appraisal staff, including
classroom training in technical, financial and marketing
analysis and on-the-job training at Head Office. A less in-
tensive 2 - 3 week course could be held for Branch Managers,
Assistance INanagers and operational division chiefs. Priority
in training should be given to staff in Branches with large
industrial portfolios.
(ii)  Branch performance auditing:  a 2 - 3 month'training program
in Branch operations evaluation, systems and procedures and
staffing practices for a select group of staff to be located
in BAAD.
(iii)  Planning and budgeting for Branch operations:  a 4-seek
program, based on a well prepared budget manual, for Branch
Managers, Assistant Managers, and Branch accountants.
19.       Project Appraisal:  While the quality of DBP's S5I loan appraisals
are generally adequate as a basis for sound investment decisions, appraisal
reports tend to be unduly elaborate, lengthy and descriptive. This is due



AfNNEX ti
Page 11
in large part to the bureaucratic nature of the loan processing procedures
and a conservative approach towards collateralization.  At present separate
technical, market and credit reports are prepared plus an elaborate and
well-documented evaluation of the collateral presented.  A financial
analyst then prepares his report and a recommendation based on the other
reports. After this the recommendation goes through an elaborate review
process (see paras. 14 - 15 and Chart No. 9383). In the mission's view,
the technical and market reports and the recomnendation can be done by an
industrial appraiser. The credit investigation can be more quickly and
efficiently carried out by a credit investigator.  The mission believes
that this one-man appraisal system, with the right kind of organizat"ional
and staffing changes and training (paras. 16 - 18), is the most appropriate
one for the appraisal of &C loans, and will result in shorter and more
effective appraisals.  Appraisals  will continue to provide a sound basis
for investment decisions, while DBP's scarce manpower resources will be
more efficiently utilized.  DBP?s management has studied and accepted this
suggestion.
23.       Procurement and Disbursement.  DBP's procedures for onrocuremenit
and disbursement under its SMI loans as currently practiced are adequate.
While competitive bidding is not required, DBP's staff make a careful check
of the price and suitability of the assets to be acquired, both at the
appraisal stage, and again when the loan is being released.  Loans are
disbursed against supporting documents and after an on-site inspection by
DBP's staff of the assets to be acquired or the services to be rendered
with the proceeds of the loan.
21.       Loan Follow-up.  D3P has adequate Drocedures for loan collection,
servicing and foreclosure.  Penalty charges on past due loan accounts are
shown in Appendix 9.  HowevPer,DBP's management has acloowlsdged that its
follow-up work on SII loans is weak.  On paper, reporting requirements
from clients seem adequate, but the required statements and information
are not regularly received, and DBP only makes an effort to enforce these
requirements  hnen a client is badly in arrears.  When inforilation is
received it is usually of poor quality, and statements are not systermatically
reviewed, again unless the client is seriously in arrears. DBP cites the
shortage of manpower as the main reason for the lack of systenatic follow-up.
In view of the importance of follow-up work in improving the quality of
DBP's SMI loan portfolio, the mission reco:nrends that the following measures
be taken:
(i)  Use of collection agencies:  Very small industrial loar
accounts (below P 20,000), accounting for 1,796 outstanding
industrial loan accounts in Head Office and in the Branches
which are badly overdue (over 6 months) should be sub-
contracted to outside collection agencies.  At the moim<ent
DBP is using a disproportionate amount of manpower to
supervise these accounts.



ANNY
Page 12
(ii)  Combination of ap=raisal and follow-up functions in the
Branches. While recognizing that philosophies vary on
the separation of appraisal and follow-up, the mission
feels that such separation in the Branches is inefficient
and ineffective.  From discussions at the Branches and
Head Office, it seems that the principal reason for
separation was a basic lack of trust in the appraiser's
honesty and capability to acknowledge previous errors.
The mission does not feel this is adequate justification
for maintaining as inefficient a system as DBP presently
has. Combining appraisal and follow-up for SMI projects
would have the advantages of flexibility in staff use and
continuity in appraiser-client relationships.
(iii) Stricter enforcement of present supervision requi eaents.
Specifically, the following should represent the basic
information requirements:       -
(a)  Loans between P 20,000 - 100,000:  annual income
statements and balance sheets in a simplified
standard fcrmat.
(b)  Loans P 100,001 - 1,000,000:  semi-annual income
statements and balance sheets, annual sources
and application of funds statement and projections
for following two years; annual financial state-
ments should be audited; minimum of one project
site inspection per year or as frequently as
necessary for delinquent accounts.
(c)  Loans P 1,000,001 - 2,500,000:  same as in kb)
above except income statements and balance sheets
should be submitted on a quarterly basis.
(iv)  Systematic Review:  Staff at Head Office and the Branches
should systematically review submitted statements and comment
on their quality, record their findings in summary form on
project follow-up record, submit standard summary project
inspection reports, and, if necessary, make recommendations
for future action. These reports can form the basis of DBP's
reports to IBRD oia the progress of subprojects.
22.       Planning and Budgeting. At present IPD II and the Branches do not
undertake any systematic planning of their 314I operations. No attempt has
been made to match the future workload in the various categories of activity
with budgetary requirements. The assumption has been that the amount of
work will always exceed the available manpower. Applications for loars have
generally been accepted without any thought being given as to the availability
of manpower to process them. The result has been a massive backlog of loans
pending processing. The mission suggests that DBP should introduce a planni-g
and budgeting system so that it can manage its S3I operations on a less
haphazard basis. She planning and budgeting system could be relatively



ANNEX L
Page 13
simple, ancd would essentially be based on a forecast of SMI activities
(promotion, process-ng and evaluation, collection and follow-up)
over a two-year period and the budgeting requirements to carry out these
activities. This proposal complements the mission's recommendations on
organizational changes (para. l5). TWork on a planning and budgeting
system for the Branches, where the problems caused by the lack of
planning are particularly acute, has already begun. This work should
be extended and refined.  Complete budgets which include lending and
collection forecasts for various types of loans and cover all categories
of cost elements should be prepared and submitted to BAAD about three
months before the beginning of each fiscal year. The budgets should be
reviewed by a committee chaired by the Manager, BAAD and including
managers from the operating departments, before submission to the
Chairman's office for approval. Once approved all authority for expendi-
tures within the approved budgets should be given to the Branch Manager.
For expenditures exceeding the approved budget, approval of the Manager,
BAAD should be sought if the amount is up to P 50,000 and of the Chairmnan
for larger amounts. Monthly reports on variances from budgets should
be prepared for  review by the Budget Division of the BAAD so that Branch
perfonmance in meeting lending and other targets controlling costs can
be regularly monitored. These proposals were discussed at length with
DBP's management who indicated that the question of planning and budgeting
would be addressed as part of the systems study mentioned in para. 15.
23.       Coordination with the Department of Industry and Commission
on Small and Medium Industries. DBP is presently represented on the
Commission on anall and Medium Industries (CSMI) by the Manager of the
Branches and Agencies Department with the Manager of IPD II as alternate.i/
The DBP representative on the CS g is also the Chairman of the Finance
Sub-Committee of the CSMC. The Managers of BAAD and IPD II also hold
regular meetings with the National Coordinatior of MASICAP to discuss and
resolve problems related to MASICAP projects referred to DBP for financing.
At the field level, relations betwen DBP Branch staff and MASICAP teams
range from cooperative to strained. M1uch depends on the personalities
involved.  However, most DBP Branch Managers recognize that MASICAP teams
can and do play a useful role and in many cases refer potential proponents
to MASICAP for assistance in project preparation. The MASICAP teams for
their part are beginning to understand the constraints under which DBP
Branches operate. The mission considers it essential for the success of
tbhe SMI program that close cooperative relationships be maintained between
DBP and MASICAP, at both Branch and Head Office levels.
lJ DBP has since accepted the mission's recommendation to reverse this
order. The Manager, IPD II is now the full-time representative iwhile
the Manager, BAAD serves as alternate.



ANNEXES 4
Page 14
B. Features of the Proposed Ican
24.       ProJect DescriDtion.  The DBP portion of the loan (US$ 15 million)
would be used to finance part of its projected SN loan commitments during
FY76 and FY77. The maximum size of sub-loan under the proposed loan would
be about US$360,000, and the average size is expected to be about US$t5,000.
Although no minimum loan size will be set, in practice the minimum would
probably be about P 50,000 (US$7,000) for the reasons outlined in para. 2.
This limitation is based onloan size for administrative simplicity. The
main consideration in lending is    to reach the intended 511C target group,
defined as enterprises with total fixed assets of between P 100,000 and
P 24,000,000. Within this definition eligible subprojects should include
as wide a range as possible of projects in manufacturing, agro-industry,
tourism, transportation services, engineering repair facilities of various
types and small construction industries (with the exceptions outlined in
para. 26). No discrimination either by industry branch or by location
would be specified under the loan. Discrimination by location seems
unnecessary in view of the Government's expressed policy of investment
dispersal away from Greater Minila, Cebu and parts of Davao, and DBP's
affirmation that it will conform to the Goverment's policies in implementing
its S4I program. Both fixed assets and permanent working capital would be
financed by the proceeds of the proposed loan.  Loans over P1 million woua
be handled by IPD I and would absorb upto a maximum of US$5 million (P35
million)'.
25.       Amount of Loan. As indicated in para. 4, DBP is projected to make
531 SMI loans in FY76 and FY77 amounting to P208.6 million (US$29.8 million).
Assuming 75% coverage of DBP's loans over this period (para. 28), the
size of the IBRD loan to cover fully the two-year period would need to be P156.5
million (US$22.4 million). HowTever, in view of the uncertainties regarding the
effects of increased competition from IGLF, the ability of DBP to improve its
SMI loan processing capacity, and the .investment outlook for the Philippine
industrial sector as a whole resulting from the interrnational economic situation,
it is considered prudent to allow for some overestimation and limit the DBP
portion to only US$15 million at this stage with close monitoring of its rate of
utilization.
26.       Overlap with other IBRD loans through DBP. As indicated in para.24,
the proposed loan would be used to finance as wide a range of S14I subprojects
as possible. However, the proposed DBP component of US$15 million would not
be used to finance projects already eligible for financing under IBRD's
existing or future loans for grain processing, fisheries, livestock, and
shipping. Decisions regarding possible overlaps with IBRD's existing and
future loans through DBP for industrial investment oould be left to the
discretion of DBP?s management. The Bank expects DBP to follow the principle
that sub-borrowers eligible under both the proposed SMI loan and the IBRD
loan for industrial investment will be financed by the latter if the
application is for the financing of direct imports, and by the former if
the application is for domestically procured goods and services. However,
the numlber of cases which might fall into this category is not expected
to exceed ten at the maximum.



ANNEX 4
Page 15
27.         Form of Bank Lending.  The MBP component of the proposed a4I loan
would be made to the Government which would relend the proceeds to DB:P on the
same terms as that of the IBRD loan to the Government.
28.       Proportion of Sub-loans to be Covered by Proceeds of IBRD
Loan. Since small entrepreneurs rarely engage in the direct importation
of capital goods or raw material requirement, sub-loans would be made
entirely in local currency. On the basis of a detailed analysis prepared
by DBP, the foreign exchange component (direct and indirect) of fixed
asset costs for typical Philippine aiI projects was estimated to be about
64% of total sub-project cost (Annex 10). It is expected that on
average DBP financing will cover about 80 percent of total subproject
costs including working capital. For administrative simplicity, 75%
of the loan amounts advanced by DBP would be covered by the proceeds of
the proposed loan.
29.       Foreign Exchange Risk.  The foreign exchange risk on the loan
would be borne by the Government as in the case of the livestock and
fisheries loans.
30.         Procurement.  The Bank's normal requirements for international
competitive bidding would be clearly inappropriate for application to
subprojects under this loan as in standard Bank loans to development f'inance
companies. As indicated in para. 20, DBP has adequate procedures to ensure
that purchases from the proceeds of its sub-loans are made with due regard
for economr and efficiency. Through routine supervision missions the Bank
can ascertain that these procedures are consistently and effectively applied.
31.         Amortization Schedule.  A fixed amortization schedule of 16 years
including a 4-year grace period is based on the assumption that sub-loans
would have a maximum repayment period of 12 years including a 2-year period
of grace, and that the funds would be fully committed within two years, and
fully disbursed within three years, of the date of loan signature.
32.         Relending Rate.  DBP would charge an interest rate of 12% per
annum to sub-borrowers. This is the maximum legal rate applicable to secured
loans in the Philippines. If DBP is allowed to increase its lending rate,
the Bank would be consulted on the onlending rate to be charged to sub-
borrowers under the proposed loan.



ANNEX h
Page 16
33.       Free Limit.  A total of about 360 sub-loans is expected to be
made by DBP out of the proceeds of this loan.  In this instance the Bank
would dispense with free limits and prior approvals for the following
reasons:
(i) DBP's ability to appraise and evaluate SMI projects is
aalready adequate, and prior approval of sub-loans by the
Bank would neither be an efficient nor an appropriate
mechanism for improving DBP's SMI appraisals. Nor would
prior approval by the Bank help DBP in avoiding bad loans
since judgements regarding the feasibility and viability
of SMI sub-loans must to a large extent depend on highly
localized factors. The Bank would not be in a position
to second-guess DBP in this regard.
(ii)  The Bank has already set a free limit of US$1 million
(compared with a maximum sub-loan size of US$360,000 under
the proposed loan) for DBP under the previous industrial
investment loan (Loan No. 998-PH).
(iii)  One of the main objectives of the proposed loan is to speed
up DBP's loan processing time for SMI subprojects. Prior
approval by the Bank would contradict this objective by
increasing DBP's target of 60 days loan processing time
by at least 50 percent.
Instead a system of periodic post-reviews, based on appropriately designed
statements of approvals submitted by DSP, together with an examination
of appraisal reports for all sub-loan approvals above P500,000 (U$7o,ooo)
would be instituted. This coupled with more frequent project review
missions, at least in the initial stages of project implementation, would
suffice to ensure that sub-loan appraisals are based on sound financial,
economic . technical and market considerations.
34.       Disbursements.  Loan disbursements would be made on a reirmbursement
basis against quarterly statements provided by DBP, showing amounts withdrai
against the individual subprojects approved.
EAP Projects Department
February 24, 1975



PHILIPPINES
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
Past and Projected SMI Annual Loan Approvals FY72-77
(F'0OO)
FY72           FY73            FY74              FY75              FY76             FY77
No.    Amt.    No.    Amt.    No.        Amt.    No.       Amt.    No.    Amt.    No.         Amt.
F50,000-100,000 Bracket
Branches                        4      311       14       980    18      1,258    36       2,700    40    3,000    45         3,375
Head Office                      3     290        7       533    13  1,024    45           3,645    45    3,645    45
Sub-Total                  7      601       21    1,513    31       2,282    82      6,345    85    6,645    90         7,020
P100,001-1,000,000 Bracket
Branches                         1     144       10    2,403    37    11,338    68    23,142    82   32,800    87    36,975
Head Office                      6   2,055       36   11,900    53    21,764    68    26,997    74   31,450    80    36,000
Sub-Total                  7   2,199       46   14,303    90    33,102   136    50,139   156   64,250   167    72,975
F1,000,001-2,500,000 Bracket
Branches                        -      -         -        -       1      1,977      7    11,984       7   12,250       9    15,750
Head Office                                      1      1,900     2      2,533      6    10,410       8   14,000       9    15,750
Sub-Total                  -     -         1      1,900      3     4,510    13    22,394    15   26,250    18    31,500
All Brackets
Branches                        5      455       24     3,383   56    14,573   111    37,826   129   48,050   141    56,100
Head Office                     9   2,345        44    14,333   68    25,321   119    41,052   127   49,095   134    55,395
Total                     14   2,800       68    17,716  124    39,894   230    78,878   256   97,145   275   111,495
EAP Projects Department                                                                                                         " .-
December 30, 1974                                                                                                              1 
x 



PHILIPPINES
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
Past and Projected SMI Annual Loan Approvals FY72-77
(Percentage Distribution)
FY72             FY73              FY74              FY75             FY76             FY77
No..   Amt.    No.       Amt.      No.    Amt.       No.    Amt.      No.    Amt.      No.    Amt.
P50,000-100,000 Bracket
Branches                   26.6    11.1    20.6        5.5     14.5      3.2    15.6       3.4    15.6    3.1       16.4    3.0
Head Office                21.4    10.4    10.3        3.0    10.5       2.6    19.6       4.6     17.6    3.7    16.4    3.3
Sub-Total             50.0    21.5    30.9       8.5    25.0       5.8    35.2       8.0    33.2    6.8    32.8    6.3
F100,001-1,000,000 Bracket
Branches                    7.1      5.1    14.7    13.5    29.8    28.4    29.5    29.3           32.0   33.7      31.6   33.2
Head Office                42.8    73.4    52.9    67.2    42.7    54.5    29.5           34.2    28.9   32.4    29.1   32.3
Sub-Total             50.0    78.5    67.6    80.7    72.5    83.0    59.0    63.5    60.9   66.1    60.7   65.5
P1,000.001-2,500,000 Bracket
Branches                    -        -        -        -        0.8      5.0      3.0    15.2       2.7   12.6       3.3   14.1
Head Office                 _        _        1.5    10.7       1.6      6.3      2.6    13.2       3.1   14.4       3.3   14.1
Sub-Total              -        -        1.5    10.7      2.4    11.3       5.6    28.4       5.8   27.0       6.6   28.2
All Brackets
Branches                   35.7    16.3    35.3    19.1    45.2    36.5    48.3    48.0    50.4   49.5    51.3   50.3
Head Office                64.3    83.7    64.7    80.9    5L 8    63.5    51.7    52.0    49.6   50.5    48.7   49.7
Total                100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0  100.0   100.0  100.0
EAP Projects Department
December 30, 1974



PHILIPPINES
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
Past and Projected SMI Annual Loan Approvals FY72-73
(Annual Changes in Percent)
FY72-73                FY73-74             FY74-75            FY75-76             FY76-77
No.       Amt.       No.       Amt.       No.      Amt.      No.      Amt.       No.      Amt.
F50,000.-100,000 Bracket
Branches                         250.0      215.1       28.6       28.4      100.0    114.1   11.1        11.1      12.5      12.5
Head Office                      133.3       83.8        85.7       92.1     246.1    256.0    0           O         0         0
Sub-Total                   200.0      151.7       47.6       50.8      164.5    178.0    4.9         4.7       5.9       5.6
F100,001-1,000,000 Bracket
Branches                         900.0   1,568.7       270.0      371.8      83:8      104.1   20.6       41.7       6.1      12.7
Head Office                      500.0      479.1        47,2       82.9     28.3       24.0    8.8       16.5       8.1      14.5
Sub-Total                   557.1      550.4       95.6      131.4      51.1       51.1   14.7      28.1       7.1      13.6
P1,000,001-2,500,000
Branches                          -          -          -          -        600.0      506.2    0          2.2      28.6      28.6
Head Office                       -100.0                           33. 3    .~220.0    311.0   33 .0      34.5      12.5      12.5
Sub-Total                    -          -         200.0      137.4    333.3      396.5   15.4       17.2      20.0      20.0
All Brackets
Branches                         380.0      643.5      133.3      330.8      98.2      159.6   16.2      27.0        9.3      16.8
Head Office                      388.9      511.2       54.5       76.7      75.0       62.1    6.7       19.6       5.5      12.8
Sub-Total                   385.7      532.7       82.4      125.2      85.5       97-7   11.3      23.2       7.4      14.8
EAP Projects Department
December 30, 1974



PHILIPPINES
DEMLPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
Past and Projected SMI Annual Loan Approvals FY72-77
(Average Loan Amounts)
(P '000)
FY72       FY73       FY74       FY75       FY76        FY77
P50,000-100,000 Bracket
Branches                              77.8       70.0       69.9       75.0        75.0       75.0
Head Office                           96.7       76.1       78.8       81.0       81.0        81.0
Sub-total                        85.9       72.0       73.6       78.3       78.2        78.0
P100,001-1,000,000 Bracket
Branches                             144.0      240.3      306.4      340.3      400.0       425.0
Head Office                          342.5      330.6      410.6      397.0      425.0       450.0
Sub-total                       314.1      310.9      367.8      368.7      411.8      437.0
P_,000,001-2,500,000 Bracket
Branches                                __         __    1,977.0    1,750.0    1,750.0    1,750.0
Head Office                             --    1,900.0    1,266.5    1,735.0    1,750.0    1,750
Sub-total                          -_   1,900.0    1,503.3    1,722.6    1,750.0    1,750.0
All Brackets
Branches                              91.0      141.0      260.2      340.8       372.5      387.9
Head Office                          260.6      325.8      372.4      345.0      386.6       413.4
Total                           200.0      260.5      321.7      343.0      379.5      405.4
EAP Projects Department
December 30, 1974



PHILIPPINES
DEVELOPIvENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
SIMI Pipeline
(R?tooo)                                        Estimated
Approved in        Pending        Under Processing   Approvals
Actual FY74     First Half 75    Processing 1/        MASICA   /      in FY 7
N.  Amt.     No.     Amt.       7ii No.         NO       lnT.     No.     At
P50,000-100,000 Bracket
Branches                          18    1,258       9       754      22    1,703.     10       780      36    2,700
Head Office                       1?    1,024      27    2,004       25    1,946        -      -        45    3,64.5
Sub-Total                   31    2,282      36    2758        147   3,649      10       780      81    6,345
P100,001-1,000,000 Bracket
Branches                          37   11,338      21    5,012       65   25,348       53   24,528      68   23,142
Head Office                       53   21,76L      40  18,h58        42   22,205       3       815      68   26,997
Sub-Total                   90   33,102      61   23,500      107   47,553      56   25,343      136   50,139
P1,000,001-2,500,000 Bracket
Branches                           1    1,977       1    2,300        6   13,251       8   16,139        7   11,984
Head Office                        2    2,533       6    8,358        2    3,500       1    2,000        6   10,410
Sub-Total                   3    4,510        7  10,658 3/    8   16,751         9   18,139       13   22,394
All Brackets
Branches                          56   14,573      31    8,096       93   40,302      71   41,447      111   37,826
Head Office                       68   25,321      73   28,820       69   27,651       4    2,815      119   41,052
Total                     121   39,894      104   36,916      162   67,953      75   44,262      230   78,878  g
0 W4
l/ As of December 31, 1974.                                                                                                 F7
2/  Industrial projects earmarked for DBP financing as of October 8, 1974, but not yet submitted to DBP.
Sources  DBP, DOI-MASICAP and Mission estimates December 2, 1974.
3/  Excludes loans to medium industry financed from previous IBRD loan and also excludes loans of this size
made to firms with assets exceeding F4 million.
EAP Projects Department
March lb, 1975



ANNEX 4
PNILIPPD S                                              Appendix 6
DEVELOEMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
Past and Projected SMI Loan Approvals by Industry Branch FY72-77
FY72-74                      FY75                         FY76                         FY77
No.          Amt.            No.          Amt.            No.           Amt.           No.           Amt.
Food                                   40         15,279            52           20,114           58          24,196          58             25,196
(19.4)         (25.3)        (22.6)           (25.5)      (22.7)           (24.9)       (21.1)            (22.6)
Beverages and Tobacco                   1             165             2             868            2              668          5              1,670
(0.5)          (0.3)         (0.9)            (1.1)       (0.8)            (0.7)        (1.8)             (1.5)
Textiles                                6           1,758             4             580            5           1,725           5              2,225
(2.9)          (2.9)         (1.7)            (0.7)       (1.9)            (1.8)        (1.8)             (2.0)
Footwear and Apparel                   22           7,909           25            7,336           24           8,432          25              9,283
(10.7)         (13.1)        (10.9)            (9.3)       (9.4)            (8.7)        (9.1)             (8.3)
Wood and Cork                          20           5,944            22           5,916           22            6,918         25              8,861
-  (9.7)       (9.8)         (9.6)            (7.5)       (8.6)            (7.1)        (9.1)             (7.9)
Furniture and Fixtures                 11           2,980            12           3,132           18            4,982         19              5,259
(5.3)          (4.9)         (5.2)            (4.0)       (7.0)            (5.1)        (6.9)             (4.7)
Paper                                   -             -               1             180            2              460          3                690
(0.4)           (0.2)        (0.8)            (0.5)       (1.1)              (0.6)
Printing and Publishing                 4             658            4              552            5           1,190           5              1,490
(2.0)          (1.1)         (1.7)            (0.7)       (1.9)            (1.2)        (1.8)             (1.3)
Leather                                 3             967             2           1,025            3            1,336          3              1,336
(1.5)          (1.6)         (0.9)            (1.3)       (1.2)            (1.4)        (1.1)             (1.2)
Rubber                                  4           1,170             5           1,735            5            1,135          5              1,455
(2.0)          (1.9)         (2.2)            (2.2)       (1.9)            (1.2)        (1.8)             (1.3)
Chemicals                               6           1,858             8           3,076           11           4,735          14              6,026
(2.9)          (3.1)         (3.5)            (3.9)       (4.3)            (4.9)        (5.1)             (5.4)
Petroleum and Coal                      .             -           -          -              -                     -            -                -
Non-Metallic Mineral                   20          4,915            20            5,600           22           7,160          25              9,136
(9.7)          (8.1)         (8.7)            (7.1)       (8.6)            (7.4)        (9.1)             (8.2)
Basic Metal and Metal                   6             852           13            7,967           12            7,356         14              8,582
(2.9)          (1.4)         (5.6)           (10.1)       (4.7)            (7.6)        (5.1)             (7.7)
Non-Electrical Machinery                8           2,746           13            2,997           13           4,990          14              5,874
(3.9)          (4.5)         (5.6)            (3.8)       (5.1)            (5.1)        (5.1)             (5.3)
Electrical Machinery                    2             742             2             760            5           1,900           6              2,280
(1.0)          (1.2)         (0.9)            (1.0)       (1.9)            (1,9)        (2.2)             (2.0)
Transport Equipment                     3             585             2           1,025            7            3,584          8              4,596
(1.5)          (1.0)         (0.9)            (1.3)       (2.7)            (3.7)        (2.9)             (4.1)
Miscellaneous Manufacturing            13           3,220            17           4,969           20            6,840         19              7,498
(6.3)          (5.3)         (7.4)            (6.3)       (7.8)            (7.0)        (6.9)             (6.7)
Mining and Quarrying                    1             433             3           2,682            1              894           1                900
(0.5)          (0.7)         (1.3)            (3.4)       (0.4)            (0.9)        (0.4)             (0.8)
Service Industries                     36           8,229            23           8,364           21            8,644         20              9,138
(17.5)         (13.6)        (10.0)           (10.6)        (8.2)            (8.9)       (7.3)             (8.2)
Total                206         60,410           230           78,878          256          97,145         275            111,495
(100.0)        (100.0)       (100.0)          (100.0)    (1X0.0)           (100.0)    (100.0)             (100.0)
Source:  DBP and mission estimates December 3, 1974.
EAP Projects Department
December 30, 1974



ANNEX 4
Appendix 7
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
Past and Projected SMI Loan Anprovals by DBP Branch FY72-77
(P' 000)
FY72               FY73                FY74                 FY75               FY76              FY77
No.       Amt.     NO.       Amt.      No.       Imt.       No.       Amt.    No.       Mitt.     No.       Ant.
Luzon Branches
Baguio                           -         -        -         -         -         -          3        795       4      1,340       4       1,380
Cabanatuan                       -         -        1        116        1         83         6      1,525       7      2,380       6       2,270
Calapan                          _         -        1         60        1        259         2        415       2        630       2         790
Daet                             -         -         -        -         -         -          2        333       3        930       4       1,480
Dagupan                          _    -         -             -         1         94         4      1,091       6      1,960       7       2,630
Isabela                          -        -         4        326        2        749         8      2,033       8      2,700       8       3,360
Laoag                            -         -         -        -         1        619         2        388       3        930       3       1,050
Legazpi                          2      166         2        140        5      1,151         6      1,597       6      1,970      ;7       2,820
Naga                             -        -         -         -         1        433         2        275       3        930               1,030
Puerto Princesa                  -        -         -         -         -         -          2        445       2        640       1       1,060
San Jose                        -         -         1         62        1        214         4      1,000       3        930       4       1,480
Tarlac                           -         -        2        103        1        266         2        455       3        930       3       1_,
Tuguegarao                      _         _         2        273        2        322         2      1,280       2        640       2         790
Sub-Total           2       166        13      1,080       16      4,190        45    11,632       52    16,910       56      21,290
Visayas Branches
Bacolod                          -        -         -         -         5      2,825         6      1,130       5      2,100       5       2,180
Catarman                         -        -         -         -         -         -          -        -         1        420       1         240
Cebu                             1       69          1       500        8      2,880        11      7,332      13      5,400      15       6,550
Dumaguete                        -         -        -         -         2        247         2        475       2        850       2         770
Iloilo                          -         -         -         -         2        243         5        628       5      2,080       6       2,610
Kalibo                           -         -         2       299        3        508          1       100       1        420       1         130
Roxas                            -         -        -         -         1         50         2        263       2        830       3       1,200
Tacloban                         -        -         1         92        3        567         5      2,231       7      2,920       7       3,090
Tagbilaran                                          -         -               _   -                             1        420       1         230
Sub-Total           1        69         4        891       24      7,320        32    12,159       37    15,140       41      17,000
Mindanao Branches
Butuan                           -         -        -         -         1        118         -        -         1        410       1         300
Cagayan de Oro                   -         _        -         -         2        124         2        225       3      1,250       4       1,620
Cotabato                         -         -         1       249        3        697          3     1,240       2        820       3       1,220
Davao                            1       76          2       517        5        982         9      5,683      11      4,510      12       4,960
Dipolog                          -         -        -         -         -         -          1        225       1        410       1         350
Iligan                          -         -         1        116        1         94         3        375       4      1,640       5       2,130
Ozamiz                           -         -         1        95        1        404         1        200       2        850       2         750
Pagadian                         -         -         -        -         -         -          2        571       2        820       2         710
General Santos                   -         -         -         -         1       144          6     3,579       6      2,460       7       2,890
Zamboanga                        1      144         2        435        2        500         7      1,937       8      3,280       7       2,880
Sub-Total            2      220         7      1,412       16      3,063        34    14,035       40    16,000       44      17,810
Total Branches              5       455        24      3,383       56    14,573        111    37,826    129    4S,050    141         56,100
Total Head Office           9    2.345         44    14,333        68    25,321        119    41,052    127    49,09    134         55,395
Grand Total         14    2,800        68    17,716       124    39,894        230    78,878    256    97,145    275    1114_95
EAP Projects Department
December 5, 1974



ANNEX 4
Appendix 8
PHILIPPINES
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
Distribution of Industrial Loans Approved
byPurposesFY7  and  I
CTh 000 and percent)
FY73    __MFY
Amt.     Percent       Amt.     Percent
Construction and Repair of Factories
or Office Buildings                       12,256.8    22.3   21,930.7        23.1
Purchase, Installation and Repair of
Machinery and Equipment                   19,545.9    35.6   27,870.7        29.4
Operating and Working Capital                   6,071.9    11.1   12,041.1        12.7
Liquidation of Elisting Indebtedness           14,245.0    25.9   30,112.1        31.7
Purchase and Repair of Conveyances                980.7     1.8    2,248.0         2.4
Purchase of Site                                   55.0      0.1      373.3        0.1
Purchase of Raw Materials                         803.4     1.5        83.0        0.1
Others                                            963.1     1.7       264.4        0.3
Total                    54,921.9   100.0   94,923.2       100.0
EAP Projects Department
December 5, 1974



ANNEX 4
Appendix '9
PHILIPPINES
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
Schedule of Fees and Charges
A. Filing and Processing Fees
Loan Amount A-plied For                          Fee
P 2,000 and below                              P30
P 2,001 - 10,000                               P 80
P 10,001 - 20,000                             p 100
P 20,001 - 30,000                               150
P 30,001 - 40,000                               250
P 40,001 - 50,000                               350
P 50,001 - 100,000                              500
P 100,001 - 500,000                           1 ,000
P 500,001 - 1,000,000                         2;500
Over P 1,000,OOC                              1,000 for every million pesos
applied for with a minimum of
P 5,000.
B. Penalty Changes
1. Loan amortizations or portions thereof which have been past due for more
than ninety (90) days shall be subjected to the penalty charge of 1/3% per
month counted from the date they become liable to such charge. The term
amortization shall be construed to mean any periodic amount due and
payable at specific dates, whether fixed or changing in amount, and
irrespective of whether it is composed of both interest and principal
repayment or exclusively of either one. Where applicable, loans which
are exempted from the increased interest rate of 12% per annum shall be
subject to this penalty charge.
2.  Since the penalty charge of 1/3% per month cannot be imposed unilaterally
by the Bank on existing accounts in the absence of a condition in the
loan or mortgage contract, all transactions involving novation of existing
loan agreements enumerated elsewhere in this recommendation, as well as
approvals of additional, liquidation or new credit accommodations shall
be subject to the 1/3% per month penalty charge.
3. In lieu of the foregoing penalty charge provided above, where an account
is re-structured, i.e., terms of repayment are re-scheduled for the
benefit of the borrower, in order to drop foreclosure action initiated
by the Bank, failure on the part of the borrower to comply with the
terms of the restructuring agreement shall subject the borrower to a
penalty charge of 10% per annum to be levied on total amortizations past
due, effective thirty (30) days after the violation is committed. Th-Ls
penalty shall be charged for as long as tlae violation of the restructuring
agreement remains uncorrected and the mortgage is not foreclosed.
4. If an account is endorsed for legal action and foreclosure is actually
accomplished, the usual 10% attorney's fees on the total obligation shall
be imposed.
EAP Projects Department
December 5, 1974



8H22.IppINTKS
ANNEX -4
EV-ELOPMENt BANE OF THE PHILIPPINES                    Appendix 10
Age Structure of Arrears as of June 30. 1974
Principal and
Interest in
Total Loans Outstanding                    Arearn
Ho.      Percent       Amt.       Percent       Ant.      Percent
All Branches    (All Industrial Loans )
Loans Servicing Regularly                         547         25.5     14,746.7         41.7        -           -
In Arrears for:
Lens than I year                              288         13.4       4.028,1         11.4      508.4         4.4
Sub-Total                          835         38.9      18,774.8         53.1      508.4         4.4
In Arrears for:
1 year                             130          6.1       4,201.7        11.9    1,062.1          9.2
2 years                              79          3.7      1,892.9          5.3      601.6         5.2
3 years                              37          1.7      2,736.6          7.7    1,826.4        15.8
4 years                              21          1.0        844.4          2.4      436.4         3.8
Over 5 yearo and already natured            1,043         48.6       6_,944.3        19.6    7,121.1       61.6
Sob-Total                        1,310         61.1      16,619.9         46.9   11,047.6        95.6
Total                            2_145         100.0     35.394.7        100.0   11, 556.0      100.0
Head Office (All Industrial Loans)
Loans Servicing Regularly                         374         12.4    549,591.9         40.8        -           -
In Arrears for:
Less than 1 year                              134          4.4    139,256.8         10.3    4,552.3         1.6
Sub-Total                           508        16.8    688,848.7          51.1    4,552.3         1.6
In Arrears for:
I year                             552         18.2    410,344.8          30.5  103,698.6        35.6
2 years                              16          0.5          26.5         -          15.2        -
3 years                             163          5.4     99,477.2          7.4   64,375.3        22.1
4 years                               7          0.2          22.2         -          20.6        -
Over 5 years and already natured            1,783         58.9    147.456.5          11.0  118,611.4       40.7
Sob-Total                        2,521         83.2    657.327.2          48.9  286,721.1       98.4
Total                            3_029         100.0  1,  6,1758         100.0  291,273.4       100.0
Head Office (Industrial Loans below
P7 50,080) 
Lones Servicing Regularly                         116          5.8         896.2        11.2
In Arrears for:
Less than 1 year                               51           2.5        413.5          3.2        10.8        0.2
sub-rotal                           167         8.3       1,311.7         16.4        10.6       0.2
In Arrears for:
1 year                             290         14.4       2,224.9        27.7       656.5       02.8
2 years                              16         0.8           26.5         0.3        15.2        0.3
3 years                              39          1.9        526.9          6.6       374.3        7.4
4 y-                                  7          0.4          22.2         0.3        20.6        0.4
Over 5 years and already natured            1,498         74.3       3,928.9         48.8    4*nl5.3        78.8
sub-Total                        1,850         91.7       6,729.4        83.6    5,092.6        99.8
Total                            2_017         100.0      8._041.0       100.0    5.092.6       100.0
Head Office  (Induotrial Loans i 50,001-
1,000,000)
Loans Servicing Regularly                        175          22.8     44,856.7         24.6        -
In Arraear for:
Leon than 1 year                            --3            8.2      12,778.7          7.0       383.8        0.5
Sob-Total                         238          31.0      57,635.4         31.6      383.8         0.5
In Arrears for:
1 year                            188          24.5      41,651.2         22.8    8,743.6        10.8
2 years
3 years                            97           12.6     30,875.1         16.9   20,619.4        25.6
4 years
Over 5 yearn and already natured             245          31.9      52,148.7         28.6   50,816.6        63.1
Sub-Total                         530          69.0    124,675.0          68.5   80,179.6        99.5
Total                              768         100.0    182,310.4        100.0   80,563.4       000.0
Total Head Office and Branches
Loans Servicing Regularly                        921          17.8    564,338.6         40.8       -            -
In Arrears for:
Less than 1 year                             422            8.2    143,284.9         10.4    5,060.7         1.7
Sub-Total                       1,343          26.0    707,623.5          51.2    5,060.7         1.7
In Arreorn for:
1 year                            682          13.i    414,546.5          30.0  104,760.7        34.6
2 yearn                             95           1.8      1,919.4          0.1       616.8        0.2
3 years                            200           3.9    102,213.8          7.4   66,201.7        21.9
4 years                             28           0.5         866.6         -         457.0        0.1
Over 5 years and already matured           2,826          54.6    154_400.9          11.2  125,7325.        41.5
Sub-Total                       3,831           74.0    673,947.2         48.8  297.768.7        98.3
Total                           5_174         100,0  1.381.570.7         100.0 302.8294.    100.0
1/  Eocept Butuan, General Santos, Iligan ond Puerto Princesa for which data not available.
2/   Includes  accounts with insufficient data (about 2%)
tAP Projects oDpart-et
Decenber 7, 1974



ANNEX 4
Appendix 11
PHILIPPINES
DEVFLOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
Analysis of Principal and Interest in Arrears on Industrial Loans as of June 30, 1974
Principal          Outstanding              Arrears          Percent of
Total Industrial     & Interest   Principal and Interest    as Percent of    Total Outstanding
Size of Loan Granted             Loans Outstanding    in Arrears      Affected by Arrears       Outstanding     Affected by Arrears
No.    Amount         Amount         No.        Amount                          No.      Anount
(P000         (R'OOO)        -          (P'000)
Total Branches 1/
Below 50,000                   2,051      8,355.2      2,975.5       n.a.         n.a.            35.6          n.a.       n.a.
50,001-100,000                    85      4,446.8      1,565.1       n.a.         n.a.            35.2          n.a.      n.a.
100,001-1,000,000               109      20,746.8      7,271.9       n.a.         n.a.           35.1           n.a.      r.a.
Above 1,000,000                    3      2,568.8                              -                  -                         -
Total                    2,248 2/ 36,117.6 2/ 11,812.5        1,639        20,785.2         32.7           72.9      57.5
Total Head Office
Below 50,000                  2,017       8,040.9      5,092.6      1,901        7,144.7          63.3          94.2       83.9
50,001-100,000                  184       9,238.4      5,ooo.6        160        8,180.8          54.1          87.0      88.6
100,001-1,000,000               584    173,072.1      75,562.9        433      129,273.0          43.7          74.o       74.7
1,000,001-2,500,000              125    152,390.4     60,956.1         90      117,340.3          40.0          72.0       77.0
2,500,001-4,000,000              34      74,964.4     23,058.1         22       57,776.3          30.8          64.7       77.1
Above 4,000,000                   85    928,469.6    121,603.1         49      476,868.8          13.1          57.6       51.4
Total                    3,029  1,346,175.8    291,273.4      2,655       796,583.9         21.6           87.7      59.2
Total Branches and Head Office
Below 50,000                 14,o68      16,396.1      8,068.1 )                                  49.2
50,001-100,000                  269      13,685.2      6,565.7 )  4,133        165,383.7          48.0 )        82.2       73.9
100,001-1,000,000               693    193,818.9      82,834.8 )                                  42.7
1,000,001-2,500,000             128    154,959.2      60,956.1         90      117,340.3          39.3          70.3       75.7
2,500,001-4,000,000               34     74,964.4     23,058.1         22       57,776.3          30.8          64.7       77.1
Above 4,000,000                   85    928,469.6    121,603.1         49      476,868.8          13.1          57.6       51.4
Total                    5,277W/1,382,293.4 2/ 303,085.9      4,294       817,369.1          21.9          81.4      59.1
1/ Eccept Butuan, Iligan and Puerto Princesa for which data are not available.
2/ These figures differ from those in Appendix 10 because they include 103 industrial loans amounting to F722,900
Iade by General Santos Branch for which age structure data are not available.
Source: DBP
EAP Projects Department
March 114, 1975



PHILIPPINES
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
ORGANIZATION CHART
BOARD
OF
GOVERNORS
DEPARTMENT                                                                                                                                                          COMMISSION
OF    mt--___-t -_____m__-m__m __-_mt  CHAIRMAN                                                     -                                                               ON
JUSTICE                                                                                                                                                             AUDIT
OFFICE OF
PAT-IM                       SUPERVISION                 SUPRVIIN                                                   SUPERVISING   i                SUPEPVISING
GOVEINOR             GOVEFRNOR                   GOVRNO                                                     GOVERNOR                        GOVEIRNOR 
CASH AN                               ~~~~~~~~~AGRICULTURAL     BRANCHES AND
AT                      MANAGE   NTPROJECTS                                  AGENCIES
DEPARTMENT                                      MANAGEMENT               DEPARTMENT                  DEPARTMENT               DEPARTMENT
CREDIT       7      1  ACCOUNTING                                                         AUDITING
CDEPARTMENT             DEPARTMNT32 BRANCHES                                               DEPARTMENT
DEVELOPMENT                               COMMUNITY                       PERSONNEL                GENERAL                       24 AGENCIES
AND RURAL BANKS                            DEVELOPMENT                    ADMINISTRATION           SERVICES
DEPARTMENT                                PROJECTS                        DEPARTMENT               DEPARTMENT
ACQUIRED ASSETS                                                               MEDICAL AND                 INDUSTRIAL          INDUSTRIAL           INDUSTRIAL
MANAGEMENT                                           OFFICE OF                 DENTAL                     PROJECTS             PROJECTS            PROJECTS
DEPARTMENT                                           THE SECRETARY            DEPARTMENT                  DEPARTMENT I         DEPARTMENT UI       DEPARTMENT 111
ELECTRONIC
RESEARCH     |      |DATA PROCESSING
|DEPARTMENT           DEPARTMENT
VVorld [3a,k-9380



PHILIPPINES
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
ORGANIZATION CHART
INDUSTRIAL PROJECTS DEPARTMENT II
MANAGER 
(1)[SPECIAL ASSISTANT|
BUDGET OFFICER &     _                                                          1
ADMIN. ASSISTANTN
(2      .                                       TECHNICAL STAFF|
(6)
EA ASSISTANT MANAGER O                                                           SU      ASSISTANT MANAGERV
Note: Numbers in ParetheeseADMINIr RATIVE |                                .          '-
I        |                      |    ~~~~~~~~~~SERVICES |            
PROJECTS              LOAN                                        ( 1)PROJECTS                               ACCOUNTS
EVALUATION            PROCESSING                                          ..SUPERVISION                     SUPERVISION
DlIVISI ON            DIVISI ON                                               .       DlIVISI ON             DIVISI ON
(16)                   (9)                                                             (9)                   (12)
Note: Numbers in Parentheses refer to Number of Staff                                                        World Bank-9376



PHILIPPINES
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
ORGANIZATION CHART
BRANCHES AND AGENCIES DEPARTMENT
SPECIAL ASSIS1AT(}
ADMINISTRATIVE
ASSISTANT (2)
PLANS AND
ASSISTANT MANAGER (1)ASSISTANT MANAGER (1)                                                             PROGRAMS
COORDINATOR (5)
CHIEF                                                          CHIEF
BRANCH MGT. AND                                                FINANCIAL PLANNING AND
EXAMINATION DIVISION (1)                                       CONTROL DIVISION (1)
LFILE CLERK (1)|1 FJLE CLERK (11)|
LUZON               VISAYAS              MINDANAO                      BUDGETIN              FINANCIAL
SECTION (8)         SECTION (8)          SECTION (8)                   EXAMINATIORATIONS (5)
[ote: Numbers in parantheses refer to nunnber ofAND ANALYSIS (5)
Note: Numbers in parantheses refer to number of staff.                                                                       World Bank-9378



PHILIPPINES
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
MODEL BRANCH OFFICE ORGANIZATION CHART
IBRANCH MANAE(1|
|BRANCH LAWYE:R (5)l                                                                                    B RANCH AUDITOR (5
ASSISTANT      I
BRANCH        I
MANAGER (1 I 
INVESTMENT                           PROJECT SUPER-
CASH                           AND PROJECT                          VISION AND                                         ACCOUNTING
DIVISION (7)                   DEVELOPMENT                          ACQUIRED ASSETS                                    DIVISION (1)
DIVISION (1                          DIVISION (1)
PROJECT  14)    LOAN                  PROJECT             ACQUIRED             ACCOUNTS         ACCOUNTING (6)     FINANCAL
DEVELOPMENT      PROCESSING (9)       SUPERVISION (6)     ASSETS (3)           SERVICING (4)                       PLANNING (3)
World Bank-9381



PHILIPPINES
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
PROPOSED ORGANIZATION CHART
INDUSTRIAL PROJECTS DEPARTMENT 11
MANAGER
SPECI AL AccSISTANTr
ASSISTANT MANAGER |                                                                                  ASSISTANT MANAGER
LOAN PROCESSING   |                                                                                  SUPERVISION AND
FOLLOW-UP
ALL LOANS     INDUSTRY        INDUSTRY       INDUSTRY          INDUSTRY        INDUSTRY            ALL LOANS        INDUSTRY        INDUSTRY         INDUSTRY        INDUSTRY        INDUSTRY
UNDER          BRANCH         BRANCH          BRANCH           BRANCH          BRANCH              UNDER             BRANCH         BRANCH           BRANCH          BRANCH          BRANCH
$20,000       e.g. FOOD       e.g. TEXTILES,   e.g. METALS,    e.g. WOOD,                          $20,000
PROCESSING,     APPAREL,       MACHINERY,       RUBBER,         OTHER              (COLLECTION
BEVERAGES,     FOOTWEAR,       ENGINEERING,     LEATHER,                            AGENCY
L   l | ETC.   ETC.            ETC.        l L PRODUCTS,| l                |      | SUPERVIS Ol90|N)           j 6              T   L     _   2 |               ] W      9
|ADMINISTRATIVE|
| SERVICES 
W.Hrd Brgnk-9377



PHILIPPINES
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
PROPOSED ORGANIZATION CHART
BRANCHES AND AGENCIES DEPARTMENT
MANAGER
|SPECIAL ASSISTANT | 
ASSISTANT                               ASSISTANT                                  PLANS AND
MANAGER                                 MANAGER                                    PROGRAMS
BRANCH PERFOR-                          BRANCH BUDGET                              COORDINATOR
MANCE AUDIT                             ANALYSIS
BRANCH
BUDGET ANALYSIS
LUZON        VISAYAS     MINDANAO                 DIVISION
SECTION   SECTION |   SECTION
World Bank-9379



PHILIPPINES
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
PROPOSED ORGANIZATION CHART
MODEL BRANCH OFFICE
|BRANCH MANAGER|
BRANCH LAWYER ||BRANCH AUDITOR
ASSISTANT
BRANCH
MANAGER
CASH                   ~~~~~~AGRICULTURAL                                       SMI, HOMEP
DIVISION                 ~~~~~PROJECTS                                        INDUSTRY AND                                    ACCOUNTING
DIVISION                                            REAL EzSTATE                                     DIVISION
PROJECTS DIVISION
BELOW LOANS ALL   AGRICULTURE GENERAL    LIVESTOCK  FISHERIES  ALLELOANS     INDUSTRY       REAL OTHERS ESTATE EACCOUNTSVSERVICING  ACCOU    FINANCIA
World Bank-9382



PHILIPPINES
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL LOAN PROCESSiNG
Days =OWkimg Days.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              F-Cht
PoFifing:
1    Appliatio  Filed                                                          Reoel  of Apr & E., by  sr A- .       9                                                                     Repvt.iMe- m     h-oed by                18
Repo-IMeo sohedoled f., BR-d
2   fogpnctjonlbitt Appralsol                              Psolew~R.~m  of Ayp, & Et., by Mgr,   1                                                                      iMa-mop  on Wdntd- y-                    1
Tec,na,l Report   (       M    rket                        )ocuments pDep.red for dispatch 
Writte           2     Reomt       28              2     Crodit Repor Wtit-enTyye                                  to Ht. 0. by Esami-e                                                                                        Boad AyProo-  and Rtesolution2
*Av-tage Time  for t1) to (12) = 134 days                    Secre-etyS Deyr pas   paper
Reports Typed          lA (3                                                                                          Doc-rnotn to Msli,, sod Rncoldi       12 )     *Noot toa  PD-fl -- My. br                                                                            2     ccD  B & A Dept.
'N. oreaack-nooydgem-n  pro-d-r                             tea-smita  to Brarch
r  sPPid.                                                                                                -    Aoer-ge tine ior (131 to  1) = 83 day.-
3~~~~~~~~~~~~< ~~~~~~~~~~~Documents esoelond at H. 0.4r   -eie  tdachIaf   f
Fi-sepiat AnaoVsts Repoet Written                                                                                               D  -e       -rOtana d arIreot         13                                                                    P       e
F. A. Report Typed            D9                                                                                                     -iccentsraoeioed by PD  It Mgt    14                                                           tot Loan Document pLeparat on
Totel Report and Re-omeedattoes-
Co iso,ldated: Ecaloarion Sheot        6                                                                                        Documents to Loan Eoari-tr          -15-                                                                                  -pDooeJioed by Proni-o
ComPteced by Tedtniogf Apprisor                                                                                                                                                                                                             boo. ohii-iO  et Branc,
-(Lon  Exation reoies and p"o -
paaicof I PR. r-tn  to Id-egat
1A-wrgB time for 1221 to 125i  27 days
d~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~Ls vrunEvmiemr s roport enosiond bV  16                                                                                                    Loan Signed by Byrtysner                 20 i
*Aosra8, time foe Loan Approont - 244 pOto-dar dane
Ii.e. o" r B months)
Ren,mmeedatioes Reoie,id by                                                                                                     RapoetiM      mo -e,iod by Goo-rnor                                                                                                                             I  )
Loan  oerrminar                                                                                                                  P fo  _i _or
Reniew of Appraisal end EBaminvtio..
Report by Seotion Chief/Die. Chill                        wo
|GO
Al time spans are based 00 .. an..ysis of 3t rndomly seleyomd industrial leans approord
.fte, 1972 from the Bree-h-e  The atege oppryca tiiiii fo loans processed at H. O2.
is 197 dys - baised on a .ampi. o1 40 Omes c PPrOoed in 1973/74.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  World B..k-9383



PHILIPPINES
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
PROPOSED INDUSTRIAL LOAN PROCESSING FLOW-CHART
CASE I- SMSI LOANS WITHIN BRANCH MANAGER'S
COMMITMENT AUTHORITY
Pre-Filing Stage:
1      Application Filed
3 days
2      Site Inspection/Field Appraisal
10 days
(Full appraisal to be undertaken by
one individual)
Completion of full Appraisal             3                                  3A     Completion of Credit Report
Report Incl. Terms/Conditions.
Incl. Appraisal of Securities                                                      Financial Analysis and
Recommendation
2 days
Review by IPD Chief and Distribution to
Loan Committee
2 days
5      Review by Branch SMSI Loan Committee*
2 days
Approval/Rejection by Branch Manager and
Preparation of Loan Documents by Legal Division
2 days
7      Loan Agreement signed by Applicant/Branch
Total = 21 working days
or
28 calendar days.                                           Loan Papers sent to Head Office for Post-Review
'The Branch SMSI Loan Committee would be chaired by the Manager, and would include
the Assistant Manager, Chief IPDD, Chief Loan Supervision and Chief, Legal Department.
The case for the loan would be presented by Loan Appraiser with project analyst/
researcher present.                                                                                 World Bank-9384



PHI LIPPINES
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
PROPOSED INDUSTRIAL LOAN PROCESSING FLOW-CHART
CASE 11 -SMSI LOANS WITHIN
IPD If MANAGER'S COMMITMENT AUTHORITY
(      Review by Branch SMSI Loan Committee
1 day
Draft Recommendation Prepared by Appraiser
6      For Transmittal to Head Office and Dispatched.
2 days*
r=
(      Receipt of Documents by IPD-I- Acknowledgement
of Receipt to Branch (Copied to Secretary's Dept.)
1 day
B      Case assigned to Loan Reviewer (Industry
Specialistl for Review.
5 days
(      Completion of Review and submittion of 1-page
Memo to Manager IPD-II for review.
2 days
ApprovaltRejection by Manager IPD-Il and
Preparation of Advisory Letter/Memo to Branch
10     (Copies to Sec. Dept. and BAD-copy to Board
for information only.)
2 days'
Receipt of IPO-II communication by,Branch
11     Manager - if approved pased on to Legal Div.-
if rejected client informed immediately.
2 days
12     Preparation of Loan Documents by Legal Div.
2 days
Total = Up to 15) =   17 working days                -
(5) to (13) =   17 working days
34 working days
or                  13      Signing of Loan Documents - copies dispatched
50 Calendar days                 to Head Office.
'Assume courier system in operation
World Bank-9385



PHILIPPINES
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
PROPOSED INDUSTRIAL LOAN PROCESSING FLOW-CHART
CASE III - SMSI LOANS WITHIN
CHAIRMAN'S COMMITMENT AUTHORITY*
/      Completion of Review and Submission of
1-page memorandum to Manager, IPD-11.
2 days
Review by Manager - IPD-II and submission
to Supervising Governor.
1 day
11 >   Review by Supervising Governor and submission
to Chairman for approval.
2 days
12     Approval/Rejection by Chairman - Decision
transmitted to Manager, IPD-Il.
1 day
Preparation of Advisory Memo/Letter to Branch
13     (copies to Sec. Dept., BAD, and Board for
info. only.)
2 days
Receipt of IPD-Il Communication by Branch
14    j Manager - Passed on to Legal Div. if approved-
if rejected client informed immediately.
2 days
C5 3 Preparation of Loan Documents by Legal Div.
2 days
Total Time: Up to (9) = 26 days
(9) to (16) =12 days
36 days
or                     16       Signing of Loan Documents - Copies dispatched
56 calendar days                  to Head Office.
'Note that for SMSI Program no approval by Board should be necessary. Weekly summary reports
should be prepared by IPD-Il on all SMSI approvals during week and all approval memoranda for
individual projects appended to summary report. Board should monitor SMSI program progress
on ex-post review basis.
World Bank-9386



110 IS20'                                                      12'24'                                                        1216
HLEAD OFFICE
MAN LA                                                                                                          PHILIPPINES
LUZON BRANCHES                                                                                       DEVELOPMENT BANK
18'          ccob-oL&..*                                                                                           OF   THE   PHILIPPINES
Co.6lopo                                                                                                              Ag-~
-   oL ...                                                                                                       ------ro  Br-nces
P-to P,imces.                                                          0      50       0   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~150    200    250
S.err J.inceso                                                                                        2                  E0E'0
16'          ~~VISAYAS BRANCHES0                                                                                                                                         10
D99Eog -o
2                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
Toclobo-                                           MANIA
MI.NDANAO BRANCHES                  'O
Cogopon de ro                     Oeg.T
Diolobgr                                                                                         Le1ip
Dovoo                                                    7     oopnVio 
Zomsbo-go                                           S  J                                                    CroI~tE-
"I  ,XKo,oo                                    Tocloporr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AN             12oorog
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
10'                                                                                                                                                                           0
~PIO PimLe-                                                                                          srigco 0)
Togb oo
rrsO~~~~~c01p                 0 ~~~~   0londg
u z  u  S 5~~~~~~~~~~z z0~Mooboo 
/10'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TAIWAN                                                                                           I   0      ..-  Mon~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,  
P.g.d- 0,  ~  ~       ~       Dooo       0 .
SE'                  AC LA AN'                                                  Eonlon0                                 '                    I  D,gos     .
CU/A [AO
*    SEA             ~~~~~~PHICIPPIE Cen Son-or
5OT   O'U0'
VIETNAM                   VISAYAS
SEA                                                           GELIFEE                                     SEA
BRU!'&                                                                                                                                                 26
MAYII2< INDONESIA   "5'    I20                                                    22                              12' 



ANNEX 5
Page 1
THE INDUSTRIAL GUARANTEE AND LOAN FUND (IG.LF)
Backgroimn d
1.        The IGLF was established in 1952 under Counterpart Project
Agreement No. 32 (CPA 32) between the Philippine Council for United
States Aid l/and the Economic Co-operatior. Administration2/of the US.
CPA 32 was revised on January 25, 1965 and again on July 16, 1973. IGLF
was originally set up as a revolving fund to provide both compensatory
financing for, and to guarantee lending by "qualified banksf"f/to small
and medium sized industrial, mining and other enterprises. Its primary
purpose has remained unchanged through successive revisions to CPA 32
although its focus is now exclusively on small-scale industrial and agro-
industrial enterprises. As it presently stands, the IGLF is a fund (not
an institution) owned by NEDA and administered by the Central Bank (CB)
under the terms of a Master Agreement4/between them.  The operations of
IGLF are guided by formally agreed upon "rules and regulationsll-/which
are an integral part of CPA 32.
6/
Main Features of CPA 32-
2.        Under the terms of CPA 32 the IGLF is to be used specifically
for providing:
(i)  Special Time Deposits (STDs):  to sponsoring banks equi-
valent to the amount of their loan for a small industry
project, for a period of time equivalent to the maturity
period. The present STD rate is 5% and the on-lending
rate is limited to 10%.
1/   Predecessor to the National Economic Council, which later became the
National Economic Development Authority (NEDA).
2/   Predecessor to USAID.
3/ These include: commercial, investment, savings, r-ural and development
banks and finance companies which are subject, to the Central Bank's
regulations under its Charter.
4/   The original agreement between the CB and PHILCUSA dated July 15, 1952
was replaced by a new agreement between the CB and NEC(later NEDA)
dated January 22, 1965 wherein CB accepted its re-appointment as
administrator for a 10-year period. The agreement was renewed on
January 22, 1975.
5/   These were last revised at the same time as CPA 32, on July 16, 1973.
~/   As last amended.



ANNEX 5
Paage Z
(ii)  Guarantees:  Up to a maximum of 80% of the amount of the
loan provided by a sponsoring bank. A guarantee fee of
2% of the amount guaranteed is charged.2/  Total guarantee
obligations are not to exceed 75% of IGLF's total assets.
The lending rate for guaranteed loans is 12%.
(iii) Combined STD/Guarantees: Under the same terms and con-
ditions as described above, the interest rate charged to
sub-borrowers under the combined arrangement is 12%.
3.        These financing mechanisms were devised to address the problems
of:
(i)  financial intermediaries:  who traditionally have not had
access to long-term funds at a rate sufficiently attractive
for them to engage in lending to small industry, a credil;
segment traditionally perceived as involving high-costs and
high risks; and
(ii)  small entrepreneurs:  with insufficient collateral to obtain
financing on conventional commercial terms.
4.        Project Selection Criteria:  CPA 32 also specified that the
following priorities were to be applied in project selection for IGLF
financing:
(i)  compatibility with current 4-year development plan
priorities and with those of the Board of Investments
(BOI);
(ii)  compatibility with the policy decisions of the Investment
Co-ordinating Committee (ICC) of NEDA;
(iii)  labor intensity;
(iv) export-orientation;
(v)  location away from major urban centers.
5.        Furthermore, special emphasis was placed on providing more
guarantees to compensate for collateral deficiencies and on the provision
of working capital finance. The terms and conditions of IGLF funding
were to be subject to the final approval of the Director-teneral of NEDA
with the following overall limitations on:
1/   The fee was originally paid by the sponsoring bank but the IGLF Review
Committee passed a resolution in early 1974 permitting this fee to be
passed on to the sub-borrower.



ATNEX 5
Page 3
(i)  Interest Rates:  the rates charged to sponsoring baxks
could not exceed by one per cent prevailing rates on
similar deposits of their clients; and on-lending rates
charged by sponsoring banks had to be comparable to, and
in no case in excess of rates currently charged on medium
and long-term loans.
(ii) Maturity and Grace Periods: no limits were specified on
maturity periods (which presently cannot exceed 10 years
for fixed asset loans and 3 years for working capital loans);
STD loans were generally to have a grace period of 6 months
but in no instance could grace periods be longer than a quarter o.
the total maturity period; and prepayments of loans made
under IGLF automatically required prepVyments of STDs.
(iii) Disbursement Periods: the full amount of the loan had to
be disbursed within one year of approval or during the
construction/installation period (if this is longer).
Balances undisbursed after that period were not eligible
for STD coverage.
(iv) Loan Ceilings: the loan ceiling for which IGLF STD's or
guarantees would be provided was set at P500,000 with a
proviso for flexibility in individual cases. (However,
in view of a shortage of resources IGLF has applied this
ceiling rigidly).
Mechanics of IGLF Operation and its Administration
6.        The mechanics of the IGLF approval process are depicted in
Appendix 1. Project appraisal and general administration is undertaken
by the CB's Department of Loans and Credits (DLC). Project appraisal
review and final recommendations for approval of IGLF facilities are
the responsibility of a representatively constituted Review Committee.
The Committee is chaired by the Director, Industries and Public Utilities
Division, NEDA (or in his absence by the Asst. Director), and includes
senior level representatives from the Institute for Small Scale Industries
(ISSI), Board of Investments/Department of Industry (BOI/DDI), and the
Central Bank. While CPA 32 relegates the Review Committee to an evaluation
and advisory role, and vests executive power only in the Director-General
of NEDA,1/ the Review Committee through its Chairman has, in practice, been
the final decision-making authority on individual project applications.
7.        Until recently, IGLF's procedures as specified under CPA 32 were
extraordinarily cumbersome and often took as long as 6-? months between the
submission of an application to CB by the sponsoring bank and its eventual
approval. In March 1974 procedures were further rationalized with sponsor-
ing banks submitting applications directly to the CB for appraisal without
1/   Under CPA 32, the authority for approval rests solely with the Director-
General of NEDA who has now delegated it to the Director, Industries and
Public Utilities Division.



ANNEX 5
Page 4
the prior approval of the Review Committee. As a result processing time
was reduced to a maximum of 3-4 weeks.
Management and Staffing of the IDLF Supervisory Unit at CB
8.        The DLC is a well-managed department run by a competent, dynamic
Director. Within the department the Industrial Loans Division (ILD) deals
solely with IGIF operations. It has a staff of 18 (with 16 professionals)
who have a reasonable mix of educational and professional qualifications.L/
Virtually all staff have long working experience and are generally well
qualified for loan appraisal and examination work. Current staff strengrth
reflects a considerable expansion over staff levels in June 1973, when
ILD had 5 professional staff.  With the current inflow of operations, the
ILD is likely to become a bottleneck in processing operations unless the
focus of staff effort at the CB is changed radically (as recommended in
paragraph 31) or staff strength augmented substantially.
Project Appraisal and Follow-up
9.        ILD's appraisal of project applications submitted by sponsoring
banks is brief but not inappropriately so relative to the type of project
being appraised, the sophistication of the entrepreneur, and the quality
of information generally available. Until recently appraisals, at least
as reflected in ILD's reports, tended to be descriptive rather than
analytic and not sufficiently incisive about potential problems which
projects might encounter. Since the pre-appraisal mission's visit in
January 1974, their quality has improved.
10.       Rather than suffering from basic weaknesses in appraisal metho-
dology or capability, ILD's appraisals reflect more the difficulty with
extracting accurate and reliable information from applicants and the
inability to verify information against other sources. For IGLF
financed projects, sponsoring banks are required to assist applicants
with completing a standard and simple application form. This, along with
information about the applicant and the sponsoring bank, includes:
essential information on the technique of production to be employed and
output; projected sales; marketing arrangements and markets to be served;
and financial statements projected over a 3-year period.  Although relatively
simple when compared to information requirements for a standard IFC financed
project, most small entrepreneurs have difficulty in supplying even this
1/   All professional staff have at least a Bachelor's degree.  Most have
membership in a professional body. ILD's staff include 4 CPA's,
4 Commerce graduates, 3 industrial engineers, 3 law graduates and
2 staff with business administration backgrounds. Appraisal staff
have had either formal or on-the-job training in industrial project
evaluation.



ANNEX 5
Page 5
basic data without assistance either from their bookkeepers or more often
from "consultants" who charge up to 3% of the loan amount for their
services. Information on the application form is often (but not always)
augmented by a brief (1-2 day) field visit, by the CB appraiser who inter-
views both the applicant (and conducts a site inspection) and the sponsoring
bank, following which an appraisal report is prepared.
11.       In a few instances the CB appraisers' judgements and final
recommendations were evaluated against on-the-spot information from
project proponents and sponsoring banks. These suggested that the brief
second-hand nature of the appraisal often reflected a lack of appreciation
for local conditions and adversely influenced the quality of the ultimate
judgements made. Appraisers, restricted to a very brief visit, also tended
to be somewhat abrupt and unsympathetic toward applicants, with little
opportunity for the normal transfer of advice and assistance which accompanies
the appraisal process. Both CB staff, the sponsoring banks and the few
entrepreneurs interviewed expressed the unanimous view that the quality of
appraisal would be considerably better and the efficiency of the appraisal
process improved if appraisal was conducted as close to the local level as
possible, preferably by sponsoring banks.
12.        Once projects are approved and facilities provided by the CB,
virtually no sustained follow-up work is carried out by the ILD. Follow-
up by sponsoring banks varies widely in intensity and quality. At present
few sponsoring banks keep track of their SKI clients on a systematic basis;
most look into client performance only when accounts fall in arrears.  Sponsor-
ing banks and the CB generally agree that follow-up is weak and that steps
need to be taken to strengthen such capability in sponsoring banks -at the branch
level.
Operations
13.        IGLF's operations are summarized in Appendix 2.  In the 22-year
period since its inception IGLF has approved financial assistance totalling
nearly P193 million for 375 projects. As the data in Table 1 suggest,
IGLF's operations underwent a radically different orientation following
its restructuring in July 1973.
14.        Special Time Deposit (STD) Operations.  Total STD approvals
(including those with accompanying guarantees) since 1952 amount to
nearly P177.3 million or about 92% of total IGLF assistance approved.



ANNEX S
Page 6
Of this ar2Dunt roughly P153.8 million had been approved prior to a
restructuring of the IGLF in July 1973.  Between 1952-1965 approvals
averaged roughly P10-12 million annually.  They fell off sharply to aa
annual level of P2-3 million between 1965-72. In FY72-73 total approvals
amounted to P1.63 million for 4 projects.  The sharp decline in the level
of operations since 1965 was mainly due to the cumbersome administratiLve
procedures governing the approval and release of IGLF facilities coupled
with an inadequate margin between STD interest rates and on-lending rates
that sponsoring banks were permitted to charge. By 1973 most sponsoring
banks had virtually ceased using IGLF facilities. Although fairly drastic
measures were taken in July 1973 to streamline IGLF's administrative
procedures and reduce processing time, sponsoring banks did not overcome
their skepticism easily. Only 8 projects amounting to R325,000 were
submitted by 3 sponsoring banks batTeeri JTUly l-December 31, 1973. Following
an intensive promotional campaign by NEDA and the CB,applications for IGLF
assistance began picking up in March 1974 with approvals rising from 4z
projects totalling P1.8 million to 38 projects totalling over F7.5 mi]Llion
in October 1974. (Chart No. 9391).
15.       Size of STD.  Although originally intended as a financing
vehicle to encourage the dispersal of modern small factory units away from
Manila, IGLF operations between 1952-73 tended to favor the medium-sized
Manila based enterprise.  The average size of STD approved durnn  this
period was nearly P660,000 for all projects and about P766,0001/for pro-
jects in the Manila area. After July 1973 the average size STD's dropped
to P182,000 although Manila-based projects continue to be considerably
larger than those located elsewhere. The reduction in average size
reflects an exclusive focus on small enterprises and the limitation of'
IGLF financing to a maximum of f5O0,OOO.  The recent inflow of applications
suggests that STD's will continue to range from the very small (P10,000) to
the fairly sizeable (P500,000) with a larger cluster at the latter end.
Average STD size over the commitment period for the proposed loan is likely
to be around P200,000.
16.       Industrial Distribution of STD's.  Prior to 1973 IGLF financing
was provided for a broad range of industries although nearly 58% of total
STI approvals were concentrated in five industries (food processing;
textiles; wood and wood products; metal products and non-metallic minerals).
Since 1973 however the range of industries to which IGLF resources have
been directed has narrowed to include only those in which small enterprises
predominate. In FY73-74, 68.3% of the STD's approved were confined to the
apparel and footwear, wood and wood products, and metal, products industries.
1/   In equivalent terms these average amounts, most of which were approved
between 1952-1965, suggest far larger projects than could be supported
with the same amounts in 1974 pesos.



ANNEX 5
Page 7
17.       Geographic Distribution.  The data in Appendix 2 indicate that
since IGLF's restructuring the objective of dispersing investment away
from the Greater Manila areas is being gradually achieved. Before 1973
over 67% of the number STD's approved and nearly 79% of the amount were
for projects located in the Greater Manila area.   In FY73-74 these
proportions were reduced to 32.4% by number and 57.4% by amount respecti-
vely, approvals in the first four months of FY74-75 show an even lower
proportion by amount (48.6%) for Greater Manila. Although investment in
FY73-74 is being directed away from Manila, the bulk of it is still
concentrated in the island of Luzon. FY74-75 approvals to date and the
projects in the pipeline provide encouraging signs that this imbalance
will gradually be corrected with the Visayas and Mindanao likely to account
for increasing proportions.
18.       Guarantee Operations.  As Appendix 2 shows IGLF's straight
guarantee operations (i.e. independent of STD's) have been at a standstill
for sometime. Only 13 guarantees averaging over P1.2 million in size have
been approved in the entire history of IGLF, despite the importance
attached to its guarantee function in its original "charter"1. The low
level of straight guarantee operations has been the result of CB's basic
conservatism coupled with reluctance on the part of sponsoring banks to
pay a fee for guarantee cover which was generally not provided until due
processes of foreclosure and ensuring litigation were completed. The time,
and administrative costs incurred in such instances deterred intermediary
banks from using the guarantee facility.  While the role of straight
guarantees has been re-emphasized in the amended version of CPA 32, it
seems unlikely that any sponsoring banks assisting SKI will apply for
straight guarantees only. These institutions do not confront the problem
of having sufficient long-term resources but being unwilling or unable to
lend them on account of insufficient security. Their basic problem is
access to long-term resources at a sufficiently attractive rate to enable
them to lend long-term.
19.       Although IGLF's straight guarantee operations seem unlikely to
develop, its combined STD/Guarantee operations have increased substantially.
Between 1952-1973 only 20 STD/G's had been approved totalling P12.5 million
on which the total guarantee cover provided was P8.2 million, thus account-
ing for about 8.5% of total STD approvals by number and 8.1% by amount
over the period. In FY73-74, however, combined STD/G's amounting to
P1.1   million for 13 projects were approved accounting for 42% by number
and 19.4% by amount. For the first four months of FY74-75 the proportion
of STD/G's was even higher, 51.5% by number and 59.9% by amount. Since
the combined STD/G addresses both the resource problem of the sponsoring
bank and the collateral problem of the small entrepreneur, its prominence
in the share of total IGLF financing is likely to increase. As recommended
in paragraph 34 it would make the most sense to provide all IGLF financing
in the form of combined STD/G's.



ANNEX 5
Page 8
20.        Pipeline of Operations.  As the upsurge in applications to the
IGLF is a relatively recent phenomenon, the historical record of per-
formance is a poor guide in determining the level of approvals that is
likely to be sustained over the next 2 years. Since July 1974, applications
totalling between F4-6 million have been received every month.  As of
January 31, 1974 applications totalling  l14.0 million were being processed
by ILD.  Total resources available for commitment amounted to P264,000 million
as of December 31, 1974.  Taking into account likely growth in levels of SMI
investment, coupled with increases in financial assistance being provided by
traditional sources of finance (i.e. DBP), IGLF resource requirements up to
December 31, 1976 are projected at between F110-120 million (Appendix 3).
Resource Position and Finances
21.       IGLF 's balance sheet and income statements as of December 31, 19714
are summarized in Appendices 4 and 5 respectively.  Its resource posit,ion
as of December 1974 is summarized below:
IGLF - Resource Position as of December 31, 1974
Sub Acct.    Original Source                                   Date    FOOO's
"All         USAID Counterpart Funds                          1952      20,000
1            Ex-Im Bank Loan ICAX 92-1                         1956     13,045
2            Ex-Im Bank Loan ICAX 92-2                         1957     14,993
rB" tt       USAID PL-480                                     1964       1,000
Total Original Resources                                  49,034
of which repaid:                                            5,385
Net Resources                                        43,649
Accumulated Surpluses:                                     11,227
Total Resources                                      54,876
Funds Committed and Disbursed                             42,080
Funds Available for Disbursement                           12,796
Funds Committed but Undisbursed                            122532
Funds available for Commitment                                264
22.       Of the above resources the Counterpart Special Fund Account of P20
million and the earnings accumulated from this account constitute the
"permanent working capital" of the IGLF. Resources under other accounts are
essentially long-term debt resources. Sub-Accounts 1 and 2 were funded from
peso proceeds generated by the sale of commodities under the Mutual Security
Act (Section 402) while sub-account '1B" represent similar proceeds from
PL 480 sales.  The augmentation of IGLF by either USAID or the Philippine
Government is expressly provided for in CPA 32, subject to negotiations
between them.



ANNEX 5
Page 9
23.        IGLF ran out of its own resources in January 1975. GOP has
provided IGIF with the necessary resources on appropriate terms to ensure
the continuity of its operations until the proposed Bank loan becomes
effective. GOP will also be expected to provide a further counterpart
contribution of P30 million to IGLF's nequity" to match the proposed Bank
loan of US$12 million in the ratio of 1:3.
24.       Apart from executing the project appraisal and general administ-
ration functions for IGLF, the CB is also responsible for management of its
finances.17 IGLF assets comprise cash balances held with CB, outstanding
STD's, and its investment portfolio. With the virtual cessation of its
lending operations in 1973, IGLF had built up substantial cash balances with
the CB together with a sizeable investment portfolio in short and medium
term deposits. However with the recent upsurge in its operations. there has
been a significant shift in its asset structure as shown below:
IGLF Asset Structure - (P OOOts)
12/31/73       12/31/74        Difference
Cash Balances with CB              17,779 (32.7%)  8,970  (1.8%)   -94.5%
STD's Outstanding                  21,137 (38.9%) 42,080 (77.0%)   +99.1%
Investment Portfolio               15,469 (28.4%) 11,618 (21.2%)   -24.9%
IGLF's principal liabilities are the unpaid balances on the ICAX accounts,
which as of December 31, 1974 stood at just below P24 million. Its net
worth was over P31.2 million including reserves against losses on guarantee
operations2/which totalled Pl.0 million (against contingent liabilities of
about P8 million).
25.       In recent years income from IGLF's investment portfolio has
roughly equalled its income from STD and guarantee operations. This is
expected to change in future years as IGLF's funds switch out of temporary
investments into STD's. Income is also likely to be lower as the yield on
STD's is expected to be lower than the yield received on short and medium
term deposits with the CB. Gross income in FY74 totalled almost F2.2
million. With interest expenses of FO.95 million and the deduction of a
fee for administrative costs (paragraph 26) by CB of F0.34 million, net
income for the year was FO.8 million all of which was plowed back into
IGLF capital.
1/   Under Section 7 of CPA 32.
:/   CPA 32 specifically provides for setting aside adequate provisions
for reserves. Annual allocations to reserves are to be determined by
the Review Committee on the basis of "fgood fund-management practice"r
and subject to the review of the Director-General, NEDA.



ANNEX 5
Page 10
Administrative Costs
26.       F. ilts services in administering the IGLF's operations and
managing its finances, CB is "authorized to withdraw from IGLF (with
NEDA approval) a sum not exceeding 0.25% of the highest outstanding
level of STD's and guarantees during the period (usually the fiscal
year) immediately preceding". In the next few years if the current
level of IGLF operations is sustained CB's administrative expenses are
likely to run at an amount substantially higher than will be covered by
the allowable 0.25% of peak outstandings, until a larger
portfolio is built up to a stable level.  It may therefore be essential
to either: (i) reconsider the 0.25% limit to be charged against IGLF
earnings (ii) have a direct cost coverage (or cost-sharing) agreement
between CB and NEDA to be provided through their respective budgets without
charging administrative costs against IGLF earnings. The terms of such
an agreenent should be left up to CB, NEDA and GOP.
Portfolio Quality
27.       IGLF's own STD portfolio has been of remarkably good quality.
This is because when clients default on their loans the sponsoring bank
is still obliged to honor STD repayments. If it fails to do so deductions
are automatically made from its reserve account with the CB to cover STD
payments due. Very little is known about the actual arrears position of
IGLF financed projects, as sponsoring banks do not supply such data to the
CB.l/ During negotiations CB would be asked to collect from sponsoring banks
and compile arrears data on all outstanding IGLF accounts and on all future
accounts on a quarterly basis. While hard data were not available, discussions
with a few sponsoring banks which previously used IGLF facilities indicate
that the default rate (i.e. principal and interest in arrears/outstanding
loans) on their IGLF backed SMI lending was between 30-40% at any given time.
Since they had to meet STD repayments with their own resources (usually
short-term at an average cost of 14%) the direct cost of having their funds
tied up until they recovered arrears due ran in some instances to between
3-4% of their outstanding SMI portfolio. The provision of guarantee cover
in such instances proved to be of little value since the guarantee only
provided protection against actual loss of principal. With the proposal
(paragraph 30) to systematize and strengthen follow-up by sponsoring banks,
it is expected that the incidence of arrearages will be reduced to more
acceptable levels.
Sponsoring Banks Under IGLF
28.       CPA 32 provides that IGLF financing facilities shall be open to
"commercial, investment, savings, rural and development banks and finance
companies, subject to the usual CB regulations". This provision implies
a far greater number of institutions across a wider financial spectrum than
is actually eligible. Various CB circulars and memoranda have been issued
on an ad-hoc basis defining the terms of eligibility and they have in
L/ Furthermore most projects financed by IGLF prior to 1973 have now been
fully repaid and their arrears records are not available. On the other
hand most projects financed since 1973 have not entered the repayment
phase yet and no indicative record of arrearages has been established.
Foreclosure or foreclosure proceedings have been instituted only in
2 instances for IGLF backed projects.



ANNEX 5
Page 11
effect restricted eligibility to the following institutions:
(i) all commercial banks: of which there are presently 36
with a network of 722 branches throughout the Philippines;
(ii)  a restricted number of rural banks:  of which there are
about 690. CB regulations require eligible rural banks
to have a minimum paid-in capital of J150,000 exclusive
of GOP counterpart capital contributions and a class I'D"
credit rating with the CB. Under these regulations
between 150-200 rural banks would qualify;
(iii) all private development banks: of which there are now
32; and
(iv) all savings banks: of which there are 10 with a branch
network of
The list of eligible institutions fluctuates from time to time since the
CB also requires that sponsoring banks operate profitably, maintain
adequate levels of liquidity, have no deficiencies in their reserve accounts,
have no past due accounts either on rediscounted notes or any other special
financing programs, and are regular in their reporting requirements. When
any of these conditions are not met by sponsoring banks they become tempo-
rarily ineligible until the shortcoming is rectified.
29.       Financial institutions which are not presently eligible include:
(i) non-bank financing institutions: e.g. development finance
companies,investment banking institutions and finance com-
panies; and
(ii) savings and loan associations: of which there are 36 all
over the Philippines.
30.       In determining eligibility for access to IGLF the main criteria
seem to have been: (i) whether institutions are subject to normal CB
regulation and supervision and (ii) promotion of the rural banking system.
Little or no emphasis has been given to the extent or potential competence
of financial institutions to adequately service the small entrepreneur on
a sustained basis or to gradually build up a permanent SMI portfolio. The
rationale behind providing access to the present set of eligible institu-
tions has been based on having an initially wide network of scattered
institutions which can submit at least 1-2 projects per year for IGLF
financing rather than a more limited number of qualified institutions which
are capable of generating a much larger number of SMI projects on a sustained
basis.  To accommodate the first alternative with the current rate of
applications will require the building up of a large bureaucracy in the CB
to evaluate and monitor individual projects on a one-step removed basis.



ANNEX 5
Page 12
From the viewpoint of project appraisal, good follow-up and client contact
this is probably a second-best apprcach. The second alternative provides
for the possibility of building up appraisal arnd follow-up capability within
a more limited number of sponsoring banks that could adequately service and
maintain a SMI portfolio.
31.       While there are between 250-280 potentially eligible sponsoring
banks, there were, until 1973, only 34 users of IGLF facilities, 31 of
whom were commercial banks and 3, rural banks. In FY73-74, some 33 insti-
tutions used IGLF facilities; 19 rural banks, 11 commercial banks and 3
private development banks. The rural banks accounted for 19.3% of STD
approvals, commercial banks for 67.7% and the private development banks
for the remaining 13%. Loan applications through rural and private develop-
ment banks tend to generally be much smaller than those through commercial
banks with the average loan sizes in FY73-74 for the three institutions
being P132,000, F325,000 and P424,000 respectively.
Proposed Changes in the Operation of IGLF and the Role of Sponsoring D-nks
32.       As mentioned in paragraph 28, with the current level of operations
IGLF's present mechanism is likely to fail without a substantial augmen-
tation of CB/ILD staff. The build-up of a large centralized administrative
bureaucracy in CB to acdinister an expanded IGLF operations is, however,
likely to prove inefficient and cdrsfunctional. Experience in the Philippines
and elsewhere suggests that the financial needs of SMI are best met through
the greater decentralization of anpraisal, follow-up and risk-taking capability.
TWith this in mind, it is recomnended that changes be made in the administrative
mechanism of IGLF which would shift the appraisal/follow-up functions to the
sponsoring banks (and match thema with the risk-taking function) and allow the
CB to focus its attention on assessing the quality of sponsoring banks' SMI
lending programs and operations.  Specifically this would mean operating under
system of accreditation whereby sponsoring banks, once accredited, woulc imme-
diately be granted STD/G facilities on application and submission of required
documents without further project review. Accreditaticn would be provided on
the basis of sound criteria (Appendix 6), which would ensure the
accreditation of only those sponsoring banks which were financially and
technically capable of lending to &I, in addition to meeting the CB's normal
regulations.  The CB would evaluate whether individual sponsoring institu-
tions met the requirements for accreditation. Each institution's performance
would be reviewed at least once a year to determine whether accreditation should
be renewed.
33.       NEDA and CB, along with the IGLF Review Committee, have accepted
the recommendation that it would be necessary to adopt an accreditation
system for future IGLF operations. However, in order to give some of the
smaller institutions (e.g. rural banks) that are at present using IGLF facilities
an opportunity to meet accreditation requirements, the transition will be
effected over a period of one year.



ANNEX 5
Page 13
In this time, CB has offered to provide assistance to those existing sponsor-
ing banks which do not presently have the full capability required to recruit
and train staff qualified in SMI project appraisal and follow-up. During the
transition CB/ILD will continue to undertake project appraisal and additional
follow-up functions. IGLF is expected to operate fully on an accreditation
basis by June 30, 1976.
Relending Rates, On-lending Rates and Spreads to Sponsoring Banks
34.       The proposed Bank loan of US$12 million (P84 million) will be
re-lent to IGLF by GOP at the prevailing Bank rate of 8.5%. A counter-
part GOP contribution of P30 million will be made to IGLF's permanent
working capital at no cost. The STD rate charged to sponsoring banks
will be 7% and STD's will automatically carry guarantee cover of 60% of the
loan amount. Sponsoring banks will on-lend at 12%, the prevailing statutory
maximum interest rate in the Philippines. The spread on Bank funds will
therefore be 3.5%. However the overall spread of 5% on IGLF funds to
sponsoring banks, while large in comparison with the "normal" spread to
DFCs (3-4%), is considered essential in view of the much higher levels
of administrative costs and risks associated with small industry lending.
An analysis of term lending to SMI in the Philippines (Annex 9) and else-
where indicates that the administrative costs of SMI lending are at least
two to three times higher than for DFC-type lending, while default rates
are about four times higher. The provision of a guarantee to the extent
of 60% does not provide cover against the "losses" due to income foregone
and principal tied-up associated with high defaults. It merely covers
actual losses of principal after foreclosure (a process which can take
several years) and allows sponsoring banks to consider lending to under-
collateralized small entrepreneurs who otherwise have sound projects.
At a minimum, therefore, administrative costs associated with SMI lending
in this instance are expected to be 2.5% of average outstanding loans;
income foregone from delayed interest and principal repayments 1/will
account for a further 1.5-2.0% leaving between 0.5-1.0% as a gross profit
contribution (the average gross profit contribution for financial institu-
tions in the Philippines is about 4-5%). To provide banks with a greater
incentive to develop their short-term lending to SKI, the CB now provides
them with preferential rediscounting facilities (at a rate of 5%) for
outstanding paper with a maturity of less than one year. The 5% spread
for long-term lending would therefore allow sponsoring banks to build up
their long term SKI portfolios without incurring a loss.
1/   Under the proposed Bank loan it is expected that with closer supervision
the default rate will be reduced. This, however, will only occur at the
expense of an increase in administrative costs.



ANNEX 5
Page 14
Other Proposed Changes in IGLF Lending Guidelines
35.       The following matters were discussed and agreed upon at
negotiations:
(i) the loan/equity proportion in project financing would be
raised from 70:30 to 80:20;
(ii)  maximum limits for STD's would be raised from P500,000
to P800,000;
(iii) maximum maturity periods for fixed asset financing will.
be increased from 10 to 12 years with a 2-year grace
period and for permanent working capital will remain at,
3 years with a 6-month grace period;
(iv) non-bank financial intermediaries would be included in
the list of eligible sponsoring banks.
EAP Projects Department
February 24, 1975



ANtNEX 5
PHILIPPINES                                                           Appendix 1
SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRY PROJECT
FLOW CHARTS ON PRESENT AND PROPOSED APPROVAL MECHANISM OF THE
INDUSTRIAL GUARANTEE AND LOAN FUND (IGLF)
PRESENT                                                         PROPOSED
Entrepreneur applies to local                    (               Entrepreneur applies to local sponsoring
sponsoring bank for a project                                    bank for a project loan.
loan.
Sponsoring banks conducts preliminary                             Accredited bank - conducts project appraisal
review of applicant's creditworthiness and                       along with review of applicant's creditworthiness
collateral and cursorily inquire about                            and collateral. If project is judged to be
project.                                                         sound, bank prepares loan documentations,
executes loan agreement and releases funds.
If application requirements are met                              Upon release of funds accredited bank notifies
sponsoring bank endorses application and                               CB of release and submits application for
forwards it to CB for project appraisal                          reimbursement with equivalent STD/G
and approval with application for STD or                         together with project appraisal report and
guarantee or STD/G.                                              loan documentation.
CB sends out a project appraiser to evaluate      6>             Upon receipt of application from accredited
project in the field and to prepare an                           bank CB quickly reviews documentation
appraisal report with recommendation on                          to check for completeness and releases STD/G
whether to make available an STO or                              within 2 days of receiving application.
guarantee or STD/G.
Appraisal report submitted together with
collateral evaluation and creditworthiness
report to IGLF Review Committee.
Notes:
Review Committee cursorily reviews project                     1. Under the proposed IGLF scheme, banks
and decides to approve/disapprove/modify                         with be accredited before being given access
0            request for STD; G; or STD/G, Recommendation                      to IGLF facilities. The criteria for accreditation
recorded for CB action - sponsoring bank                         will include adequate project appraisal and
notified.                                                        supervision capability and adequate
capitalization. In addition they will need to
comply with normal CB regulations.
If approved CB prepares documentation for                      2. CB staff will concentrate on reviewing
recommended facility to sponsoring bank and                       the capabilities of institutions to ensure that
instructs bank to make the loan.                                  banks continue to meet required criteria.
Accreditation will be reviewed annually.
3. CB staff will prepare monthly reports on the
allocation of IGLF resources based on approvals
Sponsoring bank prepares loan doQumentation                       for that month and cumulatively. These
aSponsoring bankspreemes    applicant.                           reports will be reviewed by the IGLF Review
and executes agreement with applicant.                            Committee.
Sponsoring bank releases funds to applicant                    4. CB staff will conduct general post reviews
and notifies CB of release asking for                            of appraisal reports received on a monthly
reimbursement by release of equivalent                            basis and will inform banks of particular
( 9  )        STD branch. (If there are several                                 weaknesses or inadequacies with a proviso
releases, STD's are made available on a                          that unless corrective action is taken
reimbursement basis for each releasp)                            access to future IGLF financing would be
If guarantee is to be provided, CB notified of                   suspended.
amount outstanding and guarantee fee is
forwarded.
On receipt of application, CB releases STD                          5. The Review Committee will be responsible
to cover release or notifies sponsoring bank                     for establishing or changing criteria for
that guarantee is effective.                                     accreditation under IGLF and for setting
policy guidelines for IGLF operations.



PIIDLDPPINES
INDUSTRIAL GUARANTEE AND LOAN FUND (DGLF)
oSn-ry of_Operations  (Appr-lui)
(Amounats  toc900')
1952 up to Juno 30. 1973   %/ Diutrtb.tios              July t. 19~73-J-  30, 1974  %. Disrithoion                3510  t. 1974-Gtt. 31.  1974   3. Distribution                Gum. Approvals  10/31/74         7. Dintribsti.o
STD-'           Gsorante.n    Tota!fAnnE.                 STDD!!          Gooa-te.s        Tutel  Anot.             STDt'          Gara-teos          Total Annt.               STE!            urate             Tots?fAosst
DyIdon-toy                                                     No.   Amount   No.    Amoont    No.    Amus..             NoT.   Amount~ No.         _Amount    No.   Amou.nt       No..    Amon..t    Noo   A .osot    No.   Amount            Mu.    Amou.nt    No.    Anount    No.    Amount
1.   Pond Pr--onlg                                             27      14,909      1         9oD   tt.3      9 3           2         240              --       15      4.3          14       1,735               --      14.4      9.7         43      16,884    1I           900    11.7    9.2
2 .  BDo-ruges                                                 --        --       -          -        -         -         -                            -        -                                                 --                             --                 --                   -      -
3.  Tohuoco                                                    --        --       -          -        -         --                                               --                                                         -----                                   --                   --
4. TentLien                                                    20      15,251      1       3,000    8.5    10.8                         --        --                 --- ---                       --        --                 -   -           20     15,251       1      3,000       5.6    9.5
5.  Apparel and Foottonur                                       0       2,296    --         --      3.2      1.4           5      1,2(6               --      16.1    21.5          24       2,486               --      24.7    13.9          37       5,998    --          --       9.9    3.1
6.Wood and Cork                                                23      21,623      2       2,215  10.1    14.1            12      1,797               --      38.7    31.7          16       1,990    -          --      16.5    11.1           01     25,410       2       2,215    14.1   14.3
7.   Fornitore and Pictures                                    15       2,107    --         --      6.1      1.2           U         140    -         --       3.2      2.5          1           11     -        -        1.0      0.1          17      2,262    --          --       4.5    1.2
8.  Poper and Paper Prod-ots                                   10       6,125      1      4.436    4.5       6.2          --        --                           -                   3-         640    --        -        3.1      5.6          13      6,761       1      4,436       3.7    5,0
9 . Printing and Publishing                                     9       2,812    --         --      3.6      1.7          -         --                           --       --                  --      --                                         9      2,812    --          --        2.4    1.1
10. Rnbber and Rubber Prod-otn                                  2       4,000      1         450    1.2      2.6           1         123              --       3.2     2.2                             -         ---                --3                 4,123       1        450      1.1    2.4
11.  Plastics  sod Plastic Producto                            16       9,488    --         --      6.5      3.6               -     --                         - -       --                  --       --                                       16      9,488    --          --       4.2    4,9
12. Chenjool and Chamino1 Praducto                              9       9,467      1         724    4.0      6.0          -----                                                                                             -       --9                 9.467       1         724     2.7    0.3
13. Ptcoo2n,not                                                --        --       --        --        --      -                      .                 -- -              --                                                                    --         --       ----                 --      --
14.zNn-MetallIc Minerals                                       21      26,161    -           .     10.1    15.4           -                            -        -                                                 -        -         -25               26,161    ---6.7   13.6
15I  a t   Metals                                                   --   --       -        --        -         ------.-                                                                                                                        ------
1.MtlProduc.ts                                              23      14,111    -          --     10.1      8 .3         2         850    -           -       6.5    15.1           8       1,336               --       03       7.5         35      16.297    --.                  9.3    8.4
17. Macbinary em..ept Electriral                                9       1,643    -          --      3.6      1.0         --                 -         --                                       .                 --        -- -                  9      1,643    --                   2.4    0.9
16. El-rnir-l Noehinecy o-d ApplIances                           5      1,157    -          --      2.0      0.7                    ---                                   --                                      -        -         -5                 1,157    --                    1,3    0.6
19. Transport Eqolp-et                                         --        --       -         ..       -,-       ---                                                                             .-                          -         -- -                --        --                   --     -.
20. Mincellan...s  Dodnurries                                  17      12,057      3      3,010    8.1       0.9           0      1.279      .        -       25.8    22.7          31       9.675               3. 2.0    14.1                16      23,011       3      3,1       15.7   13.1
Total Ma-fa"rtu nlg                                220    143.207    10       14,735  93.2    93.3             31      5 645                     100,0   (00.0           97..    17,8               .z7      100,0   100.0         348    166,7229    10       14,735   95.5  94,0
21. MiIn                                                         2      1,865      2         933    1.6      1.7          -                       --       --        --        -- ---         --       -         -.        -        --           2      1.865       2         833      1.1    1.5
22. Coois!trsotion                                              2         230    --         --      0.8       -.          -         -       -          -        -         -         -          -       -          -        -         -2                    230    --        --        0.5    0.1
23.Public UtilIties                                             4       2,220      1          20    2.0      1.3          --       -         -        .         -         -         -                   .        -          .4                          2,220       1       2,20      1.3 -1,0
24. Transport Serices                                           3       3,200      -        -.      1.2      1.9          --       -         -        -          -       -           -        -         -        -          -3                          3.200    --         --0.8    1.7
25. Other Servic-                                               3       3,050               --      1.2      1.8          -                 -         --        -        ---                  --        -        --         -       --3                 3.050    --         -         0.8    1.6
Total Mining, Conutnuctioo & Sorvice-               14      40,560      3         953    6.8      6.7         --        -         -        -          -       -           -        -         -        -          -       --         14      10.565       3        953      4.5    6.0
Grand Total                                        234    1.53 772    13      15 6180 1000   100.0            3        564       --        -     10.      100            97      787        --         -    100.0   100.0          32      177,2%      1.      168       10.10.0
By Region
1.  Greater Manila                                            158    121,025       8      8,104  67.2    76.2             10      3,241    -          -       32,4    57.4          38       8,687    --         .       39.2    48.6         206    132,953       8       8,104    57.1   73.2
2.  IIoses                                                     22      10,676  ~-      --            8.7     6.3          14      1,151    -          --      45.2    20.4          15       2,785    -          --      15.5    15.6          51      14,612    --         --       13.6    7.6
3.  Cagayan Valle.y                                             5       1,864    --         --      2.0      1.1          -.        --      --        -          -       -           -        -         -        - -                --           5      1,864    --         --1.3    1.0
4.  Centra I(noon                                                2        987      1      4,436    1.2       3.2           1          80    -         -        3.0      1.4          8       1,900      -        --       8.3    10.6           11      2.967       5      4,436      3.2    3.8
5. Southern Tegalog                                            13       1,253      -        --      5.1      3.1           6      1,173    -          --      19.4    20.8          17       1,064    -                  17.5      6.0         36       7,490    ---9.6    4.0
6.   Stoo                                                        2        508     --         -       1.0     0.3               --                           --                      -- -- -  . -  -    -          -        -         -           2         508    --        --        0.5    0.3
P.  Western Visayss                                            17       6,015      2         933    7.8      4.1          -         --       -        -          -       --5                  -510      .        --       5.2      3.1         22       6.561      2         933      6.4    4.0
8.   Eastern Viusyon                           ~~      ~~~~~~~9 5,092    -  -       3.5      3.3          -         --       -        -          -       -          13       2.490    -          --      13.3    13.9          22       8,082    --         --        3.9    4.2
9.  Western Mindanas                                           --             --            -          -       -           -        -         -       -          -       -           -        -         -        -          -       -           -         -        --                    -      -
10. Northern Miodanso                                            2      1,017      -         -      1,0      0.6           -        -        -        -          -       --1                   400      -        --       1.0      2,2           3      1,417    ----                 0.8    0.7
11,Southern Mindanao                                            4         835      2      2.215    2,5       1.8                                       -- _- -  -                              _ - -_    -          --    --        --          4         835          2  2215        1.6    1.2
Total AlS RefEons                                  2~34    1372        13     1568100.0   100.0                31      5_645    -                 00.0   100.0           97     17 _877-                    100.0   _0,             6       77.2%      13       568      10. 100
Average  nice of STD .or gusarntee                                9657,150           91,206,000                            9182.100             --                                     184,300              --                                   490,000            P1l,206.800
Average nice of OTD to Mantisa orea                               9766,000                                                 9324,100                                                   9228,600                                                  0645,400
Average nice of 1415 unmAde Mantisa                                431,000                                                 P114,500                                                   9155.750                                                  9284,250
1/ Includes  combined STD/C's. 
PAP Projects Dcpsttmcnt
December 16, 1974



AilNNEl 5
Appendix 3
PHILIPPINES
INDUSITAL GUARANTEE AND LOAN FUND (IGLF)
Projected STD Approvals for FY75-77
(FOOO's)
Actual          Prolected          Total            Total             Total
7/74 to 10/74   11/74 ta 6/75         FY75             FY76              FY77 7
By Industry                       NO.   Amount    No.  '.Amount    Ao.   Amount    ho.   Amount    No.   Amount
1.  Food & food processing        14      1,735    38      4,760    52      6,495    61       9,053    65      9,998
2.  Beverages & tobacco           --       --        1       278    --         278     2        488      3        779
3.  Textiles                      --       --               --       --       --      --       --       --       --
4.  Apparel & footwear            24      2,486    20      3,702    44       6,188    50      8,243    54       9,089
5.  W6ood & cork                  16      1,990    12      2,561    28      4,551    43       6,017    48      7,076
6.  Furniture & fixtures           1         15    11      1,559    12       1,574    14      2,439    13      4,025
7.  Paper & paper products         3        640     4      1,030      7     1,670      3      1,301      5     1,169
8.  Printing i publishing         --       --        1       334      1        334     4        867      2        584
9.  Leather & leather products  --         --        3       501      3        501     5      1,138      9     1,688
10.  Rubber & rubber goods         --       --        2       585      2        585      7     1,680    12       2,662
11.  Chemicals                     --       --        3     1,364      3      1,364    11      3,686    15       3,376
12.  Petrochemicals                --       --       --      --       --       --       --      --       --       --
13.  Non metallic minerals         --       -_        8     2,477      8      2,477    12      5,043    17       5,648
14.  Basic metals                  --       --       --      --       --       --       --      --       --       --
15.  Metal products                 8      1,336    11      3,257    19       4,593    25      7,698    30    10,387
16.  Machinery (non-elec.)         --       --        4     1,169      4      1,169      7     2,168    11       3,331
17.  Electrical machinery          --       -_        2       473      2        473      3       594      5      1,298
18.  Transport equipment           --       --        1       251      1        251      1       217    --        --
19.  Miscellaneous                 31      9,675    21      2,422    52    12,097    17        2,006    14       3,181
Total Manufacturing     97    17,876   142    26,723   239    44,599   265    52,638   303    64,271
20.  Service industries            --       --        4     1,113      4      1,113      8     1,572      2        649
Total Yanufacturing and
Services                    97    17,876   146    27,836 243    45,712   273             1      305    64,920
By Region
1.  Greater Manila                38      8,687    58    13,757    96    22,444   101    24,774   103    25,838
2.  Ilocos                        15      2,785    14      2,335    29       5,120    35      6,559    41       8,440
3.  Cagayan Valley                --       --        6       914      6        914    11      1,735    14       1,948
4.  Central Luzon                  8      1,900      9     1,940    17       3,840    15      3,849      9      3,181
5.  Southern Tagalog              17      1,064    23      1,679    40       2,743    41      3,198    33       3,116
6.  Bicol                         --       --        4       640      4        640    11      1,192    18       2,272
7.  Xestern Visayas                5        550    12      1,324    17       1,874    23      3,957    26      4,544
8.  Eastern Visayas               13      2,490      8     2,630    21       5,120    15      4,445    19       5,843
9.  Western Mindanao              --       --       --      --       --       --        2       597      7      1,623
10.  Northern Mindanao              1        400      2       423      3        823      6     1,084    14       2,986
11.  Southern Mindanao             --       --       10     2,194    10       2,194    13       ,820    21       5,129
Total                    97    17,876   146    27,836   243    45,712   273    54,21C   305    64,920
EAP Projects Department
December 16, 1974



ANNEX 5
Appendix 4
PHILPIPPINES
Industrial Guarantee and Loan Fund (IGLF)
Balance Sheets for the Years Ending December 31, 1973 & 1974
(F OOO's)
ASSETS                                              1973         1974
DiVe from Central Bank                        17,779.0        970.6
Accounts Receivable
from: NEDA                                     276.2        276.2
USAID-PL-480                            125.0       165.0
EXL14 BANK                              500.0        900.0
Special Time Deposits Outstanding             21,137.2    42,080.2
Investment Portfolio                          15,468.8    11,617.8
Total Assets                            55,286.2    56,009.9
LIABILITIES
Accounts Payable                                  625.0      1,065.0
Administrative Expenses due CB                      --          60.0
Reserve for Deficiencies on EXIM Loan Amort.        14.2         8.1
Advances on EXIM Loan Amortization                  0.9          0.9
Long-term loans due EXIM Bank                  24,238.1    23,648.7
Total Liabilities                       24,878.2    24,782.7
NET lWORTH
Accumulation from Counterpart Funds            19,000.0    19,000.0
Reserves Accumulated                            1,000.0      1,000.0
Earned Surpluses                               10,408.0    11,227.2
30,408.0    31,227.2
Total Liabilities + Net Wgorth          55,286.2    56,009.9
EAP Projects Department
December 16, 1974



ANNEX 5
Appendix 5
PHILIPPINES
Industrial Guarantee and Loan Fund (IGLF)
Income Statements for Years Ending December 31, 1973 & 1974
1973        1974
INCOME
Interest Income on STD Loans                     1,212.2      1,002.1
Interest Income on Investment Portfolio            551.3        532.6
Discount Earned on Investments                     568.7        616.5
Guarantee Fees                                      91.6         10.5
Total Income                                2,423.8        161.7
EXPENSES
Administrative Expenses                             92.1        340.9
IGLF Promotional Expenses                             --         50.0
Interest Expenses on EXIM  Bank Loans              973.4        951.6
Total Expenses                             1,065.5     1,342.5
Net Income                                       1,358.3        819.2
EAP Projects Department
December 16, 1974



ANNEX 5
Appendix 6, Page 1
PHILIPPINES
Industrial Guarantee and Loan Fund (IGLF)
Accreditation Criteria for Sponsoring Banks
1.        Financial institutions participating under the IGLF scheme and
eligible for the use of IBRD funds to finance small-scale industries would
meet the following criteria in addition to the Central Bank's normal
criteria (listed below) for credit availment:
1. Minimum paid-in capital of P500,000 (exclusive of preferred
shares).
2. Sound and efficient management and an adequate number of
qualified staff to carry out the institution's normal
business.
3. Capability for satisfactorily appraising the technical,
marketing and financial viability of small industry
projects together with satisfactory systems and pro-
cedures for regularly following up on the progress of
project implementation and operation.
4. An overall level of arrearages (i.e. amounts over 3 months
overdue) of no more than 15% of the total outstanding port-
folio of the institution. Furthermore, in any financial
year actual collections would be no less than 70% of amounts
overdue and amounts falling due in that financial year.
Judgements on the soundness and efficiency of the institution's management,
the adequacy of its staff and its appraisal and follow-up capability would
be made by the Central Bank's Department of Loans and Credits. Accredited
institutions would be required to submit themselves to an annual evaluation
by the Central Bank which would ensure that these criteria continued to be
met before their certification was renewed.
Timetable for Introduction of the Accreditation System
2.        To allow some time to those institutions which presently utilize
IGLF facilities for lending to small industries (i.e. for making loans
above P50,000) and which may not meet the above criteria, to equip them-
selves for accreditation, CB will notify these institutions of the accredi-
tation requirements as soon as possible and will give tniem up to June 30,
1976 to meet them. Until that time CB will continue to receive and approve
applications from these institutions under its present system.



ANNEX 5
Appendix 6, Page 2
Existing Central Bank Criteria
3.        All Financial Institutions Other Than Rural Banks
(i)  The applicant institution must have complied with the
approved program on capital build-up in case such
institution has not met the minimum paid-in capital
requirement;
(ii)  The institution, based on the regular and special
examinations of the Central Bank during the last two
years immediately preceding the date of application
for accreditation, has been operating in accordance with
existing laws, rules and regulations;
(iii) The Management of the applicant institution must adhere to
laws, decrees, general orders and instructions of the CB,
by its Board of Directors and its principal officers;
(iv)  The solvency and liquidity position of the applicant
institution must have been satisfactory during the past
two years immediately preceding the application to
participate in the IGIF program;
(v) The applicant institution has not been penalized for
reserve deficiencies during the last six months immediately
preceding the application to participate in the IGLF
program;
(vi)  The applicant institution must have been operating at a
profit at least for the last two years;
(vii) Required reports are being submitted on time to the
various departments and/or offices of the Central Bank;
and
(viii) The applicant institution must have had no past due
accounts with the CB/IBP either on rediscounted notes or
other special financing programs during the last two
years preceding the date of application.
4.        Rural Banks
(i) The rural bank, based on the general and special examina-
tions of the Department of Rural Banks and Savings and Loan
Associations during the last two years immediately pre-
ceding the date of application for accreditation, has been
operating in accordance with existing laws, rules and
regulations as well as the requirements of the Monetary



ANNEX 5
Appendix 6, Page 3
Board under Circular No. 318 dated April 30, 1971 and
Circular No. 331 dated October 7, 1971 and such other
relevant Circulars and/or Memoranda to Authorized Agent
Banks (MAAB) that the CB may issue from time to time;
(ii)  The applicant rural bank which is authorized to accept
savings and time deposits has no past due accounts with
the CB either on rediscounted notes or other special
financing programs on the date of application or even
if arrearages still exist, such delinquent accounts are
covered by duly approved and strictly complied with plans
of payment;
(iii)  The rural bank's credit rating should be at least Class
"D" at the timeof filing of the application; provided,
that it has not committed any serious infraction of the
laws, rules and regulations governing rural banks,
especially those on rediscounting.
EAP Projects Department
April 17, 1975



PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL GUARANTEE AND LOAN FUND
AMOUNTS APPROVED
(Jan. 1, - Oct. 31, 1974)                                                                    NUMBER OF OPERATIONS APPROVED
(In Million Pesos)                                                                               (Jan. 1, - Oct. 31, 1974)
Million                                                                                        No.
44
9.0  _                                                                                         45
8.5-
8.0  _                                                                                         40
7.5                                                    75
7.0-                                                                                            35
-  6.5-
6.0-                                                                                           30                                                                                277
5.66
5.5-
5.0                                         1225
4.5
4.0-                                                                                            20
3.5- 
3.0-                                                                                            15
2.5-
2.0-                                                                                            10
1.5-
1.0                                                                                              5=
0.5
Jan. Feb.  Mar. Apr. May June July Aug. Sept. Oct. Nov. Dec.                                  Jan. Feb.  Mar. Apr. May June  July Aug. Sept. Oct. Nov. Dec.
World Bank-9391



ANNEX 6
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
THE NATIONAL ELECTRIFICATION ADMINISTRATION (NEA)
The Institution, its Finances and Characteristics
History, Organization, and Management
1.      The National Electrification Administration (NEA) was established
in 1969 under the provisions of Republic Act (RA) No. 6038. It was re-
organized and expanded on December 1, 1973 in accordance with Presidential
Decree No. 269 of August 6, 1973 which converted it into a corporation,
wholly owned by the government with independent borrowing authority and
corporate powers. Its main functions are to assist with both financial
and technical support, the establishment of electricity and power use
cooperatives in rural areas.
2.      The powers of NEA are vested in a 5-member Board of Administrators,
whose Chairman is Mr. Ramon Ravanzo, General Manager of the National Power
Corporation (NPC). Other members oxf the Board represent NEDA, the National
Irrigation Administration (NIA) and the communications industry.
3.      The Acting Administrator of the NEA , Col. Pedro G. Dumol, has
been at the head of the agency since July 1970. He is assisted by three
Deputies who supervise seven Directorates covering all of NEA's functions
(Chart No.9655). Four Directorates responsible for Cooperative Development,
Finance, Franchises and Regulation of Cooperatives, and Power Use are well
organized and function efficiently, but the remaining three (the Directo-
rates for Engineering, Materials, and Administration) are in need of
improvenent. USAID is financing engineering and management consultants
for a further two years under its third loan to NEA for rural electrifi-
cation. The proposed Bank loan will be handled by the Power Use Directo-
rate (PUD), a well managed, although presently under-staffed department
under the Deputy Administrator for Finance.
Staffing
4.      As of October 30, 1974, NEA's total staff numbered 418, of whom
210 were professionals. The staff is of generally satisfactory calibre.
PUD has a staff of 39, of whom 32 are professionals. Of the professional
staff, 2 are supervisory, 5 are financial analysts, 5 are marketing
specialists, 4 are training and organization specialists, 4,are information
and project researchers, and 12 are technical staff. Present staff levels
are below authorized strength. Management is aware of this and plans to
increase the number of professional staff to the budgeted level of 75 over
the next two years. This is considered sufficient to strengthen work on
the existing projects and should ensure that in future recruitment keeps
pace with requirements.  NEA has also agreed to establish an evaluation
unit within PUD within one year after the proposed loan becomes effective.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
Objectives, Role and Operating Policies
5.      In 1972 NEA was charged with carrying out a program of rural
electrification to provide area coverage throughout the Philippines by 1994.
To achieve this objective, NEA has set intermediate goals of establishing
at least one electricity cooperative in every province in 4 years, and of
establishing a complete "backbone system" of rural electrification within
10 years. NEA,with financial and technical assistance from USAID since
1971, has made an impressive start. By December 31, 1974, 53 cooperatives
had already registered and signed loan agreements with NEA; 27 of these
had partially or fully energized systems, and are now supplying electricity
to 135 towns and villages. Between 1975-78, 23 more electricity cooperatives
are scheduled to be fully energized and are expected to supply power to 300
more towns and villages. Once an electricity cooperative is established,
NEA provides both financial and technical assistance to enable the coopera-
tive to become a viable, financially self-sustaining entity. A co.mlemen-
tary objective of this program is to promote economic development in the
cooperative's service area by implementing ldcal irrigation schemes, based
on electric pump irrigation and by establishing small scale industrial
cooperatives.
6.      NEA's Charter (Presidential Decree No. 269) provides basic policy
directions and stipulates general limits to NEA's jurisdiction. A muLch
more detailed statement of policy is found in NEA's Board Policy State-
ments, which have established clearcut, sound and consistent principles
covering program implementation, appraisal and follow-up standards, and
a number of detailed but essential items such as delineating the duties
and responsibilities of the Administrator.
Financial Position and Performance
7.      NEA's balance sheets for FY73 and 74 are summarized in Appendix 2.
Its present financial position is very sound with a very large paid-in
capital base and the full extent of resources available not yet drawn dotfn.
As of June 30, 1974 NEA had total assets of P295.7 million, of which P158.8
million was in the form of long-term loans outstanding (99% of which were
loans to electricity cooperatives). The significant change in NEA's assets
and capital structure between FY73 and FY74 is attributable to a change from
a public (or Government) accounting system to a corporate accounting
system on July 1, 1973. This resulted in a one-time 250 percent increase in
current assets from P51.1 million in FY73 to P1&3 million in FY74, of which
P30.5 million was in DBP Fund Trustee Accounts._ Total liabilities as of
1/   NEA is required to set up a Trustee Account with the Development Bank of
the Philippines (DBP) for each electric cooperative to which it has made
a loan.



AN1'EX 6
Page 3
June 30, 1974 were P39.1 million, of which P29.2 million was due to DBP
Fund Trustee Accounts. Drawdowns on foreign long-term borrowings totalled
F7.3 million. NEA's net worth was P256.7 million of which P253.9 million
was accounted for by paid-in capital. (Total authorised capital under the
NEA Charter is P1 billion), and the remaining F2.8 million represented
accumulated reserves. The long-term debt/equity ratio was 0.03 and the
current ratio 4.16. Subscribed but unpaid capital stock as of June 30,
1974 was P858 million, of which P482 million represented peso proceeds to
be appropriated from the Government's general revenue and to be paid in
against stock subscriptions over the next five years. A meaningful analysis
of FY74 figures against those of previous years is unfortunately, not
possible due to large differences between public and corporate accounting
systems. Furthermore NEA in its current form has been operating for only
a short period of time and its financial track record has yet to be
established.
8.      During FY74 net income was F2.8 million.  This compares with a deficit
of P2.7 million in the previous fiscal year wlich was offset by a carry-
over surplus of P3.2 million from FY72. The deficit was due to expected losses
in the start-up phase of an operation like the NEA's whose assets could only
begin yielding sufficient income after a time-lag during which operating costs
were necessarily heavy. For FY74 net income as a percentage of average
total assets was 1.2% while the "return" on equity was 1.5% in FY74. Admiii-
nistrative expenses were 1.9% of total assets in FY74 compared to 2.4
percent in FY73; this ratio is expected to drop as operating overheads are
spread over a wider asset base.  As a Government Corporation, NEA is exempt
from all income and other taxes.
9.      The accounts in arrears presently carried on NEA's books are carry-
overs from the pre-1973 Administration which made loans to private companies,
municipalities and a few cooperatives for investment in power-generating
facilities. The new cooperatives established since 1973 do not yet have
an arrears record.  As of September 30, 1974, total arrears on outstanding
loans amounted to P9.2 million (4.6% of outstanding portfolio) of which
P8.6 million (4.3% of outstanding portfolio) was attributable to accounts
over 3 months in arrears. The bulk of the delinquent accounts, over 80%
were over 1 year overdue and were accounted for mainly by municipalities
(58.6%) and by private borrowers (36.8%). Total principal affected by
accounts in arrears was P34.2 million, or roughly 17% of the total outstanding
portfolio. For a public agency, this level of delinquency in its accounts is
not unduly high. In its discussions with the appraisal mission NEA outlined
a satisfactory program of action to further reduce current levels of arrears.
A tabulated summary of accounts in arrears is provided in Appendix 4.
Sources and Uses of Funds
10.     NEA's resource position is summarized in Appendix 5.  As of September
30, 1974, NEA's peso resources stood at P256.7 million, all of which represented
government capital contributions and reserves. NEA's available foreign exchange
resources were US$47.5 million, comprising US$7.5 million equivalent from



ANNEX 6
Page 4
Japanese war reparations collections, and a total of US$40.0 million made
available by USAID. Both these loans are specific purpose loans tied to
cover foreign exchange costs of only the electricity cooperatives develop-
ment program. On both foreign and domestic resources NEA had overconmitted
funds against reasonable expectations that resources would be augmented.
11.     A summary sources and application of funds statement for FY75-77
is shown in Appenidix 6. The principal source of domestic resources will
continue to be government capital contributions (F150 million in FY7'5,
P58.9 million in FY76 and P55.9 million in FY77.) Loan collections and
operating surplus are forecast to provide a growing but small part of
total domestic resources for the next three years in the absence of :Loan
repayments over the period. The bulk of foreign exchange resources will
continue to come from USAID.  As of March 31, 1975 USAID had made four
loans to NEA. The first in 1971 was for US$2.6 million to finance technical
assistance to NEA for the electricity cooperative program. This was followed
by a loan for US$19.4 million in 1972, a loan for US$18 million in 1974
to finance the foreign exchange costs of the electricity cooperative
development program and a loan of $20 million in March 1975. Another loan
of $20 million is expected to be signed in October 1975. NEA anticipates
further loans from USAID to support the electrification program. It is
expected that future loans from USAID will be made on the same terms as
those already made, that, is for a term of 40 years, including 10 years grace
and at an interest rate of 2% for 10 years and 3% for the remaining 30
years. NEA recently (November 1974) signed a loan of US$10 million
equivalent from a group of French banks to finance the purchase of diesel
generating equipment. The loan is expected to become effective in early
1975. NEA's pipeline of projects for FY75-77 is substantial and the
massive inflow of resources will be easily absorbed. The electricity
cooperatives development program will account for more than 90% of all
expenditures during this period. Funding requirements for this program
seem sufficient until FY77-78. On the other hand although industrial and
irrigation cooperatives will account for only a small (but growing)pro-
portion of expenditure during the period, funds for the equipment component
of these programs are deficient by about P16 million.
The Power Use Directorate
12.     The Power Use Directorate (PUD) was established within NEA in 1973
to assist in developing viable programs in irrigation and rural industriali-
zation.  On the industrial side NEA's objective is to establish one or more
small-scale industrial cooperatives in each service area. This is in
accordance with Section 4(i) of Presidential Decree No. 269 which empowers
NEA to make loans "for the acquisition and installation of electrically
powered applicances, equipment, fixtures, and machinery of all kinds for
residential, recreational, commercial,agricultural and industrial uses."
Chart No. 9654 shows the present organization of PUD.  Present staffing was
described in para. 4. One of PUD's principal functions is to supervise
the establishment of industrial cooperatives and to provide them with
management, product on, accounting and marketing assistance.



ANN4EX 6
Page 5
13.     PUD has five functional Divisions for:
(i)  Training and Organization:  this division conducts pre-
membership education courses for prospective cooperative
members; runs seminars and workshops on cooperatives and
their management for the cooperative management teams;
arranges for specific skills training; assists coopera-
tives in preparing all papers necessary for registration
and in obtaining registration of the cooperative with the
Department of Local Government and Community Development
(DLGCD); and assists in organizing the Board of Directors
and various committees of the cooperative.
(ii) Financial Management: is responsible for installation of
accounting systems within a cooperative and assistance
thereafter. It also conducts regular and special audits and
also carries out all loan supervision work. Its staff will
be increased from 5 to 20 over the next year to handle the
increased workload.
(iii) Marketing Support: which does all the initial selling for
a new cooperative and provides information, advertising
and sales financial record keeping.
(iv) Research and Evaluation: this division is still in its
infancy. An evaluation unit will be established in this
Division one year after the proposed Bank loan becomes
effective.
(v)  Industry Assistance:  although not at present a separate
Division, it is responsible for providing a management
assistance team to a new cooperative which assists in
project identification and feasibility study preparation
and then trains the permanent management team in a coope-
rative once operations have begun.
Operations
14.     PUD has established five pilot industrial cooperatives so far.
These are considered in detail in Annex 7. In venturing into an entirely
new area NEA has learnt by trial and error. As might be expected with
this approach results have been mixed, but on the whole>, encouraging. PUD
has identified three areas of weakness in its present operations, which
it is taking steps to overcome. The first lies in its present system of
auditing industrial cooperatives. These audits are not independent and
suffer from lack of objectivity. In the future NEA plans to audit an
industrial cooperative for the first year of operations only and then
arrange for the cooperative to appoint an independent auditor thereafter.
Second , PUD recognizes that the 5-pilot industrial cooperatives have been
overprotected from real business conditions by NEA. To rectify this NEA



ANNEX 6
is now enforcing its rigorous standards for financial, accounting, pro-
duction and sales reporting systems.  Furthermore, it plans to curtail
the inherent subsidr element in its technical assistance by providing
management assistance team for a fixed duration of 6 months only. There-
after it intends to provide consulting assistance on a cost paid basis
and will strictly enforce loan terms and conditions. Third, experience so
far with the 5-pilot projects has shown that NEA in the early phases should
have provided more marketing assistance, particularly in assisting cooperatives
to secure market contracts before operations begin and more assistance in
the procurement of capital equipment and materials, by arranging foor super-
vision of procurement either by NEA staff or by consultants.
15.     NEA's loans have been channelled to the 5 pilot industrial coope-
ratives through local electricity cooperatives. NEA funds are lent lo the
electricity cooperative for 6 years including one year of grace and at an
interest rate of 5%. The electricity cooperative then relends th. >rro-
ceeds to the industrial cooperative for a term of 5 years, including six
months grace and at an interest rate of 6%. In future NEA will make
loans to the electricity cooperative, at 11.75% for maturities
varying between 3 to 12 years, and grace periods between 6 months and
2 years, depending on whether loans are for fixed assets or working capital.
The electricity cooperatives will on-lend to industrial cooperatives at 12%
for the same maturity and grace periods. NEA's intention to raise interest
rates would be confirmed during negotiations. A direct lending relationship
between NEA and the industrial cooperatives was discussed but NEA felt that
it would prefer loans to be coursed through electricity cooperatives for
a nominal fee. The principal reason for this preference was that electricity
cooperatives would serve to provide arn overall unbrella for other NEA financed
power use activities and should retain a ink with cooperatives established
for this purpose. Furthermore NEA felt that identification with the electricity
cooperatives would ensure greater local level support for the industrial
cooperatives.
Power Use Pipeline and Proposed Projects
16.     NEA expects to establish 5 more industrial cooperatives in FY75,
11 in FY76, and 13 in FY77. The proposed Bank loan will finance the 24
industrial cooperatives to be set up in FY76 and FY77. Costs are
detailed in Appendix 8. Total project costs amount to P28.5 nmillion,includ-
ing the provision of technical assistance by NEA estimated at Pl.4 million
over the program period. NEA expects to commit funds for these projects
aver two years FY76 and FY77 and to disburse them over four years FY76-79.
Cooperative members are expected to contribute 20% toward project costs
mainly in the form of land and buildings; 60% will be covered by the pro-
posed loan and the remaining 20% by NEA from its owr. domestic resources.
Disbursement of Bank funds will be against 75% of NEA's own disbursement.



ANNEX 6
Page 7
17.     Nineteen of these 24 industrial cooperative projects have already
been identified (Appendix 9). Of these, two are handicraft/export oriented
projects, two are cold storage projects, four are food processing projects,
six are furniture construction projects and the balance include garments,
tire retreading, a tannery, manufacture of electrical sub-components and
metalcraft. Projects are identified according to a set of weighted project
selection criteria.  The most important criterion is the strength of the
local electric cooperative and local community response. Other criteria
in descending order of importance are raw material availability, labor
skill availability, product marketability, employment generation and the
level of development of the region in question.
Technical Assistance Provided by Power Use Directorate
18.     NEA has provided substantial free technical assistance to the 5
pilot industrial cooperatives. This includes management team assistance,
marketing, production and accountancy assistance. It also includes
indirect costs arising from NEA Head Office support, employee benefits,
office supplies and equipment and other minor items. The cost of such
technical assistance has been about R50,000 per project, of which P39,000
or 78% has been direct costs and P11,000 or 22% indirect costs. Direct
costs have been broken into pre-operational and operational phases. The
pre-operational phase includes technical assistance with the preparation
of a feasibility study, training and pre-operations production run. The
operational phase continues for 6 months after the start of full production,
although in practice experience has varied from cooperative to cooperative.
The pre-operational phase has accounted typically for 45% of total direct
costs per project and the operational phase for 55%. The only technical
assistance for which industrial cooperatives paid fees was for the hiring
of two production experts by two of the pilot projects. Their expenses
were met in full by the industrial cooperatives concerned.
19.     NEA considers that this provision of technical assistance was too
generous both in relation to the budget of the Directorate for Power Use
and because it unduly subsidized the industrial cooperatives (the average
loan size of the 5-pilot projects is P300,000). Consequently, it is devising
a scheme of fee payments, which is designed to make the industrial coopera-
tive pay for about 60% of direct technical assistance received. The scheme
will be so devised that the heaviest subsidy will occur in the pre-opera-
tional phase, with a gradual tapering until the industrial cooperative is
paying in full for technical assistance received. This scheme was
discussed and agreed with NEA during negotiations.
EAP Projects Department
February 24, 1975



PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL ELECTRIFICATION ADMINISTRATION
ORGANIZATION CHART
BOARD OF
ADMINISTRATORS
BOARD SECRETARIAT
ADMINISTRATOR
OFFICE OF THE          TECHNICAL             EXECUTIVE                       PROGRAM CONTROL        PUBLIC RELATIONS
CORP. AUDITOR            STAFF                STAFF                               CENTER                  OFFICE
I                                 mrI
|FOR ADM'S; COOP. DEV.                               FO | E&GMATERIASG                             FINANCE & FRA\NCHISES
DIRECTORATE FOR          DIRECTORATE FOR         DIRECTORATE FOR          DIRECTORATE FOR          DIRECTORATE FOR            FRANCHISES                  E DIRECTORATE FOR
ADMINISTRATION         COOP. DEVELOPMENT           ENGINEERING              MATERIALS                  FINANCE            REGULATION O COOPPOWER USE
PERSONNEL               COOP. INFO.              FEASIBILITY            PROP. CONTROL             LOANS SUPER-              RESEARCH &              PLANNING &
DIVISION                 DIVISION              STUDIES DIV.           WAREHOUSING DIV.           VISION DIV.             STANDARDS DIV.          EVALUATION DIV.
FINANCIAL PLAN-          INVESTIGATION              MARKETING
GEN. SERVICES             COOP, ORG.            ABE & MAT'L.            TRANSPORTATION            NING & CONTROL           & ADJUDICATION            SUPPORTIV
DIVISION                DIVISION             PROCUREMENT DIV.          & SHIPPING DIV.             DIVISION                 DIVISION               S       DIV.
CORPORATE  INING  CONSTRUCTION       BORROWERS               FRANCHISING            SMALL SCALE IND.
LWl  CORPORATE   |  u    TRAINING    |      L   CONSTRUCTION  |                              o    SYS. & AUDIT              OPERATIONS             PLOT PROJECT
LEGAL COUNSEL |       j    DIVISION                 DIVISiNDIVSI                                                               DIVISION             TASKFORCES
|  OPERATIONS   |  l  CORPORATE   |               IRRIGATION
m  DIVISION    |  J    ACCTG. DIV.  |TASK FORCE
World Ban k-9654



ANNEX 6
PHILIPPINES                     Appendix 2
NATIONAL ELECTRIFICATION ADMINISTRATION
Balance Sheets for FY73-74 '
(e 000's)
FY1973         FY1974
Assets
Current assets
Cash and due from banks                           49,864          58,832
Receivables                                          --           14,638
DBP Fund Trustee Accounts                            --           30,527
NEA Trust Fund                                       --            8,099
Equipment and Materials Inventory                    --           18,464
Other                                               1,212          1,772
Sub-total                               51,076         132,332
Investments
Long-term loans receivable                        123,363         158,852
Fixed assets                                          728             619
Other assets                 2/                       948            _-
Unamortised development cost-                        --             3,940
Sub-total                              125,039         163,1411
Total Assets                           1762115         295,743
Liabilities and Net Worth
Current liabilities
Accounts payable                                   52,599           1,605
DBP Fund Trustee                                     --            29,150
Other                                                 217           1,014
Total Current Liabilities               52,816           31,769
Long-term liabilities
Foreign loans                                        __             7,305
Other                                                --                 1
Total Long Term Liabilities               --              7,306
Total Liabilities                       52,816           39,075
Net Worth
Capital                                            (1,740)        253,86C
Accumulated reserves                              125,039           2,80
Total Net Worth                        123,299          256,668
Total Liabilities + Net Worth          176,115          295,743
Ratios
Long-term debt/equity                                --              0.03
Current ratio                                       0.97            4.16
1/   On July 1, 1973, NEA changed from the Government accounting system to
a corporate-accounting system, hence the two statements are not strictly
comparable.
2/   Foreign technical assistance loan to be amortised over 30 years, with
first payment due November 1981.
EAP Projects Department
December 16, 1974



ANNEX 6
Appendix 3
PHILIPPINES
National Electri-fication Administration
Income Statements for FY73-741/
FY1973      FY1974
Income
Current surplus                                        3, 184
Loan amortisation                                         314
Interest on loans                                         320       5,175
Dividends on funds                                           2/     2,790
Government appropriations                               5,235 /
Other earnings                                            235            3
Gross Income                                 9288         7,968
Expenses
Salaries and other personnel expenses                  2,639        2,909
Other administrative expenses                          1,596        1,629
Miscellaneous operating expenses                       4,593          622
Total expenses                               86828        5,160
Net Incame                                                  460       2,808
Ratios
Net income/average total assets                          --         1.2%
Administrative expenses/average total assets             --         1.9%
Net income/average net worth                             --         1.5%
1/  On July 1, 1973, NEA changed from the Government accounting system to
a corporate accounting system, hence the two statements are not strictly
comparable.
2/ Special Government appropriation.
EAP Projects Depa2atment
Deceniiber 16, 1974



PHILIPPINES
National Electrification Administration (NEA)
Summary of Accounts in Arrears as of September 30, 1974
(F 000's)
Arrears
Private Borrowers                   Municipalities                     Old Co-operatives                  Total Arrears                     Over 3 aonths
Prin.       Int.       P + I       Prin.        Int.       P + I       Prin.      Int.      P + I        Prin.      Int.      P + I       %       As % of Total
Accounts in Arrears for:
Less than 3 months                  102.1        119.7       221.8       197.3      148.5        345.8        15.8      19.3       35.1        315.2    287.5       602.7      6.5              --
3-6 months                           99.8       117.0        216.8       188.0      141.4       329.4         15.5      18.9       34.4       303.3    277.3        580.6      6.3            6.7
6-12 months                         187.8        220.0       407.8       359.9      270.7       630.6         27.6      33.6       61.2       575.3    524.3   1,099.6        11.9           12.8
12-24 months                        337.9       396.0        733.9       651.0      489.6    1,140.6          53.1      64.7      117.8    1,042.0    950.3   1,992.3         21.7           23.1
Over 24 months                      832.7       977.1    1,809.8    1,679.3   1,263.3    2,942.6              84.0    102.3       186.3    2,596.0  2,342.7   4,938.7         53.6           57.4
Total                        1,560.3    1,829.8    3,390.1    3,075.5   2,313.5    5,389.0             196.0    238.8       434.8    4,381.8  4,382.1   9,213.9   100.0
(38.8%)                            (58.5%)                            (4.7%)                          (100.0%)
Arrears over 3 months             1,458.2    1,710.1    3,168.3    2,878.2   2,165.0    5,043.2              180.2    219.5       399.7    4,066.6  4,094.6   8,611.2   100.0
(36.8%)                            (58.6%)                            (4.6%)                          (100.0%)
Principal Affected by Arrears                            10,620.4                            14,722.8                           8,878.9                          34,222.1
Outstanding Loan Portfolio                                12,449.1                          168,410.0                          17,681.8                         198,540.9
Arrears over 3 months as % of
Outstanding Portfolio                                       25.6%                                3.0%                             2.3%                              4.3%
No. of Accounts in Arrears                                    42                                 152                               61                               255
EAP Projects Department
December 16, 1974
4.



ANNEX 6
Appendix '
PHILIPPINES
National Electrification Administration (NEA)
Statement of Long-Term Resources as of September 30, 1974
Domestic Resources                                       P Million
Paid-in Capital                                          253.86
Accumulated Reserves                                       2.81
Sub-total                                           256.67
Less Outstanding Loans + Fixed Assets                    169.73
Resources Available for Further Disbursements:           86.94
Less Undisbursed Commitments                             205.40
Balance of Resources Available for Commitment:   (118.46)-/
Foreign Resources
Japanese War Reparations (US$7.5 million)2/               52.50
USAID Loans (US$40 million)27                            280.00
Sub-total                                          332.50
Less Outstanding Loans                                    32.20
Resources Available for Further Disbursements:            300.30
Less Undisbursed Commitments                             389.90
Balance of Resources Available for Commitment      (89.60)3/
1/   This deficit is expected to be covered by the authorization of an already
approved Government appropriation for P150 million.
2/   Tied for use only in electricity cooperatives.
3/  This deficit is expected to be covered by a fourth USAID loan for
US$40 million.
EAP Projects Department
December 16, 1974



ANNEX 6
Appendix 6
PHILIPPINES
National Electrification Administration
Sources and Application of Funds FY75-77
(P Million)
FY 75       FY 76       FY 77
Sources:
Govt. Capital Contributions               150.0         58.9       55.9
Collections from Borrowers                 12.0         14.4       16.2
Net Operating Income                        2.2          3.0         3.0
Japanese Reparations                        2.7         13.6          --
AID Loans (Electricity Co-operatives)    197.6         206.8      174.8
IBRD Loan (Industrial Co-operatives)        2.4          5.0        8.8
French Banks Consortium Loan               11.0         35.0        24.0
Total Sources                        377.9        336.7      282.7
Uses:
Repayments on Long-TermLoans                 --          --          --
Electricity Coops                         272.8        214.8      279.3
Industrial Coops                            3.2          6.7       11.7
Irrigation Coops                            0.9          1.5        2.0
Total Uses                           276.9        223.0      293.0
Net Inflow (Outflow)                        101.0        113.7       (10-3)
Beginning Balance                           (208.1)     (107.1)        6.6
Ending Balance                              (107.1)        6.6        (3.7)
EAP Projects Department
December 16, 1974



PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL ELECTRIFICATION ADMINISTRATION
POWER USE D-IRECTORATE
ORGANIZATION CHART
OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR
TRAINING &                         FINANCIAL                         MARKETING                           RESEARCH &
ORGANIZATION                       MANAGEMENT                           SUPPORT                           EVALUATION
DIVISION                           DIVISION                           DIVISION                           DIVISION
PROJECT  LOANS           ~~AUDIT &         SALES &         INVNOY              PROJECTTSIC 
TRAINING      ORGANIZATION          SION         INSTALLATION       PROMOTION        & HANDLING        EVALUATION       INFORMATION
SECTI ON        SECTI ON           VSECION         S ECTI ON         S ECTI ON         SECTI ON         S ECTI ON         S ERVICES
SECTIONECTONSETIOESCTONIECIO
INDUSTRY
TASK
FORCE
PROJECT ANALYSTS &
TECHNICAL OFFICERS
World Bank-9655



ANNEX 6
PHILIPPINES                   Appendix 8
National Electrification Administration (NEA)
Cost Breakdown for 24 Industrial Co-operatives to be Established in FY76-77
(F 000's)
Expenditure to be Incurred in:
FY 76      FY 77        FY 78         FY 79      Total
Costs
Land and Buildings-                    . 1627.0    2,712.0     1,085.0        --         5,424.0
Fixed Capital Costs
Machinery & Equipment                2,008.0    4,765.0      2,765.0         935.0   10,473.0
Office Equipmpt & Furniture            281.0       3860o       198.0         108.0       973.0
Contingencies2                         687.0    1,545,0        889.0         313.0    3,434.0
Sub-Total                      2,976.0    6,696.0       3,852.0      1,356.0   14,880.0
Permanent Working Capital Costs
Raw Materials and Supplies             602.0       739.0       553.0        --         1,894.0
Direct Labor                           689.0      887.0        577.0        --         2,153.0
Overheads                              215.0      280.0        220.0        --           715.0
Pre-Operating Expenses                 216.0      275.0        200.0        --           691.0
Contingencies3/                        430.o      545.o        387.0        --         1,362.0
Sub-Total                      2,152.0    2,726.0       1,937.0        --        6,815.0
Total Project Costs            6,780.0   10,848.0       8,136.0       1,356.0   27,120.0
Technical Assistance Costs (NEA)300.0        700.0        400.0        --        1,400.0
Total Project + T.A.           7,080.0   11,548.0       8,536.0       1,356.0   28,520.0
Financq
Co-operat ve Members       (20%)    1,627.0    2,712.0       1,085.0        --         5,424.o
IBRD Loanl/                (60%)    3,865.o    6,002.0       5,216.0       1,017.0   16,100.0-
NEA:  Loans                (20%)    1,288.0    2,134.0       1,835.0         339.0    5,596.0
Technical Assistance(100%)       300.0       700.0        400.0        --        1,400.0
Sub-Total (NEA)               (1,588.0)  (2,834.0)   (2,235.0)         (339.0)  (6,996.0)
Total Financing                7,080.0   11,548.0       8,536.o       1,356.0   28,520.0
1/   This will represent the equity contribution of the co-operative members.
:/   Allows for 20% annual price escalation and an overall 10% physical contingency
allowance.
3/   Allows for 15% annual price escalation and an overall 10% physical contingency
allowance.
4/   IBRD financing will cover 60% of total project costs; disbursements to be made
against 75% of NEA's loans.
5/   US$2.3 million equivalent @ US$ = F7.00
EAP Projects Department
December 16, 1974



Annex 6
Appendix 9
PHILIPPINES
Small and Medium Industry
NATIONAL ELECTRIFICATION ADMINISTRATION
Industrial Cooperative Projects
Province                         Project
1.  YY75 Projects
Aklan                            Pina Cloth Weaving
Laguna                           Embroidery
Albay                            Metalcraft
S. Nueva Ecija                   Bamboo-rattan furniture
Surigao Sur                      Cross Arms Manufacturing
2. FY76 Projects
Ilocos Sur                      Tobacco Leaf - Drying plant
Misamis Oriental                Cold Storage and Freezing Plant
Lanao Sur                       Bamboo-rattan furniture
Benguet                         Mushroom Canning
Western Samar                   Coconut Oil Processing
Leyte                           Tire Retreading Plant
Bulacan                         Mechanical Tannery
Camarines Sur                   Coconut Shell Charcoal Manufacturing
Palawvan                        Cross Arms Manufacturing
Catanduanes                     Sash-Furniture Making
Bohol                           Shellcraft
3.  FY77 Projects
Ilocos Norte                    Low Tension Insulator
Zamboanga City                  Wooden Tile Manufacturing
Lanao Norte                     Veneer Factory
Cavite                          Fruit Processing Plant
Zambales                        Wood Decorative Blocks Manufacturing
Davao Norte                     Banana Dehydration Plant
Iloilo                          Pottery and Ceramics Manufacturing
Negros Occidental               Cold Storage Plant for Fish
and 5 unidentified projects
EAP Projects Department
December 16, 1974



ANNEX 7
Page 1 -
PHILIPPINES
National Electrification Administration (NEA)
Industrial Cooperatives Program
Background
1.        In accordance with Section 4(i) of its Charter (Presidential
Decree No. 269), NEA , beginning in 1973, has set up 5 pilot industrial
cooperatives, each in the service area of an NEA electricity cooperative.
This is the first step in NEAts Power Use Program, designed to spur
economic development in the electricity cooperative's service
area by developing projects with a-low capital investment per
worker in order to increase income and employment in the rural areas and
to promote the regional dispersal of small-scale industries. The ob-
jective of the Power Use Program is to establish at least one industry
project in each of the 36 electric cooperative areas being created in the
first stage of NEA's rural electrification program (1974-78).
2.        None of the 5 pilot industrial cooperatives has been in exis-
tence very long and as yet there is no basis on which to make a full
evaluation of the projects. But their establishment and operations to date
have highlighted a number of problems and possible solutions to them which are
enabling NEA to adapt and refine its approach. Problems which relate to
NEA have been discussed in Annex 8 (para. 14). Those which relate speci-
fically to the industrial cooperatives are discussed below. The experience
that NEA has had with each of the 5 coeperatives has been summarized in
Appendices 1-5.
Identification, Establishment and Organization of an Industrial Cooperative
3.        Three of the 5 pilot projects were identified by the local com-
munity and brought to NEA's attention via the local electricity coopera-
tive; one (Capiz) was identified by NEA; and one (Bulacan) was identified
jointly by NEA and the local community. The importance of local community
initiative in bringing possible projects to NEA's attention, and of sup-
porting cooperatives, once established, has been found by NEA to be critical
in the execution of the program so far.
4.        Project identification was followed by a feasibility study in
all of the projects, except the first (para. 14). The local electricity
cooperatives provided information, survey manpower and vehicles, and in
every case the local municipality provided information and assistance.
The feasibility studies conducted so far have generally treated each aspect
of the project superficially and have concentrated on the economics of
production of specific products.  They have not taken sufficient account



ANNEX 7
Page 2
of specific problems in: financing and cash flow; marketing and product
selection; organizational issues, in particular the timing of the transition
period when the NEA management assistance team leaves and the permanent
local managers take over; specific production processes; and training for
both production workers and the permanent local managers. NEA has decided
to upgrade all future feasibility studies, and establish a standard format.
for them. It undoubtedly has the capability to do this, based on its
experience in producing thorough feasibility studies for proposed electric
cooperatives, and the good calibre of staff in the Power Use
Directorate.
5.        None of the projects encountered problems in forming the coopera-
tive. NEA's experience in setting up electricity cooperatives ; the
assistance of the local electricity cooperative in conducting the
information and membership campaign; and local enthusiasm for the
projects accounted largely for this. Two cooperatives were over-enthusiastic;
they started with too many members and had to deliberately reduce membership
to a manageable level. All members work at the project, but non-members
are also hired as workers with the intention of eventually being allowed
membership. The Board of Directors is elected by the members but does not
manage the project. In all cases, the membership fee is a one time payment
of P100.00.
6.        All of the 5 pilot cooperatives encountered considerable dif-
ficulty in registering as cooperatives with the Department of Local
Government and Community Development (DLGCD) in spite of a great deal
of assistance from NEA with filing and meeting DLGCD requirements.
DLGC,D s registration procedures and requirements are complicated and
cumbersome and have been the principal bottleneck in establishing the
cooperatives. NEA's Charter provides for registration of electricity
cooperatives with NEA, and NEA has agreed to seek the same terms for
registration of its industrial cooperatives. NEA provides substantial free
technical assistance in the preoperational and operational phases of production
activity (Annex 8, para.18). The preoperational phase in the case of the 5 pilot
projects has varied between one to four months before operations began.
Technical assistance has continued for up to 15 months in the operational
phase. The quality of NEA assistance in general management, production
and accounting has been satisfactory, but marketing assistance has been
relatively weak. in future, NEA intends to ensure that, where appropriate,
a marketing contract has been secured before operations begin. Where
necessary, it would buttress its marketing assistance with consultants
as it has done for production for two projects, and would deepen the
marketing analysis in all future feasibility studies.
Management and Staffing of Industrial Cooperatives
7.        Staffing experience for the management of the 5 cooperatives
has been mixed. Qualifications and backgrounds of project managers have
varied (Appendices 1-5). Selection criteria and procedures for
filling cooperative management positions have not yet been formalized.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
In each of the 5 cases, a candidate for General Manager was selected
locally with NEA participation in the selection process. To date there
has been no turnover of general managers. NEA is closely reviewing the
performance of all the project managers appointed so far with a view to
improving their performance and, if necessary, replacing them.  The
greatest difficulty has been encountered in retaining competent accountants
to manage cooperative finances. NEA has so far insisted on hiring accoun-
tants with at least graduate qualifications in accounting. Turnover in
accountants has been high. Three cooperatives have lost their trained
accountants while the other two have just recently hired their own
(Appendices 1-5).  In future, NEA plans to encourage hiring of accountants
with satisfactory experience for the work required and who can be easily
trained, rather than stressing academic qualifications. Recruitment of
other managerial personnel, particularly for marketing and production, has
not proven problematic but cooperatives have tended to place undue reliance
on NEA's management personnel, without taking adequate measures to recruit
replacements before the NEA teams are withdrawn. NEA is encouraging all
five cooperatives to acquire a full complement of qualified managers as
soon as possible after establishment to allow for sufficient overlap
during the assistance teams' stay.
E.        For the future, IEA plans to introduce the rigorous and well-
tried procedures it has developed for recruiting management for electricity
cooperatives. NEA selects general managers by competitive recruitment with
the local electricity cooperative's Board of Directors selecting from a
short list of three finalists, preselected by LEA. The general manager
selects the rest of his management team ir accordance with NEA selection
guidelines, which insist on competitive recruitment through examination
and interview. The hiring and firing of a general manager by the local
cooperative Board of Directors is always subject to NBA approval. The
overall management record for the electricity cooperative has been good.
Since 1971 there have been 3 dismissals for dishonesty, one for incomFetence
and one resignation out of a total of 42 cooperatives which have 3ppointed
general managers, of whom 35 have been employed for 6 months or more.
Training
9.        Training of new management for the 5 pilot projects has been on
an "on-the-ob" basis with the new management acting as counterparts to
the NEA management assistance team.  The counterpart general manager has
been under training since the start of the preoperational phase in four
of the projects, and in the fifth was recruited after the NEA management
assistance team has run the project for 9 months. This last experience was
with the second pilot project established and NEA does not intend to repeat
it.
10.       Training of new members of the cooperatives in cooperative organi-
zation and administration is conducted by the Training and Organization
Division of NEA's Power Use Directorate in conjunction with the Department
of Local Government and Community Development (DLGCD). This is a well-
organized operation. The Training and Organization Division is also res-
ponsible for conducting worker skill-training in the preoperational phase.



ANTEX 7
Page 4
The training content itself is satisfactory, but in every project, the length
of time for which skills training was given was regarded. as inadequate on
the basis of subsequent operational exneriernce. NEA intends to lengthen,
as appropriate the skills training period irn future projects and is negoti-
ating with the National Manpower and Youth Council (4I-YC) for that agency
to provide appropriate training instructors to be financed from NEMYC'S
budget.
Industrial Cooperatives' Operations
11.       Operating experience and problems to date have highlighted the
following common problems:
(i) raw materials procurement: has proven difficult
for cooperatives in the textile industry. With a general
shortage of local and. imported raw materials, there is nc'
way to overcome this, and the best expedient for textile
related projects is to rely heavily on sub-contracting
work, at least in the early years of operations;
(ii) capital goods procuremert: mistakes were made in three
instances when equipment was procured without NEA's guidance.
These errors could have been avoided with better procurement
procedures.  NEA has now decided to supervlse carefully, or
else have consultants supervise, procurement for each of
the cooperatives to be established;
(iii)  production problems:  of varying severity have been encoun-
tered in all cooperatives either because of inappropriate
capital equipment or inadequate tr-r.ing;
(iv) marketing problems: were serious in three projects, largely
because product lines were not market oriented.  NHEA's pro-
posals to overcome this problem have been described in
para. 6;
(v) financial problems: which relate mairnly to inadequate
financial planning and problems in retaining accountants
(para. 7).  The inadequacy of financial planning is evidert
in the simplistic financial analysis in NEA's feasibility
studies; and the absence of sufficient forethought about
cash flow at the time of establishment. Working capital
requirements were badly underestimated in two cases, and
this is likely to affect the projects concerned for some
time.  Also, the impact of a short grace a,)( maturity
periods on a project's cash flow, particularly ir the initial
stages of operations, has not been given sufIi cient considera-
tion. These problems have been reviewed by 'HEA and resulted
in its decision to enforce strictly its flnancial reportin.



AlITEX 7
Page )
requirements, lengthen the length of grace and amorti-
zation periods, take appropriate measure to ensure
that projects retain their accountants (para. 9) and
conduct a more sophisticated. financial analysis of the
project in the feasibility study, including a financial
rate of return, together with detailed cash flow and income
statement forecasts; and
(vi) NEA's reporting requirements: NEA requires a monthly problem-
oriented report and financial statement from each project as
a condition of its loan. NEA has not enforced this, nor has
it enforced loan repayment when the six month grace period has
expired.  NEA has undertaken to fully enforce its reporting
requirements and all other loan terms and conditions. NEA
is also developing a standard form of loan agreement with
industrial cooperative bo.rrowers. It already has a standard
form of loan agreement with its electricity cooperative
borrowers.
NEA's Program for Corrective Action
12.       Most of the problems mentioned above have been identified by
NEA's own program of monitoring and review. Its response in taking
corrective action is rapid and as has been described in the preceding
paragraphs, a number of measures have been planned or are being taken
to rectify the situation and improve cooperative performance. Since
this program isstill very much of a pilot nature, NEA feels that its
planning and evaluation capability needs strengthening (Annex 6, para.
13) to conduct better analyses of each cooperatives' problems and to
evaluate the program as a whole in terms of financial and economic
measures. During negotiations, the introduction of an adequate evalua-
tion and reporting system, and the time-table for its introduction,
were discussed and agreed with NEA.
EAP Projects Department
February 24, 1975



AIINEX 7
Apperdix 1, Fage 1
PHILIPPINTES
National Electrification Administration (]TEA)
Industrial Cooperatives Program
THE CAPIZ GARMEIT PROJECT
A. Summary Analysis
1.        This project was the first established by NEA.  No feasibility
or marketing studies were conducted and no accounting system was installed
before operations began. Nor was an adequate and assured supply of raw
material (cotton cloth) found. Initial production was for job lot orders and
was characterized by two-week pr6duction runs, followed by  shut-downs due
to the unavailability of raw materials. In November 1973, 125 new sewing
machines were procured, but the market for the cooperative's products had
collapsed and operations ceased from January to June 1974. To service the
project, NEA sought the assistance of the Development Academy of the
Philippines (DAP). Following a feasibility study carried out in April
197h, the cooperative was reorganized, a permanent general manager hired
and trained and an accounting system installed. Production of linen
(bed sheets and pillow cases) began in August 1974 with a stable supply
of raw materials and a small but steady market. In September, the co-
operative won a trial order to assemble precut children's dresses for a
large Manila export firm with a one-year renewable contract to follow.
Another contract of a similar nature is under negotiation. The project
now has a permanent management team of 8 (including a marketing manager
and 4 supervisors who report to the production manager) and employs 50
sewers. Capital investment per job is about P4,700 which is significantly
above the P1,000 forecast by NEA, but in line with their more recent
experience.  Because the project still does not have an accountant, NEA
had to conduct a special audit in October 1974. The results are not
available yet. The project is now considered to have a fair chance of
succeeding by TEA.



ANNEX 7
Apperdix 1, Page 2
CAPIZ GA:MEN1ETS PROJECT
B. Operational Details
Location: Panitan, Capiz Province in Service Area of Capiz Electric
Cooperative (CAPELCO).
Operations:originally began in August 1973. The project started up
following re-organization on August 14., 1974.
Project Manager: Mr. Nestor A. Leynes Jr. has an undergraduate degree
in Political Science and two years work experience as
a Senior Program Officer with the Responsible Parent-
hood Council.
Employent:
Average of Daily
No. of Employees         Wage as of 9/30/74
Management/Supervisors                 8                  P10.70
Work Force                            50                  P 4.00 (Sewers)
P 7.00 (Embroiderers)
Total                              58
Financial Position and Performance
No details available, because project has been without an
accountant. NEA conducted a special audit in October 1974 the results of
which were not available to the mission. The project is running
at a loss, but expects to break-even after four months of
operation (August-November, 1974).  KEA considers this to be an
optimistic estimate.
NEBA Loan Details
Approved Loan Amount: P300,000.00
Disbursements as of 10/31/74:  P275,09090
Capital Investment Per Job:
Projected:           Pl,OOO.OO
As of 7/31/74:       P4,743.00
EAP Projects Department
F-'bruary 24, 1975



ANINEX 7
Appendix 2, Page 1
PHILIPPITES
National Electrification Administration (NEA)
Industrial Cooperatives Program
ALBAY FIBERCRAFT PROJECT
A. Summary Analysis
1.        Albay Fibercraft was NEA's second pilot project.  The co-
operative was organized through local initiative in August 1973.
Between September 1973 and November 1974, several contracts with local
exporters were won and a variety of job lot orders received. Pr4oduct
lines have been slightly expanded from the original four and the pro-
ject now employs 660 people, of whom 45 are in managerial or supervisory
position. Worker productivity has increased about 300% since operations
began while labor costs have increased 30% over the same Period. Capital
investment per Job is about P300.00.
2.        The project's principal problem has been to hire and train
permanent management to take over from the NEA management assistance
team. A permanent general manager took over operations in November
197h. The project has lost two accountants since its inception and
a third is under training. The most serious gaps are in production
and marketing where NEA personnel are still in place. NEA and the co-
operative are taking urgent steps to hire and train permanent management
staff.
3.        The project's financial position and performance are in line
with NEA forecasts made at the time of the feasibility study. An initial
net loss of P2,000 in the first month of operations was followed by steady
improvement. Between July to September 1974, net income averaged P1,000
per month. The last complete available financial statement was as of
May 31, 1974, because of problems in retaining accountants as described
above.  Loan releases as of October 31, 1974 totalled P189,000 of which
P40,000 was required for purchase of machinery and equipment and P150,(00
for working capital. The project has experienced recurrent working capital
shortage because of high raw material costs and late customer payments.
The last problem is being tackled by opening domestic letters of credit.



LTEX 7
Appendix 2, Page 2
ALBAY FI1ERCBAFT PROJECT
B. Operational De,tails
Location:         Santo Domingo, Albay in service area of Albay Electric
Cooperative (AIECO)
erations:         began September 24, 1973
Project Manager:  Mr. Roger Bret is 38 and holds a bachelors degree in
commerce. His previous experience has been with the
Philippine Postal Service as a Postmaster and then
as a Disbursements Officer. He has taken a number
of courses on cooperative development and is presently
in Germany attending a course on Production Cooperative
Development.
Dnployment:
Average DailyWage
No. of Employees            As of 9/30/7h
Management/Supervisors             45                       P7.25
Work Force                        615                       P4.50
660
Financial Position:
Balance Sheet as of May 31, 1974
Assets                       Pesos       Liability & Equity         Pesos
Cash and due from banks      7,121.36   Current liabilities         1,272.96
Accounts receivable         45,891.62   Long-term liabilities    130,589.00
Inventories                 58,410.58   Membership fees               174.00
Advances                     2,299.91  Accumulated surplus          1,042.58
Fixed assets                17,111.71
Other assets                 2,243.36
Total assets           133,078.54       Total liabilities      133,078.54



AiWEX 7
Appei.dix 2, :PaCge 3
7-i,^:cialPerforrr.ance:
Income Statements as of MAa.- 33 , 1971X:
For the M4onths of:                January-May, 1974
Sales                                                           6
,let sales                                                      8h,396.32
Cost of sales                                                   72,393.92
Gross Profit                                                    12,002.1X0
Operating Costs                                                 _8731.30
3,271.10
Other Income                                                       107.53
Niet Income                                                      3,378.63
IPEA Loan Details:
Loan Amount:                           P300,000.00
Date Approved:                         September 22, 1973
Disbursements as of 10/31/74           P189,105095
Capital Investment Per Job:
Projected:           P1,000.00
As of 9/30/74:       P310.00
EAP Projects Department
February 24, 1975



ANNEX 7
PHILIPPEIES                    Appendix 3, Page 1
National Electrification Administration (NEA)
Industrial Co-operatives Program
PAMPANGA BAMBOOCRAFT PROJECT
A. Summary Analysis
1.        The third pilot project to be financed by NEA was the Pampanga
Bamboocraft project. The project was initiated by local community members
of the local electric cooperative and approved by NEA after it had con-
ducted a feasibility study.  The management of the project is satisfactory
and the general manager particularly well qualified. The project receives
technical assistance from a qualified consultant, whose services are paid
for in full by the project.
2.        Major problems remain in marketing and production.  Demand was
minimal for the original product lines selected and no firm line of pro-
ducts has yet been established. Production has been slowed because of poor
equipment procurement and by production line bottlenecks at the finishing
stage.  Production has also been slowed by too brief a training period
for workers and an initial high rate of turnover amongst the labor force.
The production problems are now being remedied, there is a relatively
stable workforce of 30 and productivity per man has increased four fold in
five months. The marketing problem remains and is now NEA's principal
concern about this project.
3.        The latest available financial statements are as of June 30, 1974.
Accounts were not up-to-date because a new accountant was unable to keep
up with reporting requirements. The project sustained a net loss of P1,900
in June 1974. In September and October 1974 the net loss was cut reportedly
to about F1,200 per month. This reflects slower sales than forecast in NEA's
feasibility stucy.  Production costs remain stable, with an 8% wage increase
to F8.50 per day being more than offset by declining prices for bamboo.
B. Operational Details
Location: Candaba, Pampanga Province in the service area of South-eastern
Pampanga Electric Cooperative (SEPECO).
Operations: began February 18, 1974
Project Manager: Mr. Ramon Panganiban has a bachelor's degree in business
administration. He owned a bamboocraft business from
1964-70, after which he worked in the tourism industry.



ANNEX 7
Appendix 3, Page 2
Average Daily Wage
Employment:                     No. of Employees      as of 9/30/74
Management/Supervisors                  9                   11.00
30                   8.50
Total                             39
Financial Position:
Balance Sheet as of June 30, 1974
Assets                          Pesos     Liabilities & Equity           Pesos
Cash and due froa banks       4,347.00    Current liabilities            652.00
Accounts receivable           1,545.00    Long-term liabilities        77,753.00
Inventories                  24,020.00    Membership fees                    --
Fixed assets                 39,014.00    Accumulated loss:            (3,669.00)
Other assets                  5,811.00
Total Assets            74,737.00         Total liabilities      726-00
Financial Performance:
Income Statements for:      Month Ending:
June 30, 1974
Sales                         1,694.00
Net sales                     1,694.00
Cost of sales                 1,426.00
Gross profit                    268.oo
Operating costs               2,272.00
Other income                     86.oo
- Net Income              (1,918.00)
NEA Loan Details:
Loan Amount:                 P  250,000
Date approved:              February 5, 1974
Disbursements as of 9/30/74 P93,363.50
Capital Investment per Job: Projected = P1,180.00
As of 9/30/74 Actual    = P2,394.00
EAP Projects Department
February 24, 1975



ANNEX 7
PHILIPPINES                  Appendix 4, Page 1
National Electrification Administration (NEA)
Industrial Co-operatives Program
LA UNION WOODCRAFT FROJECT
A. Summary Analysis
1.        The fourth co-operative to be established by NEA, the project was
based on an identification survey carried out by the local electricity
co-operative for power use projects in its service area. NEA then conducted
its own feasibility stucdr and operations began in April 1974 with a labor
force of 17. A permanent general manager and accountant were hired to be
trained under the NEA management assistance team.
2.        The principal problems encountered have been marketing and pro-
duction. No market survey was done and the product lines initially produced
were not customer-oriented. Subsequently, contracts were obtained from a
large retail outlet and a local exporter in Manila for woodenware and wooden
figurines. Production and particularly production cost control remain
severe problems. The project now employs 28 persons but productivity is
about 50% of normal because of inadequate training. Three trained craftsmen
have been hired to train the existing wark force over a 3 month period.
Plant lay-out contributes to poor productivity which cannot be raised without
considerable additional expenditure on building improvements. Another
difficulty is a very poor raw material conversion factor resulting in
excessive raw material wastage. To overcome this, a large band saw is to
be procured. The management assistance team has also considered the pro-
duction of byproducts such as glue, sandpaper, varnish, and filler to cut
down waste. But the costs appear excessive at present levels of production.
3.        The latest financial statements are as of June 30, 1974.  More
recent statements are not available because the accountant had to be replaced.
A new accountant is being recruited but financial reporting to NEA has
fallen behind. The net loss for June 1974 was P1,140 -- the average monthly
loss over the first four months. NEA considers this to be a problem project.
B. Operational Details
Location:            Tubao, La Union Province in the service area Zf La Union
Electric Cooperative (LUELCO)
Operations:          began March 11, 1974.
Project Manager:     Mr. Bienvenido Marasingan has a bachelor's degree in
business administration from Sophia University, Tokyo.
He is 31 years old and his previous business experience
covers ten years, six of which he was the owner/operator
of a Philippine woodcraft company.



ANNEX 7
Appendix 4, Page 2
Average Daily Wage
Employment:                       No. cf Employees         as of 9/30/74
Management/Supervisors                   2                       9.50
Work Force                              28                       5.50
Financial Position:
Balance Sheet as of June 30, 1974
Assets                       Pesos     Liabilities & Equity          Pesos
Cash and due from banks   10,916.10  Current liabilities             83.66
Accounts receivable          1,395.00  Long-term liabilities   65,300.00
Inventories                18,272.99  Membership fees                  --
Fixed assets                2,4,725.12  Accumulated Loss:        (4,892.24)
Other assets                5,182.21
Total assets             60,149i.42    Total liabilities       60,491.42
Financial Performance:
Income Statements for:    Month Ending
June 30, 1974          January-June 1974
Sales                          276.45                 2,590.45
Net sales                      275.00                 2,564.oo
Cost of goods sold             316.00                 3,386.06
Gross profit                   (41.00)                 (822.06)
Operating costs              1,099.86                 4,070.18
Net income                  (1,140.86)               (4,892.24)
NEA Loan Details:
NEA Loan Amouint:          P 300,000
Loan Approved:             February 7, 1974
Disbursements:as of 9/30/74 P 103,710.00
Capital Investment per Job: Projected: P1,500.00
As of 9/30/74 Actual:  P3,457.00
EAP Projects Department
February 24, 1975



ANNEX 7
Appendix 5, Page 1
PHILIPPINES
National Electrification Administration (NEA)
Industrial Co-operatives Program
BULACAN EMBROIDERY PROJECT
A. Summary Analysis
1.        The most recent of NEA's pilot co-operative projects,Bulacan
Embroidery is also the best planned and executed. The project was identi-
fied in December 1973 by a joint NEA-local electricity cooperative team,
assisted by two Peace Corps Volunteers. The same team conducted a
thorough feasibility study and began the selection of 31 sewers by competi-
tive recruitment. NEA delayed loan signing until a one-year marketing
contract  had been sucaessfully concluded with a large export garment
manufacturer in Manila for the assembly of pre-cut children's dresses.
The marketing contract and the NEA loan were both signed in August 1974.
2.        The project is successful and the problems presently facing the
cooperative are those related to expansion. Management of the cooperative
is still in the hands of a NEA management assistance team of two, assisted
by one Peace Corps Volunteer. A general manager and an accountant have
been hired and have been under training for four months. A marketing
manager is not considered necessary for the present.
3.        Production is satisfactory and output per day doubled in the first
three months. The target is to double output per day again over the sub-
sequent six months. The project has a good quality control record. Quality
control is carried out by the cooperative.
4.        The latest available financial statements were those for the three
months ending August 31, 1974. Those for September were under preparation
while the mission was in the field, and were expected on time by NEA. The
project was very close to break even after one month of full operations and
the preceding training period. The net loss for the period was P350.
B. Operational Details
Location:            Plaridel, Bulacan Province in the service area of First
Bulacan Electric Cooperative (FBECO).
Operations:          began July 22, 1974.
Project Manager:    Mr. Fidel Corral is 47 years old and has a bachelor's
degree in engineering. His previous experience includes
14 years as an NCO in the Philippine Army, 4 years as
a sergeant in the Philippine Constabulary and 7 years
as an Instructor at the Community Development Center
at Los Banos.



ANNEX 7
Appendix 5, Page 2
Average Daily Wage
Employment:                      No. of Employees         As of 9/30/7 -
Management/Supervisors                     2                  P9.o0
Work Force                                31                  P6.5o
Total                 33
Financial Position:
Balance Sheet as of August 31, 1974
Assets                       Pesos       Liabilities & Equity        Pesos
Cash and due from banks    2,734.05      Current liabilities        6,487.60
Accounts receivable         7,391.20     Long-term liabilities    65,443.00
Other current assets          318.72     Membership fees            1,U'0.00
Fixed assets              50,532.45      Accumulated loss            (351.80)
Other assets              11,602.38
Total assets            72,578.80        Total liabilities       72,578.80
Financial Performance:
Income Statements for 3 months ended August 31, 1974
Pesos
Service fees                  1,852.601/
Cost of job completed         1,601.70
Gross profit                    250.90
Operating costs                 717.20
Other income                    114.50
Net income                     (351.EO)
NEA Loan Details:
Loan amount:                 P  250,000
Loan approved:               August 5, 1974
Disbursements as of 9/30/74 P65,443.00
Capital Investment per Job: Projected: F1,396.00
As of 9/30/74  Actual   : P1,983.00
1/   The export garment manufacturer pays Bulacan Embroidery a manufacturing
fee of P0.50 to P1.00 per child's dress, depending on the style and
design and provides the pre-cut material. The project provides thread.
EAP Projects Department
February 24, 1975



ANNEX 8
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
DEPARTMENT OF INDUSTRY (DOI)
REGIGPNAL TEC1MICAL ASSISTANCE CENTER-S (RTAC'S)
Rural SMI's Access to Technical Assistance
1.        New entrants into small and medium manufacturing and established
entrepreneurs seeking to modernize and expand typically encounter bottle-
necks in their operations due to "technicalrlproblems on the production side,
in financial management, or in marketing -- or in a combination of these.
Unlike large corporations, the managements of small and medium firms generally
do not have the level and range of technical slkills necessary to diagnose and
follow-up problems as they arise.  Moreover, the time and resources necessary
to seek out the right type of assistance are not avrailable. The need to up-
grade entrepreneurial, management and technical skills and the lack of access
to adequate resources (in the form of personnel assistance, readily available
information, or capital) to bring it about is a problem shared by small in-
dustries throughout the Philippines, in urban 1/as well as rural areas.  How-
ever in rural areas where the general level of development in manufacturing,
commercial services, communications and other infrastructure facilities is
much less advanced, small and medium firms are far more isolated than their
urban counterparts.
2.        To some extent technical assistance to SMI in various stages of
project development is available, for example, through the Institute for
Small-Scale Industries (ISSI), the Development Academy of the Philippines
(DAP), and specialized research centres such as the International Rice Re-
search Institute (IRRI). Other agencies, such as the Food Terminal, Inc.
(FTI), the Bureau of Domestic Trade (BOiT), and the Design Center of the
Philippines (DCP), are also planning to assist SMI with technical services.2/
However, present programs are primarily Manila-based, and there is no central
clearing house where a small entrepreneur can go to find out what services
are available to him in various fields.
1/ International Labor Organization, Sharing in Development: aprogZramme of
employment, equity and growth for the Philippines, Geneva, 1974. See
Special Paper 9.  "Medium-Scale and Small-Scale Industryl' pp. 541-545 on
the findings of the Greater Manila Survey of S,MI which indicate the need/
lack of technical assistance where it would be expected to be of greatest
accessibility in the country.
2/ See Annex 3 for a view of the overall GOP program for promoting SMI and
Volume II, Part 2 on the role of the various agencies.



A&JNEX 8
Page 2
Objectives and Functions of the Regional Technical Assistance Centers (RTACrs)
3.        Critical to the future success of encouraging the growth of SMI,
particularly in areas outside major urban centers, are:
i) the creation of a Central Support Unit (CSU) to coordinate
information on technical services available in varicus fields;
and
ii)  the establishment of a network of extension-type services to
reach SEI in rural areas with direct technical assistance and
with information on what is available (in the region as well as
nationally) a'nd on how to go about obtaining such assistance.
DOI therefore is taking the initiative on both levels in creating a coordi-
nating unit for technical services in its Marnila office and in establishing
a network of  Regional Technical Assistance Centers (RTAC's) throughout the
country for provisicn of technical assistance services to rural SMI. One
of the functions of the OSUl/would be the collection and dissemination of
information on technical services available to SMI to the network of regional
centers. CSU would also assist the RTAC's by providing additional technical
expertise *where needed and working on formulation of additional programs to
fill in gaps in the kinds of technical assistance needed by rural SMI as
these gaps are identified in the field.
J.        The DOI project is for establishment of one RTAC in each of the
eleven regions of the country.2/ Each Center would function as a base for:
i) building up permanent staff and facilities for provision of technical
services to entrepreneurs throughout the region; and ii) establishing an
information center through which local entrepreneurs would be assisted in
locating and contracting more specialized technical expertise available
from other government agencies, commercial firms, or manufacturers in the
region or nationally. In the start-up phase and for the first years of
operations the centers would be modest operations in terms of staffing and
facilities.  As greater familiarity with the specific needs of individual
firms increases, and the industrial development priorities and plans of
the region emerge, the centers would gradually be better equipped to deter-
mine appropriate expansion of their programs and facilities.
1/   The Central Support Unit is provided for in the D0I FY75 budget appro-
priations.  See Annex 4 on the DOI organization structure and relation-
ship of the Support Unit to the Regional ITechnical Assistance Centers.
2/   The proposed IBRD financing is to cover start-up of the first seven
RTAC 's.



ANNEX 8
Page 3
5.        Each RTAC would be established with the staff capability of pro-
viding generalist-type technical assistance in three broadly defined cate-
gories into which most technical problems of SMI fall:
i)  technology:  e.g.,in choice and improvement of production
equipment, increasing utilization of capacity, standardi-
zation of products and quality control, proper maintenance
of machinery, and in efficient plant layout,work organiza-
tion etc.;
ii)  financial management:  e.g., in the installation of book-
keeping and accounting systems, costing, management of cash
flows, and planning; and
iii)  marketing:  of products and services, in market research
and analysis, forecasting and marketing techniques, and how
to go about negotiating with larger firms for subcontracts.
The centers would function as an extension service, with staff members
spending most of their time in the field working with individual firms
in diagnosing problems, providing advice and, where necessary, drawing up
work plans for making improvements. The field staff would also advise and
assist entrepreneurs in gathering information, for example, from suppliers
and buyers located in the region, and would assist, where appropriate, in
exploring new market possibilities, for example, through contracting large-
scale firms on subcontracting possibilities. Where more specialized
technical expertise (or information) than is available in the region is
required by a firm, the RTAC staff would contact the Central Support Unit
in DOI/Manila for assistance.
6.        Each center would have a conference (classroom) facility 'for staff
use in programs that are developed to work with groups of entrepreneurs --
demonstrations, lectures, short-courses, and so on.  However, the centers
initially would not have any machinery or equipment for workshops or produc-
tion demonstration. The RTAC's have been flexibly designed so that plans
for such facilities could be worked out in the future as demand for them is
determined.
Fees
7.        The RTAC's basic services would be offered on a no-fee basis to all
small and medium firms. There is a provision in the DOI  idget for the RTAC
program for hiring of consultants on a short-term basis.SE/ In cases where a
firm decides to use the services of a DOI contracted consultant or where
technical staff from the DOI Support Unit in Manila is brought to the field
to work on a specific project, the entrepreneur may be charged a fee to cover
all or part of the costs, dependinig on the size of the firm. A graduated fee
schedule for such services is being worked out by the DOI staff.
1/   See architectural drawings attached.
2/   See para 18 on provision in the DOI budget of a fund to hire specialized
expertise for short-term assignments.



ANNEX 8
Page 4
The RTAC's Relationship with Financial Institutions
8.        While technical assistance and financial assistance for SMI are
complementary services, the individual firm may not need both at the same
time. From experience in other countries, it is also organizationally
difficult (and often unnecessarily time-consuming in getting subprojects
underway) to coordinate technical assistance directly with financing. The
RTACs, therefore, would not be directly linked in the requirements of their
work program to the MP or IGLF member-banks. (The DDI Medium and Small
Industries Coordinated Action Program -- MASICAP -- which is an on-going
DOI field program in the regions works almost exclusively in helping entre-
preneurs to present projects in "bankable" form to DBP and IGLF member banks).-
The RTACs, MASICAP, and the financing institutions however would work closely
together inasmuch as, on a day-to-day basis in the field, clients would be
identified and recommended by one to the others. This relationship applies
also to the RTAC's work with other agencies.
Location
9.        The RTACs would be located in the regional admiinistrative centers,
which are also major commercial centers . The exception is the
Southern Tagalog RTAC which is to be located in Batangas rather than in
Manila. As the RTAC would provide assistance to small and medium firms through-
out a region, and would also be responsible for coordinating services and
information from other regional sources and from Manila, the administrative/
commercial centers are considered the best location for ease of communications.
In the future, as the RTAC project expands,smaller satellite offices may be
set up in other locations.
10.       Establishment of the first seven centers proposed for financing
under the IBRD loan would be carried out over a period of two years, as indi-
cated in the list of all center locations given below. (Map No. 11420 in
Volume II. of this report).
Year of
Establishment              Region                RTAC Location
1975-76           VII  Central Visayas            Cebu City
XI  Southern Mindanao         Davao City
I  Ilocos                   San Fernando/La Union
1976-77             II  Cagayan Valley            Tuguegarao
V  Bicol                    Legaspi
III  Eastern Visayas          Tacloban
X  Northern Mindanao         Cagayan de Oro
1977-78            III  Central Luzon             Pampanga
(not included       IX  Western Mindanao         Zamboanga City
in IBRD loan)      VI  Western Visayas            Iloilo City
IV  Southern Tagalog         Batangas City
1/   See Volume II, Part 2.



ANNEX 8
Page 5
Management, Structure and Staffing
11.       The RTACs would become part of the organization structure of the
Department of Industry, under the direction of the Field Operations Unit.!/
However, as DAP and ISSI have built up experience and considerable in-house
capability in planning and programming technical assistance for SMI, the
DOI plans to contract their assistance in organizing and implemeating the
RTAC project in the start-up phase. Accordingly, the DAP and UP/ISSI would
be instrumental in carrying out preoperating activities for creation of the
centers, in recruiting, training, and fielding staff to the regions, and in
providing follow-up advice in the first year of operations.
12.       The centers would all have the same basic organizational structure,
as illustrated in Chart No. 7444. Each center would be managed by a Project
Director, who would have a small technical staff providing expertise in
financial management, industrial engineering, and marketing. The technical
staff would consist of generalists, capable of applying their expertise to
a broad range of problems in their respective fields. In each area, pro-
fessional staff;would have the support of a technical assistant, with whom
they -wuld work as field teams. The Project Director would be responsible
for overall project selection, coordinating the work of the teams, and for
maintaining the channel of communications to the Manila office for information
and for more specialized assistance.
13.       At the outset, the RTAC Director and his staff would call upon local
government officials, financing institutions, the MASICAP teams, and local
trade organizations to assist them in identifying entrepreneurs who could
benefit from their services. At the same time, in travelling throughout the
region, the teams would, in effect, undertake their own survey of where
assistance is needed most as part of the ground work for drawing up a longer
term work program for the center.
14.       A varied approach would be taken to overcome the normally difficult
problem of recruiting staff with appropriate skills and versatility to work
in the field. A scheme is being prepared by DOI on the basis of recruiting
experienced people from the private sector for short-term appointments,
arranging for short-term secondments from among experienced staff in DAP,
ISSI and other agencies, and combining this staff with new recruits with
appropriate skills, but less work experience. A system of incentives for
permanent DOI staff in terms of higher emoluments for regional assignments
and better promotion opportunities is also under consideration. (An approach,
similar in many respects to the one described, has been successfully adapted
in recruiting for other programs under the direction of the Secretary of
Industry).
1/   See Volume II, Part 2, Chart No. 9359.



ANNEX 8
Page 6
Scheduling and Costs
15.       The proposed IBRD loan would partially finance the establishment
of the first seven centers. Four centers (Cebu, Davao, San Fernando, and
Tuguegaro) will be constructed and come into operation in FY75-76, foLlowed
by three more (Legaspi, Tacloban, and Cagayan de Oro) in FY76-77 (Chart
No. 9443).  Each RTAC is expected to take approximately 120 days to complete
from budget preparation to start of normal operations, as shown in Chart
No. 9445. The centers would be identical in building and facilities; staffing
patterns would also be similar, with the exception of the Cebu center which
would have a staff of 14 (8 professional and 6 supporting) instead of 10
(6 professional and 4 supporting) as in the other centers.
16.       The total budget for the RTAC project is provided in Appendix 1, and
is summarized below:
Table 1: Summary of RTAC Costs and Portion to be Financed by IBRD
Total Costs          TIRD Financing
(F 000's)     (F OOO's)       % Qf Total
Pre-operating Costs              230              115            (50%)
Operating Costs                2,881            1,492            (52%)
Capital Costs                  7,657            3,256            (42.5%)
Grand Total              10,768           4,863            (45.2%)
(Us$ equivalents):             (US$1.5 million) (US$0.7 million)
The proposed IBRD loan would cover about 50% of the pre-operating and operating
costs and 42.5% of capital costs (that portion excluding land and site
clearance). IBRD financing would cover 45.2% of total costs for the RTAC
project for the first two years. The remainder would be financed by the GOP.
RTACs would, thereafter, be supported on a continuing basis out of the DOI
current budget.
17.       Pre-operating costs directly related to each center cover:  (i) salary
and benefits for the professional staff (Project Director, Specialists,
Assistants, and Administrative Officer) for a two month period, including one
month orientation and training in Manila and one month in the field for pre-
paratory work; (ii) transportation expenses to and from the field for the staff
of the centers and the Project Supervision Unit; and (iii) a contingency
allowance of lT% of total pre-operating costs for FY1975-76 and 25% of total
for FY1976-77.1/ The training costs for the one month formal program to be
1/ These percentages are applied for contingency allowances in each budget
category.



ANNEX 8
Page 7
conducted in Manila and the cost of the Project Supervision Unit (DAP/
UP-ISSI) are attributed directly to the Department of Industry budget for
the RTAC project for the two year period.
18.       Operating Costs include the salary and expenses of each center, pro-
rated for the period of normal operations during the first year. (The first
four centers will be fully operational during the second year, FY76-77).  The
costs of consulting assistance, which will be used by the centers as required,
is part of the DOI Head Office operations budget. IBRD funds will finance 50%
of all operating costs excluding salaries and associated personnel costs, but
will cover 100% of the costs of consulting assistance.
19.     The Capital Budget includes the appraised value of land, to be
donated (or leased) by local government. The costs of the Marcos-type
fabricated buildings and construction are taken from the schedule of
standardized costs for the models. The designs for the Marcos-type
buildings are shown in Appendix 2. Each center will be provided with the
standard office equipment and with two vehicles. Local competitive bidding
would be required for the office equipment and vehicles to be procured for
the RTACs.   There is sufficient domestic and international manufacturer
representation in the Philippines for these items. Individual contracts
for these items, considering the phasing of each center, would be too small
to warrant ICB. There is only one domestic source of supply for the
standard prefabricated buildings required for the RTACs, and the nearest
substitutes are over 30% higher in cost. Hence bidding would not be
required for this item.
Expected Future Development and Impact of the RTACs
20.     The proposed RTACs would form the core of a broad network of tech-
nical assistance extension services to be provided to small and medium
industries throughout the country. A recommendation has been made to the
mDI to design and ensure the installation of an evaluation system within
each of the centers so as to have some measure of cost/effectiveness of its
programs and to gather information systematically on the practical needs
of SMI that could be met by additional RTAC services. A network of RTAC
branches within the relatively large regions may be necessary, and additional
facilities such as workshops and demonstration centers may be useful in areas
of high concentration of similar kinds of manufacturing activities. In
taking a sound, pragmatic approach, however, the DOI is determined to
establish sufficient demand (or good potential) for additional technical
assistance before further investments are made.
21.     The technical assistance program, as it progresses, will have the
impact of seeing small and medium entrepreneurs becoming established in
rural areas, using their resources more efficiently, and expanding. Thus,
both investment and employment opportunities in manufacturing and related
services in less developed areas will increase. Moreover, as small and
medium industries tend to be more labor intensive than large-scale manu-
facturing, and as wages (and labor productivity) in manufacturing on the
average tend to be higher than among agricultural workers in the Philippines,
a more favorable pattern of income distribution will be encouraged.
EAP Projects Department
February 24, 1975



PHILIPPINES
REGIONAI TECMNICAL ASSIST4NCE CENTERS (RTAC'S)
B,Idpet for FY 1975-76 and FY 1976-77
(Cebu)                  (D avo)           (San Ferens5do)         (Toguegaran)             (Legaspi)             (Taclobnan)               (C. de Oro)          Of indtr              'Iotal Cotst
1975-76   1976-77      1975-76   1976-77      1975-76   1976-77      1975-76   1976-77       1975176   1976-77      1975-76   1976-77       1975-76   1976-77      1975-76   1976-77    1975-66   1976-77
PRE-OPERATING COSTS
Salary and Personnel Casts                     20,500       --        15,600        _         15,600        ,        15,600       --           --      15,600         --       15,600                 15,600         --                   67,300    46,800
Tranfportstion  E.pe-n-e                       15,500       --         12,000      --         12,000       --        12,000       --           --      12,000         --       12,000                 12,000          --        --        51,500    36,000
TraiNing CAsts                                   --                                                               -                --                -                                                 _--         61,000    25,500       61,000    25,500
Projent Stpervinion Onit                         --                      --                     --                                                                     -         - ---                  --         12,000    12,000       12,000    12,000
C-nning-nny Allnanno                            5,400       --      *_                         4,20_ 0                            -- 2                                 - _      6, 900                 6900           --     -_           18,000    20.700
Total.:  Pre-Operating Coos       t       41,400         _       31_00                 31,800        --                      .3,500             _3 --                                           34,500        7 34,000 --  34,500         0       _05 10 500
OPERATING COSTS
Salary -nd Associated Pers0nnel Casto          98,600   147,900       55,200   110,200        27,700   110,200       16,750   110,200          --      91,900                  73,600          _      55,200          -         --       198,250   699,200
Office Snpplins                                 11,000    16,000        7,000    14,000        3,500    14,000        1,200    14,000                  11,700         --        9,400         --       7,090         --         --        22,700    86,100
Facilities, Saricen and Maintenonnc            11,000    16,000         7,500    15,000        3,800    15,000        1,250    15,000                  12,500         --       10,000         __       7,500          -                   23,550    91,000
Utilities                                      26,000    40.000        20,000    40,000       10,000    40,000        3,400    40,000          --      33,300         --       26,800         --      20,000         --         --        60,200   240,100
Travel sod Field Inpeanp s                     12,000    18,000        10,000    20,000        2,750   - 11,000       1,100    15,000           _       6,700         --       10,000         --        7,500                    .        25,850    86,200
Cos-llting Assi.taon.                            --         -            --        -_            -          ,           _                                                                                         400,000   600,000    4000000   600,000
Contingenry Allos.n.e.                         23,900   5,0            15,000    49.800   7. 200   47,600             3,600    48.100          --      39.000                _ 32500                  24,300                              49,700  _298,300
Tntal:  Operating Cna"                   183,300   294.900      114,700   249000         54,950   237800        27,300  2         400            195,100         _      162,300        --       121,500      400.  600,000            0_2o 2,100,900
CAPITAL COSTS
Land sod Site Cl .aranne Co-to                800,000       --       800,000       --        400,000        _       400,000       --           --     800,000         --     400,000          --     800,000         --         _      2,400,000 2,000,000
Pre-abnriated Bsild-,go (Maros. Type)         250,000       --       250,000       -         250,000       --       250,000       --           --     250,00                  50,000         --      250,000         --                 ,000,Q _o0  750,000
Fabrication, Instsllntion snd Outfitting       5            --           0         --         50,000 ...                          --           -       50,000         --       50.000        _         00            --         -_0      200.000   150,000
Bnilding  & FPabricati-n Sub-Tntal       300,000       --       300,000       --        300,000      --        300,000       --          --      300,000         --     300,000         --      300,000         --          -     1,200,000   900,000
Offine Eqnip-eet                                30,000      --         30,000      --         30,000       --        30,000       --           --      30,000         --       30,000         --      30,000         --         --       120,000    90,000
Vehioln                                        60,000       --         60,000                  -- 60,000                          -- 60,000            60,000                 _60000                  60,000         --         --       240,000   180,080
Ctioge.ry Alln.tanne.                         58_50         --          8,500       -         58,500       5-_500                 9-_500                              --                  97,500 --                 9    _ _             2349500     9
Total:  Capitol Cnsts                  1,248.500       --     1.248,_00       - _        48,500       --       548,50        --          _     127.00            -      887,500               1,287,500         --                              46 194000 2
Glned Total:  (A.nnal)                 1,473,200   294,900   1,395,000   249,000        935,250   237,800      907,600   240,300         --   1,517,100          --   1,084,300         --   1,443,500       473,000   637,500  5,181,05,0 1666,900
(1975-77)                       1,768,10                1.644,000              1,173,050              1,147,900            1.517,100               I.DB4.300               1,443 500              1,110,500              10,767,950
I8RD FINANCED COSTS
Pre-Opersting Costs (50%)                      20,700       --         15,900      --         15,900       --        15,900       --           --      17,250         --       17,250         --      17,250       36,500    18,750       63,400    51,750
Operating Costs      (50T.-1                    42,350    73,200       29,750    69,400       13,630    63,800        5,280    65,050                  51,600          -       44,350                 33.150      400,000   600,000    491,010 1,000 850
Snb-Total                                 63,050    73,500       45,650    69,400        29,530    63,800       21,180    65,050          _       68,850          _       61,600                 5 50,400    436,500   618,750    554,410 1,052,600
Capital Canto                                 448,500       --       448500        --        448,500   _ -          448, 500      --                  487,50                 487,500                 487,500         --         -      _ 1.794,000 1,462,500
Total (Annual):                          511,350    73.500      494,150    69,400       478,030    63,800      469,680    65,050                 556,350                549.100                 537,900      436,500   618,7.0 2,              515,100
Total (1975-77):                                  585,050                563,550                541,830                 534,730              556,350                549,100                 537,900               1,055,250                 63,51
IbRO FinanCing -s 7 of Total Coats:                     33.1%                  34.37                  46.27.                  46,67                36.77                   50 .67%                37.37.                  95,.07                 45.,27.
1/   IbD funds will finoa.e 507. of all operating nests, excludin2 salary aod s-soioated personnel roots which will bI
funly covered by the DOI budget.  IEED will h--ever never 1007. of the rast   f c..onsulting assistance.
EAP Projects DIprtment 
Denember 16, 1974



II
=                     4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
F O R   R ,  a lo q A  s    y-                  S K z A                                    ,,
T~~~rcHN1CAL    PRE                   -  --I
ASSISTA8RC A 'r     IDUILDj;N
'~A   Cc~  7C" BULN
0i



/
3000~~~~~~~~~~~~~
MORTAR             STANDARD  FONDATION PLAN os EXAMPLE                   L       MRA
F. L  ro                        ~ ~~~SCALE0     2 34 5  6m-
08                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AN HOR BOLT 2 -Y%400
0                                              5F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G L
125   125      875                  . 
T~~~~~~~~~~~~m r                                                  a 1 0.2
SCALE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
A1 B   SECTIN                                       1 2 0.3 . 5 06m_'a
|(g(X)  ECTION,i lo



(                                    .                        PHILIPPINES
SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRY PROJECT
PHASING OF CONSTRUCTION FOR REGIONAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CENTERS
uly              Oct. '75
Cebu
Sep.              Dec. '75
Davao
Dec.              Mar. '76
San Fernando
Feb.              May '76
l  uugarao
May               Aug. '76
Legaspi
Jul.              Oct. '76
Tacloban
Oct.               Jan. '77
Cagayan de Oro
I    I   I    I    I        1    1    1   1    1    1    1   1    1    1    I        I    I    I
Jul. Aug. Sep. Oct. Nov. Dec. Jan. Feb. Mar. Apr. May Jun. Jul. Aug. Sep. Oct. Nov. Dec. Jan. Feb. Mar.
<   1975         -                       1976                         1    1977-
World Bank-9443



5tb6-luce9 PPDM
|-                               I ----- |   -|---       I- -------I -----  [----                 |-   I            -4 -- *------                ---- -         -     -       ----   ----l------ ----------- NOllVH3dO   IVVJWON   10 lUVlS                               81
-------   ----------  -------  -------  ------------------ ----------------  ----------  ---    -                                                                                       ---------  S31NOVW3U30D9NIN3dO                              Lt
_                               ]                                                                J                                        }                   s--- -I---DVlU  l 30iSNV813idVlS    9
_                                                                                                                  J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                        NOllV80D3BO 8013IrnNI*5
_ ----- ---------- ------------------- ----- ---S----lI--------I--------------D------3-d--------0-- -------  -------N-IAV1 .d d3I                                                                           OVIl9
------ ----- ------ -----:---------------I------------------                                                                                                         ----------  lfO,W1   3I330  iO  NO              IV8Vd3Ud           E1
_   _         _ | E                                                                                                                                       -------- S3NI1 - NOHd313A JO NOIUISIOO3V    'El
-                                                                                                                                     ------------------- 9NIOIflns JO NOlDnfliSNOD    11,
_    _    _   .  _    _    _  .   .                 lIN3NdO13A3O 311S q ONV] 3O 9NI8V31D    01
_----6 _                                                                         - _  _  _  _-------------------- JVISOV1S  JO 9NINIVUI                                               6
_        -                                                                            - _  -   _                         -                                    ---- -- ----- ---------    S8VD  0Ml dO  3SVH3fnd                        8
El                              El _E_ _.-- - -------------- 13NNOSd3d -O I NVIlnd38    .L
------ - --- -----------  ----- ------- ---- ------ ----- -                       ----------- ----- ------  ------- S3]IlIIDVdl 3DI330  JO                     O lnO     9NIAV-1 S9
--------- ----:::-:|:-::::....: ::-t::::                         -----::t- ---|-- ----|-: ------------: ---::              -- -::::    -----:: I:::::-i:::::         s     ddns AOfS oON 3          OW            6
-    -   El  El  -   m    m   -    m   -   -    -~~~~~~~-----------ONV-l  dO NOiiisinoov
----     ---------------           lE8n  dO  3SV3-13                 'Z
--------    ---~NOIILVHVd3Hd  13E0fne                             [L
OE L    9ZL    WA 01   511       O I I   950 1   001      96      06      58       0       9L              99      09      99      09      9S'             SC E             9       O_   9          O                                        S3111 A AlV                               N
(S A V O) N O  I &VSn a
U31LN3S HSV3 d0
IN3WHS119VIS3 U0o3 311a3HHS
L30rOud AlSnaGNl wnlaJ aNV I1VWS
-                               S3NIddIlHd



PHILIPPINES
DEPARTMENT OF INDUSTRY
ORGANIZATION CHART FOR REGIONAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CENTERS
Head Office
Field Operations Unit
Regional Technical Assistance Center
Project Director
Technological                          Financial                          Marketing                      Administrative Services
Assistance Unit                     Assistance Unit                      Assistance Unit                           Unit
1 Industrial Engineer              1 Financial Specialist              1 Marketing Specialist              1 Administrative Officer
1 Technical Assistant              1 Technical Assistant               1 Technical Assistant               2 Clerks
2 Drivers
2 Utility Men
Note: The basic structure applies for all RTAC's. The total staff in the larger Centers, for example, Cebu will be 8 professional staff and 6
supporting staff. In the smaller Centers, the Marketing and Financial Assistance Units will be a combined function.
The professional staff will total 6 with a supporting staff of 4.
World Bank-9444



tjg                       tSR.'~~~~~~24IP                                                         t24,                                 S
ILOCOS             VII~Yl CENTRAL VISAYAS                                  1          7
TIalcos Nortm           42 (Coob                                                                                                                 PHILIPPINES
2 Abro                    43 Bohol 
4 Mountai Srvn.,          dNgo Oina                                                                                      DOI MASICAP ASSISTANCE UNITS
5Lto Union               VI'I EASTERN  VISAYAS
68  Rngre                     '  North'-r S...r,                          e  o
11 CAG'AYAN'   AL5          At  Wesleeri Sam-a                                                                                           A      DOI-MASICAP Asrto-ce Units
__  47 Eastern  Savior                           T-ho   -r-eCne
Boto-es                4I LyteRegiona  ehnclAsitne  etr
3, Kel,iege Apoy.o        49 Southern Leyte                                                                                                   Geographical Regions
S Cogotion                                                                       ,t                                                    D.'vn  Eve.oval Centers
c Iscobelo              'X WESTERN  MINDANAO                                                 'I
11   Lo0                  i   oeong   e   ot                                                                                                 Geographica  Regiona  Boundaries
12 Nueno V,ooyc            5  Z-mb.orgo del Sn. *tige                                                                                         Dstiwt Bo,,d,id.es
U) CENTPAL LUZONiSn                                                            "
- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~sn                            I
P-ng--in              X NOSTIIERNI MII'DANAO              Femrn,ndo    L             A
T4arlc E6                5           delg.   c-1Norfe                A0~ ~50                                                                       100      tSO     200     S50
14 Zoinbolns       ~5't Agunon del N-nte                          IO          Boynrb_g                                                          iKoMucS
1, Z-1h.1-          5 4 surigeo del heru,I                                                                                    0            50           too           150
16    Saon56 Ag-sn, del Sum                                                        -v-            7ntE
8 Prpoo'7Criri                                                        A                                                                                MILE l/
' Bulocon          24~5  Mio-n s Oent                    Dogupo.n        )     t
.Oc A       6 r Lnano delo Su,                                     A       A
2 Quezon                   i  -mr   del Norte                     ( 
,R-ot                        Mi--ni  Orideet.l                   ""
22 Manila                                                             Nu-5enY
1  couite              XI SOUI/-ITNI MTINDANZAO                      K Frr-do ~       I
24 B.ta,,g____                                               K     ,                                                                                               N
.4 Batarigas      ~63 Do-n   rerl~                                        Moines)
SLagtno                   So4 Dou-  del Norte                                A0L
6Muminduqee              6s Cotoboto                                                    '
2)7 Mindoro Oerietul       tnd Duao del 5-                                   22
-1 Mind-r  Occidertol    67 Suurh Cotebano.
29 Roreblon                                                                                                             Do, KSa
33 P.J.-                                                           ".~~~~  Pblo                 AO               ~C
31 Cur-oi-s Norte                                      '1ONg I                                                                              A                          CL)
.52 Conaine-s Sum,                                                                                                         g                  'o
r, Cotonduones                                                                       -                                     rieoA 
24_ Alb.,                                                                                                                       gep
I3sSornogon                                                                                                              \         A1
36 Manbote                                                                                                                         -I,A0
VlIVWESTERN VISAYAS                                                                                                                       Sor`gor
37 Aklan
38 Copiz 
39  Antique                                                                 Sen Jos QAl                   2
40 lioila
I 4C  N egros Occidenata                      <-S.
AO A~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
A   A '
a'  '    Is'  no.'r.'nc.'ru,,.' un  Inn  ss  .0    or                                        .'~       A  iri         > Y  M l y  a a
/                                                        I'5~~~~~~~~~O  
B.W'n
P1,   A     C-'i,I                                                                                                                                  ee
Ae~~~~~~~
0 C CI"'                                                                                                                                       (   [" os
C H rAA          LUZONA~i                                                                                                                                A
PHILIPPINES                                              52                                                                      Gev Sentc,s
SOUTH                    7ISA                  aAO
VIETNAM                     SAA,
SAU)UC L  5                                                                                                                  E
BRUNEIj    *- _-'
MA[ 5     DONESIA         ''to'trtetO



ANNEX 9
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
*nall and Medium Industry Development Project.1
Costs, Risks and Spreads in Lending to SMI
1.        Commercial lending institutions have generally tended to avoid
lending to small and medium sized industrial firms because they: (i) are
usually undercollateralized; (ii) are administratively more expensive to
service; and (iii) considered to be a much higher lending risk than larger
clients.  For institutions to lend viably to SMI clients, the interest-rate
margin -(spread) between their cost of funds and lending rates needs to be
higher than for lending to "blue-chip" or established large industrial clients.
Since under the proposed project a scheme was being recommended for Bank
financing which would involve the participation of private financial interme-
diaries of various-types, a brief analysis was undertaken on the size of
spread necessary to provide such institutions with sufficient incentive to
participate extensively in SMI financing.
2.        The Bank in its lending operations with conventional DFCs and
agricultural credit intermediaries 1/ appears to have accepted a spread of
around 3.5% as the unwritten maximum. 2/ While, on occasion, this figure
has been exceeded even for DFC type lending, 2/ special justification is
usually required whenever this spread is exceeded for any type of lending.
This figure of 3.5% has not been based on any in-depth analysis into cost or
risk structures but seems to have acquired legitimacy over time and through
experience.  On the basis of internationt, data comparisons (Table 1) on spreads
for various small loan financing schemes=W and certainly on the basis of the data
available on the Philippines (Table 2) it would appear that a norm of 5-7%, as a
spread for institutions undertaking small industry lending is more appropriate.
1/ In view of the very wide differences between types of agricultural credit
institutions and the variety of ways in which administrative costs and
risks associated with lending operations are covered by governments, it is
very difficult to make any meaningful general statements about the "spreads"
of -these institutions. The Bank policy paper on agricultural credit
indicates that administrative costs for such institutions range from 3-8%
o- azerage outstanding assets depending on the average size and maturity
of  the loan. Total costs of providing such credit excluding supervision
and ancillary services range between 15-20% of average outstanding assets
at any given time.
A :ecerxt policy paper on "World Bank Assistance to Public DFCs" specifi-
cal>y concedes that "operations focussed on small-scale enterprises may
require higher spreads than those traditionally encountered in DFC
lending". The Bank's recent report on "Financing the Development of
Small Scale Industries" echoes this view noting that "available experience
is too scanty to provide a basis for sound generalization as to the
requ-Ired spread but a few examples suggest a plausible range of 4-6
percentage points."
3/  Sri Lanka, Israel, Turkey, Ecuador to mention a few cases.  DBP presently
has a spread of 4% on the recent DFC loan made to it.
/ Data in this area are spotty. The specific features of some of these
financing schemes as to whether institutions cover full cost or risk
are not very well known.



ANNEX 9
Page 2
3.        In attempting to determine the minimy2 spread for financial
institutions that would participate under IGLF-   the appraisal mission
took the following considerations into account:
(i) The administrative costs of lending to SMI: These were
found to be generally much higher than for conventional
DFC lending or for lending to large industries. From the
data available (Table 2) v/ on DBP's Head Office operations,
the administrative costs/average assets ratio was computed
to be 2.35% (about 4 times higher than the 0.60% for its
large loan operations). This is probably a minimum estimate
for the following reasons. First, Branch operations have
not been included (the available cost data were not amenable
to meaningful breakdowns). Inclusion of Branch cost data
would increase the ratio because Branches deal with SMI
clients far less sophisticated in dealing with institutions
than their Manila counterparts, and more widely dispersed.
Secondly, DBP, at present, does virtually no regular follow-
up on its SRI loans. If, as has been recommended, greater
attention is paid to follow-up, administrative costs are
likely to go up further still. With DBP's recent increases
(of about 50%) in its staff for SMI operations the adminis-
trative costs/average assets ratio is expected to rise
between 3% and 3.5% in future years. This is not out of
line with experienceelsewhere. )/
1/  These would include various types of financial institutions viz. the
larger rural and private development banks; commercial banks; non-bank
financial institutions such as DFCs, investment companies, and thrift
institutions.
2/ Good data on administrative costs for institutional lending to SKI in
the Philippines are difficult to come by. DBP is the only institution
which has provided term finance to SIC for ahy length of time and
provides the only reasonably good base for judgement. PDCP (the Private
Development Corporation of the Philippines) launched an SMI program in
1972 as have a handful of commercial banks (but only for short-term
finance). There are no cost data on banks which previously financed
SMI under the IGLF program.
A recent Bank reconnaissance mission to the Mediun Industry Bank (MIB)
in Korea has found that for NIB, this ratio has averaged 4.86% over
the last 5 years. IfIB deals with virtually the same type of clients
as envisaged under the proposed loan. For the CFP in Colombia, also
a recipient of Bank funds for S14I lending, this ratio is 6.2%. The
very few detailed studies that have been done on administrative costs
for SIa lending suggest that they vary from 3% to as high as 19% (in
one case) of average principal outstanding.



ANNEX 9
Page 3
(ii) A much higher default rate than for typical DFC Lendin:
As Table 2 indicates, the default rate on DBP's SMI loans
is over 60% of outstanding principal on such loans, while
76% of the principal is affected by arrears. Comparable
rates for its large loans are 15.3% and 54% whilst those
for PDCP are 2.8% and 12.9%. Although the very high default
rates to some extent reflect DBP's inadequate follow-up,
the fact remains that even with improved supervision the
risk on SMI loans 1 /will be at least 2-3 times as high as
for large loans, due to the vulnerability of small enter-
prises to rapid changes in economic conditions and their
generally higher failure rates. In the Philippines, and
particularly with the DBP, the risk of actual loss of
principal is fairly low since SMI loans are heavily collat-
eralized. But the income foregone from delayed payments of
interest and amortization of principal, along with the high
administrative/legal cost of foreclosure and recovery,
necessitate a higher margin allowance for the risk factor
in S14I lending. Whilst specific data on "losses" due to
income foregone are nearly impossible to extract and break-
out for DBP, 2/ a rough estimate of such losses for DBP
would be anywhere between 3-6% of the outstanding SMg
portfolio in FY74.
(iii) Contribution to profit: IGLF is primarily aimed at mobilizing
the efforts and resources of private sector institutions in
extending assistance to SMI. Consequently an adequate margin
of profit must be perceived by these institutions in under-
taking such lending. In this respect DBP as a wholly-owned
Government institution does not provide any grounds for
comparison. On the other hand PDCP, as a private corporation,
provides some basis for guidance in determining what an adequate
contribMtion might be. In FY73 PDCP's gross profit/average
assets3 ratio was 3.92%. Excluding the allowance for risk
coverage it was 3.5%. Since in the private financial sector in
the Philippines PDCP's profit margins are regarded as "modest",
this figure should be viewed as conservative.
/ Available international data on SMI default rates show that they vary
between 15% and 70% of the outstanding portfolio, with a large cluster
around 70%. Low default rates are usually achieved when loan programs
have been restricted to well established and creditworthy small clients
or when loan supervision has been unusually close.
D/ DBP does not make any specific provision for doubtful accounts on a sub-
portfolio basis.  Its charge against total income for "contingencies"
(which includes reserves for doubtful accounts) in FY74 (on all accounts)
amounted to 2.2% of total income and 0.45% of outstanding loan portfolio.
PDCP's provisions for 1973, amounted to 3.7g of total income and 0.90% of
average outstanding loan portfolio.
31 Gross profit has been used since it subsumes such factors as risk coverage,
contribution to reserves, taxes, dividends, etc.



ANMiX 2
Page 4
4.        On the basis of these considerations the mission is of the view
that a 5% spread with guarantee cover reduced to 60% is not excessive
for the intermediary institutions which will utilize IGLF. In fact, on
the basis of the figures provided above, 5% may be barely sufficient to
convince such intermediaries of the need to incur the incremental expense
of developing and maintaining sufficient and qualified staff to service
this sector with minlmum desired levels of proficiency. Furthermore,
account has to be taken of the fact that with a reduction of the spread
to 5% and of the guarantee to 60%, sponsoring banks are at the same time
being asked to assume a heavier administrative cost and risk burden.
EAP Projects Department
February 24, 1975



ANNEX 9
Appendix 1
International Comparisons of Institutional Spreads
for Lending to Small Industries
Source     Cost of Funds   Lending Rate
E   Countrv/Prosram                       of Funds  to Intermediar  to Sub-Borrowers              Guarantee
AFRICA
Ivory Coast
Guaranty Fund                       Govt.            3-5                8.0          4.5    80% Govt.
Kenya
Kisumu SSI Program
"Revolving Fund"                   Govt.           -0-                10.0         10.0       -
Nigeria
amall Industry redit Schemes       Govt.           -0-                 8.0          8.o       -
Uganda
Uganda Commercial Bank/3I
Development Fund                  Govt.           -0-                 8.0          8.0
LATIN AERICA & CARIBBEAN
Bolivia                                IDB              3.25               12.0         8.75       -
Brazil
BDB             4.5                 9.0          4.5       -
ENDE                                IDB             3.25                 8.0         4.75      -
BCB                                 IDB             2.25                 7.0         4.75      -
Colombia
CFP                                 IBRD           18.5                 24.0         5.5       -
FPNDES 1/                           GRANTS          -0-                 14.0        14.0        -
IEI                                 IDB             7.75                20.0        12.25 2    -
!IPI                                IDB             3.25                18.0,       14.75 2/   -
F1                                  CIDAi/                                           6.0
El Salvador
BGR                                 IDB             5.75                12.0         6.25 2/   -
Ecuador                                IDB              3.25               10.0         6.75 2/   -
Honduras
Productivity Guarantee Fund         OPIC 1/ 4.0                         12.0         8.0
-Mexico
Nacional Financiera                 IDB              4.0                 9.0         5.0 g/    -
Paraguay
BNF                                 IDB              3.25                9.0         5.75      -
Peru
BIP                                 IDB             5.75                10.0         4.25      -
Uru ua
mRU                                 IDB              3.25               12.0         8.75      -
Venezuela                              IDB              4.0                 8.5         4.5        -
General LA                             USAIDi/                                          3-5%
MIDDLE EAST
Iran
CSSI/Bank Melli                     Govt.            5.0                8.0          3.0      75% Govt.
Yemen/YBRD                             IDA             7.0                10.0          3.0    75% Govt..
ASIA
Banvladesh
BSIC/Csmmercial Banks               IDA              5.0                8.5          3.5
Dept. of Cottage & SI               Govt.           -0-                 6.5          6.5
Taiwan
Small Business Division             Govt.           -0-                10.0          2.5 6/ 50% Govt.
Thailand
Ydn of Industry
Loan Office/KTB                     Govt.            3.0                9.0          6.o
Notes:  In all cases where a financial intermediary  is involved, technical assistanceg and
extensive assistance on project preparation services are provided by separate
government agencies which do not charge the bank or sub-borrowers any fees.
A Pan American Development Foundation Program which is funded by a variety of private, government, PADF,
USAID grants plus low cost funds.
2/ Foreign Ibchange Risk borne by intermediary.
3/  Canadian CIDA considering loan to the FFI (discount fund) with a spread to commercial banks and other
users of 6%.'
The Overseas Private Investment Corporation (OPIC) is piloting -everal funds for SSI in Central America.
Their estimate is that a spread of 5-8% is necessary for suchprogram5  to work.
USAID reports spread for discount funds created by them isa-5% with maximum for smallest loans.
J This is a commission paid to banks.
EAP Projects Department
December 4, 1974



AMNEX 9
rpp-en-f  2
Comparative Analysis of Administrative Costs and Default Rates
For Long-Term Lending to Small vs Large Industries in the Philippines - FY73-74
(P ooo's)
DBPF/                                     PDCPF'
Total
"SMI" Loans   Large Loans   Industrial Loans   Total Operations
Average Total Assets                             190,360_/   1,155,8203/       1,346,1803/           4,890,2904-        580,0354/
Loan Amoounts Approved in FY73-74                 36,920         58,000           94,920               371,485           110,500
Guarantee & Equity Investment Approvals             --        2,741,080        2,741,080             2,831,180            33,800
Administrative Costs
Direct Salary Expenses for Operating Staff    976.4           1,464.6          2,441.0               6,835.3          3,483.0
Indirect Salary Expenses for Support Staff  1,704.1           2,665.3          4,369.4              12,692.6              N.A.
Apportionment of Administrative Overhead    1,793.4           2,690.0          4,483.4              17,934.6          2,176.4
Total Administrative Costs                4,473.9        6,819.9         11,293.8              37,462.5          5,659.4
Default Rates
Principal and Interest in Arrears                114,770        176,500          291,270                 N.A.             16,148
Principal Infected by Arrears                    144,610        624,980          796,590                 N.A.             74,858
Ratios
Administrative Costs/Average Assets                2.35%          o.6o%             0.84%                0.77%             0.98%
Defaults/Outstanding Loans                        60.30%         15.30%           21.60%                 N.A.              2.80%
Principal Infected/Outstanding Loans              76.00%         54.00%            59.20%                N. A.            12.90%
Administrative Cost per P1,000 lent,
guaranteed or invested in FY73-74             P121.20          F2.50_/          F4.005/              F11.7o5/           39.206/
Gross Profit/Average Assets                                                                               1.97%7/          3.92%7/
1/   Applies to Head Office operations only; Branch operations data do not permit a breakdown to be made.
Data are for the financial year beginning July 1, 1973-June 30, 1974.
2/   Data for financial year January 1-December 31, 1973.  Administrative expense figures have been adjusted
to reflect better comparability with EBP data.
3/   Long-term loans only.
4/ Includes equity investments and current assets. Long-term loans account for about 65% of total assets
for DMP and about 55% for PDCP.
5/ These figures are extraordinarily low because of the inclusion of several very large guarantees in BP"s
large industrial operations. Lending constitutes a very small part of such operations. Hence these
figures are not directly comparable to the cost per F1,000 lent to SMI. With the data at hand, it is
not possible to separate out administrative costs associated only with large-scale lending operations.
6/ This figure is more nearly comparable with the cost of lending to SMI. It does however include the
administrative cost of money market and other investment operations. Using some rough ratios for
adjustment to reflect only the cost of making and servicing long term loans, the figure comes to about
P29 for every F1,000 lent in FY73.
7/   The "gross profit" ratio has been used because it subsumes such factors as risk coverage, contribution to
reserves, provisions for taxes, and dividends.
EAP Projects De artment
December 4, 1974



ANIEX 10
PHILIPPINES
Small and Medium Industry Project
Analysis of Project Costs Eligible for
Bank Financing
1.       To assess project costs eligible for Bank financing, the Mission
carried out a review of a sample of operations financed by DBP during
1973-74. The costs of a typical DBP project involving fixed asset financ-
ing, on the average, are distributed as follows:
As % of Total
Project Item                  Project Cost
Equipment & Machinery               55.0
Working Capital                     20.0
Construction                        25.0
Total                         100.0
2.      Based on an analysis of the items financed in DBP operations,
their direct and indirect, foreign exchange component has been estimated
to average 64.0% of total project costs as follows:
Item Cost as    Direct and Indirect        Foreign Exchange
% of Total    Foreign Exchange Cost          Cost as % of
Project Item         Project Cost      as % of Item Cost        Total Project Cost
Equipment and
Machinery              55.0                83.0                     46.0
Working Capital          20.0                 18.0                     4.0
Construction             25.0                 55.0                    14.0
64.o
EAP Projects Department
February 24, 1975



ANNEX 11
PHILIPPINES
Small and Medium Industry Project
Disbursement Schedule
(US$ Millions)
Disbursements by Quarter          Total Disbursements
DBP     IGLF     NEA    RTACS       By Quarter    Cumulative
1975
July - September
October - December             --       --      --                 --             --
1976
January - March          0.40     0.25    0.10       --           0.75           0.75
April - June             0.60      0.35    0.10     0.10           1.15          1.90
July - September         1.00      .4o0  -0.20       --           1.60           3.50
October - December       1.20     0.50    0.20      0.10          2.00           5.50
1977
January - March          1.50     0.90    0.20      0.10          2.70           8.20
April - June             1.90     1.20    0.20      0.10          3.40          11.60
July - September         2.00     1.60    0.20      0.10          3.90          15.50
October - December       2.20      2.00    0.25     0.10          4.55          20.05
1978
January - March          2.20     2.10    0.25      0.10          4.65          24.70
April - June             2.00     2.10    0.20       --           4.30          29.00
July - September          --      0.60    0.15       --           0.75          29.75
October - December        --        --     0.10      --           0.10          29.85
1979
January - March           --        --     0.15      __           0.15          30.00
April - June              --        --      --       --
EAP Projects Department
February 24, 1975



ANNEX 12
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
SMAIL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRY PROJECT
ESTIMATED ECONOMIC AND FINAYICIAL BENEFITS
Dm, act
1.     An estimated total of 916  sub-projects will be financed by the
DBP and IGLF under the proposed loan together with 24 industrial cooper-
atives under the NEA program. The direct impact of World Bank funds on
total investment in SMI, and on employment and annual output when the
sub-projects are in full operation is as follows:
Impact on SMI Performance
(In 1975 prices, FOOO's)
ADDITI O'NAL:
Capital Investment                       306,o64
Employment Generated: DBP & IGLF           6,503 )12,303
NEA              5,800 )
Annual Gross Output                      476,492
Annual Gross Value Added                 151,017
Annual Returns to Labor                   47,514
Using 1971 as a base year (the last year for which reliable data are
available), the project would mean an increase in total investment of
8%, and the new jobs created would mean an increase in employment in
SMI of 13.0%. Gross output and value added would increase approximately
5% over the 1971 levels, while returns to labor would increase 7%. On
the basis of rough estimates of growth between 1971-74, it is expected
that from 1975 onwards the proposed project would, over the disbursement
period, increase previously modest SMI annual employment growth rates
from 0.5% to 3.0%; output growth from 4% to 7.0% in real terms; and
wage bill growth from 0.1% to 3.0% in real.terms.  After disbursement when
these sub-projects are in full production, output growth is expectea to
increase to 7.5% annually and wage bill growth to 4.5% annually.
Rate of Return
2.        The estimated aggregate internal (financial) rate of return of the
DBP/IGLF subprojects, as a group, is 38.2%. (See Appendix 1). For the 24
industrial co-operatives the aggregate rate of return is estimated to be
31.9%. While individual rates of return cannot be calculated under such a
project, the method used to estimate aggregate costs/benefits, based on past
performance of SMI, would suggest the order of magnitude that can be expected.
This result for SMI is not out of line with the Ranis estimates of 1971 average
rates of return of 23% per annum in large manufacturnng.l/
1/   ILO.  Sharing in Development:  a programme of employment, equity and
.growth for the Philippines. Geneva: 1974. page 570.



ANNEX 12
Page 2
Assumtions
3.        To calculate estimated employment, output and labor return
effects (Appendix 3) simplifying assumptions were made to adjust for an-
ticipated increases in greater use of capital in subprojects and in
increased productivity of capital employed. A corresponding decrease
in the percentage of wages in value added is accounted for. However,
while labor content declines relatively, the new employment generated
would presumably be more productive given additional capital at its
disposal. In order to better use historical output/capital ratios
for estimating returns on new investment, the data available in book
values of fixed assets were adjusted to replacement values including
average levels of inventories (provided for under the proposed project
for financing permanent working capital).
4.     The effects of inflation are taken into consideration on the employ-
ment side, by adjusting the amount of capital required per worker in 1975.
On the output side, however, the evidence available indicates it is reason-
able to assume that a steady increase in costs of production may be more
than offset by the increases in the general price level. 1/ However if
this assumption is relaxed to take into account the effects of the substan-
tial increase in investment in SMI in terms of an increase in production
costs due to greater demand for raw materials and skilled labor and a
decrease in consumer prices due to the improved supply conditions, then the
private rate of return would decrease correspondingly, and social returns
increase.
Indirect Economic Impact
The data available do not permit quantitative measurement of the economic
impact of the project with complete confidence. The nature of the target
group, however, would indicate favorable impact can be expected on a number
of counts. As the funds will be directed primarily to less-developed regions,
the increased growth in SMI will affect a more equitable regional distribution
of jobs and income, in terms of returns to labor as well as to small investors.
In addition, the availability of manufactured goods and services in closer
proximity to local markets, and the competitiveness of a number of sellers,
will benefit the consumer in the form of lower prices. Small and medium
firms, with the increased access to financial and technical assistance, will
have the opportunity to modernize and expand operations, thereby improving
quality of products and cost efficiency. These improvements should also
lead to betiter and lower priced goods and services to consumers in the regions.
6.     Moreover, as the subprojects are found in all of the major industry
product groups, they combine import substitution benefits, in such industries
as fabricated metal products, machinery, and transport equipment, and in-
creased export earnings, for example, from furniture and specialized textiles
and garments.
1/ Relaxing this assumption to allow for a 15% increase in investment costs
and a corresponding-slippage in_ benefits, would yield an l8.5% rate of
return.



ANENX 12
Page 3
Arrangements for Measuring Economic Benefits
7.     Prior calculation of more precise rates of return for an anticipated
916 different subprojects is clearly not possible.  However, to monitor the
economic impact of the project, the mission has recommended that an evaluation
system be implemented, whereby a sample of subprojects would be earmarked for
follow-up in the field by the Business Research Department (BRD) in DBP.  In
addition, data submitted periodically to the Bank as part of normal reporting
requirements would also enable somewhat cmuder evaluations of impact from time
to tlme.  The Information and Planning Unit in the DOI's Commission on Small
and Medium Industries 1/ would also assist in collecting economic data and
conducting periodic analyses.
8.     A project monitoring and evaluation system has also been recommended
for the iegional Technical Assistance Centers.  The direct and indirect impact
of these centers, which wzill provide technical services in a variety of fields
to both new and established firms, on increased employment, productivity, sales,
and efficiency cannot yet be estimated.  The proposed evaluation system is
expected to facilitate planning for future expansion into services most in
demand ard. to derive estimates of the direct impact of such services.
EAP Projects Department
February 24, 1975
1/  .e Annex 4.



ANNEX 1 2
Appendix 1
Philippines
Small and Medium Industries Project
Cost/Benefit Streams and Financial Rate of Return 1/
(FOOO' 5)
Year           cost2/                       Berjefit'          Net Benefit
1             208,136                      88,820                (119,316)
2             25,344                     222,049                ( 33,295)
3             330,446                     355,o78                  24,832
4 - 10        343,321                     444,098                 100, 777
11             343,321                     527,781                 184,460
Rate of Return:  38.25%
1/   Estimates are for total number of projects to be financed through
DBP and IGLF. See Appendices 3 and 4 for basis of calculations.
2/   Investment is made over the period of the first 3 years.  Equipment
and machinery is assumed to have a useful life of 11 years.
3/   In the 11th year, 30% of the initial investment is included in the
Benefit Stream to cover salvage value of equipment and machinery and
permanent inventories.
Sensitivity Tests:
1. With construction cost overruns for all sub-projects amounting to an
aggregate 15% and a corresponding reduction in benefits the internal rate
of return is still 18.45%.
EAP Projects Department
February 24, 1975



ANNEX 12
Appendix 2
PHILIPPINES
/1
NEA Industrial Cooperatives-
Cost/Benefit Streams and Financial Rate of Return
(p OOO's)
Year      Gost/        Benefit-        Net Benefit
1       11,979          6,479           ( 5,500)
2       23,796         16,197           ( 7,599)
3       28,133         25,915           ( 2,218)
4       25,852         32,394            6,542
5-10      24,496         32,394             7,898,
11       24,496         39,196            14,700
Rate of Return:  31.85%
/1  Estimates are for total number of cooperatives
to be financed by NEA.  See Annex 6, Appendix 8.
/2  Investment is made over the period of the first
four years. Equipment and machinery is assumed
to have a useful life of 11 years.
/3  In the 11th year, 30% of the initial investment
is included in the Benefit Stream to cover
salvage value of equipment and machinery and
permanent inventories (raw materials).
Sensitivity Tests:
1.  With construction costs overruns for all cooperatives
amounting to an aggregate 15% and a corresponding re-
duction in benefits the internal rate of return is
still 15.55%.
EAP Projects Department
February 24, 1975



PHILI'PINES
Small and Meditu Industries Project
Estimates of Direct Employment and Output Benefits
(In 1975 prices)
SMI Economic Characteristics                      New Investment                           Benefits
(1)       ' (2)            (3)            (4)               (5)               (6)               (7)         (8)         (9)
Capital    Value Added    Ratio of        Ratio of        Total Resources      Direct          Gross Value   Wage         Gross
per      per Unit of    Value Added   Wages to          Invested Under       Employment       Added         Content    Output
Worker      Capital        to Gross       Value Added       Project                                 = A N N U A L =
Major  Industry  Group                                              Output___            ___        _______            ___________
(P000)                                                      (POOO)                              (POOO)        (P000)      (p000)
Food Manufactured                         59.1         .441          .220            .205         56,45i                  955          24,895           5,103    113,159
Beverages                                 63.8         .635           .503           .244          1,527                    24             970             237      1,928
Tobacco Products                          12.4       1.170           .276            .275          1,527                  123           1,787             491       6,475
Textiles                                  54.9         .401           .275           .251          2,928                   53           1,174             295       4,269
Footwear and Other Apparel                21.8         .500           .313           .336         31,196                1,431          15,598           5,241      49,834
Wood and Cork Products                    42.7         .423           .367           .304         25,345                  594           10,721          3,259      29,213
Furniture and Fixtures                    28.4         .531           .407           .450         14,330                  505           7,609           3,424      18,695
Paper and Paper Products                  73.3         .572          .353            .214          3,427                   47           1,960             419       5,552
Printing and Allied Industries            34.9         .707          .529            .316          3,501                  100           2,475             78?       4,677
Leather and Leather Products              31.6         .842           .322           .307          4,929                  156           4,150           1,274      12,888
Rubber Products                           40.0         .743           .366           .275          6,447                  161           4,812           1,323      13,148
Chemicals and Chemical Products          100.0         .716           .343           .158         15,340                  154          10,983           1,735      32,020
Non-Metallic Mineral Products             59.1         .216           .478           .329         23,224                  393           5,016           1,650      10,494
Basic Metal Industries                    49.3         .572          .244            .284         15,334                  311           8,771           2,491      35,947
Metal Products                            50.2         .464           .261           .299         15,334                  305           7 115           2 127      27,261
Machinery, non-electrical                 51.6         .410           .570            .395        13,788                  267           5,653           2,233       9,918
Electrical Machinery                      48.4         .527           .398           .298          5,074                  105           2,674              797      6,719
Transport Equipment                       34.0         .936          .362            .266          6,290                  185           5,887           1,566      16,262
Miscellaneous Manufacturing & Services  52.0           .518           .374            .261        32,952                  634          17,069           4,455      45.639
Total                                                                                       278.944                6.503         139,679          38.902    444.098
NEA Industrial Co-operatives               4.7         .500           .350           .760         27,120                5,800          11,338           8,612      32,584
Methodology:
SMI Economic Characteristics are averages for establishments with 20 to 199 workers.  Historical data provided in the Annual Survey of Manufactures, 1962-71,
are used as the basis for estimating SMI performance in 1975 terms. (See Volume II, Basic Data Tables) Adjustments have been made based on the following
assumptions.
Column 1.  The ratio of book value of fixed assets to replacement value plus average inventories is estimated at .45.  The average real annual rate of increase
in capital intensity from 1962-1971 of 1.6 is applied for the period end 1971 to end 1976. Prices are adjusted on the basis of NEDA National Accounts
fixed capital formation inflator put into 1971 constant prices. Rates of inflation are estimated at 35% in 1974 and 15% for 1975. Thus, 1975 K/L
ratios are calculated: 1971 K/L i .45 x 1.082 x 1.916. Estimated K/L ratio for co-operatives was provided by NEA.
Column 2.  The ratio of gross value added to fixed assets at book value is adjusted to reflect replacement value plus average inventories and the average annual
rate of increases in capital productivity, based on the 1962-71 real rate of 1.02. The calculation is 1971 0/K x .45 x 1.051.
Column 3.  The ratio of gross value added to gross output is assumed to remain approximately the same.  Ratios for co-operatives is averaged of ratios for
groups in which investment will take place.                                                                                   7  a
Column 4.  1971 ratios of wages to gross value added are adjusted to reflect the average annual rate of decrease of 2.27 for 1962-71 and continuing in the
end 1971 to end 1976 period.  The calculation is 1971W/O x .867.
New Investment includes WB loan proceeds and the financing institutions'and entrepreneurs'contributions.
Benefits are estimates of direct employment impact and annual output when all projects are in full operation.
EAP Proiects Department
February 24, 1975



PHILIPPINES,
Small and Medium Industry Project
Estimate of Total Resources Invested Under the Proposed Project (1975 Price Equivalents)
(F 000's)
DBP                                               AeaeIGLFAvrg
CY75 Disbursement Equivalents       No. of Projects        Proect Size         CY75 Disbursement Equivalents          No. of         ProAect Size
CY76       CY77        Total           CY 76 + 77               OOO's          CY76        CY77        Total        Projects        _ _000_    s
Food                                      17,914      18,679       36,593                 79              463.2            9,436      10,422       19,858           121             164.i
Beverages and tobacco                         495      1,238        1,733                  5              346.6              509         812        1,321             5             264.2
Textiles                                    1,279      1,649        2,928                  7              418.2                     --                 --            --
Footwear and apparel                       6,251       6,882       13,133                 33              397.9            8,589       9,474       18,063           100             L80.6
Wood and cork                              5,129       6,569       11,698                 32              365.5            6,271       7,376       13,647            87             156.8
Furniture and fixtures                      3,693      3,899        7,592                 25              303.6            2,543       4,195        6,738            26             259.1
Paper and paper products                      341         512          853                 3              284.3            1,356       1,218        2,574             8             321.7
Printing and publishing                       883      1,105        1,988                  7              284.0              904         609        1,513             6             252.1
Leather                                       991         991       1,982                  4              495.5            1,187       1,760        2,947            13             226.6
Rubber                                        842      1,079        1,921                  7              274.4            1,751       2,775        4,526            18             251.4
Chemicals                                  3,511       4,467        7,978                 17              469.2            3,843       3,519        7,362            25             294.4
Petrochemicals                                 --          --           --                --
Non-metallic minerals                      5,308       6,773       12,081                 32              377,5            5,256       5,887       11,143            28             397.9
Basic metals/metal products                 5,454      6,362       11,816                 18              656.4            8,025      10,827       18,852            53             355.6
Non-electrical machinery                   3,700       4,355        8,055                 18              447.5            2,260       3,473        5,733            17             337.2
Electrical machinery                        1,408      1,691        3,099                  7              442.7              622       1,353        1,975             8             246.8
Transport equipment                         2,657      3,407        6,064                .10              606.4               226          --          226            1             226.0
Miscellaneous manufacturing                 5.071      5,.559      10.630                 27              393.7             2,091      3,402        5,493            30             183.1
Sub-Total                            64,927      75,217      140,144               331              423.3            54,869      67,102      121,971          546              223.3
Services                                   7.071       7.442       14.513                 29              500.4            1,639         677        2,316            10             231.6
Total                                7&,998      82,659      154,657               360              429.6            56.508      67,779      A24,287          556              223.5
EAP Projects Department
February 24, 1975



