CIRCULATiNG COPY
r tIE        - -4 Y          TO BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DSK
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Not For Public Use
CIRCULATiNG COPY
Report No. P-1633-PH
TO BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DEVSK
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR
A SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 14, 1975
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit -    Peso (P)
US$1           =    7.00
p 1            -    US$0.143
P 1,000             US$143
P 1,000,000         US$143,000
Fiscal Year         July 1 to June 30



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES FOR
A SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of the Philippines for the equivalent of $30 million.
The loan would be for a term of 16 years, including a grace period of 4 years
and at an interest rate of 8-1/2% per annum. The proceeds of the loan
except for $0.7 million would be relent on the same terms to the Develop-
ment Bank of the Philippines (DBP), the Industrial Guarantee Loan Fund
(IGLF) administered by the Central Bank (CB) and the National Electrifica-
tion Administration (NEA) for onlending at an interest rate of 12% per
annum with various terms to a wide variety of small and medium industry
sub-projects. The balance of $0.7 million would finance technical as-
sistance by government to small industry.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The most recent Economic Report - "Current Economic Position and
Prospects of the Philippines" (No. 568-PH of November 7, 1974) was circu-
lated to the Executive Directors on November 11, 1974. Annex I contains
country data.
Recent Developments
3.        In the past two years there has been a sharp increase in the level
of economic activity in the Philippines. The growth in real GNP, which had
been about 5-6% a year for more than a decade, doubled to 10% in 1973. The
strong recovery in 1973 was led by the international commodity boom and
resultant increased export incomes in the Philippines, by a strong recovery
in agricultural and industrial production for the domestic market, and by
an expansion in public and private investment. The increased domestic out-
put, and a 28% improvement in the external terms of trade, resulted in a
14% increase in gross national income in real terms in 1973 compared with
about 1% in 1972.  Underemployment and unemployment remain quite high, how-
ever, and in common with most other countries, the rate of inflation in-
creased appreciably in the past 18 months. The Government has pressed anead
with a number of important and potentially far-reaching economic and social
reforms in such areas as agrarian reform, taxation, customs administration
and tariffs, banking and government organization.
4.        The agricultural sector, whicn has suffered from adverse weather
conditions during the previous three years, grew by 7% in 1973. Rice pro-
duction in crop year 1973-74 increased by 23% over the level of the previous
year when floods reduced production.  This increase was mainly due to fa-
vorable weather conditions, increased use of fertilizers, more supervised
credit and increased investments in supporting rural services as part of a
general drive for rice self-sufficiency. Tihe impact of typhoons and flooding



-2-
in December 1974 appears to have been significant and as a result no in-
crease in rice production is likely for the crop year 1974-75. The Govern-
ment made rapid progress in implementation of the program of agrarian reform
for the nation's one million rice and corn farm tenants in 1973 and issued
certificates of land transfer covering about 144,000 tenants mostly associa-
ted with the large holdings. But this was considerably slowed down in 1974
mainly due to the increased resistance of medium scale farm owners, ad-
mvanistrative difficulties and land evaluation and compensation problems.
As a result, only about 47,000 additional certificates were issued during
1974. Recently the Government indicated its intention through various
decrees and memoranda to resolve these problems and move forward with the
implementation of the program.
5.        The boom in export incomes and increased activity in agriculture
has provided the base for renewed expansion of the industrial sector which
grew by about 11% in 1973. Non-traditional industrial exports, which have
been increasing since 1970, are estimated to have doubled in 1973 to about
$200 million. The growth of industrial production for export has also been
stimulated by the Government's industrial export drive which includes a
range of export incentives. However, industrial output and exports have been
affected by the recent dampening of domestic demand and a slowdown in the
economies of key trading partners, and industrial export earnings grew more
slowly in 1974.
6.        The growth in production was also assisted by increased public
development outlays in 1973 made possible by a significant improvement in
the financial position of the Government. The ratio of public investment
to GNP is currently about 3% compared with 1.8% in FY72. The Government
has implemented a series of long needed tax reforms and improvements in
tax administration, such as customs and tariff reform, tax amnesties, re-
forms in corporate and local taxation, continuation of the export tax, and
increased taxation on luxury items and on gasoline. These reforms, aided by
the increased economic activity, the boom in export incomes, and domestic
inflation, resulted in a 36% increase in tax revenues in FY73, and an esti-
mated 47% in FY74. As a result, the ratio of national and local Government
tax revenues to GNP has increased from an average of 9% in recent years to
an estimated 12.4% in FY74.
7.        High prices for the Philippines chief exports, including coconut
products, sugar, copper and wood products, were largely responsible for an
increase in merchandise receipts of almost 70% in 1973. ,The merchandise
trade account recorded a surplus of about $270 million, as compared with a
$150 million deficit in the previous year. International reserves rose by
about $600 million during the year and stood at $876 million, equivalent to
about five months of imports, at the end of December 1973. However, since
mid-1974, a large trade deficit has appeared, largely because the growth
in export prices has moderated while import prices have continued to rise
rapidly. As a result of this trade deficit, the overall balance of payments
surplus is estimated to have fallen from about $700 million in 1973 to less
than $100 million in 1974. By the end of 1974 international reserves were
about $1.2 billion, equivalent to roughly four months imports.



80        In the latter part of 1973, inflation emerged as a major problem
in the Philippines. Starting in mid-1973 consumer prices began to rise at
an annual rate of more than 40%. This was caused caused by the large
increase in liquidity since the export boom began in 1973, and by a number
of factors, including the higher rate of world inflation, domestic food
shortages and the increased cost of petroleum. Aided by monetary and fiscal
policies aimed at absorbing the excessive liquidity expansion, the rate of
inflation slowed to less than 20% by the end of 1974. Other factors that
helped moderate the rate of inflation include the substantial reduction in
the balance of payments surplus in 1974 and the considerable increase in
rice production in crop year 1973/74. The inflation of the last two years
has exacerbated the decline in real wages whiclh fell by a total of about 25%
between 1969 and 1973. The urban wage earners have been most affected.
Agricultural and entrepreneurial incomes have improved very substantially.
oiney wages will have to be raised in the near future if further deteriora-
tion in the living standards of wage earners is to be avoided.
The Energy Crisis
9.         Imported petroleum provides some 97% of the Philippines' total
energy requirements. In 1973 the equivalent of 71 million barrels of
petroleum crude and other petroleum products were imported at a cost of
about $230 million cif. When the energy crisis developed in late 1973, it
looked as though economic activity in the Philippines would be severely
disrupted. There were temporary dislocations but the Government moved
quickly with conservation measures to reduce non-essential consumption.
By March 1974 these problems had been overcome and the Philippines is now
obtaining sufficient petroleum for its needs. In 1974 the volume of imports
of petroleum and products is estimated to be at about the same level as
in 1973 (71 mi'llion barrels) but at a cost of about $780 million cif.
10.       The Government has decided to accelerate the development of local
energy sources, especially hydropower and geothermal energy.   These will
be supplemented witlh nuclear energy in the 1980's. The transport sector,
which nowv accounts for 40% of total energy consumption, is likely to continue
to be the major consumer of energy. The growth in demand for energy will
therefore be influenced by the pattern of expansion in this sector. In any
event, total demand for energy is expected to grow at about 10% a year, and
even with more rapid development of natural power sources, petroleum would
still account for more than 90% of total energy needs by 1980. The Philip-
pines does not have any commercial oil fields, but the Government has taken
steps to encourage more exploration.
Growtih Prospects
1t.       The abrupt deterioration in the external terms of trade since
the middle of 1974, and the recession in the economies of key trading
partners, together with umcertainty about how quickly they will recover,



now threatens some of the Philippines' recent economic gains even though
the Government remains committed to maintaining the growth momentum which
began in 1973 to provide for a continued increase in incomes and employment.
The high priority accorded to expanding employment opportunities - in the
short-term as well as the long-term - stems from the fact that unemployment
and underemployment are still high and the labor force continues to grow at
3% a year.
12.       Priority is also being given to expanding food production for the
domestic market, to expanding export production and to accelerating develop-
ment of local energy resources. The difficulties experienced during the
last two years in importing sufficient quantities of food at reasonable
prices, especially cereals, have increased the Government's resolve to
achieve food self-sufficiency as soon as possible. The Government rightly
recognizes that the increased cost of petroleum and other imports cannot be
financed indefinitely by borrowing abroad and it is actively encouraging
both local and foreign investors to expand the productive capacity of ex-
port industries and to undertake major new import-replacing investments.
Because it will take time for these investments to have an impact on the
balance of payments, the Government is seeking increased support from the
international financial community to help carry out its development program
and to ease the adjustment to higher petroleum and other import prices. Be-
cause of the substantial improvement in the external debt burden and inter-
national reserve position in the last two years the Philippines now has
the capacity to borrow externally larger amounts of capital in support of
its development program, if capital is made available.
13.       Maintaining a GNP growth rate of about 7 percent a year in real
terms during the next few years will depend heavily on the buoyancy of the
domestic market. The prospects are for continued expansion in agriculture
with a 4-5 percent increase in production in the year ahead. With a few
exceptions, industries are operating at relatively high levels of capacity
utilization. Increased investments will be needed in a wide range of
consumer and intermediate goods industries. A number of big projects are
proposed in mining, wood processing, fertilizer, steel and shipbuilding
which are likely to push up the private investment rate from recent levels
of about 16% of GNP to perhaps 22 percent by the latter part of the decade.
The public infrastructure program that was approved in 1973, which called
for outlays of about P 12 billion at current prices in FY74-77, has become
outdated because of the subsequent rapid inflation and changes in invest-
ment priorities as a result of the energy crisis. A new program has not
been finalized, but the Government is putting more emphasis on developing
nuclear and indigenous power resources and on irrigation, feeder roads and
other projects to support increased food and export production. The Gov-
ernment has made considerable progress in recent years in building up its
capacity to prepare and execute projects. However, there will be a need
for continued efforts to strengthen this aspect of administration. The
ratio of public investment to GNP is projected to rise from the present
level of 3% to about 4% by 1977.



Balance of Payments
14.-      The economic report projects merchandise export receipts to in-
crease by about 25% in 1975 and by another 5% in 1976, with only a small
increase in the unit value of exports. Import payments are projected to in-
crease by a total of almost 40% in the same period, including a 30% increase
in prices. A cumulative decline in the external terms of trade of about 23
percent during this period would probably wipe out the gains made in the
recent export price boom and return the terms of trade to the level prevailing
in 1972. However, the outcome for the balance of payments is quite sensitive
to assumptions about external prices and without the projected deterioration
in the terms of trade, for example, the projected trade deficit of $1.2 bil-
lion in 1976 would be reduced by about $1 billion.
15.       On the assumptions in the economic report, the total foreign ex-
change requirements for meeting the current account deficit and amortizing
loans during 1975 and 1976 would be about $2.3 billion. About $700 million
would be provided by direct investment and short-term trade finance and about
$700 million would come from suppliers' credits and commercial commodity fi-
nancing.  Disbursements of project finance to the public sector, from the pres-
ent pipeline, would amount to about $300 million.  The balance of the remain-
ing capital inflow of about $200 million in 1975 and $400 million in 1976
could be financed by the Central Bank through short and medium-term borrowing.
Net reserves, however, would be negligible by 1976 and unless additional cap-
ital were made available in the form of development aid, the Government would
be forced to consider a reduction in its growth targets for the rest of the
decade.
16.       Recent important gains in reducing the external debt burden and in
improving  the external reserve position would be jeopardised if the banking
system had excessive recourse to short and medium-term borrowing abroad.
Fortunately, some assistance may be forthcoming from the IMF,  In addition,
foreign donors should consider extending quick-disbursing commedity loans
with long maturities, which would make an important contribution to main-
taining growth and a manageable balance of payments position in 1975.  There
is considerable scope for additional maedium and long-term  loans from foreign
donors to finance the much larger capital goods imports proiected for 1976.
The Philippine Consultative Group reviewed the improved foreign exchange
position at its meeting in December 1974 and accepted the need for some of-
ficial commodity aid in addition to rising levels of commitments for rievelop-
ment projects to support the Philippines' increased development program.  If
the projected inflows on the capital account are forthcoming and if the pres-
ently identified shortfalls in foreign exchange availabilities are met with
an appropriate combination of medium and long-term loan capital as suggested,
management of the external debt would not present serious problems. Medium
and long-term debt outstanding would rise from $2 billion this year to about
$3 billion by 1976 but the ratio of debt service payments to exports would
fall from 15 percent this year to about 13 percent in 1976. The Philippines
would still be in a position to contract substantial amounts of external
debt during the final years of the decade although this would lead to an



- 6 -
increase in the debt service ratio to about 16-17 percent by 1980. The
Philippines is already credit.worthy for substantial Bank lending.  Moreover,
at present, the Bank/IDA share in total debt outstanding is about 9 percent
and its share in debt service is about 5 percent. Even with a substantially
higher level of Bank lending, these shares would not be expected to increase
significantly in the years ahead.
17.       During the last two years, the Government has significantly im-
proved its fiscal performance with taxes increasing by more than an average
of 40 percent each year. Nevertheless, the Governments ambitious develop-
ment program, which would increase public investment from the current level
of 3 percent of GNP to about 5 percent by the end of the decade, will con-
tinue to require resources in excess of the foreign capital which will be-
come available for financing the import component of development projects.
Some financing of local currency expenditures will be justified, especially
for projects of economic and social importance which need only limited
amounts of foreign exchange.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PHILIPPINES
18.       The Philippines has received 29 Bank loans and three IDA credits
totalling $644 million, net of cancellations. About 50 percent of the Bank/
IDA lending, about $306 million, has been for infrastructure projects in
power, transportation, water supply and for education whilst $25 million
has been for population. The remainder has been divided about equally be-
tween agriculture and industry. About $168 million of this has been for
irrigation, livestock, rice processing, rural credit and rural development
and about $145 million for industry in four loans for the Private Develop-
ment Corporation of the Philippines and one loan for the Development Bank
of the Philippines. There has been a marked improvement in the way Bank
financed projects in the Philippines have been executed in the last two or
three years compared with experience in the 1960's when shortages of peso
counterpart funds combined with poor administration to cause serious prob-
lems. All these projects are now going reasonably well. Annex II contains
a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of
March 31,    1975 and notes on the execution of on-going projects.
19.       The Bank's lending program has been designed to continue to sup-
port the increased Philippine development effort with its particular
emphasis on agriculture and infrastructure. Shortages of domestic financial
revenues led to low investment for these purposes in the past. The last two
years have seen major changes which have helped to overcome these constraints
and both the ambitious Philippine development program and the Bank's lending
program have been designed to make good past neglect and to meet future needs.
Commitments in FY74 amounted to $165.1 million, compared to an average of
about $30 million a year in the previous five years.



-7 -
20.       Six loans in the Philippines totalling $178 million - Population,
Sixth Power, Inter-Island Shipping, Fourth Private Development Corporation,
Tarlac Irrigation annd Rural Development have already been approved by the
Executive Directors in FY75.  Including the proposed loan total Bank lending
in the Philippines in FY75 would be $208 million. Projects which may be
ready for Board consideration in FY76 include irrigation, livestock, fisheries,
grain storage, education, industrial investment, and urban development.
21.       IFC has made conmitments in the Philippines totalling $76.1 million
for investments in thirteen companies in the fields of development banking,
power, telecommunications, ceramic tiles, paper, petroleum products, nickel
mining and refining, chemicals and synthetic fibers. Of these investments,
as of March 31, 1975, $18.5 million have been sold, $0.4 million cancelled
and $2.3 million repaid, leaving a net portfolio of $55.0 million. On the
same date $8.8 million was undisbursed. Preliminary proposals have been
received for an aluminum smelter and other projects in the pulp and paper,
dinnerware, metal alloys and shipbuilding fields.
PART III - TUE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR AND THE ROLE OF
SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRY
A. Industrial Sector
22.       Background: The Tndustrial Sector is the third largest in the
Philippine economy (after agriculture and services) accounting for 28%
of net domestic product in 1974, absorbing over one-third of total fixed
investment and providing employment for 15% of the total labor force.
Since the early 1970s Government has placed increasing emphasis on in-
dustrial growth to expand and diversify exports, meet growing domestic
demand, and provide increased employment opportunities.  Reliance on the
industrial sector as a maior vehicle for enhancing export earnings has
resulted in a rapid increase in non-traditional industrial exports from
US$49 mJiiion in 1969 Lo US$200 million in 1973.  The pattern of industri-
alization until now, however, has resulted in an industrial structure
dominated by capital intensive large scale firmswhich have done little to
expand employment.  Consequently, the Government is relying heavily on
the rapid development of labor intensive small and medium industry to
achieve its employment and investment dispersal objectives.
23.       Institutional Framework:  Until 1974 the principal regulatory
agency which guided private industrial investment was the Board of Invest-
ments (BOI) which was set up to administer the Investment Incentives Act
of 1969 and later the Export Incentives and Foreign Investment Regulation
Acts.  In addition to its regulatory functions, BOI is also an active pro-
motional agency. About one-half of new industrial investment in the Phil-
ippines goes into BOI registered projects. Between June, 1968 and June,
1974, B5I approved projects requiring a total investment of $1.1 billion.



-8-
In July 1974, a new Department of Industry was created to play a more active
role in industrial policy formulation and implementation. Apart From
assuming research, evaluation and planning functions previously carried out
by BOI, the new Department has also been charged with responsibility for
co-ordinating the efforts of all agencies in promoting the growth of SMI
through its Commission on Small and Medium Industries.
24.       Industrial Investment and Finance:  The National Economic and
Development Authority's Four-Year plan for FY74-77 estimates total industrial
investment requirements in the period to be in excess of $ 3.5 billion. In-
vestment in manufacturing is expected to account for about two-thirds of the
total. This level of investment will require a large increase in domestic
resource mobilization, as well as a sustained inflow of foreign capital on
reasonable terms. Two institutions, the Development Bank of the Philippines
(DBP), the government's principal development financing institution, and the
Private Development Corporation of the Philippines (PDCP), are the main pro-
viders of long term industrial finance. In addition, several commercial
banking and other financial institutions also provide a limited amount of
term finance to industry. Working capital needs are covered mainly by com-
mercial banks. The remaining financing is provided by direct and indirect
foreign investment, internally-generated funds and by equity financing through
the capital market.
B. Small and Medium Industries
25.       Definition:  Small and medium industries (SMI) firms in the Phil-
ippines are defined as those with total fixed assets of between P 100,000
and P 4 million. Small firms are those with total fixed assets of between
P 100,000 and P 1 million, while medium firms are those with total fixed
assets of between P 1 million and P 4 million. Of the 10,248 firms covered
in the 1971 ASM 1/, 8,203 are cottage industry type units. Small and medi-
um industries accounted for 1,654 (16.1%). Excluding cottage industry type
units (i.e. firms with less than 20 workers), SMI accounted for 81% of all
manufacturing establishments in the "modern" manufacturing sector, but
employed only 27% of the manufacturiag labor force and contributed 21% of
the gross value added.
26.       Characteristics:  Between 1962 and 1968, the growth of SMI- greatly
exceeded the growth of large firms. Between 1968 and 1971, this pattern was
reversed as small industries showed an absolute decline, and medium sized
firms grew very slowly. This decline appears to have been encouraged by the
introduction of investment and export incentives (see para 23) which by
their nature have been more beneficial to large, capital intensive industry.
In 1971 by industry branch, the share of SMI in employment and production
1/   Annual Survey of Manufacturers covers all establishments with 5 or more
workers.



- 9 -
was greatest in manufacture and sub-assembly for capital goods industries
(transport equipment, electrical, and non-electrical machinery) and signifi-
cant in intermediate goods (rubber, wood and paper products, chemicals and
chemical products and basic metals) and consumer goods (food, textiles,
furniture, and printing and allied industries). These product groups offer
scope for import substitution and enjoy effective rates of protection higher
than the average for all manufacturing making it easier for SMI to enter
these segments. Geographically, 65% of SMI firms are concentrated in the
Southern Luzon area, close to principal sources of supply and major consump-
tion markets and where infrastructure and other services are more developed.
The Greater Manila area alone accounts for 52.5 percent of all SMI estab-
lishments with another 6.9 percent located in or around Cebu City in the
Visayas. The Government's industrial policy is now emphasizing the regional
dispersal of industry, including SMI, away from urban areas, including the
Greater Manila area. SMI firms produce mainly for domestic markets with
direct sales to local markets and reaching regional markets through middle-
men. Exports of SMI in furniture, textiles and garments, handicrafts and
small electrical machinery and appliances have increased in the last two
years after amounting to about 14% of total SMI output in 1969. But SMI
firms still face production problems especially with product design and
quality; they are generally considered unreliable for supplying large batch
orders especially for export.
27.       Constraints on Growth: SMI firms presently face a number of
problems. They lack expertise in management, organization and choice of
technology and generally do not have ready access to the skilled part of
the labor force. They also suffer a lack of know-how in marketing arrange-
ments, particularly for export marketing and financing, and face difficul-
ties in executing project feasibility studies and in presenting project
ideas and expansion plans in a form acceptable to financing institutions.
For these reasons and because financing institutions have tended to rely
heavily on collateral and co-makers' guarantees, SMI lack access to ex-
ternal sources of medium and long-term and working capital. With an
excess demand for funds and little opportunity for preferential yields
on higher risk clients because of statutory interest rate ceilings, fi-
nancing institutions have tended to lend to larger, well known, low-risk
clients. So SMI have been forced to rely heavily on insufficient internal
resources or short-term borrowing from non-institutional sources at 5-10
percent per month (depending on the amount). This has made it difficult
for existing firms to expand and for new firms to get established.
28.       Reasons for promoting SMI Development:  The government's devel-
opment strategy for industry has several objectives, namely, employment
creation, better regional distribution of investment and income, reduced
dependence on industrial goods imports and the generation of a wider base
of manufactured exports. Industrial investment is to be divided among:
(i) a few large investments in some sectors (e.g. mineral and wood proc-
essing, shipbuilding, fertilizer, etc.), (ii) modern large to medium



- 10 -
sized firms in export oriented sectors (e.g. textiles and garments, elec-
tronics, etc.) 1/ and (iii) in small labor intensive units. Up to now the
bulk of investment has been directed toward the first two types and invest-
ment in small industries has been largely neglected. SMI have generally
been unwittingly discriminated against by the monetary and fiscal incentive
framework and have been denied access to credit, and other types of assist-
ance on an equal basis. To correct this bias the government now aims to
promote SMI development. The proposed project is part of that program,
and aims at correcting these biases by increasing the supply of available
credit for SMI, making access to such credit easier for small firms and
by expanding upon the government's framework for extending technical
assistance. With such encouragement SMI are expected to play a greater
role in the industrial sector and to contribute more effectively toward
productive and efficient employment creation and toward better regional
income and investment distribution.
29.       The Government's Program:  The government, recognizing the
potential of SMI in employment creation, in the development of entrepreneur-
ial and managerial skills and in assisting a more equitable income and in-
vestment distribution, adopted a program in early 1974 to promote the de-
velopment of SMI. The Government's program emphasises the promotion of
rural and labor-intensive SMI, while still recognising the legitimate needs
of established SMI in the urban areas. The main components are substantial
increases in SMI lending through the Development Bank of the Philippines
(DBP) and the Industrial Guarantee Loan Fund (IGLF), and the provision of
technical assistance through the Department of Industry (DOI). Within DOI,
a Commission on Small and Mledium Industries (CSMI) is responsible for
implementing and coordinating the program. It operates 50 field teams in
provinces and towns outside the Greater Manila area, which are responsible
for assisting entrepreneurs with project feasibility studies, loan appli-
cations and the many other time consuming steps which are the greatest
bottlenecks in realizing a project. The field teams are supported by a
central unit in DOI. Although the direct assistance approach has been very
successful so far, it has also suggested the need for small technical as-
sistance centers at the regional level to provide a link between field
support and central services. Amongst other Government initiatives to
promote SMI development, the most promising is a program run by the National
Electrification Administration (NEA) which establishes industrial producer
cooperatives in rural areas to provide employment opportunities for rural
unemployed and underemployed and promote an economic level of power use
in rural areas which are being electrified.
1/   These are the types of firms which have recently been the prihcipal
beneficiaries of our DFC loans through DBP and PDCP. Such loans have
proven beneficial and effective and will continue to feature in our
future lending programs for the Philippines.



- 11 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
The Loan
30.       Background:  The proposed loan is the seventh in a series of
Bank Group loans for financiug industrial investment in the Philippines,
but the first targeted specifically at small and medium scale industry.
The most recent industrial loan was a $30.0 million Bank loan to the Pri-
vate Development Corporation of the Philippines (PDCP) approved in November,
1974. The proposed project was appraised in October-November 1974 and
negotiations were held in April, 1975. The leader of the Philippine
negotiating team was Ambassador Eduardo Z. Romualdez, assisted by 'iss
Fe Villafuerte and Mr. Anselmo Sevilla of DBP, Mr. Antonio Locsin of NEDA,
Mr. Florentino Policarpio of NEA, Mr. Joseph Pernia of DOI and .'Ir. Ramon
Teodoro of the Department of Justice. The Appraisal Report (No. 667a-PH)
on the project is being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
Annex III provides a loan and project summary.
31.       Uses of the Loan:  The proposed Bank loan would be used to finance
fixed assets and permanent working capital for a wide range of SMI sub-
projects in manufacturing, agro industries, transportation services, small
engineering facilities and small construction industries. The loan would
also help the Department of Industry (DOI) to assist small entrepreneurs
solve the problems of production, marketing and accounting that most of them
confront. Although sub-loans under the proposed loan would be in local
currency the projects financed are estimated to have a direct and indirect
foreign exchange cost component of about 64% of total sub-project cost.
Proceeds from the Bank loan would finance 60% of total sub-project costs.
2.        yendin  Arrangements:  The proposed loan of $30.0 million would
be made to the Government of the Philippines, which would relend in local
currency the equivalent of $15.0 million to the Development Bank of the
Philippines (DBP), $12.0 million to the Industrial Guarantee Loan Fund
(IGLF), arxi1 $2.3 million to the National Electrification Administration (NEA)
on the same terms as those of the Bank loan. The balance of $0.7 million
would be used by the Government to linance the establishment of 7 Regional
Technical Assistance Centers (RTACs) which would provide direct assistance
to small entrepreneurs located outside the Greater Manila area.
33.       Terms: The loan would be for a term of 16 years, including a
grace period of 4 years and at an interest rate of 8-1/2%. The relending
rate charged to ultimate sub-borrowers would be 12% per annum, the legal
maximum rate for secured loans in the Philippines.  In the event that
Government decides to raise interest rate ceilings for medium and long-term
loans, the relending agencies would consult with the Bank about raising
the relending rate to ultimate borrowers. Sub-loans would be comitted
over 2 years anid disbursed over 4 years and would have a maximum term of
i2 years including a grace period of up to 2 years. The Government would



- 12
bear the full foreign exchange risk. A ceiling of $360,000 would be set
for sub-loans to ultimate borrowers by DBP, which lends to medium as well
as small-scale enterprises, and $115,000 for sub-loans through IGLF, which
lends only to small scale industry, and NEA.
34.       Procurement:  The goods and services to be financed by the pro-
posed loan would be procured in accordance with the established procedures
of DBP, IGLF, and NEA respectively, The procedures of these agencies are
satisfactory and should ensure that procurement from their sub-loans is
carried out with due regard for economy and efficiency. Buildings, office
equipment and vehicles to be procured for the RTACs would be in accordance
with the DOI's procurement procedures which are satisfactory (Section 3.11
of the Loan Agreement).
35.       Project Financing and Disbursement:  For sub-projects to be fi-
nanced by DBP and IGLF and NEA the Bank would finance 60% of total project
costs, the financial institution 20% and the entrepreneur (or cooperative)
20%.  For administrative simplicity, disbursements would be made against 75%
of the value of DBP's and NEA's loans or IGLF's Special Time Deposits (STDs)
against supporting evidence of disbursements by DBP, IGLF and NEA on a
quarterly basis. Disbursements for the RTACs would be made against expendi-
ture.
36.       Project l4onitoring and Supervision:  In view of the pioneering
nature of this project monitoring and evaluation arrangements for each
component of the project have been incorporated to ensure that the ex-
perience gained from this project is distilled and applied to the design
of similar future projects in the Philippines and elsewhere. Furthermore,
arrangements for supervision of this project have been designed to ensure
that sound resource allocation occurs without sacrificing the requirements
for efficiency in the commitment and disbursement of funds. As a result,
project supervision, at least in the initial stages of project implementa-
tion, will require a heavy commitment of Bank staff time.
Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP)
37.       Background:  DBP was established in 1958 as a wholly Government-
owned development bank. It operates in all the important sectors of the
economy, although industrial financing including guarantee operations in
the past accounted for the bulk (79%) of its total financing followed by
agricultural financing (9%), with the balance of 12% going for community
development lending, lending to private development banks and for real estate.
The Bank has previously made 3 loans through DBP for agriculture totalling
$33 million, and 2 loans for industry and shipping totalling $70 million.
DBP's financing over the past 4 years has accounted for 28% of total capital
formation in the Philippine economy.  DBP's financial position and perform-
ance improved significantly in FY74.  Its capital structure is sound and
it is sufficiently liquid, largely as a result of a much higher level of
collections in FY74. Administrative costs in FY74 declined substantially
compared to FY73. DBP's arrears situation although still serious, is



- 13 -
improving. As of June 30, 1974, total principal outstanding for loans in
arrears more than one year amounted to about $96 million or 49% of the
portfolio, compared with 54% as of June 30, 1973.
38.       SMI Operations:  DBP is the single largest source of term finance
to the SMI sector and its volume of lending has been growing. SMI loan
approvals totalled nearly $6.0 million in FY74, and approvals exceeded $5.5
million in the first half of FY75. SMI operations accounted for about 7.6%
of total loans outstanding as of June 30, 1974, and for 13.6% of loan
approvals in that year. DBP expects to commit a total of over $11 million
in FY75 and nearly $30.0 million between FY76 and FY77. This together with
DBP's other long-term peso requirements is expected to total between $220
and 280 million over the next two years, of which DBP expects to raise only
25-30% from the private capital market on a long term basis. The $15.0
million portion of the proposed loan to be channelled through DBP would
meet about 50% of DBP's resource requirements for SMI lending over the next
two years. DBP has approved SMI loans to a wide range of industries, although
food processing and apparel and footwear accounted for over 38% of approvals
between FY72 and FY74. The share of SMI loans made in the Greater Manila
area has dropped from 84% in FY72 to 48% in FY74. The average size of DBP's
SMI loans in FY74 was about $45,000. DBP's interest rate on SMI loans is
12% per annum, the maximum rate for secured loans in the Philippines.
39.       Organization for SMI Lending:  DBP's SMI lending is conducted
principally through its Industrial Projects Department II (IPDII) and through
its network of 32 branches and 24 agencies. Both IPDII and the branches
have the capability to undertake satisfactory project appraisal but follow-
up work in SMI lending is still weak.  DBP has taken satisfactory steps to
ensure that all projects are followed up on a regular basis.  DBP's pre-
sent loan processing procedures are complicated and time-consuming but it
is taking steps to improve its performance. DBP has also agreed to make
its best efforts to improve its arrears situation (Section 3.08 of the Loan
Agreement), and a specific target date by which to achieve this was con-
firmed during negotiations. It intends to limit to $5 million equivalent
the proceeds of the loan which would be lent to medium scale industry. DBP
would not make sub-loans under this project in those sub-sectors for which
the Bank has already made previous loans through DBP (i.e. grain processing
and storage, fisheries and livestock).
Industrial Guarantee Loan Fund (IGLF)
40.       Background:  IGLF, established in 1952, is a long term compen-
satory financing and guarantee fund for S2II owned by the National Economic
Development Authority (NEDA) and administered by the Central Bank (CB).
IGLF lending is directed through a network of eligible participating banks.
Against their loans to SMI at an interest rate of 10%, participating banks
now receive a Special Time Deposit (STD) on which they must pay interest
of 5% to IGLF. A guarantee of up to 80% of the STD is also available for
a fee of 2% of the amount guaranteed, and encourages participating banks
to lend to collateral deficient entrepreneurs with sound projects. IGLF



- 14 -
financing reflects Government investment priorities, with emphasis on
projects which are labor-intensive, export oriented or located outside
the major urban areas. Although a wide range of financial institutions are
qualified to become participating banks under IGLF, only a few did so until
recently. This was principally because of the cumbersome and time consuming
procedures and requirements that existed prior to the restructuring of IGLF
in 1974. Since then a large number of banks have begun to use IGLF. Under
the proposed loan, IGLF has agreed with the Bank to set up an accreditation
scheme which would be designed to ensure that participating banks either
had or could develop within a short time, the ability to finance SMI on a
sustained basis.
41.       Operation:  Since 1957, IGLF has approved financial assistance
totalling nearly $28.0 million for 375 projects. Most of these approvals
were made between 1955-65 after which approvals fell to very low levels.
Following a restructuring of its procedures, IGLF approvals rose to nearly
$1.0 million for 31 projects in FY74 and for the first four months of FY75
went to $1.7 million for 97 projects. No guarantees were provided independ-
ently of STDs but the demand for guarantees combined with STDs has grown
rapidly. IGLF has assisted a wide range of industries, but five (food
processing, textiles, wood products, metal products and non-metallic minerals)
accounted for nearly 60% of the total. The share of IGLF assistance going
to the Greater Manila areas has dropped from 76% before FY74 to about 50%
since then. IGLF's portfolio is of very high quality because participating
banks are required to repay STDs whether or not their own clients default.
As a result very little is known about default rates for IGLF financed
projects. IGLF has agreed that in future it will collect and compile
arrears data on all IGLF financed projects on a quarterly basis (Section
3.06 of the Loan Agreement). IGLF resources requirements for the two
years FY76-77 are expected to be about $17.0 million. As of January 1975
IGLF had committed all its available resources. Its requirements for the
second half of FY75 are being covered by a special Government contribution.
The $12.0 million portion of the proposed Bank loan to be channelled through
IGLF would meet about 70% of its requirements for the next two years. The
Government has agreed to provide the balance of IGLF requirements.
42.       On-Lending Rates:  The Government has agreed that the interest
rate charged to ultimate borrowers by the participating bank should be
raised from 10% to 12% and that the interest paid on special time deposits
should be raised from 5% to 7% (Section 4.03 of the Loan Agreement). This
would give them a spread of 5% which should provide an adequate incentive
to participate. In addition, the guarantee would be reduced from 80% to 60%
of the amount of sub-loans made by participating banks; this would increase
their risks and help to ensure sound project appraisal and folloui-up. Bank
funds would be made available to IGLF at 8.5%. A Government contribution of
P 30 million to IGLF's capital, which would be made before the loan became
effective (Section 6.01 of the Loan Agreement), would allow IGLF to accept
a rate of 7% on STD's.



- 15 -
43.       Project Appraisal and Follow-Up:  At present, project appraisals
are carried out by the CB, and although judgements made are inclined to be
rigid because of a iack of knowledge about local conditions they are basic-
ally satisfactory. Follow-up work is carried out mainly by the participat-
ing bank and varies in quality. Under the accreditation scheme (see para 40)
participating banks would carry out appraisal and follow-up in accordance
with standards set by CB, leaving CB staff free to concentrate on monitoring
and reviewing the performance of each participating bank. CB has agreed
with the Bank that SMI portfolios of participating banks would be subject
to a CB audit over and above any existing audits if CB was not satisfied
wqith the normal audits to which these institutions were subjected (Section
3.07 of the Loan Agreement).
National Electrification Administration (NEA)
44.       In 1972 NEA was charged with carrying out a program of rural
electrification to provide area coverage throughout the Philippines by 1994.
Concomitant to this program, NEA is also engaged in two power use programs
in rural areas (irrigation and industrial producer cooperatives (ICs)), to
provide employment opportunities for rural unemployed and underemployed
and to promote an economic level of power use in rural areas which are
being electrified. NEA established 5 pilot ICs during 1974 which have
shown promise of being both economically and financially viable and of
generating employment at a low capital cost. NEA has subsidized these ICs
through low cost loans (6%) and management assistance on a cost free basis.
In order to reduce the subsidies and to encourage efficiency and prompt ex-
posure to normal business conditions, NEA has agreed to raise its interest
rate on loans to ICs to 12% (Section 4.03 of the Loan Agreement) and to
provide free management assistance for a brief fixed initial period, after
which norral fees for this type of work would be charged. Of the 5 pilot
ICs, two are in textiles, two in wood products and one in fibercraft. NEA
plans to establish 24 new ICs, dispersed throughout the Philippines in rural
areas during the two years '75-77. Its estimated resource requirements for
this programr. are about $4.0 millions Over the same period NEA's resource re-
quiremLents for its electric cooperatives  program will be about $65.0 million.
45.       NEA is competently managed with a sound organization.  Responsibil-
ity for the IC program lies with the Power Use Directorate (PUD), a small but
rapidly growing department which is well managed and staffed. NEA has agreed
to strengthen PUD's staff and to establish a Planning and Evaluation Division
in PUD to evaluate the impact of the program (Section 3.10 of the Loan Agree-
ment). PUD is also upgrading the quality of its project feasibility studies,
and is designing the technical assistance it provides in a way which will
expose infant ICs to normal business conditions as quickly as possible. To
avoid unnecessary delays in the establishment of ICs, the Government has
agreed with the Bank that the Department of Local Government and Community
Development (DLGCD) will register ICs sponsored by NEA within 30 days after
NEA Board approval for any IC (Section 3.09 of the Loan Agreement).



- 16 -
Regional Technical Assistance Centers (RTAC)
46.       The DOI is establishing 7 Regional Technical Assistance Centers
(RTACs) between July 1, 1975 and June 20, 1977 to provide support for its
field teams (see para 30) and to provide direct technical assistance in
production, marketing and accounting for reasonable fees to SMII project
proponents. The total cost for the 7RTACs will be about $1.5 million of
which the proposed loan would provide $0.7 million to finance about 45% of
construction costs and about 50% of pre-operating and operating expenses
and all capital expenditures during the first two years of operation.
Thereafter, RTACs will be fully funded out of the DOI budget.
47.       Economic Justification:  Over 900 sub-projects and 24 industrial
co-operatives would be financed under the proposed loan. Prior calculation
of individual economic rates of return for this number of sub-projects is
not possible. The aggregate internal financial rate of return for the
sub-projects is estimated to be over 38 percent and for the 24 ICs to be
nearly 32 percent. This is based on incremental gross output from the pro-
posed project as the principal benefit against investment and production
costs. When these sub-projects and cooperatives are in full operation they
are expected to result in additional investment in SMI of about $43 million
(in 1975 price equivalents) and in the generation of about 12,300 additional
jobs, mostly in rural areas. The project is expected to result in additional
annual gross value-added of about $22 million and additional annual returns
to labor of about $7 million. These effects are expected to increase annual
SIll employment growth rates from 0.5% to 3.0%; output growth rates from 4%
to 7.0% in real terms; and wage-bill growth from 0.1% to 2.9% in real terms
annually over the 4-year disbursement period. At full production, output
growth is expected to increase to 6.6% and the wage bill to 4.5%, annually.
As the funds would be directed primarily to less developed regions in
conformity with established Government policy, the increased growth in SMI
employment, investment and output will effect a more equitable regional
distribution of jobs and income, in terms of returns to labor as well as
to small investors and consumers. Apart from substantially increasing the
flow of resources to SMI, providing them with greater access to institutional
credit and contributing to a greater regional dispersal of investment, the
project would also achieve important institution building objectives in
strengthening the capability of DBP, CB and the sponsoring banks, and NEA
to service the needs of the SMI sector.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
48.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of the Philippines
and the Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the text of
a draft resolution approving the proposed loan are being distributed sep-
arately to the Executive Directors. The Loan would not become effective



- 17 -
until the Government had made a capital contribution of P 30 million to
the IGLF.
49.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOITIENDATION
50.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNarmara
President
Attachments
May 14, 1975



WU~~xim  (odd..1712)                                   Ir        .mbl  lmd
--SMIkn  rats (;ea thanosd)                                       . -5a /a                      143 /c       io2
Ufea" sortallsy vets (pe  taom..O  11w  bfra)                                 OD 8         8D40        120-150
LIt. sawuoy at. birth (Years)                                   5   0         58               59           55            6
W.m r N.mctiw,rts.                                                        3.3             3.2           2.9           2.5
?z1.ettae pseth rats Lo. 3.0  3.0 ft  3.1 If  2.5 /f      2.2 /f
FGPSQ &t1Vft (s5x}  >                    20h r2.t 370                   h     3.0  Jb
up.1athe gra rate             -r 2*  .                                        46               s7 4            Z           6 
ACeSL1taft (pe(lros)
15-66                                                         51      k      3                            5      8 s     6
65  d or                                                       3             4                             4
Duoelo rtio A                                                  1.5 /         1.3 &              -.         1.0 A         1.b /1
Vrbso  pulation - perornt Of rtta                               30 /h         32 /     b       25 /i        39            4 1 /
lily Plangt I& of 205e5opor           lt     (tUa.)                          409              490          282
So. of w_rs (U of married       )                            6              10             4
MST~Mbor forw  (thousads)                                     9S,I          13,200 h'       1A, 900 /A    16,000        10,2W0 1af
Pgreent"P emqoyed in eicullsre                                61            56 k             77           66            ;7 NF
ftarcotDme   opyd                                              6             7                I                          5
Pecosot of 0etto..-1 tao, raeosd b7 hbat k%                     29 AO.        25 /af,o         17 L,2       33 /t.r       16 Zul
Percent of zntiwas iOum, r.eId bY bight, 2%                     56     o          A            46 /o        61 So r       36
Paroast of tatial laces. recived b7 lo_at 204                    5             4   7'           7 A,i        3  7          8
yeroent of  ationlJ lJcos ruclsed by lo.-b 4%                   13            12     0         17  0         9            14 24,
S os  ~ top itl oi sours                                        .                         .o                              28
w owd by smllest 10% of oame                                    .,             ,      ,           .                        2
IbBilfio  per 96fstso                                .         9,00 /           7,970         2,220         2,210 ft
Popalatcom P rd asng perrct                                               5,3%             6,650         1,88          1,760 2
po5setiin per hoptl bed                                      1,180 Li        80   ,a         850 8490                  1I920
P.r oCpte calorie epp]y sa S of reqairemoth                     87                            96            no           110 t,
Per upite prtic so   ,-tOtsj (grms per                                       53 751. ;                      78 7r 7        2 2 a
f Which, eadmsl cd pulse                                      19            22 T6           17  e         22            19
Ddh  et  1-4 years                                                             7                             5 is
a m        /S prinary vd, OOl Oroll t ratio                    91 Z         12 Sd s                           /a
Ad3sted A  seady  oboo,]l nronxOlleat ratio                     26            45              13            28            41
TrWaof Q:'oOli  proSided, MY" and _eod l1va                     10            10              12            13            12
Tocatt-u  .rmolment a S of    .  ol  orUt                                     10 ,12 /ac                    14            1
&I%t Ilbarac7 rato S                                                          72             M70             S L          al7b
*g       o Of DtrFs Par rorm (urben)                                     ,,                                2.2 /ab a
Porous of reuld =L........to -itbt pod ent fer        S         ,o ........... 66  do 1 4  u  6
Joao  a   elactricity (a.   of toal popAulmto)                  17            23              17                          62
Pert ar  nwoal popoletin conected Zo                            ..            6               13            ..
r eiswrs par 1000 poxtion                                       22            b. A            78            89           126
PtD_meer ears prT 1ow poPolatia                                  3             8                5            14            2
Blotr1o poM" e_om,too lhb p.C.)                                101           229             120           245           3D8
3swWi.  noemt1     p.e. kg pe s  s                             1.3 /ak       1.8 /1k         1.0           2.0           3.41
Notes, JigaPe  rotor either to tb.  Iest period. or to              acoount rof mcairointal tmerature, Gd   ui_t, *m
the latst yar_r.  latewt peods refe  in principle to                dis%tribotic  by AC* sd se  of natioal POPoltlms.
teX ya     195-60 er 1966-70; tte latest ywaj  tn p*i.          &  Pirotain Standards (rqelr_mmte) for all eou,      - _a as astab-
dp. to 19V60 m  17.                                                 lbhed by UM* Noo   Research SerrwoS   presde for a ulobe
& The Dr CopttA OP astiente to at market pricer fbr                 mlomance of 60 vrsea of total proein per dej, mo 20 g_   Of
eter. oth- than 1960,oaloclat.d by- the -m- oomamrsion           01l  and puler protein, of wtLioh 10 pra. shuld be   u
te*W*o as tbh  1m   iorld Bank                                  protait.  Thut . aStadade ar.  mom at ow  te tho - Of 75
&  *Avru4s tso* of dwimr, per             of repz-dos.               .mc of total protein and 23 grm  of -J--3 Potein an a
a".                                                             averNs for the wwli, proposed by 160O in the ldM  World P'ood
, PbplU     growt rates  r  for the doldes oeg In             V       Sfr5y.
1960 od I0.                                                     3m, studis. haw eag ted that erode death rate  Or ctldrao
&  Ntlo Of  ar 15 eM 65 nd or A  brtookt  to                        al" I thmgb la sa  be seed ea *trfir approxiatio  inde  of
thom is labor force brackht of ags 15 through 64.               s.lOtritim.
PAo ref.rooe otsdd. reprosent phyxiologiCel T O                 P?rcantav enrolled of eorrepabog populatios of schoo ag
qotwmeste for ereal ativity amd hltth, takhig                   em derinud fwr *eah  oontzy.
/s  CO,ted  v epplytIo  to thu 1970 figure thu gowtb  rate of G9/oapi]A in rel ts  frs 1960 to 190;  /b  1972;
E.  1965--N O  oatisat.;  /d  1967;  I.  19196-.49-fs   1960-2   ZS  1950-60; A/   or the defitio. of urban, ae O               -UK
o 7 k141,P. 157  Li  oTor 10 D0 pop  lation; 1.  Pooulation of the localti  attbin th   *t
lti     o ,trs of pr-vi,ncs ad districits;  A   Urbn centers witth 5s,a    or more people,;
ktio of poplation +mAer 15 end 65 mnd over to total labor force; L. -eUloyed labor fore;  Jn  1961; Jo  tosoida;
Urb,an nolj; L   1968;         " P.rsoal disposal    se incas e function of nuser   oomel,oide;  fti    Praonnto govern-
soot servioe  ony; Jt ijasber on thb  rsgistr, not all working in th  coountry;  /u  1962;  Ir 1969;  /I  190-62;
t   1964666;  X  Tentati_;  /s  I,o10108 oTITag. students;  I     Public ed.etion OaI;  /Jb  ISlodIn  rurl
/pl  S ta or voatL l ed.catio.  refer tI  poblic mcod-iO  and l1rf technical adoc,tion st the
Poet_enoudy lsu1;7!  15 yearsesd over; /.* 6 bar  and osar;  /.t  1971; L     Deftnition of literacy unknw ;
L     total, urban   nd r as-r. o rs                             sure ;  /A   To-a percentage or total dwelling,; Ie    laporm
ooays   L.a,    so                  ef htueheJh;      &    Wtede;   I~  1966.6?;  Ian  jniou. or-2teid..
Kcrea hea ben suelcted on the bais Of it* sieiAr POPlation, boeation ad icme leoel end 1ike the Philipine. it is
e2pscted to gr- owp~ics In the ocain Ylere.-
AN.M
'     Nov wo      l', 3 19'-



AM= I
SWIMOKC DMICAots
-RSS ~txrI0NAL ~0~UC1 IU 197s                          AtIIAL RATE OF 5 -d *. constant s;.Icts!
Pesos Mln.                                196065        1965-70      M       1l72   --Z
GNP at Yarket Prices           71,766      100.0                          5.5            5.7       6.5     4.    10.0
Cross r'eatic investment       15, 942      19.i                         12.6            1.6       5.9    -3.5      9.4
Gross National SavLlng         17,013      23.7                          15.0            3.6     13.2    .8.2    49.1
C14rrent Account Balance       -3,071       2.4
Exports ot Goods. NPS          16,836      23.5                          11.0            4.5      5.0      1.5    18.7
imports of Goods NFS           13,000      18.1                           7.3           7.2       5.4      2.7    13.1
OYrPVr IAMB FORCF AN
PiSODtrTtVr?Y :i# lc375 b'
Value added               Labor Porce             V. A. Per Worker
U4$ Mln.     *               Mln.
r1,49      32.2             7.0     52.9            213          61.0
7du5tz)                         1,228       26.4            2.0      15.2            614        175.9
-5;ervtc.s                      1,922       41.4             w.0     31.6            481        137.8
'Wa 1jpv ted                      .          ,               .        0. 2
4,644     100.0            13.3    100.0            349         100.0
GOVERNMr FINANCE
General Goverr:ent                               Central Governent
iof GDP                 (Pesos M-n.)               of GDP
197       l96 19S-7                          1973          t1971    1972    1973
C,rrent Receipts                  ..         ,.         .                    6,989             8.9      8.3      9.8
Current Expenditure                                                                            8.0     7.6      8.4
Current Sulrplus                                                                                         ..97 7
Capital Expenditures              .,        ,.         .14405                                           1 6 5 2.C
Cxternal Asaistance (net)                                                      249                      07 -       4
MOIEY, SREDIT and PRICES                  1965         199            1970          1971           19?2        1975
(Million pesos outstanding end period)
"'ney and Quasi Money                     5,136        8,969        10,140         11,720         13,243      16,837
Bank credit to Public Sector                980        3,565         3,479          3,907          4,778       6,541
6ank credit to Private Sector             8,223       13,139        15,396         18,010         22,892      25,377
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Morney and Quasi Money as % of GDP         21.1         27.0          25.0           23.2           23.5        23.5
General 'rice Index (1965.100)            100.0        111. 4         137.7         159.3          175.3       218.4
AnnuAl percentage chances in:
General Price Index                         2.2          1.3           23.6          1S.7            10.0       214.6
Bank credt to Public Sector                            27.9 22.4                    1273      -    22.3        26.9
Bank credit to Private Sector                .           9.0          17.2           17.0           27.0        10.9
j No projections are provided in thiM swmex since existing projections are being revised,
constant 19bT prices.
-'Ota1 labor force; unenployed are allocated to sector of their normwl occupation. "Unallocated"
consists IsainlY of unemployed vorkers seeking their firstt job.
Based on "actual" figures from the "Cash Budget".   Data prior to 1971 not available.
'Counterpa?t funds from external cacmicdIty altd.
Economic mission estimates.
Covers credits  from all important financial  institutions.
.not available
not applicable



AM I
*PN 3 of 3 VWc
BA9AJC OF PAYXENTS                                      MRCIUNDISE  XPOR5S (AVE3.97l.7j-
(NiJ XI  us$)         Coconut Products      264.7      21.5
Sugar Produts         a44.3      i8.4
Fxpor.s of Goods, N?G3      i,597     1,432      2,445    Porest Products       314.3      23.7
:nports of Goods, NFS       1 422     I,AM       2 008   Mineral Products       254.0       19.2
Resuirce Gap (deficit  --)                                F 5  Pruits .nd other  87.7       6.6
agricultural products
Interest Payents (net)        -76       -92       -53    Other manufactures    140.7       10.6
Workers Remittances                                            TO tal, I, ,i
Other Factor Paywnts (not)  -2 4         3'        -60
Net tranSfers                 13! 4X 1                   EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEWIER 31. 197,   6J
Balance ztn C~urrent Accomtt    i.9     411       SSo
Direct Foreign Investwnt       -4       -22         77
Net MLT 3orrowing                                           Public Debt. incl. guaranteed   829.9
DisbursemuentS            5v        393        377     Non-Otusranteed Private Debt  1,041.0
mortization                         250        35      Total outstnding and
"'~ ut 1, " t              3                  42                          disbursed   1,870.9
Capit&' Grants
& her Capital (^net)s         ?.34       iS        -437/
Other items n.e.i.           -144      -106        -38     DEBT SERVICE RATIO EOR 1973
Increase in Reserves (+3   +  m                   3
-Gross Reserves (end year    524        735     1,416        Public Debt, incl. gus.eteed    7.9
Net Reserves (end year) Jq  o20          80       753        Non-guaranteed Private Debt     10.4
Tnt. Reserves (end year) -' 244         282       876       Total outstanding and
disbursed     18.3
Fuel and Related Mterials                                  TBRD/TA Ifl. March 31  1975   (MilLon US$)
iinpo'rts of Goods, NFS     1,422     1,514     2,0C8
of' wh.ich- Petroleum         141        1i7 18s
Outstanding and Disbursed 190.5        10.5
_E___________GE                                               Undisbursed.               373.2Z      21.7
Outstanding inel.
1965-69   1970-71                             uUndisur3ed   563.7                   3?.2
I 1.00   ps.    3.-2      6.43
.  1.oo00 . Us $   0.26       0.16
Since APril 1972
U4-. .o- Ps.   6.7A
1.00   US $   0.15
V In.elud*6 Sot s, short-term private loans, Central Bank liabilities and use of T31 credit.
g/ Errors nd missions.
Y/ nmclud*s n0c C010rclal bank holdlngs plus foreign exchange holdings of Central Basnk and   atr
gold. This entry to nouivealnt to the change in internattongl resorv*s.
/ tncluder Centrsl Bank and comrcial bank reserves.
O Gross reserves of Central BW* plus not reserves of cosnercial banks.
. Exceudes short-term debt and      standby credit and is on a disbursement basis.
.J Ratio or Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Faetor. Serrices.
not iavailable
not applicable



ANNEX II
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits to the Philippines
as of March 31. 1975
Loan or                                                       (US$ millions)
Credit                                                 Amount less Cancellations
Number    Year  Borrower           Purpose             Bank     IDA  Undisbursed
12 loans fully disbursed                               187.0
637-PH    1969 Republic of the   Irrigation             34.0              6.1
Philippines
720-PH    1971     "              Rice Processing       14.3             13.1
and Storage
731-PH    1971     "              First Highway          8.0              2.3
809-PH    1972 National Power    Power                  22.0             21.5
Corporation
296-PH    1972 Republic of the   Power                   -     10.0       2.0
Philippines
823-PH    1972    it              Livestock              7.5              5.4
349-PH    1973                    Second Education             12.7      12.4
891-PH    1973                    Fisheries             11.6             10.3
939-PH    1973                    Ports                  6.1              5.9
950-PH    1973                    Second Highway        68.0             55.7
472-PH    1974     "              Aurora - Penaranda
Irrigation                   9.5      7.3
984-PH    1974    i'                                     9.5              9.5
998-PH    1974                    DFC - DBPI            50.0             49.2
1010-PH   1974                    Third Rural Credit   22.0              16.8
1034-PH   1974 National Power    Power                  61.0             60.4
Corporation
1035-PH   1974 Republic of the   Population             25.0     -       25.0
Philippines
1048-PH   1974     "              Shipping              20.0     -       20.0
1052-PH   1974 Philippine         DFC                   30.0     -       30.0
National Bank
1080-PH   1975 Republic of the   Tarlac Irrigation    17.0       -       17.0
L  1975 Philippines
1102-PHL v;- 1975  "Rural Development    25.0                            25.0
618.0   32.2    394.9
of which has been repaid (Bank and 3rd Parties)         54.3    _
Total now outstanding                                  563.7   32.2
Amount sold                                    13.3
of which has been repaid (3rd parties)         12.1      1.2      -
Total now held by Bank and IDA (prior
to exchange rate adjustments)                        562.5   32.2
Total undisbursed                                      373.2   21.7    394.9
/a   Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 2
B.   Statement of IFC Investments in the Phili2ines as of Miarch 31  1975
(Amount US$ million)
Fiscal Year               Company                        Loan   Equity   Total
1963 & 1973  Private Development Corporation of the
Philippines                              15.0     4.4    19,4
1967         Manila Electric Company                      8.0      -       8.0
1967         Meralco Securities Corporation                -      4.0      4.0
1970         Philippine Long Distance
Telephone Company                         4.5      -       4.5
1970 & 1972  Mariwasa Manufacturing Inc.                  0.8     0.4      1.2
1970         Paper Industries Corporation
of the Philippines                         -      2.2      2.2
1971         Philippine Petroleum Corporation             6,2     1.8      8.0
1972         Marinduque Mining and Industrial
Corporation                              15.0      -      15.0
1973         Victorias Chemical Corporation               1.9     0.3      2.2
1974         Filipinas Synthetic Fiber Corporation    1.5          -       1.5
1974         Maria Christina Chemicals                    1.5       .5     2.0
1974         Republic Flour Mills Corporation             1.2      -       1.2
1975         Philippine Polyamide Industrial
Corporation                               7.0      _       7.0
Total                                    62.6    13.6    76.2
Less sold, acquired by others,
repaid or cancelled                14.1      7.1    21.2
Now held                                 48.5     6.5    55.0
Undisbursed                               8.7     0.1      8.8



ANNEX II
Page 3
C. ~~~~~~1/
C.   Projects in Execution-
Ln. No. 637-PH       Upper Pampanga River Irrigation; US$34.0 million Loan
of August 18, 1969; Closing Date: June 30, 1976
This is the first major irrigation project in the Philippines and
will supply water year-round to nearly all its 84,000 ha command area. The
project's on-farm development scheme is setting a pattern for future irriga-
tion development in the country. Despite some delays caused by the 1972
floods, the dam was commissioned on September 7, 1974 ahead of schedule. All
work is expected to be completed in 1975 and the loan entirely disbursed by
June 30, 1976, the Closing Date. Project costs have increased 40% over
appraisal estimates, largely as a result of rapid inflation, the effects of
successive devaluations of the peso, and design changes in the dam (which
accounted for nearly half the increase in costs). The increase in costs is
being financed by the Government. However, as a result of the close coor-
dination established between irrigation and agricultural supporting services,
the project is expected to reach full development in 7 years after comple-
tion of construction, instead of 13 years which was the appraisal estimate.
Also, nearly 7,000 ha have been added to the project, mostly by including
lands which were formerly under a private irrigation system. Finally, there
has been a considerable increase in the projected world market price of rice.
As a result, the rate of return estimate is now more favorable than at
appraisal.
Ln. No. 720-PH       Rice Processing and Storage; US$14.3 million Loan of
February 4, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1977
This project provides long-term credit through the Development
Bank of the Philippines to finance a program for the development and modern-
ization of the rice and corn processing industry. Originally the project
was restricted to rice and to the private sector, and the emphasis was on
the construction of new integrated rice mills with large capacities. Due
in part to poor harvests and in part to large cost increases for rice mills,
the demand for sub-loans for new integrated rice mills turned out to be
small, and, as expalined in the President's Memorandum dated June 8, 1972
(R72-40), the loan agreement was amended to shift the project emphasis to
rehabilitation of existing rice milling facilities. In spite of this the
project made little progress. The loan agreement was amended again in
1/  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evalua-
tion of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4
April, 1974 basically (i) to expand the scope of the project to include
corn in addition to rice, (ii) to enable local governments and the National
Grains Authority to borrow funds under the project, and (iii) to streamline
procurement procedures (President's memorandum SecM74-244 of April 15, 1974).
As a result of these amendments, the project is now progressing satisfactori-
ly and the loan is expected to be fully disbursed long before the revised
Closing Date,-June 30, 1977.
Ln. No. 731-PU       HighwaY;_US$8.0 million Loan of April 14, 1971;
Closing Date: -May 15, 1975
The project is financing the construction and improvement of the
Cotabato - Digos road in Mindanao (160 km.). Construction is only 55% com-
plete based on the original scope of works, the delay being mainly due to
civil disturbances and army activity on part of the road representing about
20% of the total roadworks. As there-is little chance of the contractor
being able to enter this area, the Bank has agreed to a Government proposal
to delete this stretch of the road from the contract and eventually execute
the work by force account; the undisbursed amount of the loan fund will be
applied to the balance of works which can be completed by contract. The
total project cost, allowing for the reduced scope of works, is still esti-
mated at US$15.8 million, the same as the appraisal estimate. Construction
progress is slightly behind the revised work schedule, which foresees com-
pletion by May 31, 1975. Consulting services for detailed engineering of
roads now constructed under the Second Highway Project (Loan 950-PH) were
completed in late 1973.  INDP financed road feasibility studies and a high-
way technical assistance program, which also form part of the project, were
completed in the same year. Technical assistance to the Department of Public
Highways is continuing with Bank financing under the Second Highway Project.
Ln. No. 809-PH and Fifth Power; US$22.0 million and US$10.0 million Loan
Cr. No. 296-PH       and Credit of Aril 3. 1972; Closing Date:  June 30, 1978
The project is helping the National Power Corporation (NPC) to
finance the construction of a second thermal unit of 150-MW at Bataan and
transmission facilities in Luzon. After initial delays, the project is
proceeding satisfactorily. Major equipment is being manufactured and the
unit is expected to be commissioned during the second quarter of 1976. Con-
struction work is continuing on 230 kV transmission lines. NPC's financial
situation has been improved by the imposition in July 1973 of a surcharge to
cover increased fuel costs. A further tariff increase was approved, effec-
tive July 1, 1974. But due to recent inflation this will not enable NPC to
achieve the covenanted rate of return of 8 percent. NPC is therefore still
considering another tariff increase in mid-1975.



ANNEX II
Page 5
Ln. No. 823-PH       Livestock; US$7.5 million Loan of May 25, 1972;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
The project is assisting Government in carrying out its livestock
development program through credit supervised by the Development Bank of the
Philippines. The start of DBP lending operations was delayed by about six
months because of late appointment of technical staff. Although sulz-loan
commitments were slow as a result of this, they are now improving, and all
funds are expected to be fully committed by December, 1975. The project
has expanded the agricultural credit capability of DBP into a new and
important field thus meeting a previously unsatisfied demand for small to
medium scale livestock development finance.
Cr. No. 471-PH       Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation; US$9.5 million Credit of
May 14, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Ln. No. 984-PH       Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation; US$9.5 million Loan of
May 14. 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The project is assisting the Government to rehabilitate and open up
25,300 hectares of land in Central Luzon for year round irrigation for rice
growing. It also provides for a study of irrigation development in Central
Luzon. The loan became effective on August 22, 1974. It is progressing
satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 998-PH       Industrial Investment and Smallholder Tree-farmers:
US$50.0 million Loan of June 12. 1974.
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The proceeds of the loan are being relent to the Development Bank
of the Philippines (DBP). The industrial portion of the loan (US$48 mil-
lion) is being used by DBP to make sub-loans to finance direct imports for
medium and relatively large industrial projects. DBP is using the balance
(US$2 million) to finance about 1,300 smallholders in a pilot tree-farming
project. The loan became effective on September 9, 1974. Since then,
commitments for sub-loans totalling $21.2 million have been made.
Ln. No. 1010-PH      Third Rural Credit; US$22.0 million Loan of June 17, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
The Central Bank relends the proceeds of the Loan (except for a
small amount for an evaluation study) to participating banks. These on-lend
the funds to farmers and rural entrepreneurs to finance investment in farm
mechanisation, on-farm transportation, farm support facilities and equip-
ment, coastal and inland fisheries, small-scale livestock development and
cottage-scale agro-industry. The project also provides for a review by
local experts of the first, second and third rural credit projects. The
loan became effective on August 27, 1974. It is progressing satisfactorily.



ANNEX II
Page 6
Ln. No. 1034-PH      Sixth Power: US$61.0 million Loan of July 31. 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
The project is helping the National Power Corporation (NPC) to
finance a 100MW hydro plant at Pantabangan and transmission lines for the
further expansion of the Luzon grid and feasibility studies by consultants
for a future power project. Major equipment for the plant has been con-
tracted and project commissioning is expected by the end of 1976. The
transmission system expansion is also proceeding satisfactorily. NPC raised
its tariff on July 1, 1974 to meet the covenanted rate of return of 8 percent.
But due to recent inflation NPC will not be able to achieve this. NPC is
therefore still considering another tariff increase in mid-1975.
Cr. No. 349-PH       Secon=dEducation; US$12.7 million Credit-of January 5,
1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1976
The project is assisting Government to improve such areas as educa-
tion planning, management and curriculum development, science teacher
training, and training of technicians, skilled craftsmen and farmers. The
project is currently a few months behind schedule, but the delay is being
reduced through action by the project unit on civil works, designs and
equipment procurement. The project is expected to be completed on schedule.
Current problems include unexpected cost overruns (42% higher than the
original estimate), difficulty in introducing reforms in admissions, and
quality standards of project agricultural colleges. The government has
agreed to finance overruns and is considering steps to solve the other prob-
lems. Disbursements are expected to start in the second half of FY75 and
remain ahead of, or on, schedule until project completion.
Lin. No. 891-PH      Fisheries; US$11.6 million Loan of May 21, 1973;
Closinlg Date: Junle 30, 1979
This project is designed to provide long term credit to the private
sector through the Development Bank of the Philippines for marine and inland
fisheries development.  The loan became effective on December 5, 1973.  The
demand for loans is adequate, and the organization to implement them has
been properly established. The project is progressing satisfactorily, and
all funds are expected to be fully committed by December, 1975.
Ln. No. 939-PH       Second Portsi US$6.1 million Loan of October 24, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31. 1977
This project provides for the rehabilitation and expansion of the
ports of General Santos and Cagayan de Oro in the island of Mindanao.  Bids
for the civil works for both ports were opened on November 22, 1974, with
only one bid received for each port. Bidding results for the works at
Cagayan de Oro were substantially higher than the appraisal cost estimates
and the consultants' estimate of August 1974. The works at Cagayan de Oro
have been re-bid and a contract is expected to be awarded by the end of



ANNEX II
Page 7
May, 1975. The start of construction is expected to be delayed. The works
at General Santos are in their initial phase of mobilization.
Ln. No. 950-PH       Second Highway; US$68.0 million Loan of December 12,
1973; Closing Date: December 31.- 1977
The project is helping the Government to implement its program of
construction, improvement and rehabilitation of highways and feeder roads,
by financing the construction, improvement and rehabilitation of 1400 kms.
of roads in Luzon. Work has begun on all fourteen contracts, ten of which
were awarded to local contractors. In line with world-wide inflation, costs
have increased sharply during the past 12 months, but price adjustments are
being awarded to contractors by the Government to offset the sharp rises in
costs of basic materials, fuels and labor. The UNDP financed Road Feasi-
bility Studies (Phase II), for which the Bank is Executing Agency, are
progressing satisfactorily and a possible Third Highway project has already
been identified. Execution of other minor project items is proceeding
generally on schedule.
Ln. No. 1035-PH      Population; US$25.0 million Loan of July 31, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project is assisting the Government in expanding rural health
infrastructure, staff training facilities, and research and communications
capacity. This will help the Philippines achieve their long-term goal of
fertility reduction. It is progressing satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1048-PH      Inter-Island Shipping; US$20 million Loan of October 29,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The Government is relending the proceeds of the loan to the De-
velopment Bank of the Philippines for onlending to beneficiaries for the
acquisition of new and used ships and for major repairs and conversions.
The loan became effective on January 15, 1975. It is progressing satis-
factorily.
Ln. No. 1052-PH      Private Development Corporation of the Philippines;
US$30 million Loan of November 12, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The project assists in the financing of industrial sub-projects
in the Philippines, the bulk of which are expected to go to export-oriented
manufacturing projects. The loan became effective on February 7, 1975.
Ln. No. 1080-PH      Tarlac Irrigation; US$17.0 million Loan of January 27,
1975: Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project will assist the Government to improve and expand
34,000 hectares of land in Central Luzon for wet season irrigation for rice
growing. It will also provide for a ground water pilot scheme, a water



ANNEX II
Page 8
management training program and a national irrigation systems improvement
study.  The loan became effective on April 27, 1975.
Ln. No. 1102-PH     Rural Development: US$25.0 million Loan of April 16,
1975; Closing Date: June 30. 1981
The project will assist the Government to carry out a rural
development project on the island of Mindoro, which will include infra-
structure and irrigation improvements, and ecological and health improve-
ment measures. The Loan Agreement was signed on April 16, 1975. It is
expected to be effective before July 31, 1975.



ANNEX III
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            The Republic of the Philippines.
Beneficiaries:       Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP), Industrial
Guarantee Loan Fund (IGLF) administered by the Central
Bank (CB), National Electrification Administration (NEA)
and Department of Industry (DOI).
Amount:              US$30 million equivalent.
Terms:               The loan would be for a term of 16 years, including
a grace period of 4 years and at an interest rate
of 8-1/2% per annum.
Relending Terms:    The Government would relend $15 million of the proceeds
of the loan to DBP, $12 million to IGLF, and $2.3 million
to NEA on the same terms as those of the Bank. Sub-loans
to ultimate borrowers would be for terms of up to 12
years, including a grace period of up to 2 years and
at an interest rate of 12% per annum.
Project              The proposed loan would be used by DBP and IGLF to
Description:         finance fixed assets and permanent working capital
for a wide range of small and medium industries sub-
projects in manufacturing, agro-industries, transport-
ation services, small engineering facilities, and small
construction industries. It would be used by NEA to
finance the establishment of 24 industrial producer
cooperatives and by the DOI to establish 7 Regional
Technical Assistance Centres (RTACs) to provide
technical assistance to small industries.



ANNEX III
Page 2
Elpject                                   $ Millions
Cos ts:
Entrepreneurs        GOP/Agency         IBRD        Total
DBP             5.0               5.0             15.0         25.0
IGLF            4.0               4.0              12.0        20.0
NEA             0.75              0.75              2.3         3.8
RTAC             -                0.8              0.7           1.5
Total           9.75             10.55            30.0         50.3
Financing Plan:      The Bank loan would finance 60% of total project costs,
the estimated total foreign exchange cost, the financial
institution 20% and the entrepreneur (or cooperative) 20%.
Procurement:         All goods and services to be financed by the proposed
loan would be procured in accordance with the established
procedures of the agencies concerned.
Estimated            The proposed loan would be committed over 2 years and
Disbursements:       disbursed over 4 years.
Appraisal Report:   Report No. 667A-PH, dated April 18, 1975,
East Asia and Pacific Projects Department.



118                              1 20-                             I02                               124                              120
HEAD OFFICE
M AN LA                                                                                                                    PHILIPPINES
LUZON BRANCHES                                               -                                                DEVELOPMENT BANK
L o.. Oo                                                     OF THE PHILIPPINES
-18. - ~~Colcon  '8-
DoeS
-    D.ger                                                   j*                     T (s'   -
_    Dogopon                                                                      0 Tf  -  ,lgoogoroo                                 Bronbnes
Isobelo (llagar'I                      ~.                              =                                                         Aooncres
<   zoag   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~         >._-:- ,   =7        agarl                                      -  P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~roq,rco Bojecor es
so-g                                                                              0-d-
-egoopi                                                          =
= R PLerlo Frieces,                                 ;I0                                                                5 t. 0X1g0t ;=  l    100    10  200  250
S-n Jose                                                                                                                       rK  METERS
_|   Tugueoo                                         -           Bo1omi ornc ~  o'                              (                 MILES
VISAYAS BRANCHES                                    - n- so
-ccoloc
Coormorrar .'3 I
Cebu                                             F- T0Elac   iCrslnooLs                                             -l '
Dresogoere                                          -r          ~  4                                                     ci
Ilolola'                                                      ,       IN
N
Kalibo                                               J*,           _
Roses                                           Bao.,o  C 0
ToE 0ob                                                 MANILA3
Tagboloron                               R                   
MINDANAO  BRANCHES                                         -                                    -0Doer
Butuon                                                                     0 uea_
Cogoson de Or                        ()
Cotobolo     r                                            X                   r_ t                    O  ogVI
Davaa                                                  - - -  -F    CoIopaoe        \                                     Virac n
)ipolog                                                                            - ,                     Legosp
Ifig- n                                                              =r.X,4                                           o
pwgod-
Gene-al Saniss   \   \' \           . t=                                            \          Cata-man                    z~~~~~~Sosoge  op
E aonZ-b-o                                                 - '  Sa Jose0  I 9osgoe t
-12       t                     |;  \                                                                  CotbalogaOn      w\                                12-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  1-
r~~~~ ~~ *'>                                                                             paib
7'TOab        ooxas                                      FF ~o Barongon
L-'   t   i  ~ ~~~~T b'- \\
A\                                                                                                               00--- ~   ~   1    Taclob :n \ l
ooS Jose 0'   >J           bOEoFod
0
0                                                                                '
0
O1`En W-ceso                                                                             /S-rgee a
0~~~~~~~
X .                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DomuersJee
G   0~ ~ ~~0oro
S              5            SEA                                                                  g    Butuor
D.poIog0              deg Oon            
-a- ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ./h0O0F-hult.m8                               Z--                     'F-F-z   <  Molo0boaloy I                  8
'ogodOF-s     F'I.go. -
__ _ __ _ __ _ __ _ _ __ _ __ _ __ _ _                                                              ,  -  l o l                                                  M onloyo
C HINA    rA-15Ctloo0Doo                                                                                                                                                    -
TAIWAN                                                                     /                            Catsboto o                   1l   O      -~' Mob
0 ~ ~ ~ ~  
-20                            C C FA N2C-                                                      Bordean0                                                              DFgo5
; o v z Y                                                                                                 OMa~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ssrbel,
C 0/N 4       L UZ ON                                                               s                                            
PHILIPPINES                                                     ~~                                                         see S ,nEos"
SOUTH                                      -6-                                                                                                     '                 /                        o-
VIENAM                      VISAOAS 
.  .  .elS .                                                                                                                                              7
_._ Iniel.O .... >nal MtNDANAO C F A F @ F 5 S F A W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lgdl 
ERUNEi5     "s .                                                                                                                                                                       =
MAlAYSiA ts'   INOEI-151                                                                         122                                  t24-                                I2-                0 _.
C HIDONNAA                 /SF



