Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
teport No. 6907-UNI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
November 11, 1987
Western Africa Department
Population and Human Resources Division
This document has a restrcted distibution and may be used by recpies only in the peronnmace of
their offici dudes. Its contents my not othendwse be dicosed without Wodd Bank uhorizafion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Naira (N)
US$1 - N4.00 1/
1/ Second-tier foreign exchange market (SFEM) rates have been fluctuating
around US$1 - N4 since SFEM was introduced in September 1986.
MEASURES
Im - 1.09 yd.
1m2 - 10.76 sq. ft.
1km2 - 0.38 sq. mi.
1 hectare - 2.47 acres
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
FME   - Federal Ministry of Education
FTC   - Federal Technical College
HND   - Higher National Diploma
ICB   - International Competitive Bidding
ITF   - Industrial Training Fund
LCB   - Locr-1 Competitive Bidding
NBTE  - National Board for Techiical Education
ND    - National Diploma
ODA   - Overseas Development Administration
P0    - Project Office
TTC   - Technical Teachers Certificate
TVSED - Technical, Vocational and Science Education Division
FISCAL YEAR                                    ACADEMIC YEAR
(Post-Secondary)
January 1 - December 31                             October - June



FOR OmCIAL U   ONLY
REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
page
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN THE PROJECT FILE ...............o..........       iii-iv
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY         ........................................  v-vii
I.   INTRODUCTION                                                             I.......^  ..... 
II. THE TECHNICAL/VOCATIONAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING
SUB-SECTOR      I..............................................          1
Ao  The Issues        I...........................................       1
1. Labor Market Requirements ..      ........................      2
2. Quality and Efficiency of Technical/Vocational
Education and Training .............................           2
3. Financial Constraints  o........o.......o...............        3
4. Technical/Vocational Education Planning and
Management        .........................................     3
B.   Government Strategy for Technical/Vocational
Education Development ..... .....    ......................       5
C.   The Bank Group's Role in Educational Development *0....             5
III. THE PROJECT ......................*..*   ................. ..            7
A.   Project Objectives and Description . .... oo..oo.........           7
1. Improving Quality and EffIciency ..... ............             7
2. Strengthening Planning, Management and
Coordination ......       ................................    10
B.   Project Costs and Financing Plan .       .....................     11
C.   Project Implementation eo.........................o**..            14
1. Project Preparation and Execution ........ o..*.....           14
2. Procurement o     oooo..................................o.....  14
3. Disbursements  ...    oo............................. .        16
4. Accounting, Auditing and Reporting      .................      17
IV.  PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS  o................**.........*.*...          17
V.   AGREEMENTS RUACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .o.......... .........           18
This report is based on the findings of a preparation and an appraisal
mission that visited Nigeria in October 1986 and March-April 1987,
respectively. The missions consisted of M. Wodajo (senior educator, mission
leader), G. Ward (senior technical educator, British Councils consultant)
N. Fish (equipment specialist, consultant), G. Nzekwu (economist, Resident
Mission, Lagos) and C. Hoppy (editor/operations assistant). The report was
prepared by Mr. Wodajo, with the assistance of Ms. Hoppy. A. Joseph and
L. Rouse assisted in processing the report.
TMi document has a rtezted dbtributon and may be used by rcpients only In the pUfMom
of their offcial dutie& Its contents may not otherwis be discosed without Wodd lank authorzton.



- ii -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
ANNEXES
1-1  Basic Data
2-1  Comparative Education Indicators
2-2  The Technical and Vocational Education and Training Sub-Sector
2-3  Structure of the Education and Training System
2-4  Organization Chart of the Federal Ministry of Education
2-5  Structure of Unemployment, 1983-1986
2-6  Analysis of Recurrent Budget:  Federal Polytechnic - Bida (1986)
2-7  Analysis of Recurrent Budget - Federal Polytechnic, Mubi (1986)
2-8 Recurrent Expenditures of the Federal Government for Education,
1981-1985
2-9  Capital Expenditures of the Federal Government for Education, 1981-1985
2-10 National Board for Technical Education, Functions and Organization Chart
2-11 Level of Cost-Sharing, Federal Polytechnic, Bida
2-12 Enrollment and Output in Federal Polytechnics, 1983-86
3-1  The Federal Polytechnics
3-2  The Federal Technical College
3-3  National Diploma (ND) and Higher National Diploma (HND) Programs
Approved for Each of the Four Polytechnics
3-4  Advanced Crafts Programs
3-5  Qualifications of Lecturing Staff of Federal Polytechnics and Federal
Technie-al College, Academic Year: 1986, Niriber of Staff by Highest
Qualification Obtained (all in GL.07 - G.L.16)
3-6  Impact of Efficiency Measures on Enrollment and Unit Costs
3-7  Summary Accounts Cost Summary
3-8  Summary Account by Project Component
3-9  Project Cost Summary
3-10 Project Components by Year
3-11 Summary Accounts by Year
3-12 Implementation Schedule
3-13 Project Office Organization Chart
3-14 Technical Assistance Requirements
3-15 Disbursement Profile
Map: IBRD 20621R



- iii -
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
Ref.                                                                  Document
NO.                                                                     Code
1.     Standards for the Accreditation of Diploma Programs       D05201
ih Polytechnics and Similar Post-Secondary Technical
Institutions, National Board for Technical Education,
Kaduna, 1980.
2.     Fourth National Development Plan 1981-85, Volume 1,       32455
The National Planning Office, Federal Ministry of
National Planning, Lagos, January 1981.
3.     National Policy on Education (Revised), Federal           224.950
Ministry of Education, Lagos, 1981.
4.     Technical Education and Training, the British             D05216
Council, Report on a Visit to Nigeria by Mel Crofton
and Clive Chapman, London, 12 - 24 June, 1983.
Nigeria's Manpower Requirements, 1981, National Man-
5.     power Board, Federal Ministry of National Planning,       224.953
1984.
6.     Digest of Statistics on Technical Education in            D05202
Nigeria: 1983-1984, National Board for Technical
Education, Kaduna, December 1984.
7.     Federal Republic of Nigeria, Industrial Manpower          BR No. 4055-UNI
Training, Sub-Sector Memorandum, World Bank, October
25, 1982.
8.     Review of the Institutional Framework for the Manage-    ED Sector B/R
ment of the Education Sector, World Bank,
February 12, 1985.
9.     Nigeria: Education Sector Expenditure Review, Charles    ED Sector B/R
Benson (consultant), World Bank, July 1985.
10.     Statistics of Education in Nigeria: 1980-1984,            D05266
Federal Ministry of Education, 1985 Edition.
11.     Federal Republic of Nigeria, Official Gazette, Vol.       UNI - Laws and
7., No. 43, Decree No. 16, Education (National            Decrees
Minimum Standards and Establishment of Institutions),
Lagos, August 20, 1985.



- iv -
Ref.                                                                 Docume"t
No.                                                                    Code
12.    Nigeria: Technical Colleges, Report on a Visit to          D05203
Nigeria by G. Ward, British Council (TETOC Group), 5
- 15 January 1986, Londtd, 1986.
13.    Technical Education and Training: Report on a Visit        D05204
to Nigeria by G. Ward, British Council, February 9 -
Narch 1, 1986 London, 1986.
14.     1984 Graduate Employment Tracer Study, National Man-      D05205
power Board, Federal Ministry of National rlanning,
Lagos, March 1986.
15.    Wages and Employment in Nigeria by A. R. Khan, World       Other Sector B/R
Bank, Country Policy Department, February 1986.
16.    The Nigerian Labor Market in the Oil Slump by Paul         Other Sector B/R
Collier and Luis Riveros, World Bank, December 1986.
17.    The Federal Polytechnic Mubi, Annual Report 1986,          D05206
Mubi, Gongola State, 1986.
18.    Project Proposal prepared by the Federal Ministry of       D00442
Education for a Technical Education Project, Lagos,
1986.
19.    Report on a Workshop on Equipment Selection and            D05207
Specification Writing held at Huddersfield
Polytechnic, Jdne 2-19, 1987, British Council
(TETOC Group), 1987.
20.     The Directory of Technical and Technological              D05208
Institutions in Nigeria: 1983-1984, National Board
for Technical Education, Kaduna, Undated.



PEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      Federal Republic of Nigeria
Beneficiary:   Federal Ministry of Education
Loan Amount:   US$23.3 million equivalent
Terms:         20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard variable
interest rate.
Project
Description:   The project aims to:  (a) upgrade the quality and efficiency
of selected Federal technical training institutions; and
(b) strengthen ifistitutional capability for planning and
coordinating technical education. To achieve the first objec-
tive, the project would assist four Federal polytechnics and the
Federal Technical College, Yaba, by strengthening the academic
and practical training of the staff, providing basic workshop
equipment and instructional materials, and providing technical
assistance to commission and develop workshop and laboratory
facilities and to fill specific gaps in the teaching staff. To
strengthen institutional capability for planning and coordinating
technical and vocational education and training, the project
*ould assist the National Board for Technical Education (NBTE),
the Federal Ministry of Education and the Project Office in
upgrading their capability for curriculum development, statis-
tical analysis, monitoring educational standards and equipment
procurement.



- vi -
Summary of Project Cost Estimates 1/
Local        Foreign        Total
…- --- (US  million)
1. Improving the quality and efficiency
of middle-level technical
Institutions.
Provision of equipment, instruc-
tional materials, technical assis-
tance and fellowships for four
Federal polytechnics and the Federal
Technical College, Yaba.                      2.5          20.9           23.4
2.  Strengthening management of tech-
nical and vocational education.
Provision of equipment, technical
assistance and fellowships for the
National Board for Technical Edu-
cation, the Technical, Vocational
and Science Education Division of
the Federal Ministry of Education
and the Project Office.                       0.5           0.7            1.2
Base Costs                                    3.0          21.6          24.6
Physical Contingencies                        0.3           2.0           2.3
Price Contingencies                           0.1           0.9           1.0
Total Project Costs                                3.4         24.5           27.9
Financing Plan
IBRD                                           -           23.3          23.3
ODA (UK)                                       -            1.2           1.2
Government                                    3.4            -            3.4
Total                                         3.4          24.5          27.9
Estimated Loan Disbursements:
IBRD Fiscal Year
89        90       91        92        93        94         95
Annual         6.98       5.82     4.66     3.49       1.16      0.70      0.49
Cumulative     6.98      12.80    17.46    20.95      22.11     22.81     23.30
1/ There are no taxes or duties on project items.



- vii -
Economic Rate
of Return:          Not applicable
Project Benefits
and Risks:          The project's principal benefits consist in improving the
quality and efficiency of the instructional program at four
Federal polytechnics and one Federal Technical College,
expanding enrollment in technical/industrial fields at
reduced costs, and in strengthening management and coordina-
tion of technical and vocational education. The project
would also provide the Bank with an opportunity to assist
the Government through initiating a policy dialogue in the
sector. The project's potential risk lies in the lack of
experience in project implementation in the Federal Ministry
of Education. To reduce this risk, the status of the
Project Office and the project manager have been elevated,
giving the latter more authority to make decisions on most
project implementation questions, as well as better access
to the highest authority levels on policy matters. Also,
the project focuses on only five Federal institutions, thus
avoiding the geographical and institutional dispersion
problems that characterized previous projects.
Western Africa Department
Population and Human Resources Division
November 1987



FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1       The Government of the Federal Republic of Nigeria has requested Bank
assistance in financing a program to provide assistance to five technical insti-
tutions, to the National Board for Technical Education (NBTE), the Federal
Ministry of Education's Technical, Vocational and Science Education Division
(TVSED) and the Project Office. The education and training of middle-level tech-
nical manpower is critical to Nigeria's program of structural adjustment away
from heavy dependence on oil and towards a diversified industrial and service
economy, supported by an agricultural sector which again becomes a net exporter
of food products. In Nigeria, as in other African countries, the role of the
public sector in the training of technical manpower is crucial as the private
sector is not yet sufficiently developed to assume the entire responsibility. In
addressing the need for trained middle-level technical manpower, the proposed
project is designed to improve the quality and efficiency of technical manpower
by assisting five Federal technical institutions to: (a) upgrade the academic
and practical skills of the teaching staff; and (b) improve the content of the
instructional program. The project would also assist in strengthening management
and coordination of technical and vocational education by (c) providing assis-
tance to the Project Office, NBTE and TVSED. The total project cost (including
contingencies) is estimated at US$27.9 million equivalent; the Government would
contribute the local costs of about US$3.4 million equivalent, leaving US$24.5
million to be externally financed. The Overseas Development Administration (ODA)
has agreed to finance portions of the technical assistance and fellowship costs,
on a grant basis, estimated at US$1.2 million equivalent. A Bank loan of US$23.3
million equivalent is proposed to finance the remaining foreign exchange costs.
1.2       During the past decade the Nigerian Government has made major strides
in developing its social and economic infrastructure assisted by immense oil
revenues. The sharp drop in oil prices in recent years, however, has clearly
illustrated Nigeria's economic vulnerability. Directly related to the recognized
need to diversify the country's economic structure and increase productivity is
the critical problem of developing human resources. With large Federal sub-
sidies, Nigeria embarked upon a program of Universal Primary Education (UPE) in
1976. Irrespective of the program's quality, the expansion of primary education
has been impressive, particularly in the northern states where enrollment rates
have nearly doubled. Similarly, the Government has invested heavi'v in
university-level education: the number of universities has increased from 12 a
decade ago to 24 at present. However, virtually all the state and Federal tech-
nical institutions that were launched during the heyday of the oil boom, have yet
to be completed and operate at full capacity. The Basic Data Sheet is in
Annex 1-1.
Il. THE TECHNICAL/VOCATIONAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING SUB-SECTOR
A.   The Issues
2.1       There are several issues to be addressed in the sub-s3ctor:  labor
market requirements in the context of the current economic climate; quality'and
efficiency of technical/vocational education and training; financial constraints;
and technical/vocational planning and management.  Annex 2-1/provides a table of



Comparative Education Indicators, showing how N!geria compares with other
countries. A description of the present system of technical education and
training appears in Annex 2-2. Annex 2-3 provides an organization chart of the
structure of the education and training system. Annex 2-4 contains an
organization chart of the Federal Ministry of Education
1.   Labor Market Requirements
2.2       Statistical information on labor market requirements in Nigeria is very
weak making it difficult to reliably forecast the job/skills market, particularly
in the context of the current difficult economic climate. While the 1950e and
1960s were characterized by high, stable economic growth rates and low inflation,
the 1970s and early 1980s were marked by a decline in growth performance and
increase in inflation, further exacerbated by the impact of the oil slump. How-
ever, there are already preliminary indications that the Government's structural
adjustment program, and, in .,articular, the introduction of the Second-tier
Foreign Exchange Market (SFEM) in late 1986 has given a large boost to exports,
thereby helping to forestall further increases in unemployment.
2.3       Recent surveys of urban unemployment since the oil slump indicate that
overall urban unemployment rose from 7.3% in 1983 to 11.9% in July 1986. How-
ever, this average conceals the unemployment rates of various sub-groups. When
disaggregated by level of education, unemployment rates were in excess of 402 for
secondary school leavers, but only 8.7% for university and polytechnic graduates.
This latter figure, however, overestimates unemployment emong polytechnic
graduates because it includes graduates of social sciences and humanities (about
50% of those enrolled in polytechnics are in business/management) who usually
find it more difficult to obtain jobs. An informal Bank study: "Nigerian Labor
Market in the Oil Slump," concludes that "the unemployment problem is almost
entirely one of young secondary school leavers," and whatever graduate unemploy-
ment exists is fundamentally the result of an oversuptily of graduates with less
marketable skills, i.e. humanities. In recent years, however, university output
has stabilized. Similarly, recent interviews with employers indicate that the
shortage of foreign exchange and of imported inputs were largely responsible for
the decline in industrial output and the widespread retrenchment of the indus-
trial labor force. The introduction of the second-tier foreign exchange market
combined with the Government's recent trade liberalization policies should, in
effect, stimulate industrial output .nd generate a favorable climate for
expanding employment. Annex 2-5 contains a summary of the structure of unemploy-
ment, 1983-1986.
2.4       Supply/demand imbalances.  The present ratios of training for high
middle : lower-level manpower (i.e. engineers : technicians : craftsmen) are
approaching 1:1:2 rather than a more "normal" ratio of 1:4:20. Within the poly-
technics, training in science/technology programs is about 50% (the Federal
Ministry of Education plans to increase this to 60-70%); the remaining students
are enrolled in business/management programs. Thus, the most acute shortage is
at the middle and lower levels, which are precisely the levels addressed by this
project.
2.   Quality and Efficiency of Technical/Vocational Educavion and Training
2.5       There is general acceptance that practical training is the main area of
weakness in polytechnics and technical colleges. Among the fact3rs responsible
for this situation are: shortages of consumable materials, library books and
spare parts; inadequate equipment in workshops and laboratories to provide
students with hands-on training; and lecturing staff who frequently lack indus-



- 3 -
trial experience and adequate qualifications. A major constraint to improving
the technical education and training system is the shortage of adequately trained
teachers and instructors, both in terms of quantity and quality. Teachers with
up-to-date technical skills and experience are scarce, in part because ivdivi-
duals with such backgrounds command higher remuneration outside the teaching
profession.
2.6       Budgetary austerity at Federal and state levels since 1981 has resulted
in: severe cutbacks in non-wage instructional costs; discontinued capital
projects (including classrooms, workshops and laboratories) so that many poly-
technics are presently housed in semi-completed buildings or on "temporary"
sites; a shortage of qualified teaching staff having professional training and
practical, industrial experience; and weak institutional management and organi-
zation, manifested by uneconomically small enrollments and an inadequate utili-
zation of staff, equipment and facilities. As a result, most of the 10 existing
Fede-al polytechnics are operating under-capacity with extremely high overhead
and .dministrative costs in proportion to teaching costs. The recurrent budget
of these institutions approximates the following: academic staff salary - 32%;
administrative and auxiliary staff salary - 33%; overhead costs - 35%, of which
instructional materials account for 2%. Thus, only 34X of the recurrent cost is
devoted to instructional purposes, reflecting the inefficiency of the system.
The Government is well aware of the need to gradually trim down non-essential
personnel. Annexes 2-6 and 2-7 provide details on the structure of the recurrent
budget for two of the project institutions, Federal Polytechnic (Bida) and
Federal Polytechnic (Mubi).
3.   Financial Constraints
2.7       The sharp deciine in the price of oil in the international market has
resulte  in deep cuts in the Federal Government's financial allocation to the
education sector. Education's share of the total Federal recurrent budget
dropped from 21% in 1981 to 15% in 1985. Actual expenditure has been less than
budgetary allocations, thus further reducing the funds available for equipment
and consumables. Education's share of the total Federal capital budget was cut
from about 7% in 1981 to 2% in 1985. The effects of cutbacks in capital outlays
can be readily observed in incomplete construction projects, deterioration of
plants and equipment, and the accumulation of debts to contractors. A signi-
ficant portion of the capital expansion projects for laboratories anI workshops
(as well as for classrooms, student hostels and staff housing) initiated after
1980 have been abandoned in various stages of completion as capital account funds
dried up. The country is now replete with technical education establishments
which have incomplete facilities for practical science and skills training.
Similarly, the staggering decline in recurrent expenditure has inevitably
resulted in major cutbacks in virtually all non-wage expenditures, which now
stand at roughly one-fifth of their 1981 level in real terms. Instructional
materials, supplies, spare parts and replacement equipment essential for
practical skills training have borne a disproportionate share of these cutbacks.
In turn, these costs have inevitably affected the quality of instruction and
skill training offered by the institutions. Annexes 2-8 and 2-9 give the
recurrent and capital budgets of FME, respectively, for 1981-1985.
4.   Technical/Vocational Education Planning and Management
2.8       Given the size of the country and the complkxity of the Governmental
organization, strengthening educational administration and improving its effi-
ciency would be a major undertaking. Since independence new states have been
created and there has been a massive expansion of the school svstem. As a



- 4 -
result, the Federal and state ministries of education are overstretched and
finding it increasingly difficult to run even the day-to-day administrative
machinery. In particular, the information system required to support decision
making and long term planning is weak. Consequently, policy planning, to the
extent that it is practiced, is not yet fully integrated into the system and
relies heavily on special ad hoc committees and commissions. These problems are
compounded by state and local governments, many of which are comparatively new
and still being organized. The majority of technical/vocational institutions are
state-owned: the Federal Government owns and operates 1 technical college, 10
polytechnics and 2 colleges of education (technical), while the states own and
operate 119 technical colleges, 17 polytechnics, 6 colleges of education and
about 50 other vocational schools. In technical/vocational institutions the lack
of appropriate staff development programs, and weak management and coordination
is manifested by: (a) uneconomically small enrollments in programs requiring
highly specialized and costly equipment; (b) time utilization rates of labora-
tories and workshops and their constituent equipment -- the most costly elements
of technical education programs -- which may approach only half of a reasonably
acceptable use level (about 70% of the school day); and (c) ad hoc procurement of
equipment and spare parts, and the absence of standardized specifications contri-
buting to costly maintenance. The country's institutional capability to plan,
manage and further develop technical education needs to be strengthened.
2.9       The National Board for Technical Education (NBTE).  NBTE, a Federal
Government statutory body, was created in 1977 and entrusted with the overall
planning, coordination and certification of all post-secondary technical/voca-
tional institutions at the Federal and state levels. Through the Education
Decree (National Minimum Standards and Establishment of Institutions) of 1985 it
also has powers to accredit polytechnics and to enforce minimum standards cover-
ing criteria such as class size, student-teacher ratios, length of the academic
year, laboratories/workshops equipment, and supervised industrial attachment.
NBTE is also the channel for donor assistance to technical education, and
provides support for the Technical, Vocational and Science Education Division of
FME. Since its establishment, the technical education sub-sector has seen sub-
stantial development, including the establishment of 9 of the 10 Federal poly-
technics. However, due to the same problems afflicting other Nigerian insti-
tutions, mainly insufficient funds, serious staff shortages and the lack of
adequate staff training and development programs, the Board has not been effec-
tive in performing some of its functions. It has, nevertheless, accompli'hed
some useful work in restructuring the National Diploma (ND) and the Higher
National Diploma (HND) programs, and in developing modular curricula for craft
courses. Additionally, NBTE, in close collaboration with industry and the
Industrial Training Fund (ITF para 2.12), is developing a network of organiza-
tions which can provide industrial attachment for polytechnic stu'dents.
Annex 2-10 provides details on the structure and functions of the NBTE.
2.10      The Technical, Vocational and Science Education Division (TVSED).
TVSED is one of the principal divisions in the Federal Ministry of Education
(FME) responsible for policy formulation, planning and development, and the
financing of technical/vocational institutions directly under its jurisdiction.
The activities of the Division are directly related to technical colleges/voca-
tional training centers and technical teacher training colleges, and, through
NBTE, to the polytechnics. The Division is responsible for the operation of the
Federal Technical College at Yaba, two Federal Colleges of Education (Technical),
and for evaluating and policymaking in respect to technical education and voca-
tional training in the country. The current Director of TVSED is an ex-officio
member of NBTE, thereby providing an important link between the two institutions.



-5-
B. Government Stracegy for Technical/Vocational Education Development
2.11      The Government's strategy on education is contained in the National
Policy on Education, issued in 1977 and revised in 1981. The policy assigns
first priority to universal primary education; technical education is the second
priority. In 1981 the Government introduced a 6-3-3-4 educational structure,
along with curriculum reforms requiring the teaching of pre-vocational subjects
in all lower secondary schools and to a lesser extent in upper secondary schools.
While the Government gives high priority to this reform, due to the recurrent
cost implications and the capital expenditures involved, it now appears that
immediate implementation of the reform nationwide is unlikely.
2.12      Strategy features.  While the Government has publicly announced that in
the future some new technical institutions may be established, in the short-term
the main thrust of the strategy related to technical education is to: (a) rehabi-
litate and upgrade the quality of existing institutions; (b) gradually complete,
on a selective basis, essential facilities that had been left unfinished;
(c) strengthen the NBvE to plan, coordinate and establish standards for devel-
oping technical and vocational education; and (d) further support the ITF, which
was established in 1977 to finance apprenticeship schemes in industry and is
replenished by a 1% payroll tax on industry. Since the emphasis of the Govern-
ment's strategy is on revitalization of the system rather than on expansion, it
constitutes a good beginning. However, to keep the sector on a good financial
footing, the scope for increasing cost recovery should be pursued vigorously. As
in other post-secondary institutions, the Government has phased out student
feeding and students are now responsible for the full cost of food. In addition,
students pay a variety of fees totaling N270 per year. Overall, students are
responsible for approximately 30% of unit recurrent costs (including feeding
costs), which is probably the highest contribution existing in any country in the
region.   Still, the policies for cost sharing and cost recovery need to be
gradually expanded to include, in particular, the full cost of housing, and
portions of the cost of instructional materials. In addition, there is need to
consolidate inefficient programs among and within institutions, and develop
centers of excellence to avoid duplication of costly programs. Annex 2-11
summarizes the proportion of costs shared by students. Annex 2-12 contains
enrollment and output from the Federal polytechnics for 1983-1986.
2.13      A review of the national provision for technical teacher training was
recently submitted to the Government. The report places greater emphasis on the
wider establishment of the Technical Teachers' Certificate (TTC) courses in the
polytechnics. The proposed project would be in line with this strategy through
increasing the output of Advanced Craft level trainees for TTC programs in two
Federal polytechnics (para 3.9).
C.   The Bank Group's Role in Educational Development
2.14      To date, the Bank has had a limited role in Nigeria's educational
development. The Bank Group has financed three projects in education, all of
which are now completed, for US$91.3 million. These projects were aimed at:
redressing the regional imbalance in educational opportunities at the secondary
level; diversifying the secondary school curriculum; training secondary school
teachers; helping relieve the shortage of technical manpower; and rehabilitating
schools damaged during the civil war in eastern Nigeria. The First Education
Project (Cr. 72-UNI for US$20.0 million signed on 1 March 1965 and closed on 31
December 1977; PPAR No. 2498 dated 7 May 1979) assisted in increasing secondary
school enrollments particularly in northern Nigeria, diversifying the secondary
school curriculum, and increasing the number of secondary and technical teachers



-6-
and trained craftsmen and technicians. The Second Education Project (Loan
814-UNI for US$17.3 million was signed on 18 April 1972 and closed on 31 December
1979; PPAR No. 3681 dated 16 November 1981) assisted in the rehabilitation of war
damaged comprehensive secondary schools in eastern Nigeria, as well as the
training of technical subject teachers and secondary school curriculum development.
The Third Education Project (Loan 929-UNI for US$54.0 million was signed on 16
August 1973 and closed 31 December 1982; PPAR No. 5178 dated 29 June 1984)
assisted the northern states to expand priwary teacher training facilities, and
increase secondary school enrollments. The implementation results of these three
projects have been disappointing. The projects have suffered from: (a) the weak
management and implementation capabilities of state governments; (b) a low
quality and over-burdened construction industry; (c) poor communications; (d) un-
certainties in the supply of materials, equipment and furniture; (e) complex and
inefficient Federal-state financial arrangements; and (f) poor project design, in
that too many project institutions (over 100, for example, in the first project)
scattered over a vast area were involved. In light of the experience gained from
implementing previous education projects, the proposed project is designed with
specific features to minimize implementation delays. Specifically, project
institutions are limited to only Federally-owned and operated institutions,
thereby avoiding the complex Federal-state arrangements experienced in the past.
Similarly, to avoid geographical and institutional dispersion, the project
focuses only on five institutions. Other criteria used in the selection of
project institutions are summarized below (para 3.3).
2.15      The Bank has also assisted the development of human resources in
Nigeria through project related training (PRT) in non-education projects. Sub-
stantial training components have been included in agriculture, power, highway
and water supply projects.  While institutional and policy weaknesses, among
others, have made implementation difficult, a nucleus of local experts is now
available in various sectors.
2.16      Rationale for Bank involvement.  The Bank has not been active in the
education sector for over a decade. The proposed project is intended as a
bridging operation (a quick injection of essential inputs for substantial impact
and high returns) to re-establish relations with the Government, and to prepare
the groundwork for follow-up, broader-based, policy-oriented operations. The
project would also initiate dialogue on policy changes to be pursued in subse-
quent operations and complement assistance provided by other external agencies,
in particular ODA/the British Council. The Bank is currently undertaking studies
on key sectoral issues which should help in gaining a better understanding of the
needs, policy issues and investment priorities of the sector. A study on the
cost and financing of universities has just been completed, and a study of
primary education issues was initiated in July 1987. As part of the ongoing
project preparation work to assist ITF, preliminary reviews of vocational/
industrial training available outside the formal education sector through
industry-sponsored apprenticeship schemes and in-plant training have been under-
taken. Finally, under the proposed project, NBTE would be undertaking a compre-
hensive review of technical/vocational education (including cost and financing)
which could provide the necessary analytical framework and rationale for possible
follow-up assistance for this important sub-sector. Cumulatively, the thrust of
the Bank's sector work and policy dialogue with the authorities is to assist the
Government in addressing key sectoral issues of promoting internal efficiency,
reinforcing educational quality, improving financial management to achieve
greater access to schooling, and relating training to labor market requirements.



- 7 -
III. THE PROJECT
A.   Project Objectives and Description
3.1       The project is deliberately simple in design and limited in scope
taking into account the lack of experience in implementing education projects for
more than a decade and the complex Federal-state relationship in the management
and financing of education. Success in implementing this project should lead to
more comprehensive operations involving other levels of education and training.
3.2       The major objective of the project is to assist the Government's
program for: (a) improving the ouality and efficiency of middle-level technical
institutions. To achieve this, the project would: (i) strengthen the quality of
instruction; (ii) strengthen management capability of the project polytechnics
and the FTC; (iii) institute a staff development program; (iv) strengthen equip-
ment procurement and maintenance capability; (v) strengthen the practical compo-
nent of the instructional program; (vi) improve the internal efficiency of the
institutions; and (vii) establish programs for advanced crafts and technical
teacher training. The project would also: (b) strengthen planning, management
and coordination of technical and vocational education at NBTE, the TVSED in the
Federal Ministry of Education and at the Project Office by: (i) reinforcing
NBTE's capability for conducting in-service courses for administrators, teaching
staff and workshop assistants; (ii) strengthening NBTE's capability to monitor,
evaluate and accredit instructional programs; (iii) establishing a procurement
unit for equipment and instructional materials; and (iv) reinforcing the Project
Office's capability to identify, prepare and implement projects. Annexes 3-1 and
3-2 contain details on the structure and functions of the polytechnics and the
FTC.
1.   Improving Quality and Efficiency
3.3       Strengthening quality of instruction.  The project focuses on four
Federal polytechnics and the Federal Technical College, Yaba, and provides
essential instructional inputs including teaching materials, library books, spare
parts and equipment and consumable materials for laboratories and workshops. The
four polytechnics were selected on the basis of various criteria including geo-
graphical spread, and the Government's plan to designate these relatively more
developed institutions as "centers of excellence" and principal catchment insti-
tutions in their respective zones, for which other technical institutions (state
and Federal) would serve as feeder institutions. Within each institution, the
following criteria were used for the selection of specific programs for Bank
assistance: (a) availability of adequate teaching/workshop space (as no civil
works were envisaged); (b) availability of a nucleus of qualified teaching staff
and workshop assistants; (c) basic core programs, rather than smaller speciali-
zations; (d) that the program/institution should be sufficiently developed in
terms of enrollment, staff and infrastructure so that Bank assistance would have
greater impact; and (e) to the extent feasible, programs that are not yet
accredited, or had lost accreditation for not meeting specific criteria, would be
assisted to gain/regain accreditation. Programs selected for Bank assistance are
shown in Annexes 3-3 and 3-4. In order to maintain the quality of the instruc-
tional program in the Federal polytechnics and ti:e FTC, during negotiations the
Government provided assurances that: (i) it would increase budgetary allocations
for instructional materials from about 2% of the recurrent budget at present to
at least 5X by 1989, and at least 10% of the recurrent budget by 1992 in current
prices; (ii) to ensure that funds budgeted for instructional materials are uti-
lized solely for that purpose, the Government would present allocations for
instructional materials as a separate, identifiable item in the budget; and



-8 -
(iii) annual reviews would be undertaken during the life of the project to ascer-
tain that budgetary targets indicated in (i) above are achieved and furnish the
Bank with the results of the review.
3.4       Strengthening management capability.  To aid in improving the quality
and efficiency of the institutions, the project would provide training in manage-
ment skills for senior polytechnic administrators, delineate more clearly the
lines of authority and responsibility among administrators (rector, registrar,
bursar, academic and administrative department heads, etc.) and establish a
management information system (MIS). More specifically, the project would
support: (a) the development of detailed job descriptions for senior polytechnic
and FTC administrators; (b) the writing of administrative and personnel guide-
lines and procedures; and (c) conducting training seminars, short-term courses
and internships locally and overseas as necessary. Key training areas would
include personnel management, accounting, record keeping, scheduling, staff
supervision, and student advisement and counselling.
3.5       In strengthening the management of the polytechnics, the project would
assist in establishing a management information system (MIS), which would evolve
a system of information management and data processing suitable for the poly-
technics and other technical institutions. Specifically, the project would
assist in developing suitable software or in adapting an existing program to the
specific requirements of the polytechnics. The MIS would link up the data and
information base (student records, finance and budget, equipment and inventory,
etc.) in the project institutions with NBTE and other polytechnics where a
similar system, compatible with the one being established by the project, is
being set up with ODA assistance. To achieve these ends, the project would
finance 24 manmonths of specialist services in statistics and data processing and
12 manmonths of short-term consultancy in institutional management, as well as 24
manmonths of fellowships in statistics and 12 manmonths in educational admini-
stration and curriculum development. The project would also finance 12 manmonths
of local and overseas training, seminars and workshops in various aspects of
institutional management including: budgeting; accounting; student evaluation;
record keeping; etc. Additionally, the project would finance the procurement of
simple data processiag and computing equipment, and related accessories needed
for the MIS. Implementation arrangements for the technical assistance component
are discussed in para 3.19.
3.6       Strengthening staff development.  To reinforce the technical expertise
as well as the practical skills of the teaching staff, the project would finance
seminars, workshops, and longer courses for key staff from the various teaching
departments. The staff development program would be specifically tailored to
assist staff in updating their knowledge and skills, in maintaining regular and
systematic contact with Nigerian employers, and in relating teaching more closely
to the needs and requirements of the industrial labor force. To systematize and
coordinate the staff development programs of the project institutions, a staff
development officer would be designated in the Registrar's Office of each poly-
technic with overall responsibility to liaise with department heads within the
institutions. Under the overall direction and guidanoz of the Registrar and the
Rector, the staff development officer would also serve as the principal point of
contact between the institution, NBTE and external donors. Specifically, in con-
sultation with heads of departments arnd the Registrar, the staff development
officer would identify training needs, set priorities and mobilize external and
internal sources of support. Further, the staff development officer would
provide logistical support in placing trainees in overseas and local institu-
tions. monitorina their academic progress and providing the sponsoring depart-



- 9 -
ments and the Registrar with periodic reports. Annex 3-5 contains a breakdown of
staff qualifications in Federal polytechnics.
3.7       Strengthening industrial attachment.  To relate the training program
more closely to the needs and requirements of industry, the project would rein-
force the industrial attachment component of the training program. This would be
accomplished by: (a) strengthening the involvement of employers in the placement
and supervision of trainees; (b) increasing the frequency and duration of on-site
supervision by polytechnic staff; (c) designating in-plant supervisors, and
providing appropriate training to these supervisors; and (d) undertaking
continuous monitoring and evaluation of the graduates through tracer studies. To
coordinate the industrial attachment program, each institution would designate a
liaison officer whose primary responsibility would be to liaise with industry,
the NBTE and ITF in the placement, supervision and evaluation of students on
industrial attachment. To achieve these ends, the project would finance a
portion of the operating costs of the industrial attachment program, including
supervision and training workshops for in-plant supervisors. The project would
also finance basic office equipment and a vehicle for each project institution to
increase the mobility of the industrial attachment liaison officer.
3.8       Equipment maintenance.  To strengthen equipment maintenance, the
project would assist project institutions in establishing equipment and facili-
ties maintenance units under the department of works at each project institution.
The new units would bring together the present ad hoc and scattered efforts and
provide a well-coordinated and sustained service in periodic preventive mainten-
ance, diagnosis of repair needs, equipment repair and overhaul, while promoting
workshop and environmental safety. The project would also support training in
equipment and facilities maintenance. Specifically, the project would increase
the frequency (from 2 to 3 courses per year) and extend the duration (from 3 to 4
weeks) of the equipment maintenance course conducted by the British Council/ODA.
Additionally, selected participants from these courses would be sponsored for
more intensive overseas training and serve as equipment maintenance trainers upon
returning to their respective institutions. To achieve these ends, the project
would finance a portion of the initial operating costs of the equipment mainten-
ance units, as well as training costs (local and overseas) in equipment and
facilities maintenance.  It woutld also finance short-term consultancies at NBTE
to develop detailed plans, terms of reference, procedures and guidelines for the
equipment maintenance units.
3.9       Technical teacher training and advanced crafts.  To increase the output
of high quality technical teachers at minimum incremental cost, the project would
initiate technical teacher courses (TTC) at two of the four project polytechnics.
In order to increase the pool of applicants for technical teacher training who
have had strong industrial training and work experience, the project would estab-
lish Advanced Crafts Certificate courses in three of the project polytechnics, on
an interim basis. At present only two institutions (Akoka and Gombe) are respon-
sible for the training of technical teachers for technical colleges, with a
combined output of only 100 TTC teachers a year. In addition, four state poly-
technitts (but no Federal) have recently initiated small programs with total
annual output of about 120 TTC teachers. An additional 5,500 teachers would be
needed for technical colleges and technical subjects in senior secondar? schools
over a five year period (this excludes National Certificate of Education (NCE)-
level teachers for junior secondary schools). While the project's contribution
in terms of output is modest (50 to 60 graduates per year), it would nonetheless
mark the first Federal initiative for training TTC teachers in Federal poly-
technics, consistent with the recommendation of a 1986 Government panel on the
training of technical teachers. As many of the requirements for equipment, work-



- 10 -
shops and even staff for the technical teacher and advanced crafts programs are
basically the same as those for the polytechnics, the project would be maximizing
the utilization of equipment, staff, workshops and related project investments.
To achieve these ends, the Bank would finance equipment, instructional materials,
expert services and fellowships, which would all be shared with existing poly-
technic programs.
3.10      The TTC program would be initiated no later than two years after loan
effectiveness (on arrival of the necessary equipment), with an initial intake of
24-32 students per year at each of the designated polytechnics.   Tha Advanced
Crafts Program would also start no later than two years after loan effectiveness,
initially with two groups of 16 students each, in each of the three designated
polytechnics. During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that it would
provide the Bank by June 30, 1990 with a detailed plan for the introduction of
TTC and, on an interim basis, Advanced Crafts Programs at the remaining Federal
polytechnics. When the planned technical colleges are fully operational in
offering Advanced Crafts courses, the Government would review whether Advanced
Crafts programs should be retained in the polytechnics.
3.11      Improving internal efficiency.  To improve the internal efficiency of
the project institutions, during negotiations, the Government provided assurances
that within the guidelines of the NBTE, it would: (a) increase the average staff
teaching hours from about 14 to 18 hours a week; (b) increase class size from 8
to 16 students in workshops/laboratories, and from 24 to 32 students in lectures;
and (c) reduce class contact hours from 31 hours per week (consisting of 14 hours
of workshop/laboratory and 17 hours of lecture) to 28 hours per week (18 hours of
workshop/laboratory and 10 hours of lecture). The reduction in lecture hours
would be balanced by improved library facilities and the provision of instruc-
tional materials. In order to achieve these ends, the project would provide
workshop and laboratory equipment, instructional/training materials, library
books, staff and fellowships. A plan for a phased implementation of these
measures in project )olytechnics by end-1992 at the latest, and to the extent
possible in the other Federal polytechnics, would be developed by NBTE for
discussions with the Bank within six months after project effectiveness. It is
understood that conditions vary among polytechnics, and implementation of these
efficiency measures would have to vary accordingly. However, within two years of
arrival of the necessary workshop equipment (i.e. 1992 at the latest), the
measures would be put in place at least in the project polytechnics. The intro-
duction of these efficiency measures is expected to almost double enrollment in
the technical/industrial streams and to reduce unit recurrent costs by about 11X.
(Enrollment in business/management streams would not be affected.) Annex 3-6
discusses the impact of project inputs on enrollment and unit costs.
2.   Strengthening Planning, Management and Coordination
3.12      Staff development.  To strengthen the planning, management and co-
ordination of the sub-sector, the project would reinforce the capability of NBTE
to provide in-service courses in planning, management and evaluation of tech-
nical/vocational education. The thrust and orientation of NBTE's staff develop-
ment programs would be geared to the requirements of the system as a whole rather
than to the needs of specific polytechnics, as the latter would be undertaken at
each institution (para 3.6). Staff development at NBTE would aim at: producing
a cadre of specialists in evaluation, monitoring and program accreditation;
developing detailed guidelines and criteria for staff selection and evaluation;
assessing efficiency and cost-9ffectiveness of instructional programs with the
view of consolidating inefficient programs within and among institutions;
curriculum development; developing a tracer study of graduates to assess the



- 11 -
responsiveness of instructional programs to the labor market; and physical and
campus planning. In order to achieve these ends, the project would finance
operating costs, 60 manmonths of long and short-term specialist services and 48
manmonths of fellowships. During negotiations the Government provided assurances
that it would prepare for Bank review an outline of NBTE's work program for the
next three years (1989-1991) for discussions with the Bank within 6 months after
loan effectiveness, and a study by NBTE on issues in technical/vocational educa-
tion, including the cost and financing of the sub-sector and an action plan for a
phased implementation of the principal recommendations, for discussion with the
Bank by June 30, 1990. The study is also expected to include recommendations for
implementing the Government's plan to increase the proportion of students in
technical streams to 60-70% of total enrollment (para 2.4).
3.13      Procurement unit.  In order to develop a standard list of basic equip-
ment for polytechnics and to gradually procure basic equipment with standardized
specifications at reduced cost through bulk procurement, the project would assist
in the establishment of a procurement unit at NBTE. Initially, the unit would
service Federal technical institutions, but would gradually extend its services
to state institutions. In addition to standardizing specifications of basic
workshop and laboratory equipment, and undertaking bulk procurement, the unit
would also be responsible for training staff in equipment procurement, record
keeping, distribution, specification writing, and supplement, as needed, the
training of workshop assistants in equipment maintenance which would be essenti-
ally the responsibility of the institutions themselves (para 3.8).
3.14      In 1987 NBTE established a Division of Equipment and Materials Supply,
but the unit is not yet functional. The project would asslst in making the unit
functional by providing initial operating costs, office equipment and basic
supplies, as well as 9 manmonths of technical assistance and 12 manmonths of
fellowships in equipment procurement. It would also support in-country training
and workshops in various procurement-related fields, including specification
writing, stock monitoring, accounting, etc. The services of the equipment
specialist would be shared with the Project Office, particularly during the early
stages of project implementation, when a large amount of equipment would be
procured and installed.
3.15      Implementation capacity.  To strengthen the implementation capability
of PME, the project would assist the newly established Project Office to
identify, prepare and implement all externally assisted projects. To undertake
these responsibilities the project would provide for initial operating costs,
short-term consultancies and fellowships in procurement, accountancy, project
evaluation and related fields. Similarly the project would strengthen the capa-
bility of TVSED for planning and managing technical and vocational institutions
directly under its jurisdiction, and, in particular, the FTC which is an impor-
tant component of the project, through the provision of 36 manmonths of training
for key staff in project planning and management and of essential reference
publications.
B.   Project Costs and Financing Plan
3.16      The total project cost is estimated at US$27.9 million equivalent with
a foreign exchange component of about US$24.5 million. rhere are no taxes or
duties on project items. ODA (UK) has agreed to finance US$1.2 million equivalent
of technical assistance and fellowships on a grant basis and is expected to
commit funds before loan effectiveness. A Bank loan of US$23.3 million equiva-
lent is proposed to finance the remaining foreign exchange costs of the project.
The Government would contribute US$3.4 million equivalent to finance all local



- 12 -
costs. The cost estimates are based on March-April 1987 prices. Foreign exchange
costs were estimated at 1002 for equipment, vahicles, library books and journals,
technicai assistance and fellowships, 752 for consumable materials, and 502 for
program development, evaluation and preparation for follow-up projects. All
other costs (equipment installation, in-country transportation/distribution of
equipment, rehabilitation of training facilities, initial operating costs, etc.)
are expected to be local. Physical contingencies were taken as 10 on equipment
and 52 on technical assistance and fellowships. Price contingencies of about
US$1.0 million represent about 4% of base costs. These were based on projected
international inflation of 1% per annum for 1988-1990 and 3.52 per annum for
1991-1995, and domestic inflation of 102 per annum for 1988-1995. The exchange
rate is expected to adjust to reflect differences between international and
domestic inflation rates. Detailed project costs by component and cost category
are shown in Annexes 3-7 to 3-11.



- 13 -
Smry of Prect Cost Estiates  1/
(In MB xUdllon)
local     Pbem         Total
1. bproyuant of Q      t and Efficiny
(a) Library and Iotrhp eqipiut, vehsles and
spare parts                                                    -        11.93       11.93
(b) Commble (trainig) mtarals                                     1.41       4.82        6.23
(c) BqApmmt repairs, lnsaUatdi   and         litatiu             0.48          -         0.48
(d) Library books and Jazals                                       -         1.01        1.01
(e) FeUllubI  and tece1cal asssance                                -         2.91        2.91
(f) Library f=rniture                                            0.15        0.18        0.33
(8) Systems repairs, tnstallatim       en                        0.48         -          0.48
Total Basn Costs (1)                                         2.52       20.85       23.37
2. Strengtbening CoonxtiatLin and Bmrat
(a) Feflclhips and technical assistance                            -         0.38        0.38
(b)  Pora  developuant (accreditation, indlstr. attach.)         0.22        0.25        0.47
(c) BhluatoSln, astxUes and future projects                      0.09        0.10        0.19
(d) Initial ope$ating costs (eqippnet and book
distribution, salaries)                                       0.19          -        0.19
Total Base Costs (2)                                        0.50        0.73        1.23
Total Base Costs (1 + 2)                                              3.02       21.58      24.60
Physical     rant les                                                 0.30        1.99       2.29
Price CbeebngencI s                                                   0.08       0.91        0.99
Tbtal Project Costs                                                   3.40      24.48       27.88
EYnancin E2In (iU US$ nd114f)
IlD                                                                    -         23.3        23.3
CDA (UR)                                                               -           1.2        1.2
GoverrmEnt                                                             3.4         -          3.4
Total                                                                  3.4       24.5        27.9
1/  iere are m  tas or duties on project items.



- 14 -
C.   Project Implementation
1.   Project Preparation and Execution
3.17      ProJect preparation.  The project is at an advanced stage of prepara-
tion.  Lists of equipment (prepared with the assistance of ILO), library books
and technical journals were reviewed during appraisal and found acceptable. The
Government has also drawn up equipment specifications (with the assistance of
ILO and the British Council) and is in the process of completing bidding docu-
ments. The implementation schedule is shown in Annex 3-12.
3.18      Project management.  The Project Office in the FME has responsibility
for implementing the project. To strengthen project management and to avoid
persistent delays encountered in the implementation of the three previous educa-
tion projects (para 2.14), the Government has elevated the status and functions
of the Project Office by placing it directly under the newly established Direc-
torate of International Education in PME, which reports to the Coordinating
Director and the Permanent Secretary. The Project Office is headed by a project
manager, whose rank has also been elevated to that of Assistant Director for
Education.  Since the project is assisting technical/vocational education, the
Director of TVSED at FME has been designated to provide technical advice and
guidance to the Project Office concerning technical and pedagogical matters.
The Project Office would coordinate with NBTE for the implementation of compo-
nents under NBTE, and would designate a project liaison officer for this
purpose. The equipment committee established by NBTE during project preparation
(for preparing equipment lists and drawing up technical specifications) would
eventually become a permanent equipment procurement unit to service all Federal
polytechnics with broad responsibilities for standardizing equipment specifica-
tions and for bulk procurement of equipment and parts (para 3.13). During nego-
tiations, the Government gave assurances that it would provide the Bank with
semi-annual reports on the implementation status of all project components, and
in collaboration with NBTE produce a project completion report witbin six months
of the project completion date. Annex 3-13 shows the organizational structure
of the Project Office.
3.19      The Government would appoint, in accordance with Bank guidelines for
the appointment of consultants, an agency or agencies acceptable to the Bank to
implement the technical assistance and fellowship programs. During negotiations
the Government presented for Bank review a short list of agencies/firms. The
appointment of the agency/firm would be a condition of effectiveness.
Annex 3-14 contains details regarding the technical assistance and fellowship
component of the project.
2.   Procurement
3.20      Except as noted in para 3.21, goods would be procured under contracts
awarded through international competitive bidding (ICB) in conformity with IBRD
procedures. Contracts valued at US$100,000 or more for ICB, and US$30,000 or
more for LCB, would be subject to prior review by the Bank. This would result
in coverage of about 85Z of the total value of contracts. For goods procured
under ICB, domestic manufacturers will be eligible for a margin of preference of
15% or the prevailing customs duties and other import taxes, whichever is lower,
in bid comparison. Local bidding procedures were reviewed and found to be
acceptable. Contracts for goods and services under US$30,000 equivalent would
be awarded on the basis of direct negotiations with at least three potential
..ontractors.
3.21      The following procurement arrangements would apply:



- 15 -
hwAints and Methods of Procurwant
(ig COnts)
Procuremt Methodl
Cae5                          ICB         __CB     Other       N         Total
(13.60 a/    -                              13.60
5C~U1~ItDlt9 VShil*5 814 5Th parts(13.60) -                                   (13.0
Library books, jrals and audio-visual aids   1. 17 b/    -                                  1.1
Consuable (ftrainig  mtera-la                   .5        1.60 cf       -                  7.1
(5.59)   ( _) -                            (5.59)
Technial assistance and febips                   -          -        3.50 d/               (2.30)
E        idlnmt tlim, systez  repairs and                           (2.30) -
rdvl  wo                                              0.54) e/      -                   0.54
balati,  stds and preparation of
follwp proects                                   -                   0.25                  0.25
(0.13)                (0.13)
Initital Cpera~     COSt:s, eqix~ui  and
book distibution, salaries-                                 -       0.81 f/                0.81
Tary furniture and eqip t                        -        0.38         -0.38
(0.19)                           (0.19)
(accreditation, indurstrial attacdumnt)          -          -       0.52 f/                0.52
-                    (0.2-7)               (.27)
Total Project Costs (including contingncs)   20.36        2.52       5.08                 27.96
(20.36)    (0.19)    (2.70)                (23.25)
Note: Figures in plentbess  tndie respective amuts financed by the Bank loan.
a/  Contracts for eqipmnt, vehicles and spare parts estimated at US$13.60 nilion
including    rrri.ngrncuw1d be grouped in packags of US$100,000 e   valent
procured throi -ICB prx cedures in accordance with IBMD  vilelini. Spaeparts           with
exislng xru4nEtor prtsmay be purchased by diet Crtrari  fo thfe  Znq1,=1 s iietr,
orf rbooksand iourals estdimtdat   1.17 ngWm equivalent, i
grcuped in         of US$50  ODsequvalent or nre a nd procured
throu3E CB mxcd le in acbordanewihIBDMesst>.zok of a InPLieA&=            nture
Lw             s~I ccrdne wi, I=                               I
l fuslihers) my, with the prior agreeme  of the Bak, be
F&WC  d b dirc                o tatfro n  tb source,
eJ n                          oor  e  obnnle materials wtd be  gTroped, to the extentpracticable,
.  Ibip XOrthUS$30,000 equivalent or ire and would be warded thro gh IC procedures.
A portion of co nsuble  mterials thch is available locally and needed feqetly and in 91nU1
quanutitles wwld be 8roupedin pacas of US$30,000 or nrre (for an            amrat mt
exceedingl U$.60 nMci)  and aadd loraUly fthough LCBpo uesilhhv been reviewed
d  funaaccDtsleto the Bwnk.
d/  Contracts for } peiotariui of the        n of technical assistance and fellcNesips to be
-    financed fran the loan (estimated at   2.30 a
be warded to an agency or ageis* folw   procedures that conform to-Bank                for
the use of c      esultants. The repntion of technical assistance (estimated at   1.20
million equivalent), hich is to be f nanced by CDA on a grant basis, would be implemnted by
DA follouwlg WNA procedures
e Cbrtracts for library shelves and related furniture, installation of equpuat (where they are
mt part of the equipmnt pocur.mant onmtract) * repair of existing equpment, and inlmr civil
works (rauxiling existing facilities), * wld be awarded on the basis of LCB procedures mhich
have been revised  and found acceptsble to the Bauk.
f/Cbrtracts for evaluation studies, initl a o      gcogs:tsr ilnwludi  distributlo of bodcs and
eQuiment  andpror  ceecnr   aceiail,{b2.[latcmr) are estL-ated at
000 each and uld be  4awrded on the basis of direct necotiors wi& at least twee
potentia contractors.



- 16 -
Almtonand DIAreet  Categro for Bank Lo
% of FEtiuted
hAmt to be    r
Awxt        ~~~Frum the la
Woe,whop and ibrary eqpunt, vhicle and spare parts   11.93)    a) Directly 1norted: 100o CIF
)   b) Maufactured loally: 1001
Lbrry books and journals                            1.01)        c factory (ewdtus)
)    c) lilported and procured Iocal-
C^_mtble (training) materials                       4.82)      ly: 85% of total eipeliture
Technical assistce and fedll.hips                   2.09          100 of total expeiiture
Ealuation, studies and prepartioi of
foll-  proJects                                    0.10            50 of totl u ie
Pr    dev. t (         it ,
Industrial attachumt)                              0.25            50 of total exendit
Librry fumiture                                    0.18            50 of total epediur
Total Baselle Costs                              0.38
Uallocated                                       2.92
Total LDan Ammt                                 23.30
3. Disbursements
3.22      The regional sector profile is 8 years.  However, as the project is
essentially a rehabilitation operation to improve and re-equip a limited number
of institutions, and as no civil works are involved, about 95% of the loan is
expected to be disbursed in the first 5 years, and the entire loan in 7 years.
All withdrawal applications would be accompanied by full documentation. Documen-
tation for contracts valued et less than US$30,000, for which disbursements would
be made against certified statements of expenditure (SOEs), would be retained at
the Project Office for revlew by Bank supervision missions and project auditors.
Whenever possible, withdrawal applications would be aggregated in amounts of
US$50,000 or more for submission to the Bank. The estimated quarterly disburse-
ment schedule is shown in Annex 3-15.
3.23      Special  Accounts.  To expedite project implementation two accounts
would be established in a commercial bank to be identified by the Government.
The first is a "Special Account" to disburse the Bank's share of eligible
expenditures. On request from the Government, the Bank would pay into the
Special Account an initial deposit from the loan of US$2.0 million equivalent,
denominated in US dollars, representing about four months' requirements. The
Special Account would be replenished by the Bank to maintain its original level
of US$2.0 million equivalent on receipt of properly documented withdrawal appli-
cations from the Project Office in amounts totaling at least US$100,000 equiva-
lent. A second account to be known as a "Project Account" would be established
by FME in a commercial bank of its choice to pay the Government's share of
eligible project expenditures. The Government would make an initial deposit of
M3 million into the Project Account and would replenish the account semi-annually



- 17 -
to ensure that sufficient funds are maintained to meet expected needs for the
year. During negotiations the Government gave assurances that it would replenish
the project account semi-annually in the amount needed to cover the estimated
counterpart contribution for the fiscal year. By June 30 of each fiscal year the
Project Office would prepare, for Bank review, anticipated expenditures for the
following project year. which would form the basis for replenishing the Project
Account by FME. During negotiations, the Government and the Bank agreed on the
details for the establishment, operation and accounting requirements for the
SOEs, special and project accounts, in conformity with Bank guidelines. The
establishment of the Project Account by PE with an initial deposit of N3 million
would be a condition of effectiveness.
3.24      Recurrent costs.  As a result of improved efficiency the project Is not
expected to generate incremental costs in personnel or non-instructional overhead
costs. However, to improve instructional quality, allocation for instructional
materials would need to be increased from about 2% of recurrent costs in 1986 to
at least 5X in 1989 and 10 at the end of the project in 1992. This would
increase recurrent costs in the project institutions by about N1.6 million per
year (1.5% of Federal expenditure for Federal polytechnics), in constant 1986
prices. The Government should be able to absorb this through improved efficiency
(para 2.6 and Annex 3-6) introduced through the project and by trimming down non-
instructional (overhead) expenditures, including auxiliary staff, which presently
constitute over 35% of the polytechnics' recurrent budget.
4.  Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
3.25      The Project Office would establish and maintain separate financial
records for all accounts, including SOEs, and the Special and Project accounts.
The financial records should conform to internationally accepted accounting
procedures. During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that: (a) it
would appoint an independent auditor, with experience and qualifications accept-
able to the Bank, to annually audit all project accounts, Including SOES; and
(b) it would submit audit reports of reasonable scope and detail to the Bank, and
including a separate opinion on SOEs, within six months of the close of the
Government's fiscal year.
IV. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
4.1       An improvement in the quality of technical training would result in
improving the efficiency and productivity of the industrial/technical labor force
in the long term, and complement the Bank's investment in other sectors where
implementation is constrained by a shortage of skilled manpower. In the short
term, by putting the substantial sunk costs of Government (unfinished buildings,
underutilized equipment and instructors) to more efficient use, the project would
yield considerable benefits by increasing enrollment and improving instructional
quality in the technical/industrial areas at reduced unit costs. Further, as
this would be the first Bank-assisted education project in the country after more
than a decade and the only on-going lending operation in the sector, it would
serve as an important vehicle for the Bank and the Government to pursue sustained
dialogue on various sectoral policies, including those directed toward cost
recovery, provision of adequate support for non-wage recurrent costs, reduction
of unit costs, and consolidation of inefficient instructional programs.
4.2       The principal risk involves FME's lack of experience in implementing
Bank-financed education projects. This was a persistert problem in the imple-
mentation of the three previous education projects. In light of the experience



- 18 -
gained, the status of the Project Office and that of the project manager were
recently elevated so that the latter now has full authority to take decisions on
most project implementation questions. In addition, he would have easy access
(because of his new rank) to the highest levels of authority on policy matters.
Other measures adopted to improve project management are described in
paras 3.18-3.19.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMENDATIONS
5.1       During negotiations the Government gave assurances that it would:
(a) increase budgetary allocations for instructional materials for Federal
polytechnics and the FTC from about 2% of recurrent budget at present
to at least 5% of recurrent budget by 1989 and at least 10% of
recurrent budget by 1992 in current prices (para 3.3);
(b) present allocations for instructional materials for Federal polytech-
nics and the FTC as a separate, and identifiable item in the budget
(para 3.3);
(c) undertake annual reviews during the life of the project to ascertain
budgetary targets indicated in (a) above are achieved, and furnish the
Bank with the results of the review (para 3.3);
(d) prepare for Bank review by June 30, 1990 a plan for the introduction of
TTC and, on an interim basis, Advanced Crafts programs in the remaining
Federal polytechnics (para 3.10);
(e) within the guidelines of NBTE, in the project polytechnics:
Mi) increase staff teaching hours to about 18 hours per week;
(ii) increase average class size to about 16 students in work-
shops/laboratories and about 32 students in lectures; and (iii)
decrease class contact hours to 18 hours per week in workshops/labora-
tories and 10 hours in lectures (for a total of 28 hours per week). A
plan for a phased introduction of these measures in the project poly-
technics by end-1992 at the latest, and to the extent possible in the
remaining Federal polytechnics, would be developed by NBTE for discus-
sions with the Bank within six months after project effectiveness
(para 3.11);
(f) prepare an outline of a three-year work plan for NBTE (1989-1991) for
Bank review within 6 months after loan effectiveness, and a study by
NBTE on issues in technical/vocational education, including the cost
and financing of the sub-sector and an action plan for a phased imple-
mentation of the principal recommendations for discussions with the
Bank by June 30, 1990 (para 3.12);
(g) provide semi-annual reports on the implementation status of all project
components, and in collaboration with NBTE a project completion report
within six months of the project completion date (para 3.18);
(h) replenish the project account semi-annually in the amounts needed to
cover the estimated counterpart contribution for the fiscal year
(para 3.23); and



- 19 -
(i) appoint an independent auditor with experience and qualifications
acceptable to the Bank, to annually audit all project accounts,
including SOEs, and submit audit reports of reasonable scope and detail
to the Bank, including a separate opinion on SOEs, within six months of
the close of the Government's fiscal year (para 3.25).
5.2       The following would be conditions for loan effectiveness:
(a)  the appointment of an agency or agencies acceptabie to the Bank for the
implementation of the technical assistance and fellowship program
(para 3.19); and
(b) the establishment of a project account with an initial deposit of N3
million by FME (para 3.23).
5.3       Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project would constitute
a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$23.3 million equivalent to the Federal
Republic of Nigeria for 20 years including 5 years of grace at the standard
variable interest rate.
Western Africa Department
Population and Human Resources Division
November 1987



-20 -                            ANNEX 1-1
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
BASIC DATA
General
GNP per capita                           US$760 (1985)
Land area                                924 km2
Population (estimate)                    96.5 million (1986)
of which:  urban                       23% (1986)
rural                       771 (1986)
Population growth rate                   2.81
Life expectancy at birth                 50 years (1986)
Adult literacy rate                      about 36%
Enrollments in Education
Total
Enrollments                      Pupil/Teacher
Z of Age Group      1 Female           Ratio
Primary (1985)                      93Z              441       .36 : 1 (1985)
Secondary (1985)                    231            28.91        30 : 1 (1985)
Higher Education (1985)            2.0X             N.A.           _
Technical Education (1985)         0.4%             N.A.           _
Education Expenditures (1984)
Total Federal expenditure on
education as a X of total
Federal budget:
Recurrent                 181
Capital                    31
Recurrent Expenditure Rer Student
(in constant Naira (1980))
1981        1983        1985
Primary                           48          35           21
Secondary                        469         314         .103
Post-Secondary
(Federal Universities)       3,885        2,481       1,351



Allit    U    "K                                                                            to -  -  =                qslst    it's  O"og  rts  u   I
16          t's     00619
40.9
41,            lip
a          n         n                      It n            clopt    WI               I411                        nomw
AOtIft  Ala   Aq"                                                                          qu   Cs sti on   40,19   Afts's  4%    V                             09              VwAmd
84"                                 11           VI                         -  -  -              401ts    molt  401 ::  Is   u                        WNW1100111
09,01        t        n           to          $16                    Cs        n                 it   ot    "        00,41         I,#               61"      a              gum
Ws          cc        to          $6          tlt         at         Is        a          06    a          tv    a    1191         $19      of  I   i's       a             W.1311110PI
An's         61      Aatt         S"          go-it      441t        OK      401           n    961  44,  a"         AWIOI        ^61t.   oil         919      u               MAN A
Colo        Is       119         on           0161        It         09                          t    6    n        49614         oolt      Oct    40-6       co               UTWI
^01                  AM"                                                                                                           Attlo                        ti
M3                 Atot                                                                                                                                                    virAlim
Aqu-I                ARILI          it                                        A"n                                     AIT;1119     A4919      Ott      *11      it        Wmwg In
00 a      4                       SO          glit        ot        -          got               et   Is   0           .99        0-0       Owl  41P-1        0               am
0041    cc    09                  to          I's         65         Is    as                    a  n  a              oil          6-t   owl  S.%   a   -MODMM
&or*$    ST  d"14                   06          i-        Aqtl          96  Antit                                       rtt          C's   -           016   a                    vm
00 :*I      it        Of          U             S         99         As        to         06    tt   At   "           ellt         ve    O       t  41,g      Os         VD11 VI=
son ot    ot    tv                 -            $4          u           K         lu    419  09  or  a                  rct           C19    1:1 41-a   Do                   nowm
A06-11    AqU        A"$$          -                                                                                        I                 O"  I   Glat    of
qW9I    AW           ASSI         .19         4%-*                                                          -ts       1"to        '41"!      cult   slitt   64
M,11   -              961    -                  -         m          -         m           to               -         of In   Ifti-V  096 .. -911 -a                         viam
at       Al           so          16,61       at         I"        Am                *1  Olt  Oct         ttlet      406111    0"41   slo          a            soomm
$t       St          96            -          W          AG        to                It    K        w     test         i's      cult   rso    69                somfgg
wgt    0              it          to           -          It         n         a         qvs  got etc 6"             16lot         Ill   ottlaial16                       vulaw
w W219M xim
t                             n           O'st      405           ot        IPI       ITT   eta  as  *01:         66,99       '".9       an       9-9      k                GM
:V'19   it                                                                                 4st -  -  -                 1191   qo-lp  on   m    U                                VW"
a                            .1pt      0-6   OK    el   to                        gnaw
001.9        it       got         got          sets:                  61         n               Ol  qgt  4"           a
0019        Os        99          it          $lot        IC         ot        So         K      Cs  -    -             lot       At'i    OU        1:66    to               Vii
0910        It        9           a           rilp        K          ot         a         tt    at   a    "           rtt          9-9      009        S                       lam
1910        St        6           09          $In                    00        n         491    a    to   99          6-91         9-S              49.1      et         vtwgtwm
AWPO          ti        t                       I'st                    09        Os         01    It   tt   K         IdItt         st.1p   006ut    O-1        to               rIVN
Oblt        ot        99          of          ow          it         tt         as        K      It   98   Ct         olst         olv      on       set      00
".I                 all           0           0169    It              41       u        &49  4I  Ot  Is               rao          M        ast:  qt-6   co             am  sm
of          St       acla           99         ot        vt         ot  on  gn  a               -         doo-V  dM           C's   k
'Ws    -   "411    -   -  ;; I                               45.0         Alt   at   t'It  It                         WM
Aft         on    64"            jot  Os                     010    got%    Ott   910   As                           "an
low's  lot                                                                                                                                                                       am
&,ft.v                                                                                                                                                                           Gem
"tt   -                 0;                                -    -               -  - -  -   "sets  AN*`4  099  PI  St
ACM          tt      Ast                                   As                  Ass         $I                         49,19      "019        Ott      rt       u                 am
AWLIC   -    -                     -             -   ato                                                              A09M    "el   m   $It                                     141"
oill    et    tt                 -             -          09    49t            a          at  a   K  cc                -          4119   Ott   *lot  to
Colo                  9           VI          Sea         is         it        91         4      et   St   tip        &Its        st-I    Ott        Set      to
Awl          ct        It          09          rtt                    at        tip       411    S    it   ct          Vic         ga-9    qm        qft-t     69               am
vaidw
Oslo        tt        ST          St          *la         SC         St        06       4"       9    CC   n          $16T          T-C    4m       41-1      to           antam
".I         a         $1          61          olti        St         09        66                u    a               llit        ds't    RM        41's      of              vton
00.9        et        tt                      olic        K          99        ol       1"Of     01   -               r"           4-4    qott    qo."        to               um
WS          st                    it           -          ot         to       8"         ow          41C  qtg        allot         ;76    qz        19,11    co
0C.0       on         C          qst          olit        tip        Is       to        04            ot   It         1-81                            lot    Os
001         el        a           n           *,it        cc         Os                          9    n          is   ta         401t
4"                                         m  4m  $10  Cs   4mum
91                        I         K                  not$        cc    ...   ot        so      -                             5.61    et                Wm
00          a        qtt         40          404                    4"        484:  41%  fit  2   qu                  MT           SIT  IC             It   to
lot        OK        W"            $19      ou-t   t-0        69
"lo         to        9           6           0191                   09        59       41C      ct   91   U          t'st         9-t    oa        qs-s      to
00.1        n         09          001         olti        99         99        96       q"       4    9t   "          *,,*I        set    quiet  qo, I        go          $42"11110
"IS         I I       0           91          M           St         tt        n        qtt      St   "    a          fplIt        i't    4m        qt't      I I             IRV IV
,tq0I19       99                                Olt        Qs$          cc      vqv$        09     61   et   ts         01119       0,04       Ott      Set      It         Mov
Oils        it        it                      O's         n           It      oott      qtg      99   CC   K          "t            S'$    ;S0      Olt       to             quom
-      -a            et          St          *,tt        K          n         tit      4"       it   ot   St        .41149      I S          to,   4VIII    to                VA=
stlo                  #I         SO           CIM         to        a"         tt        gi      09   SC   tv         I.tI            t    40,    Ost    to                videlm
".0         61        ot          St          olit        09                    lip      W      "I   R    U           6111          rt       C"       W-0                   tamin
WS          et        K           St           -          a          ot    99            0    a  "  6t                oln         ASIt   SIC  q9`0   to                      saoim
00.1        It       It           Cs          91"         It          it      U69         a      It   et   tv         ::$I       milt        SIT      elf,    to             t4NRM
obli        is        ot          ot          Wot         a           di       Oct       ot      99   ot   It                        .9    qm       4011      to            vxvrsm
1*190 d
do"199    441          269          Oct         $lot       set          001      *66      4"       DI   et   IC         clot          V6       09:12t   C's      61             xwm
*WSM          $I        to          009         #'It        it          Oct       Oct     06       St        tt    is   MI           at's    Rivoll  qrt        of        QNv.v        M
ot-it       ct        to                      clsi        of          St        to     &06       St        St    a     I's          61,      00101   rtt    "           $GRVTSNM
0001  Su                  IT                                                                      -VIA AN"
;-    -         0616           tlt      009191  t'itSW   ;
Not-it       et       896          001       146,61        19         cot      %"I                                   Adlet          911      .899::  AL'tt    to               vwm
06 VI       C I       ti          St           -           it        act      ait                                     "I           Is,*    'its    ii-ti    ot -Vmw   vt
$11
401)    (tt)        tit)          t)         tot)        (6)        (9)       (1)       (9)                                                            41)
(1)   "lowu    tz)    (a)   TUP3100 anvu    (1)                                 (2)   (9161)    tx)              nauamm    NDUV*M                (601) ("60
014"         ad   out# avvwmn Imsmas IV   Vad    rmv ouva  11)  n 02111 3"   sommaw   M ammu   CM) Irnim on
'Imms "MASS ITMS GL AVMU alavamm UMMS                                       I VMS  2m M asomm mm "I" m summ Tud" 14" a"
"NoU A   11 1110dwins "DU U"  amivd ""nu  amai amu wain munum   u= p                                                                         ad 40
wisssm"  am am                       mm un                 Aim             &Ngmmm  Poiarim so
&NEIRMS11            numam                              souvom    autoom
sonwam
-    -            -               -   W
gut I's Alma"
nowim nu"= BMW=
zoaroiia NDUYoacm-TfoiNon
yrdaDis .10 ailaun 7naall
TZ



-22-                                           A?%'NEXWM    2-1
- 22 ~~~~~~1"'2 @1 2
-                                                                  11~~~~~~h$01
*              suiu~~~0am"p         n m                    am6410cuna           MT am 3i?                                       I
"a. M. cw;*   momuu  M  "M*3 Con"*3 "AU*313  "t. a*i               SISoI& . fc        -.uur SuOcAIM   "833*6  Is IN=1.  611013111  6830.1.
(i9t9) (3919)  3306136  3*13 "u3 3           (3)       (3974)  (1)       (I)    13*33   $W/WM11          (3)        (3)   t233313     4133
.(3)    (2)      (3)          (4            5           4       ()       ()         9        00          (I          2)       3)     14
)33    3.3  l.a       36~~~~~1  244  23 p1 1            4         ss        eg           5         25       3 
at  no.03    530    3~~~~.3       9.3        0 2  ~31                 se                 v        aa           14        2?       2   3.   .t
3, 3ae30      ?JW        30.61      34  343 St                96      9         43       I9.0         Is         64       M8      21.88
%UAUU        64    35*33  a*70    ci1         14.1       W9  4P  a  1 03lo         9'       9101,              a I3.9       69        it       23       4.00
PAM0*1.0.       *1    2.00    30    L.4          a9.O       40   It  2       -        Go       132       33.      33.0         35         Ire    31*        3.00
StISM"1111       to 19   4 *33          I:         34.0       I 64             3       9         3        3         1.31        96         S        32     2.00
at    ":                                          ab~~~5340  4  lot          It 2      9.35        44t4                 o       4.00
IacuIf           39   g1.33    90       3*33,      30.141     It  31  30    323        1631               Is5       S.e         -4                  23       3.'3
6wmt             so    3.3       so    3.4         12.0                       to- 30   It        -            -          -                 -        .-      -
INVI3*           11496.4        3       3.91       9.9"        - -             4        9                 43                               Sp-2    -        41,3439
na3st4I          63   *I*3      363.0              1.0       3324              22     3100      43-       30       -5.9                   I3        Is      3.04
1111   1710 I.0        13.3      34?   14 Sit   35         33V      44         7          o 1,3                W        26      3104
Wm191            6 43.35 6500    4.4'              .1.9       S 3345536'   44          15"      3W    .4            9*4*        33         43'      3oo    31.00
4133101          74    9.3 4.340        3.4'       30.0       a 3 242 ISe-                                *0        ..                     -00      t,b,    Ipjot3
13D              19   26.9    -         5.M.      34.314      -          -    20      301       -          3                               444     348      4.903?
an*              )9   32.6  1.710    4.3'?         4*5?       -    -                  58        - -                             -          43"     W0       ,.36?
13.MS            II    3.43 4.40        6.101     136196                               9         4         9       -9                     II       34      33.00
Joe"A            6I    32.333.42;0   A."           30.3as     3-9443          oleo    S"?       64        3        31.3         -          St      36       4.96
L3133.1          19     3.3IL""  3 .4                            9       -    -         W       -         19       -            -         44'       -      5165
01000000         6423..341034.8'p                  22.9      3   4339o    35           S"5       9        St       35.3         -          00      3        S9
am               $I 63    4 93903    L.s-          12.*35      -- -.3        3*        to       45        35       -            3It3               34      ..
tono"L       Is    9.lb 2.00       3.A       133.31      so0as3I          la       a1      so        39       3.           6  33.4  p 4         l       6.S
33A333*                out32.3 310      3.031      41.31                      St-     I6a.                23       -            96         63       3       0.4031
49*3             16   "A.  4,930        .13,      I4SM         - -                     963      -         I                               4k               24.103
6132*    34    4~~~~~~~.4 Il33  4.49       10.2        -95*           5         )1       0        5b        -4                     *9       3       34
10321*           1      6.4   .1320     1.20       19.0      433SP36          433     108       6   so             32.          20        5Sp      20       4.00
ion.         Is3   41.91I,22       3.31       14.3       5035        ,    133    i30       11        St        4.0        5St         34       it       Lao0
m*.3.         so    4.11   430    SAW           32.0       94I I    333             v        tao       3a 16                 6          S       to       3.30
1139M  .C.1.     63    2.0 420  1.4                9.1        453 94to     053S        *1       34         5       23.00        As        37       301      3.50
own  WORie. 6oma                    4             93   3469461  63   a3                      6        95is1    93   a3  is
Waqa.                       (3.4~~~~~~~~M-  (3.1. (23- (6- (5-   (o-    (W3        (32-       (31-    (3.4.         (30-       (3.      (61-    0.03-
30.0)        54.3)1 94)  44) 35)   916)    319)    M6                      41.0)        300)      64)      4*       03.6)
8'.z443a41109eus             5~~    ~~.4,  23.1    s53so32         63       96        o        43       so           Al         41      24      33.0
bile.,               44~~~~6.     l4.3                 It    53     63       41        IS,      13           45         0       n3       3.
38..,,              ~~~~         ~~3.0  31.0  362333I       5       69       25        3         9           40         34      s9       3.0
,aa.43e btiailms             3~~    ~     ~~.3  5.4    4.51 1.5 4.11  30e  39.0    23.51      1.0      56.         2S.$       36.5     3.1       LO0
"03'                        ~~~~         ~~~~~~~4.4  31.0  446 36 Il  53    14       59        34       14           es         is      3s       4.9
83.33.8db,itta,                        to9          6.1    is3 la            S9       v1       34        3t       33          31         23        1       1.4
Utsd4..                                4.0         34.0     430019           53       63       61        35       33          65         a        n        3.1
N- 3*30      t a9*11  M4M*A 3*123  9310  2                                             "MI3    MI"*3     6 *     A 36161110  061105B M (31LI`33
I   0*303 p93130343.3                                                Lmum My nia                      U* 36.3 331Ua332  633.1
9 * 10651 3WA    ? O *10       *AI  03131000o3(
4.3gm  3 to 34, blId 6.33 10.544. us.4r .i1".a. owezinuaot 8Wn  swifor 36* Inase. fut.t43m   fobooks.
bqenii." ew3.nIso  be. aft useaful to3   euelstigel  of swousa.dutiseu   ~e4em  a04 inlpI          " siettle ue" of d .isas.ml de,e1oao1 35m.ea .031..
e0u8,40. bum.,t. so "W5 balei of t33  emMdal. e,sa..s.14.s4  .s.euiain *%MU be                 Ipgs* 8433 p9.  somItus btaa 9350538" to16  *30. 1443 boom
be" ".Uou"8  twlaga  3? laf usues.. one. pserleme  Geume; lbs raaI4  Ofs tf ud  ailegale .? d     ISM. &Waoe&   3fu4*M bale 35.mail to SCOSaUadl
deflatleRms aslk 33134 1384t. 3. ebeeb gm5 eeo,w  of13 OA 3.  bs,6*80 Osibeb"        4.40 det.o stil1 ""do". to 4ue.a1 L  I      nu ol e,46  bobh to .s33    to
Ism... to"I III .raleel, ee gm mentioned iof Us emi.ssl salk.  Is33 the v" O   303tde". lbs bOUesIa  qaetiestIss Mom"1 be 3e, to s4a4s
(2)   9,tmte ais eatha  teo, CM tdabl,iao 4633 all3 ledutes am Swe.atis aq clsan" sod.e asoisw.ieM3.eai, lglgtls. to
(e.g. Sam".a to"o".a. eqtisus13,.).
(3)  *Ut.s.ei sags' (eL. 4) wse often .3k.1.3  trem .os.4e1 eoamus. toami amuns  e 36* on esob sams4a41e. met I1 to 4533515l 133 0? atous
ef84I..euof liters"' " ee 6*.. fU eamrltently.
(4)   9331ie sawainas. to .baswouow to"  4 e.4 3) wag" to an.1  ee$selS   ftmnm o euusiltte                   to.4,  *s .4.5.44   by Pt*&&e "Ad 40339u3
(5)   brelmeet raim   (eael. . 1,  ad i 3) rtale  s. eebs  ew am  wo Om36  oae,m.m of .13643e 3334. saeelIed tell-came to16 eae mprwtl. stl.14.
"but1Om "03  u"Se by level. bep" eve Ofes 3 OJa   tobee  ae  "a4 mGi. of *M. to "W* iseelmieg a94sali         I t  MOW43ee  to t35 eeur*e"e  bauto
sume (".. 4$ *  ag elf Se uees*e03 ead aau.klmGO. b.e*l.a   fliaseM Ifusqeell  we litibsf 1303 OA ameba tf 09011040 aetIs.I to se6*.
*-e-"We setdwa Ur betate   t   3.lii3  30   ips.. .83 mom   14.16* a gtesie.



- 23             ~           ANNEX 2-2
Page 1 of 5
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
THE TECHNICAL AND VOCATIONAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING SUB-SECTOR
1.        In Nigeria there are three basic modes for the training of tech-
nical/industrial manpower: (a) in the formal education sector (technical
secondary schools, vocational centers, technical colleges, polytechnics,
and universities); (b) within industry and agriculture, industry-sponsored
training programs, apprenticeships, and on-the-job training; and
(c) apprenticeship training in the non-wage sector.
2.        In the formal education sector there is a good deal of overlap in
the respective functions of the institutions involved in training tech-
nical/vocational manpower. In principle, the responsibility for training
skilled manpower for industry and commerce/management, with varying degrees
of specialization is shared as follows:
Skilled workers and craftsmen. Formal education and training for this
level are provided mainly by technical colleges (previously called
trade centers) and state vocational schools. Technical colleges offer
craft courses of three years' duration, usually patterned after the
British City and Guilds Certificate program. They require a minimum
of three years of secondary education for entry. Some colleges also
offer advanced craft courses of one-year duration, as well as evening
programs.
Technicians. Technicians are trained in post-secondary institutions
known as polytechnics or colleges of technology. These institutions
offer a National Diploma (ND) following a two-year course. Graduates
with an ND may qualify for the Higher National Diploma (HND) after one
year of practical experience (industrial attachment) plus two years of
advanced courses.
Engineers/higher-level technical, scientific, administrative
personnel. These individuals are trained at the universities which
are under the aegis of the National Universities Commission (NUC).
Most of Nigeria's 24 university-level institutions offer degree
programs in engineering and related fields.
3.        In the informal sector the apprenticeship system, while the least
known of the various training modes, probably reaches the largest number of
people. Studies show that in several trades, on-the-job training is well
established in the form of a traditional apprenticeship system, but beyond
this system facilities for further upgrading are very limited.
4.        Training within industry is strongly encouraged by the Government
In publicly owned corporations and parastatals as well as in private
industry. Operational improvement and training in medium- and large-scale
private industries are assisted through the Industrial Training Fund (ITF),



- 24 -                           ANNEX 2-2
Page 2 of 5
which was created in 1977. Until recently, area offices, industry's own
facilities, and existing in-training situations were utilized for ITF-
funded training programs. ITF is now becoming directly involved in
providing training facilities and services of its own, exemplified by the
establishment of the Fund's first permanent vocational training center at
Ikeja, Lagos. ITF derives its revenue primarily (about 85%) from a
training levy which it is authorized to raise under a Government decree
from private employers and from parastatals employing 25 or more full-time
persons. The levy represents 1% of the payroll. Other income is derived
from interest accrued on liquid assets, such as bank deposits.
Organizational Structure of the Formal Sector
5.        There is considerable diversity in operational control of the
technical institutions. The Federal Government owns and operates one
technical college (Yaba), 10 polytechnics, and two technical teacher
training colleges (at Gombe and Akoka). By far the majority of tech-
nical/vocational institutions are state-owned, as shown in the table below:
Number of State and Federal Technical/Vocational
Institutions and Enrollment
Institutions        Enrollments (1984)
Federal  State    Federal   State    Total
Vocational Schools               -       50           -   12,000   12,000
Technical Colleges               1      119         900   55,100   56,000
Monotechnics 1/                  3        5         650    1,250    1,900
Polytechnics                    10       17      13,000   44,000   57,000
Colleges of Education
(technical/business)             2        6      1,300       600    1,900
1/ Single discipline institutions whose programs can vary from craft
level to technician and higher technician levels (e.g. agriculture,
mining, petroleum and fisheries.)
6.        Management and Coordination.  Management and operational control
of technical/vocational education is exercised in different ways, depending
on the nature of the institutions. At the Federal level, the Federal Tech-
nical College (Yaba) and the two Federal technical teacher training
colleges (Akoka and Gombe) are under the direct operational jurisdiction of
the Ministry of Education's Directorate of Technical and Vocational Educa-
tion. The 10 Federal polytechnics are autonomous institutions each with
its own governing council. They operate under the overall umbrella of the
NBTE (paras 7-9) which coordinates their overall plans and programs and
disburses Federal funds. In this respect the NBTE plays a role analogous
to that of the National Universities Commission vis-1-vis the universities.
At the state level vocational training centers, technical colleges and
polytechnics are owned and operated by their respective state governments,
except Kaduna Polytechnic which is owned and operated jointly by the
northern state governments.



-25 -                       ANNEX 2-2
Page 3 of 5
7.        In principle, overall responsibility for the establishment of
minimum standards in polytechnics, technical colleges and other technical
institutions is vested in the Minister of Education after consultation with
the National Board for Technical Education (NBTE); -hereafter, NBTE has the
responsibility for the maintenance of such standards. Decree No. 16 of
December 1985 on "National Minimum Standards and the Establishment of
Institutions" gives large scope to NBTE's responsibility for the establish-
ment and maintenance of standards for technical/vocational institutions.
8.        National Board for Technical Education (NBTE).  The NBTE is a
Federal statutory body set up by (Decree) Act No. 9 of 1977. Its offices
are located in Kaduna. Clearly the NBTE is a key institution for the
management and coordination of technical institutions. In respect to
Federal polytechnics it plays a critical role not only in apportioning
scarce Federal funds (recurrent and capital), but in accrediting specific
programs. While the NBTE has made some important contributions, particu-
larly in curriculum development and accreditation of courses, it has not
been able to function optimally because of a shortage of staff and insuf-
ficient funds. The proposed project would assist NETE to more fully
undertake other important activities within its mandate including:
expanding and accelerating its activities in curriculum development;
planning for technical education facilities; compiling statistics; and
advising Government on fees and other cost-recovery strategies.
9.        Polytechnic Education.  There are 27 polytechnics in the country,
10 of which are Federally owned and operated. Of the 10 Federal poly-
technics only one (Yaba College of Technology) was established before 1977;
the other 9 were established between 1977 and 1983. The state polytechnics
are on the whole older: 9 were established before 1977, and the.remaining 8
between 1978 and 1981. Generally, the state and Federal polytechnics have
similar patterns regarding administrative set-up, entry requirements,
course structure and the diplomas and certificates awarded. The major
difference is in respect to ownership: the Federal universities are owned
by the Federal Government, and while they are autonomous institutions with
their own councils, they are nonetheless more closely linked to NBTE
through which they receive their annual financial grants from the Federal
Government.
10.      Admission Requirements.  In addition to academic entry qualifi-
cations, Federal institutions determine student intakes on merit (202),
defined catchment (30%) and origin of state (50X). This procedure causes
substantial administrative work for each institution combined with
uncertainty for students and Institutions concerning the final enrollment
pattern. The Federal Ministry of Education is currently considering a
central admissions system similar to the one operated by the Joint Admis-
sions Matriculation Board (JAMB) for the Universities. When introduced,
this system would help reduce administrative costs and improve efficiency
by consolidating enrollments into viable programs within and among insti-
tutions. The National and Higher National Diplomas are the main stream
courses offered by the polytechnics. During the past four years many of the
programs have been revised and up-dated; final approval is required from
NBTE. In addition to following the national syllabuses, polytechnics must
be accredited by the NBTE before they can award National or Higher National
Diplomas. Accreditation is a rather rigorous procedure which investigates



- 26 -                          ANNEX 2-2
Page 4 of 5
the level and quality of staff, equipment, accommodation and the library.
Industrial experience forms an essential part of the polytechnic program;
between the first and second years of the National Diploma Course students
are placed for three months industrial training (funded by FME/NBTE
administered by the ITF). Students are also required to have completed one
year in employment after obtaining the National Diploma for entry to the
Higher National Diploma Course.
11.       Tecmnical Teacher Training.  In addition to training technicians
with National or Higher National Diploma qualifications, some of the poly-
technics, particularly those that are state-owned, offer courses for tech-
nical teachers. There are two such courses: the first for technical/voca-
tional teachers for regular secondary schools (called the National Certifi-
cate in Education, NCE) and the other for teachers for specialized tech-
nical colleges (called the Te,:hnical Teacher Certificate, TTC). Until now,
none of the Federal polytechnics offered the TTC program. But in view of
the great need for trained technical teachers, the project will assist two
of the Federal polytechnics to begin teacher training streams. As the
facilities needed for the TTC programs (equipment, workshops, laboratories,
etc.) are essentially the same as those being used for the regular poly-
technic programs, this would be much more cost-effective than initiating
technical teacher training programs in entirely separate establishments.
12.       The Technical Colleges.  The majority of the technical colleges
originated as Trade Centers and were established in the latter half of the
1970s, although a few are older, e.g. the Federal Technical College (FTC)
at Yaba was founded in 1948. Sizes vary considerably; the average student
population is approximately 500, the largest (Benin City) with 1,612 and
the smallest (Ekowe, Rivers State) with 54 students. The Technical
Colleges' main purpose is to produce trained craftsmen thus providing a
valuable parallel system of training to apprenticeships. Because their
enrollment patterns are fairly constant and not closely linked to the
economic climate as apprenticeships are, they also play an important part
in smoothing skill cycles.
13.       So far the performance of the Technical Colleges in meeting their
objectives has been poor: pass rates at Intermediate and Advanced Craft
Certificate levels in the May/June 1985 examinations were 16.1% and 11.0%
respectively. On the other hand pass rates in Trade Tests (by the same
students) were about 60%. The 1985 Education Decree will significantly
increase the authority of NBTE over all Technical Colleges in requiring
them to have minimum standards of resource provision. Pressures on state
budgets for greater provision for primary and secondary education, short-
ages of staff with appropriate academic qualifications and industrial
experience, shortage of equipment and consumable materials, and political
pressure to increase student enrollments will, however, conspire to make
NBTE's task extremely difficult.
14.       The syllabuses currently in use in the technical colleges are
some 10 years old and based on City and Guilds of London Institute schemes
with some minor adaptations to meet local needs. The majority of colleges
offer coursei only up to Intermediate Craft Certificate level and typically
in about 8 subjects; a few colleges offer courses up to the Advanced Craft
Certificate level; some colleges also run courses in business and



- 27 -                      ANNEX 2-2
Page 5 of 5
secretarial studies. The Intermediate Craft Certificate course is normally
three years full-time; students are required to spend two years in industry
before p,ocoeding to the Advanced Craft Certificate (one year full-time).
15.       A serious management difficulty concerns the unreliability of
funding by state governments which should make provision, annually, for the
usual range of recurrent expenditure and, occasionally, capital expenditure
for rehabilitation and equipment. There are no "norms" for per capita
allowances but they varied between 25 and 60 Naira per year - clearly far
too low as the purchasing power of the Naira has declined on account of
rising inflation. Funding by state governments is supplemented to some
extent by fees collected by the institutions directly. While fees charged
by state technical colleges show substantial variations, they are typically
as follows:
Tuition - NI00 per year - paid to the state government
Boarding - N240 per year                       )
Parent Teacher Association - N20 per year      ) paid directly
Tools - N400 (varies widely between courses)  ) to the
Examination entry - N60 per year               ) colleges
Materials - N100/200 (according to the course )
of study)



ANNEX 2-3
28 -
U<3*W.At lEACHER llWNtNG PROJECT
sIhushs dlh Ebn kemlnd Tmtin SVsWnt
tectin   (ND)  (HNDM)
___       ___       ___       __    _---        _ --_             _     ___                *__
bed'
I
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S Scsc
NM
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~w  } o
t                                  .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a es_em
_  _ _2    _ _  _ --- _    _  _  _ _  _  _  _ _  _ _2_3_1          I_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
.i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 2   3n    4
M~~~~~~~~~~~~~dC
El   El El El El El E3 Ei l El El El B  El ID Ele 2ni   ti1                        a S
fCE :Tdvtdmt oz n                                                    Es
ND NI'C nal Down 8
tO    Nwwo-ml m *h
*mm     mmmm
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a 8-ac



WD   mot AON   Opp
_ _         _ _        _      _ _         _ _        _
_ _ _ _                  _ _ _ _   _ _                _  Ir
_ _ m  _  _    _        _    _ _    _    _
_      _    _    _    _    _    _    _    _    _     _    _                                                                                                                            i    i    i
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                     _                                                                                                                            I WV
_ _ _ _ _as                     _Io          _ _ _ or
OX%" 0000" I, 13 WV
6Z-tI
~ X3NNY



ANUL t-)
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
STRUCTURE OF UNEMPLOYMENT, 1983-1986
(Percent)
Percent of            Percent of Unemployed                       Unemployment Rate
Labor Force   Dec.    Dec.    June      March   June    Dec.    Dec.    June    March  June
Dec. 1983    1983    1984    1985      1986    1986    1983    1984    1985    1986   1986
A. Unemployment Rate                                                        7.3     7.9     9.7      9.1   11.9
B. Male Urban Unemploymeut Rates by Age Group
Age Group
15-19                5.9        21.1    26.2    27.1      24.0    33.0    20.8    30.6    39.0    32.3   66.6
20-24               10.2        54.6    40.3    39.5      38.7    32.6    31.0    27.3    32.9    30.2   38.0
25-44               60.2        15.6    22.1    26.0      26.0    30.2      1.5     2.5     3.7     3.4    6.0
45-54                19.3        5.7     6.0      3.1      9.3     2.1      1.7     2.1     1.4     3.8    1.3
55-59                4.3         2.9     5.4     4.3       2.0     2.1      3.9     8.7     8.5      3.7    5.8
C. Urban Unemployment Rates by Education (Both Sexes)
Education
None                41.3         8.8    10.5    12.4      14.8    12.5      1.6     2.0     2.9      3.3    3.6
Primary              31.9       22.1    31.1    20.1      19.4    16.1      5.1     7.7     6.1     5.5    6.0
Secondary           16.6        67.7    54.4    61.1      59.2    64.7    29.8    25.9    35.7    32.5   46.4
Post-secondary       10.2        1.5     4.0      6.5      6.6              1.1     3.1     6.2     5.9    7.8
of which:
University,
Polytechnic                      ..      ..       ..      3.8      ..       ..     4.7      ..       ..    8.7
Sources:  Federal Office of Statistics (FOS) An"ual Abstract of Statistics, Labor Force Survey 1983,
National Integrated Survey of Households 1983/84 and staff estimates.



ANNEX 2-6
- 31 -                          Page I of 2
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
ANALYSIS OF RECURRENT BUDGET: FEDERAL POLYTECHNIC - BIDA
(1986 Actual)
Staff          O*eftad                           No. of
Cost             Cost              Total          Staff
N                N                 N
I. AIDaNISmTIDVE
Rectxr's Office               326,846            75,078          401,924          119
Re&iatry     '                412,795           245,459          658,254           66
Bursay                        137,241           102,863          240,104           28
Wbrks and Serwics             305,349           629,192          934,541          1OA
Lrtary                         65,252            26,064           91,316           17
Medical Cater                 112,886           219,178          332,064           24
Total Mmdniatrative         1,360,369         1,297,834        2,658,203          362
Tot  mnber of students:          2,212
aibidsrativ GCost/Student (0:  1,202
Teacing Total Raec.
Staff Ome*ead              No. of Cost/   Cost/ hveragl
cost    cost      Total  Studets Stdent Sbtent  Dept.
N        N         N
II. ACA.M  IPAMMIIS
Sftd* of fthwing#n Technolog
Medhanzal F0g4neerhe *            178,203 28,566    206,769   156   1,325   2,527
Electrial Bagnieeri'g *           102,898  2,509    105,407   L56        676    1,877
Chadeal Eagineerg **               86,115  13,004     99,119   128       774   1,976
Agricultural E4gr-ehrig *          85,115 37,163    122,278   125        978   2,180  2140
Sdxol ofz Ernmexnrtal TedmolWE
Civil Eq3nerkg *                  . 89,683  8,961     98,644   107       922   2,124
Buldiing & Arhitecture            104,223  12,551    116,774    66   1,769   2,971
Land Suveying                      54,530  2,756      57,286   102       562   1,763  2286
Sdiwx of ScLme &-ARAied Arts
Caterng & Hbtel M3nq>l/t           65,893  13,035     78,928   154       513   1,714
Lberal Arts                       155,221  2,430    157,651    98    1,609   2,810
M) h.a etis & Sc:aen              114,160  8,281    122,441   142        862   2,064  2196



- 32-  *                             ANNEX 2-6
Page 2 of 2
Teaching Total  Rec.
Staff O erhead            No. of Cost/   Cost/ Average/
Cost    Cost     Total  Students Student Student  Dept.
N        N         N
School of Business & Management
Business Administration           97,880  1,236      99,116   264      375   1,577
Accountancy, Finance & Banking     7,735    773       8,508   381       22   1,224
Marketing                         79,285    923      80,208   172      466   1,668
Secretarial AdministratLon       100,470  9,717    110,187   161       684   1,886  1589
Total (Academic)          1,321,411 141,905  1,463,316 2,212  11,537  28,361  2053
Total Recurrent Costs:                                           4,121,519
Average Recurrent Cost/Student (including academic):                  1,863
% Academic staff cost of total budget:                                 32.1
Z Administrative/support staff cost of total budget:                   33.0
Z Overhead cost of total budget:                                       34.9
* Programs to be assisted by the project.



-33 -                            ANNEX 2-7
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
ANALYSIS OF RECURRENT BUDGET - FEDERAL POLYTECHNIC, MUBI
(1986 Actual)
I. ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENTS
Staff
Costs           Overhead             Total
(N) .             (N)                (N)
Rector's Office               69,810             91,799             161,609
Registry                     600,241            974,079           1,574,320
Bursary                      117,753            291,468             409,221
Works and services            78,851            232,460             311,311
Library                       46,321              19,432             65,753
912,976          1,609,238          2,522,214
Number of Students:                   1,156
Distributed cost per student (N):  2,182.0
1  ACADEMIC
Total
Teaching  Recurrent
Staff                        No. of    Cost/    Cost/
Costs   Overhead    Total   Students   Student   Student
(N)      (N)       (N)
School of Teehnology  304,634   132,324    436,958  234    1,867    4,409
School of Engineering 310,606   197,779    508,385  199    2,555    4,737
School of Education   188,963    57,536    246,499  106    2,325    4,507
School of Management  128.764   54,598    183,362   617       297    2.479
Total            932,967   442,237   1,375,204   1,156    1,190    3,371
Total Cost (N):         3898.418
Average cost/student:  3371.468
X Academic staff costs of total budget:                    23.9
X Administrative/support staff cost of total budget:   23.4
X Of overhead of total budget:                             52.6
Note:  Information provided by Mubi Polytechnic is not broken down into
departments in the various schools of the institution.



- 34 - .                     ANNEX 2-8
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
RECURRENT EXPENDITURES OF THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT FOR
EDUCATION, 1981-1985 a/
(Naira '000)
1981       1982      1983      1984      1985
A. Federal Ministry of
Education
Current                   437,100 b/ 318,581 b/ 160,307  131,702  112,751
Real (1980)               369,172 b/ 244,874 b/ 100,004   59,837   39,313
B. National Board of
Technical Education
Current (Actuals)          21,577     48,015      41,700   43,782      NA
Real (1980)                18,224     36,906      26,014   19,892      NA
C. National Universities
Commission
Current (Actuals          322,000    332,200    365,940  405,681  410,707
Real (1980)               271,959    255,342    228,284  184,317  143,203
Total Recurrent Expendi-
tures of the Federal
Government for Education
Current                   780,677    698,796    567,947  581,165  523,458 c/
Real (1980)               659,355    537,122    354,303  264,046  182,517 c/
% Education of Total
Federal Recurrent Budget   (21%)       (20%)      (15%)    (18%)      (15%)
a/   Approved budget estimates unless otherwise noted.
b/   Actual expenditures for FME in 1981 and 1982.
ci Excludes polytechnic.
Source: Federal Government budgets, National Board of Technical Education,
and National Universities Commission.



ANNEX 2-9
-35-
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES OF THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
FOR EDUCATION, 1981-1985
(Naira '000) a/
1981      1982       1983       1984     1985
A. Federal Ministry of
Education
Current                    216,382  223,697 b/ 147,677 b/  49,578  50,044
Real (1980)                182,-55  171,942 b  92,125 b/  22,525  17,449
B. National Board of
Technical Education c/
(Polytechnics and
Colleges of Technology)
Current (Actuals)           50,400   40,000     30,175      22,140      NA
Real (1980)                 42,568   30,746      18,824     10,059      NA
C. National Universities
Commission (Federal
Universities) d/
Current (Actuals)          335,640  199,575    119,272      35,893  45,550
Real (1980)                283,480  153,401     74,405      16,308  15,882
Total Capital Expenditure
of Federal Government for
Education
Current                   602,422  463,272    297,124    107,611  95,594 e/
Real (1980)                508,802  356,089    185,354      48,892  33,331 e/
2 Education of Total
Federal Capital Budget       (7X)      (6%)       .(4%)      (3%)     (2%)
a/   Approved budget estimates, unless otherwise noted.
bl   Actual expenditures for FME in 1982 and 1983.
c/ In 1984-1985, NBTE had 10 polytechnics, some of which are called
Colleges of Technology.
dl   In 1984-1985, NUC had 20 Federal universities.
e/ Excludes polytechnic.
Source:  Federal Government budgets, National Board of Technical Education,
and National Universities Commission.



- 36 -                       ANNEX 2-10
Page 1 of 6
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
NATIONAL BOARD FOR TECHNICAL EDUCATION
FUNCTIONS AND ORGANIZATION CHART
1.        Functions.  The National Board for Technical Education (NBTE) is
a Federal statutory body set up by (Decree) Act No. 9 of 1977, and
entrusted with the overall planning, coordination and certification of all
post-secondary technical/vocational institutio.s at the Federal and state
levels. Specifically, the Decree sets up NBTE as a corporate body and
charges it with responsibility for advising the Federal Government on all
aspects of technical education falling outside the universities. including
the general development of polytechnics, colleges of technology, trade
centers and other technical institutions. In furtherance of the discharge
of its duties, the Board would draw up periodic master plans for the
balanced and coordinated development and expansion of technical and voca-
tional education in polytechnics, colleges of technology, trade centers and
other technical and vocational institutions and the establishment and
location of new ones. However, due to deep budget cuts resulting from the
current economic depression, the NBTE has been unable to implement many of
the development plans, and a large number of buildings remain unflnlshed.
Through the Education Decree of 1985 (National Minimum Standards and Estab-
lishment of Institutions), NBTE also has powers to accredit polytechnics
and enforce criteria such as class size, student-teacher ratios, length of
the academic year, laboratories/workshops equipment, and supervised indus-
trial attachment. It is the key institution in providing support to FME's
Technical, Vocational Science Education Division (TVSED), in the deter-
mination of minimum standards and in their implementation. Additionally,
NBTE is also the channel for donor assistance to technical education, and
the central agency for channeling financial contributions emanating from
Government or other bodies to said institutions, and for the development,
in collaboration with the Ministries and organizations having technical
training programs, of a system of national certification for technicians,
craftsmen and other skilled personnel. The organization chart for NBTE is
on page 6.
2.        NBTE's secretariat's offices are located in Kaduna, currently in
cramped accommodations on two sites. The Board should move, however, into
new centralized building accommodations in late 1987 or early 1988.
Included among the Board's specific functions are the following:
(a) to advise the Federal Government on and to coordinate all aspects
of technical and vocational education falling outside the univer-
sities, and to make recommendations on the national policy
necessary for the full development of technical and vocational
education for the training of technicians, craftsmen and other
middle-level and skilled manpower:



- 37 -                      ANNEX 2-10
Page 2 of 6
(b)  to determine, after consultation with the National Manpower
Board, the ITF, and other such bodies as it considers appro-
priate, the skilled and middle-level manpower needs of the
country in the industrial, commercial and other relevant fields
for the purpose of planning training facilities and, in
particular, to prepare periodic master plans for the balanced and
coordinated development of polytechnics and colleges of
technology;
(c) to inquire into and advise the Feaeral Government on the
financial needs, both recurrent and capital, of polytechnics and
colleges of technology and other technical institutions to enable
them to meet the objective of producing the trained manpower
required by the country;
(d) to act as the agency for channelling all external aid to poly-
technics and colleges of technology in Nigeria;
(e) to advise on, and take steps to harmonize, entry requirements and
duration of courses at technical institutions, and to lay down
skill standards to be attained and to continually review such
standards;
(f) to review methods of assessing students and trainees, and to
develop a scheme of national certification for technicians,
craftsmen, and other skilled personnel in collaboration with
ministries and organizations having technical training programs;
(g) to collect, analyze, and publish information relating to tech-
nical and vocational education; and
(h) to carry out any other activities related to the discharge of its
functions under the Decree.
3.        In its role of advising on all aspects of technical education,
the Board makes recommendations on how best:
(a) to stimulate and encourage pre-vocational and general technical
education in secondary schools not only as a basis for creating
early technological awareness but also to provide suitable orien-
tation for further education and training in technology and to
provide direct practical skills for earning a living;
(b) to inculcate in the public an attitude of respect for, and
appreciation of, the role of technology in society;
(c)  to advise on and take measures to improve the immediate and long-
term prospects of technicians and technical teachers with respect
to status and remuneration;
(d) to expand the facilities for the training of technical teachers
and ensure that these teachers are exposed, both during and after
training, to industrial experience;



- 38 -                           ANNEX 2-10
Page 3 of 6
(e) to involve experts both in Government and industry in the design
of courses relevant to the practical needs of the country in all
fields; and
(f) to provide encouragement to women for entering various fields of
technical education.
4.        While NBTE, in close collaboration with industry, has commenced
in modular training programs, equipment standardization, student place-
ments, and other important aspects of technical education under its
purview, it has not been able to function optimally because of a shortage
of staff and insufficient funds. The proposed project would assist NBTE to
more fully undertake other important activities within its mandate
including: curriculum development; planning for technical education
facilities; compilation of statistics, training, documentation, etc., for
technical/vocational education.
5.        Structure.  There are presently 188 individuals, including 62
professionals, employed at NBTE. The Executive Secretary of NBTE, who is
appointed by the Federal Executive Council on the recommendation of the
Commissioner, is the chief executive officer of the Board and responsible
for the execution of the policy of the Board and the day-to-day running of
the affairs of the Board. The most significant change in NBTE's structure
occurred recently with the creation of a new division for project implemen-
tation. This division will be responsible for the overall planning of
equipment, supplies and maintenance. The work programs of NBTE's Programs
and Planning Division are detailed below. NBTE's organization chart is on
page 6.
6.        Programs Division - 1987 Work Plan.  The Programs Division of
NBTE has established a work plan for 1987, which is summarized below:
(a) initiate an implementation workshop for Technical College
programs for: (i) principals and schools; and (ii) heads of
departments and instructors;
(b) accreditation of revisitation for programs denied initial
accreditation for all polytechnics;
(c) accreditation visits to Anambra State polytechnic;
(d)  preparation of new guidelines for establishing and operating
polytechnics and similar level technical institutions;
(e) preparation of new guidelines for accreditation of Diploma and
Higher Diploma programs;
(f) preparation of guidelines for accreditation of Technical College
programs;
(g) writer's workshop for the production of technical textbooks for
Technical College programs;



- 39 -
ANNEX 2-10
Page 4 of 6
(h) national critique workshop for the development of new syllabuses
in foundary technology, ceramics, glass technology, etc., at the
diploma levels;
(i) national critique workshop for the review of existing National
Diploma and Higher National Diploma programs;
(j) workshop for the use of micro-computers in education for poly-
technic staff;
(k) establishment of a monitory committee for determining whether any
programs granted accreditation has any short-comings;
(1) advisory visit to Technical Colleges for the purpose of evalu-
ating the quality of training and advising the institutions; and
(i) establishing parameters for budgeting polytechnics.
7.        Planning Division - 1987 Work Plan.  The Planning Division of
NBTE has established a work plan for 1987, which includes the following:
(a) supervision of preparation of campus master plans for
polytechnics;
(b) monitoring of capital projects in Federal polytechnics;
(c) preparation of master plans for Bauchi Federal polytechnics;
(d) collection of statistical data from the Ministry of Education and
all polytechnics in the country;
(e) publication of statistical digest and three other magazines and
journals;
(f)  organization of the Management Information Service (MIS) for the
polytechnics;
(g) representation on Tenders Board of the Federal polytechnics;
(h) preparation of budgets for Federal polytechnics; and
(i) disbursement of funds to the Federal polytechnics.
8.        In 1986 the Planning Division established the monitoring of civil
works programs for all the polytechnics. This will now enable the Division
to allocate funding to civil works in an orderly manner, giving priority
where required. The Division's main task in 1987 would appear to be the
setting up of the MIS, which is being undertaken jointly with the British
Council which is in the process of fielding a mission to NBTE and FME to
identify key performance indicators and other statistical data that should
be provided by the polytechnics. The British Council is also awarding 4
technical cooperation training awards (2 in 1987/88 and 2 in 1988/89) in
the areas of planning and coordination, curriculum development and student
assessment, educational statistics and resource allocation. These awards



_ 40
ANNEX 2-10
Page 5 of 6
will complement the technical assistance fellowship component of the
project which has been proposed for NBTE. Computers are being provided at
NBTE and the four polytechnics of Bauchi, Calabar, Kaduna and Yaba to
assist in the collection of statistical data for NBTE. They are also being
provided at the four project polytechnics, which will double the MIS data
base.
9.        Future developments.  NBTE will be undertaking a comprehensive
study on the issues and constraints in technical/vocational education,
including the cost and financing of the sub-sector. NBTE will also produce
a 3-5 year rolling work plan for the overall activities of the organiza-
tion. In addition, it is working on developing a mechanism within the
planning division for ascertaining the completion rates of buildings and
the proper recording of those to be completed and costs. A working group
has also been established at NBTE to produce a paper on guidelines and
parameters of budgeting for the polytechnics.
10.       Staff development.  At NBTE, as at the various Federal poly-
technics, staff development programs originate at the divisional levels.
Theoretically, NBTE's director of administration should handle staff devel-
opment, but in reality this is not the case. At present, rather, on-going
training recommendations go from the divisions to the executive secretary
for approval. There is no centrally coordinated program in the system,
even though NBTE is essentially the umbrella for the institutions, and as
such, conducts workshops, seminars and short-term courses for the various
polytechnics. Presently, training within NBTE, and theoretically at the
polytechnics, is geared towards specific needs and identified gaps.
Specifl.c types of courses are determined by NBTE's management meeting
committee.



-41-                   ANNEX 2-10
Pop 6 of 6
z l
z~~~~~~~~~~
|jt  g..     i~~~~~~~~~~I
t~~~j   IIi e   t
§gE   . W~~~~~~~~~
.  *..~~~
Ili3



-42-                          ANNEX 2-11
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
LEVEL OF COST-SHARING - FEDERAL POLYTECHNIC, BIDA
1.        Total Recurrent Costs                      Level of Cost Sharing
(1986 Actual Expenditure)
Personnel Cost  "                             N 2,681,780
Overhead Cost                                 N 1,439,739
Total                                      N 4,121,519
Number of students: 2,212
Cost per student (excluding feeding)          N 1,863 per year
Cost per student (including feeding)          N 3,780 per year
2.        Cost (Fees) Borne by Students
Accommodation fee                    90.0
Registration fee                      5.6
Caution deposit                      30.0
Student union fee                    10.0
Examination fee                      20.0
Sports fee                           10.0
Admission forms                      15.0
Purchase of compulsory books         90.0
Total direct eost/student        270.0
3.        Estimated cost of food (borne by students):
N 4 per day x 240 days - N 960 per year
4.        Proportion of unit recurrent costs borne by students:
Excluding feeding costs: 14X
Including feeding costs: 33%
5.        Expenditure levels for training materials
At 2X of recurrent costs: N 37 per student
At 5% of recurrent costs: N 93 per student
At 101 of recurrent costs: N 186 per student



43-                          ANNEX 3-1
Page 1 of 4
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
THE FEDERAL POLYTECHNICS
1.        Management.  Management of the polytechnics, which operate as
independent units under the umbrella of NBTE, is based on a tripod
consisting of the Government Council/Governing Board, the Academic Board
and the Executive Level of rectors and management (described below). The
polytechnics receive annual capital and recurrent expenditure grants from
the Federal Government through FME and NETE. NBTE coordinates all aspects
of technical education below the university level for Nigeria's poly-
technics, post primary schools and the Federal Technical College. It
provides periodic short-term training for the various institutifts, usually
in the form of workshops, seminars or short courses. NBTE also has control?
over the institutions' physical development.  The institutions, conse-
quently, must develop a strong liaison relationship with NBTE. Generally,
it is the rector of a polytechnic who assumes the major liaison functions.
While the structure of each school will vary somewhat from school to
school, a typical organization chart for a polytechnic is shown on page 4.
(a)  Governing Council/Governlng Board, which is appointed by the
Federal Government, coordinates and sets priorities as to how
funds are to be used. It is the final source on funding
decisions, but cannot interfere in purely academic matters,
curricula, certification, etc.
(b) Academic Board - subordinate to the Governing Council/Board
except on academic matters.
(c)  Execut.ve Level -  this level, including the Rector, as head of
the institution, and management, implements decisions.
2.        The Rector is the chief academic and administrative executive of
the polytechnic, and, therefore, specifically oversees all the academic and
non-academic units of the polytechnic. The office of the Rector liaises
with outside bodies such as:  FME; NMTE; Federal and state parastatals and
agencies; foreign embassies; and private organizations. The Rector is
assisted by a registrar for the day-to-day administration, a bursar for the
day-to-day financial control, a chief librarian, a director of works, and
the heads of the various academic departments.
3.        The registry is the unit of the polytechnic that handles all
administrative matters. The registrar, who is statutorily the secretary to
the Governing Council and the Academic Board, is responsible to the Rector
for the day-to-day administration of the polytechnic. Generally included
among the responsibilities of the registry are: implementation of Council
decisions; processing of appointments and promotions of staff; the general
welfare of staff and students; processing students' admissions; organizing



44 -                        ANNEX 3-1
Page 2 of 4
internal examinations; and keeping student records and statistics; student
scholarships; guidance and counselling.
4.        Among the functions of the bursary are:  controlling financial
resources of the polytechnic; preparing the polytechnic's annual budget for
NBTE approval; acting as a watchdog; adviser and executor of any financial
regulations that may affect the polytechnics; preparing periodic
contractors' and suppliers' accounts; preparing and paying staff salaries
and students' subventions; preparing the polytechnic's annual final
accounts for the purpose of external auditing; and making periodic returns
of the polytechnic's income and expenditures to PFE and NBTE. The bursary
also generally has the responsibility of formulating and implementing
standard stores and supply procedures; advising management and liaisoning
wit'hi users on procurement, storage and supply matters.
5.        There is an overall need to strengthen management capabilities in
Nigeria in general. While an appropriate system exists, in form, at the
project institutions (NBTE, the four polytechnics, and the FTC) certain
areas need to be strengthened, in particular, including: equipment, pro-
curement and maintenance, record keeping, the accounting systems, etc.
Managers need the "know-how" to organize and manage staff, and then
personnel need to be equipped with the practical capabilities to do the
job. There is a special need for industrial attachment for many staff at
the polytechnics.
6.        Staff development.  Within the polytechnic system there is
currently no centrally coordinated staff development program for the
institutions. Each institution develops its own staff development program,
usually through committees or on an ad hoc basis. Availability of funds
and academic priorities of the institutions are two factors considered when
looking at individual applications for training. Funding for training
normally comes from one of the following sources: (a) directly from the
institution's own resources; (b) sharing costs with other agencies, the
scholarship board, etc.; and (c) external assistance from, i.e., the
British Council, scholarship board, etc.
7.        Similarly, there is no central dissemination of information for
overseas training. All Nigerian universities advertise in newspapers, at
the universities and polytechnics. etc. The polytechnics must identify for
themselves the kind of staff and training needed, and then search for the
appropriate institutions offering such training.
8.        As mentioned above, NBTE, as the umbrella for the polytechnics,
from time-to-time conducts workshops, seminars and short-term training
sessions for staff of the polytechnics. The mode and content of NBTE's
training may not always be critical to the specific needs of the various
institutions, however, but rather based on the expertise and available
staff at NBTE. The institutions themselves can also initiate training
programs and go directly to NBTE or other institutions/agencies for
training assistance. There is a recognized need, on the part of the
polytechnics, for more technologists to conduct workshop and lab type
training.



45 -                        ANNEX 3-1
Page 3 of 4
9.        Internal staff development for inside Nigeria normally is
initiated at the department level, going to the Rector through the staff
training development committee, if in existence, for recommendation and
approval. If the training is to take place outside Nigeria approval must
usually proceed through the same cycle, with the final decision being made
at the Governing Board/Council level. All institutions have established
some type of "bonding" system for longer-term training supported by the
institutions.
10.       Additionally, many institutions have installed regular in-service
training for staff. This type of training generally is optional, and
courses are conducted after work-hours by lecturers at the institutions,
who often must meet the required number of teachiing hours.



FEDERAL REPUBUC OF NGERIA
TECHNIC EDUCATION PROJEcr
FEDERAL POLYTECHNIC (MUW)
OrganIatIon Cha.t
GhCounk
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
wiS and                                                                         ..
Hsa~~~at                                                          *Igat epaawt
VHcsatl                                                                ..amo 1d . 
-at                   oepwwwf                                         -sanf                  oprn
Lho co a _o  I I dop*wt in webcot atMb
1* d_xx X tymin an gh o   nFeded pcVMbht                                                                                 "
h    08ia 1 19r *S
Ahu" we7 a      f 4d*a uns nV os d3o t 



ANNEX 3-2
Page 1 of 3
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
THE FEDERAL TECHNICAL COLLEGE
1.        The Federal Technical College (FTC), Yaba, established in 1948 as
an institution for training skilled craftsmen for Nigerian industries, is
currently the only Federal technical college in the country providing
courses at Intermediate and Advanced Craft levels in various engineering
and construction trades. Presently, it provides a wide range of 14 Inter-
mediate and 9 Advanced courses leading to Intermediate, Advanced Tech-
nicians and Full Technological Certificates of West Africa Examinations
Council (WAEC) and City and Guilds of London Institute. The Intermediate
level courses are normally three years full-time; the Advanced level course
is one year full-time, after two years of industrial work experience. A
-large number of students also take the Intermediate level courses on a
part-time basis in evening classes. An organization chart of FTC appears
on page 3.
2.        The FTC, Yaba, is directly controlled by the Federal Ministry of
Education through the Director of Education in the Technical and Vocational
Science Education Division (TVSED). The Ministry formulates policies on
vocational education, allocates funds for the purchase of equipment, tools
and materials for teaching, feeding of students, and also employs, promotes
and pays all the staff of the college. Capital projects are initiated by
the college, but the funding and execution for these projects are adminis-
tered by ME, through the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing.
3.        Standards at FTC have been declining through inadequate staffing,
equipment being out of operation (much of it is more than 20 years old),
and lack of consumable materials. Shortage of student hostel accommodation
has also limited enrollments. As the infrastructure is sound, and a new
workshop block is ready to be handed over, the project provides an excel-
lent opportunity to re-plan and refurbish the college, taking into account
the needs to extend and improve the quality of Intermediate and Advanced
craft training. Initial estimates show that the workshop accommodation
could provide up to 1,600 places, thus offering scope for substantial
expansion which will need careful planning over a five-year period. The
major constraints are likely to be the availability of suitably qualified
and experienced lecturers and student hostel accommodation.
4.        The principal of FTC is the chief academic and administrative
officer, as well as the liaison officer between the college and the Federal
Ministry of Education. The principal prepares the long-range plan for the
college and submits it to the Ministry for approval. The principal also
serves as the chairman of the following boards and committees: (a) aca-
demic board; (b) admission board; (c) appointment and discipline of senior
staff members; (d) maintenance committee; (e) examination board; and
(f) staff development committee.



-48-                             ANNEX 3-2
Page 2 of 3
5.        There are five departments within FTC, each of which is headed by
a head of departaent, who coordinates the activities of the sections under
his department. Each section is headed by the most senior officer in that
section. Included among the functions of the various departments are: the
preparation of staf, development programs; the organization of short
courses and workshops it. related courses; and encouraging the active
participation of staff in professional bodies.



ANNEX 3-2
-49-                    Page3  3
C4J
U. Z
0 0
| as l|RX                X  E
{dI3E
IIH 
I N   I                  _ _ _}



- 50 -                     ANNEX 3-3
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
National Diploma (ND) and Higher National Diploma (HND) Programs
Approved to be Run in Each of the Four Polytechnics
Ado     Bida    Mubl    Af1k
N  H     NH    N I    NIH
BUSINESS
1.  Accountancy                               00       0 0    0        0
2.  Banking                                   0        0
3.  Business Administration & Management      0  0     0  0    0  *    0
4. Secretarial Studies                        0  0     0  0    0        0
5. Marketing                                 0o0       00 
6. Mass Communication                                  0
ENGINEERING TECHNOLOGY
7. Civil Engineering                          O  0     U  O      o 0        O 
8.  Electrical Engineering                    0 0      O  U    U  0    U  U
9. Mechani:al Engineering                     0 0      U  O    0  0    0  5
10. Chemical Engineering                               O       0
11. Mining Engineering                        0  0
12. Agricultural Engineering                  0        0       0
ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES
13. Land Surveying                           aO a      *D
14. Quantity Surveying                                 0
15. Building Technology                       0 a         U
HOSPITALITY PROGRAM
16. Catering & Hotel Management                        0       0
17. Food Science & Technology                a a               0
SCIENCE
18. Statistics                                         0
19. Science Technology                       a  0      0       0
TECHNOLOGY
20. Glass Technology/Ceramics                 0                        0 5
TEACHER EDUCATION
21. NCR Technical                                              0
22. NCE Business Studies                                     1
23. TTC                                      O         O
24. Pre ND                                             0       0       0
* * Planned
o  - Undertaken
*  - Accredited
O  - To be assisted by the project
ND  - National Diploma (N)
END - Higher National Diploma (H)
NCE f 'ational Certificatot of Education
TTC _ vech ical Teacher Certificate



- 51 -                       ANNEX 3-4
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
ADVANCED CRAFT PROGRAMS
Ado   Bida  Mubi Afik  Yaba
ELECTRICAL TRADES
1. Electrical Installation & Maintenance Work
2. Radio, TV & Electronic Craft Practice
3. Instrument Mechanics
4. Appliance Repairs (Office & Domestic)
AUTOMOBILE ENGINEERING
5. Vehicle Body Building
6. Vehicle Body Repair
7. Auto-electrical
8. Motor Vehicle Mechanics
9. Agricultural Mechanics
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
10. Mechanical Engineering
11. Foundry
12. Air-conditioning & Refrigeration Mechanics
13. Fabrication & Welding
14. Tool & Die Making
BUILDING & WOOD TRADES
15. Brick & Concrete Work
16. Carpentry & Joinery
17. Furniture
18. Upholstery
19. Machine Wood-working
20. Painting & Decorating
21. Plumbing
INDUSTRIAL & CREATIVE ARTS
22. Printing
23. Photography
COOMERCIAL STUDIES
24. Typewriting
25. Stenography
26. Bookkeeping
27. Data-processing/Key Punch Operator
28. Catering
MARINE TRADES
29. Marine Craft Practice
- Proposed
- Programs to be supported by the project



ANNEX 3-5
IEMAL mUmic (W NWA
qsWJF~A1~ OF  LEM3U StW  (1 FRUAL P1UY'IH M  AI( D VE OM 1flIAL 0msEZ, AhMC IFAR: 1986
Nam    OF S1Aw Br   E;r QYA         COEA     (L IN G..07 - GL. 16)
Avmwd          Mbl     1B.Sc./B.A./BJd.  M.Sc.M.A.      Ph.D.
Craft      Teodnial          or            or          or                        emr Support
hprtzuv-7nt      N.C.E.   Certiflcate     Certificate  Eq*dvalmnt    Figvaleat  EBdvzalazt  Otbers    Toatl  Staff G(.01-06
(ies.)      
1. Yabe            -          -   9        91              34           101'         6         -        232        161
2. JAd3ti*          5        '3            45              35           62           7          4       161         91
3. Bid* a                     8             6              58            53          4         98       227        338
4. Idsh            13          3            8              75           42           4         34       179         71
5. wchi.            -          3           12              94            46          7          11      173         114
6. Ilaro            -          5            4              67           49           4          4       124         60
7. *bbl*            -         4            20              55           20           4          6       109         53
B. K/N.Doa          -          -            1              20            9           -          18       48          7
9. Namu=a           3          -           -               19            11          -         -         33          2
10. Afikpo*         1         4             3              55            17          3          1       184         50
FM, Yaba            9         22           30              16            5           -          -        82         198
Total           31         52           220            528 '         415          39        176    1,552       1,145
* Project  .iitAims.
Sburce: Federal lniustrty of Educatlin



_ 53 _                       ANNEX 3-6
Page 1 of 4
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
IMPACT OF EFFICIENCY MEASURES ON ENROLLMENT AND UNIT COSTS
1.        At present unit recurrent costs of project institutions are high,
about N4,400 per year (excluding cost of funding, borne by students since
1985). The high unit cost is due to: (a) the structure of expenditure
(overhead costs and salaries of non-instruction staff represent about 621
of recurrent costs); and (b) poor utilization of staff and facilities.
2.        The project would introduce the following measures to improve
efficiency and decrease unit costs. These changes affect only the
science/technology streams. Business/management programs are not changed
as unit costs are, on the whole, acceptable.
(a) Class size is increased from 8 to 16 students in workshops and
laboratories and from 24 to 32 in lectures;
(b) Hours of teaching of staff are increased from approximately 14
hours per week at present to 18 hours per week; and i
(c) Class hours are reduced from 31 hours per seek at present (14
hours of workshop/laboratory and 17 hours ,f lectures) to 28
hours per week (18 hours of workshop/laboratory to 10 hours of
lectures). The reduction in lecture hours would be balanced by
Improvement in library facilities and provision of instructional
materials.
Impact of Measures on Enrollments
3.        Assuming there will be no increase in the number of instructional
and administrative staff, these measures will increase the number of
students in science/technology as follows:
S    T1 X CSXHT1       -
CH1
2   T1    Cs2 X KT2
CH2
where: S - number of students
T = number of teachers
CS - class size
UT - hours of teaching
CH - class hours per week
- Subscript 1 - present situation (1985)



- 54 _                            ANNEX 3-6
Page 2 of 4
- Subscript 2 - after introduction of measures (1991-1992)
82 ,CS2 X HT2 X CH1
S    Cs1  HT1   CH2
In the project institutions:
S2   21.7 a/  X 18 X 31 - 1.86
S-1  16.7       14   28
i.e., the number of students in science and technology that can be accom-
modated under the new circumstance is 193% more than the initial number.
a/ CS and CS were derived by adding the proportions in workshops/labs
ani theoretical classes as follows:
CS2 - (18 X 16) + (10 X 32) - 21.7
ye          28
Cs1 . (14 X 8) + (17 X 24) - 16.7
31         31
Impact on Unit Recurrent Costs
4.        Investment costs.  The proposed project contains the following
investment costs: (a) equipment: $11.5 million; (b) technical assistance:
$3.2 million; and (c) library books and journals: $1.1 million. Amortized
over 15 years at 8% p.a., costs for equipment and technical assistance
would be $1.73 million or N6.92 million. Amortixed over 10 years, also at
8S interest annual cost of library books and journals would be $164,000 or
N656,000.
5.        Recurrent costs.  Annual recurrent costs (1985, actual) for the
five project institutions (including pro-rated NBTE headquarter costs) is
125.1 million.
6.        Unit costs.  Average unit costs for 1985 (UC) is
UC1 - Cl
NI
where C1 - annual recurrent costs for 1985, and
N1  Total number of students in 1985.
UC  -  25.1 million
5,640 - N 4,430 per year
Unit costs for 1992 (UC2) - C2 + A
N2



ANNEX 3-6
55 -                          Page 3 of 4
where C  - annual recurrent for 1992,
N2 a projected total number of students in 1992 is
A  - annualized investment costs
7.        UC2 is computed as follows:
C2- (C1 - CTM1) + CTN2, where
CTM1 is cost of instructional/training material for 1985,
CTM2 is cost of instructional/training material for 1992.
CTMI - 5,640 students x N 40 - N 225,600
CTM2 - 8,585 students x N 200 - N 1.72 million
C2 a (N 25.1 million - N 0.23 million) + N 1.72 - N 26.62 million
Total cost (recurrent + annualized investment cost - 26.62 million + 6.92
Imillion + 0.66 million --N 34.2 million).
Thus UC2 - 3    - N 3,985 per year
8585
8.        Reduction in unit cost is
UC4-UC2 - 4430-3985
UC1         3985
or 11X
9.        Notes on Current and Projected Enrollment (N1 and N2):
Current (1985-86). Enrollment (N1):
SceLeTecbnologZ           Business
Ado-Ekiti                            950                    883
Bida                                 845                    958
Nubi                                 '256                   317
Afikpo                               211                    320
Total:                             2,262                  2,478
FTC                 Full-time        800
Part-time       400
Total (FTE):                         900
Total Current Enrollment (N1):                     - S,640



-56-                           ANNEX 3-6
Page 4 of 4
Projected Enrollment (N2):
Polytecbnics (Science and Technology) 2262 X 1.86 - 4,207
FTC                 Full-time      1,800
Part-time       400
Total 'FTE)                1,900
Polytechnics (Business/Management)                 - 2,478
Total Projected Enrollment 1991-92 (N2):           - 8,585
students
Note: FTE - Full-time Equivalent



FDIERAL RIPUBLIC OF NIGERIl
TEHICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMHARY ACCOUNTS COST SUMARY
I _ _  _s i
I ffoml  ha.                                         I Fo.fis  3ane
Loal        Fo.ala       Tota  'lubama.  tasu           Lca       fAws"%       Woa    Uf s-de  Costs
1. II      I  -lc
I. 331153?                                   - 52.463e.22.0 e.463.m.o          100   a7              -1.5300.0e tU0 11.1,23.0       too      a7
u. miuuur limwam                      Uo.m.o              -    700,00o.0        I-                                    tU5.36  -  I   4.2  -   I
t. mImvm    11111   CIII              ao.Ot.              -    *      o.0        -      0    0*219.3             -   t0r9.0           -       O
.      "e -e-*II- 1f16T4T1U            OuO.*                    600..                   I   *313.-i3143.1                             -       I
E. Wm                                        -  10a20,0.0  1,00.0              t0oo     2            -   40000.0   40t0 0.0          o0       2
F. ISS an     1                       47  e.e    *        -    42*00.0           -      0   103,a3l              -   10371.3          -       0
o Lu sE NW a  ami                            -   4#?s    4smm.o               1tO       4            * - t.00M.ii    1#010.500.0    1tO       4
L U.  W  FtIUnI  MS  EIIIIt           700,000.     7M4250.0  1.496250.0         5       I   13 .2   15*000.   M2 M4.2                53       I
t. tm=N M I5ST=                              - tI 1600.0 136431.e0.0           £00     LI          2-       .0h 0.  2.2400 o00               12
J. fUU                                       -  1,52,25.0  1.535.625.0         lee      I           -   3700.0 237".     4 0s0.0    10        1
otal13           3                     h2.13,0000 M4  9,S15.60 25341.             94      19   60*SU.1654.4 A.SVA*50*016.5              96     69
tcAl             i.                   292.0' 6.0441            76.3  7.00923 96 9       4     M M3510  t147.l150 1.5020.6            9 
Price  Uw..elus                       64t131.9  19,s .0 1t7m168.                97     13      7#2794   593U4    4 .6.                        2                .                   I
totald  1   3 W1t3                     36211,3.9 100 #494,49     4t..6l5          96      91   715,247.5 H4    t354t U1916.059          96     78
ix.  auum   m
wr KAU                              510o0               -    51te800.0         -      I   tl3 u.2              -   ltst846.2        -       0
L. CW      _I  £ 63*31)            4.21M ..  21.911.t .  26        125s        77     25 1.411.203.3  4315.0.  0.220#M..                    25
t tio Smm  1 m                     2,000.00.             -  2.e000.0            *      2    3.00.4              -    3O50.4          -       2
L  MM3     M m  mm                   052,0*0                                    - M    1   137.252.?                 M 1 M.32.?      -       I
FEW   PRh                            4000          000.0    impost             52     e       o    1     49 100000.0    MUM2.1     5a        I
F. " m1   OIEII T                  t000.00.0 11 2500.   2v.17.5000             5       2   21930.2   250,000        469e 70.2       53       2
taW  5         O3                     t1491    .  22t0ta46     34.695 5           is      3t  2,459.560.4 5.1.750.0 7,0.210.4           de     31
huieda   tiaes leoo                 1.0040.0  2.*16L3  3.41013                  69      1   210001.1   510S4.0  M7476.1              6        3
Pime hnalbmcle                      .3030*9.4  3,127,211.  t2M013"0.            72     It    73691.   232,257.0   36*0643.          III      2
oa 3          53A5t 11572    34.491.349.358414,1794                               U       45 2,74,15.t2 544U2.0 3.15835.3               s3     35
tal 5m  m                              13.119.0*0.  91153.717.5112.22*271.           7    100  3103.0.92192250.02405.29                  37    1
letw  cmumuo                         1.343.00.0   .07014  10*410*412.5           3       9     52     1          . 2,750.  2.92.0     P       9
Pic CowUmmcl                         4.022.2935 2774e4t1 X7                 -     7     23       07.    91104         9211154         92       4
Itdal                       11 1       1         5   4    344.t 15413t02.           3?    In  3.479.40.? 249?040  Vf 441.2               so    Its
*202t   t11   21 mU



MUL RPUIC OF ONIGERIA
TECHN%CAL EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMARY ACCOUNIT BY PRojE  COMPONENT
(NAIA  '000)
ow_n   04                  WmF           am m                      NM            FIE             OF    Tot             I
L. tllllWt                        11.24,W6.0  UtOt63LO  11*3336M .0  9J3l00.0  7.5t5.5 .              64S.53.0 e      1000.        110 e 2468325.0  10.0 5.24632.5
.9 0 ASTLA1                                 -            -       0e.o       22e0o.    40o0o0.                               -             -      700*000.0 t10.0     0o0.0
t. MIW  19011                               -            -                         -                   M  M6.0e                           -         0.0 t1.0    45600.0
3.o EuRt wtLUTION                           -                         -            -    600.0                 -             -             -      60.O   10.0    6400t.0
1.V tHtcs                            213420.0    159,2s.0      54*600.0   Is5.2s.0    159250.0         91o000.e     10o200.0        33*60.0    s20.000.0  10.0   t32*00.0
1  1111 t935                         ueSeo.o             -       00.0       182*.0    100l00.0               -             -             -      47240.010.0   04,200.0
B.  U     SM53  *    .               3400#.0       MO.4te.e    0400.0    U55.400.0    M9250.0         21*92.0        91,o0.0              -   4.5stm.0  10.0   4st.m.5
L UDRM?  1     01    MD1             2"*250.0    299*250.0    2ffot%.§    2920.0    299s5.0             .     -             -                              1 196.50 0.0 149.62.0
1.  0IM.   aTm                     1     0lo t.ooO.0    S..000.0  1.90.00W0.0  12P3000.0  2.330.0   2#290.0                -     1325.0  13-431.600.0  5.0   67* Ms0.0
J. F   tLtSI8                        tt3350    1 30.0    136,500.0   1w e50.0    409500.              23.20.0       204*750.0      t0235.    1t535.625.0  5.0    3S731.31
Total 595510131! 05813               14*312,600.0 15.Z33921.0 t 61464,30.0 1296630e.0  l2s.0 eo. 9   4.03925.0        ststse.o    2,2595.0  77.n57.5.0  9.0 7.00973.3                             O
II.WUN  COST
A. SW  SAL                                 -s m                                                                            -      500.0         Z..  0.0  5.0.
1. CUwIUI  M1                     s594973 u     4403    4.440.A0    6.44hM.04    ,0M.5                       *             -             -  23322.62.5  10.0 2*M2266.3
C. loin    hIR GATI                         -            -.          -            -            -             -             -    2.0000.0   2.P00.00.0  80.0   200.0
e. tIAL   518410 -                                       -           -            -            -             -             -      952,000.      92.0   5.0    42.600.0
1. FT  l"Mt4 -                                          -            -            -            -             -             -       55000.       t50.0  10.0    3500.0
F. 5f04    E      T                 tn1100.0    1n1.0           7.00       1 o.0     t171000.0        955o00.0     427s50.0               -   21 500.e0 10.0   2133n.0
tal           CMS 6to69m9.71.8  A6.61.4                         &6.6100   h.611t03   J         37.5      eoe.0         42t.seo.0    4v225000.0  344.5*162.5  9.3 341t016.3
TOWl Via    COS                       2*0#32.293  21,933.0 21.215393.3 19*5734.3 16236537.5   4*64,1.0                  932s*s.0    6#484,.050 1122m32 .33    93 10.410*412.5
FSkl84u    Cgot1des                  t.M2414.4  209t201.    0314.4  1.39*09.14   1.416.670.s            36*330.0        9017.3S     514,141t.  1040412.5  0.0            0.0
him tlAC tia                         60t41*0   460uv     7.   6.21s45.   s.763t.3.o0  4.3431.           6*t61.4       1.209.3   t19132.t.3  31*.D .s3.5  1.3 2b93.45t.6
taou St         CSTS                  21,942,333. 2*507.643M .3 29       .7   22t02006.1   A 0517.9   6.147. 4   1d27636.3    39154.5  154.43.03T                 S 613.#1534.1
FmsLfm Ebami                       26.5 004  211&30.  26.976596.2 24,23U531.3 19317,247.3   5".M9                     663        3.63.16.8 134.9344.1  3.5 114?S.42.9
nt It          In3 a245



FEDERAL REBLIC OF NIGERIA
TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
11030)                                                 cus *oo
I fa1d                                               I fewa
*foslin lDw                                          I  FVOu     ha
Lad         fo,.1a.      TOta.   Esgham    csa          Lo6d      fosal          ta1   £chass  costs
A. MM   MIPSW I1I 13015131W 07 ICIIICN 9507
t. 30 MM                                                         1,9.0m0.0 191249st   2.3  20.0229l          92     19   233W.  4621.625 4*#.59.                  92      1
2. 3M                                                            b07.5.0 227%0.33.  21.950 ..                92     20   2U#0.9 4,0US.4   4*402245.                2      20
3311I                                                            1,9.e. 19435o.9   21#2&3932                 I1     19   408#S..3  4.2162.  46610306.3            91      19
4. t                                                             2.012"..  17.5654    1        ?.34.se        o      IS   4420W3.9 33062.0  4302r.1.9             90      r?
5. tC                                                            2.0t00    1423.537.5  16#22603S             01      14   44042I9S 3.13250.0 3.563469.8            Be     14
otW   13DFO15 U3        T =  tLII     t 1773 W   UN=l3l DO?=        9292.00.0  90.663.937   "M uMv s            n      3  2042.4.6 tt19t27250.0 21t.t969.66          91 
1.51 3M56000.*0   460381250   4.39125.0                                                                     S3       4   13M1UM.    W7500.0 t1,075.1*.9           33       4
2. FI                                                              200000.0    nb      0 et w * M 5.         79       t    43.956.0   Ut#00.0   204e956.0          79      1                           1
3. "t=WC?                                                        3tM.728.0   2bf4t.075.   6.434#05.0         42      6   1I23ASt14   36#500.0 1 .471.4             a2      6                          -
lotal 315 3  C_1T1  Am I                                            4#3X7.#000    .4847.0  12.31070.0           a1     11 1.1h.3 1645.00.  2.7069.3                  61      it 
Tod ta 038     51                                                    14.U*eOe .0 9119* 3.17t 2.5 112272V.5        a     100 31O3.9 921.2p250.0 2465.326.9              67    too
dvss    Cdn mw4ttai6.3 00  9.067.012  1.410.412.5                                                              17      9    MM2   2   1.b .0 2#33.002.7   SS                 9
him  cal t4a                                                       4s2225  D7.94.1    79,3W7.S                 V7     23    31,.    91,4.5   92.5 1115              32       4
iut       d l P Uamcm                                                19*4* 34.3M        44 24.4 0*20     5       37    133.479400.7 24t.4.40e. 2795441.2               se    113
hootV s M                                                           - 1                    w -
_ia 27. 193  12*46                                                                       
!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
10



* ?EDERAL BREPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
PROJECT COMPONENTS BY YEAR
(NAIRA '000)
*m            o    aa  l9                     lam    am    lm                    mm    KSs Ire)
L~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~ss 1mm                                                        m Ult3Uss 'fIBC                                      s=. lElIIW.aIIs.zI
t.o   BIt ! [                                                 6M21t.443.3 5#.2.0.  2o7208J 3.11441.J  tt223=1t  6247S.2  5S911.?  3                  m21 3.3  ItM.127
2.311                                                          6#348P.3 5o.370.  4.00.6u3 3t343,67.5  1.54,94   144.8624  610.0.2  2140.31.  44324*.5.V
.1Mt                                 *.20.11U.3 5.373433  .3203#.3 3.233.1.  1.312.4.4  732.10.2  522.0.2  21.3133.3  4*0.36.
4. tm                                                          5724,53.3 4.392.WB.3 3.03913.  2.mm.3     .t23.239.4          h34.2  21.64*05.2  1747.343.  4*.3.712.9
.m                                                             537.257.5 4.0190.S 3.251.,5 1.973,9?             W07223.   43151W.4  36769.4  1t631.52.5  34AS#469.2
11W    1E M  m r  -  EFFTCIC W 10A02. asI U                     2 6.4          2562,56.31350.3714t6 t=.23  S.73ss        .0 .2714332.4 2t70e2222.6   9.s61s7.4  qt1.91..6
a. DFGNuwM COTO uuoau L00030.
1.toN                                                          2*41035l  1.12tM10.7950   334.0   310,095.0    45,747.5   3bMl   32,373.    6441425.0  I415.931.
2. FIE                                                           72Mf430.    MltW4)5.0   23220.0    3.215.0       4105.0   7*3%        6,552e.0    P2.0.0   204#M5.0
2 "SWC  0 5                                                    192337.5s 1.601.27.5  15 31530.0       se"0.0     4914.0    1OL4  es6.63ao   6.434,075.0 1.stonA.4
30u1 tbDt53Um  0            7W     Z to  WMENT                   5.A59162.5  2.90107.*   2.443.595.0   34,000.0    34067.5   42,014.3  39604"3.3  122310...  2.705.45.3l
Tow  SUMLDE cam                                                   2. 0I S 17.5M274   M5a2.         5       203.3 t505s1. 3.1447. 3596*26.4  1124U 20P.W   24*5.326.9
"mica cmu tS                                                      13M5S4.4 24623124.0 197.l 1    1215.M*9   405 .2  331b344.7  31121n.6  10#414.412.5 2532.?
ItS. C*lAmdn                                                    t1.4.162.1 5.#25273 7.S223.3 6.649.513.  412.377.1 2*            .728 3430.594.1  31719.37.5   m*-1.S
Ida "M         9m                                                 40.1039.0 2541 475.3e s 20 . t49. 23.71.920.6 1.133.3o5.7 653       t 7.331.50.s1  1.33   29M541-2
rwtSm Iamu                                                      25.407,.7313 7tM43.t25.6 2OPI1UM.$ 20,4764541.7 l.5.49 5. U949.2 St51832.3  1324.13344.1 249476.040.5
t VP.197  12144



FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMMARY ACCOUNTS BY YEAR
(NAIRA '000)
0,, Col                                              ferte £zc*abie
1S         19          11           1m        19         194        199        'ftel       2     tat
ggn,m. .gnia   inisammS mmgg..                     ssmsss a...g~gs|sus g. wsgsgg.s.msg...g.
L. MtwlfT                         15*764.05 tttl#5 4     HAMM4..0  79W4371.3 24m.7              14405452.3 1.0 M2.0  52P1.3.0  100.0 52M4AMM.0
.   f1 II MAAIN                     100o0.    52,0t0.0   452.Me.        44e.0e    22,000.0   11.000.,   11.00.       7000MO0.    0.0          0.0
C iUiIA   U           n11 t f       14.0to.0   2140.e l110.0   11400.0                    -          -          -    946.0       0.0          0.0
0.    1U  ImatWlU                   3100.0   20,000.0              -          *           -          -          -    aos.        0.0          0.0
t. Ksm=                            st:m.o.0        *   -           -           -          -          -          -  1420*0W.0  tWO.4  1WN20.0.0
F. 59501 tA!                        3u4,0.0   ,0PM                 -           *-                    -          -    470M0.0   0.0            0.0
6. LIAY tm      Ia  .RI             919,555.0   V.SSe       919.s55.O   91m,55.0   45,m.s  22W.e  22W.3.   4.sn.nm.e  1e.o   4s97#5..
I. Ut13     FIntIM 63 EOiPT         299.250.0   299250.0   2m9.2.    2.250.0   149mQ2.0  tl02.S   33.902.5  1.46.20.0  53.2 s ?.21 0.0
1. t15S1m.  5I5                   6,33.64.0  50646#.5.0  101400.0                   -                -          - u.4160.0 100.0 u1.n310.0
l. sfu01'                           5431.5   WP9M.5   3411250.0               -           -          -          -      .5.0  100.0  1.35.0
total 10E5Tllt COMST                2.u.235.0 21,154.321.3 13s.40o.0 94.24.176.3 3.223105.3 1.3t 9.14.0 1.324.65.3 77#.WM .0  9.2 74.69.05.0
U. 91t1  CSts'
A. WU     5 WAS                     1950    0.0            22500.0   129  ,5 00.0        -          -          -    sl5900.0   0.0          0.0                                          08
3. CUIUlWED M       W             S.6452.5 s5.32.5  t6u.5.5 s56m.s532.5 2932.3 1416633.1 1461.633.1  28#332.62.5  77.3 21.121.M2.5
C. h ANIMU TATIU                   200.000,    300.e0.0   eoo.o00,0   2000o.0                       -          - -20004000.0   0.0           0.0                                           0
S.      . PPTtIN   r911             213,00.0   213e0.e   213,000.0   213 .0               -         -          -      200.0   0.0            0.0
E.  tm  mOJcIE                             -          -           -           -           -          -  I500         955000.0  53.2    4s5 .00
f. Pans  CwiT                     2.7.5.0              -          *           -           -         -          -  2st37.ste.Q  53.2  1W.3750.0
Tobl 16c31t9 CSTs                    3.346m3s 6       032.5 6.3W 32.5  .20.032s 2.33266.3 19416.63.1 2.M1UL3  34,8695116.s  a.7  3.W4.16,2.5
totatl #MINE 0MM                     35.015.3.s 2.963.89533 20eM3.7525 1.533.2093 60564.371. 3.31U40.1 3.596.236.4 112.22tM.S  V4 9.153#73?.5
tblal CtoaUmncn                     313B*554.4 2463093.0  .?t97.117.3 1536195.9   60.637.2  331.394.?  35962.6  0.410.t2.5  P.1  900-S12.5
rtlc CWtUifl                        1954.1221 St215.233 7.529.2?. 6,649.515.9 41137.1 2.33721.3 S.4305994.1 31t739.33?.5  B7.J  27,767t594.1
roul FECT com                        40.10899B4e 035443  75.530.2W3.49.123 nB#2.d t10.73335.76 .5M5167. 36.50.1 5473 .5  67.4134. 344.1
Fftl     r                         35.607,796.7 31.743.2  Z.623941.301. 20476.541.7 9.542.496.6 5.31949.2 5.3512.3 134.91"344.1   0.0          0.0
t 27. 1937 12:41



ANNEX 3-12
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
O N ~~SCHUE
lank FY                               1988       1989       1990      1991      1"92      1993      1994
C! & Nigeria FY                  1987       1988       1989      1990      1"99      1992      19"3       1994
Quarters
1. Loan Processing
a. Negotiations
b. Board Presentation
c. S4gning and Effectiveness
2. Procurement of Equipment
a. Preparation of Equipment List
b. Preparation of Bid Documents
c. Tender Period
d. Contract Awards
e. Delivery, Installation
f. Liability Period
3. Procurement of Library Books
a. Preparation of look/Journal List
b. Preparation of Bid Documents
c. Tender Period  ,
d. Contract Award
e. Delivery and Distribution                                                                                                                    NJ
4. Technical Assistance & Fellowships
a. Appointment of Implementing Agency
N. Long-term Staff (Poly + FTC)
c. Short-term Staff (Poly + FTC)
d. Long-term Staff (NBTE)
e. Short-term Consultants (MBTE)
f. Short-ternm Consultants (PO)
g. Fellowships (Poly + FTC): long-term
h. Fellowships (Poly + FTC): short-term
i. Fellowships (NBTE): long-term
j. Fellowships (NBTE): short-term
k. Fellowships (FNE + Po)
5. Equipment Repair
6. Workshop Rehab/Electrical Installation
Evaluation/Preparation of Follow-up Project
7. Procurement of Consumable/Instructional Materials
a. Preparation of List
b. Preparation of Bid Documents
c. Tender Period
d. Contract Awards
e. Delivery, Distribution



FEDERAL REPUBUC OF NIGERIA
TECHNICAL EDUCAlION PROJECT
* PROJECT OFFICE
Organization Chart
MInistm
ziz
DlUleto d    l
Chief Educatilon Offie? 
jbsSAnWt Chie Educotion  Assistat Chief Acci.            PrOJect         j     Rocuemnent
Achhecr  ~oriseprwjaA-t.4                                           Edcto           I
Archnect,      P*lncpal Education     (AcCOuntin StWf 4-)                             I(P1)
Offler~)      ___                         _     _,__
Su~ppit Staff
(17)                                                           bae uM
-in  sth blishMWent. but yet to be poeed to Project Offic.--
PIt =1Pad-firD
8OUrCW. Prco Ofic
Apxfl 1987                                                                                                    v.'o,i   -3 Pac12342
_    .    _   ,  .  ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
.,                                                                                          ..                    |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A



- 64 -
ANNEX 3-14
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE REQUIREMENTS
Institutions           Subject                    Technical Assistance                   Fellowships
(manmonths)                      (manmonths)
Ado-8kiti     a.  Electrical Engineering                  1 x 24                                  12
b.  Short Term (Total)                          24                                 12
Total                          48                                  24
Bida          a. Chemical Engineering                     1 x 24                                  12
b.  Short Term (Total)                          24                                 12
Total                          48                                  24
Nubi          a.  Food Technology                         1 x 24                                  12
b.  Short Term (Total)                          24                                 12
Total                          48                                  24
Aflkpo        a.  Mechanical Engineering                  1 x 24                                  12
b.  Short Tarm (Total)                          24                                 12
Total                          48                                  24
FTC           a.  Foundry                                 1 x 24                                  12
b.  Tool and Die                            1 x 24                                 12
c. Electrical appliance repair              1 x 12                                 12
8.  Short-Term                                  12                              3 x 4
Total                          72                                  36
NMTE          a.  Academic and                            1 x 24         Curriculum
Campus Planning                                       Planning        I x 12 - 12
b.  Statistics/Data Processing              1 x 24        Statistics      2 x 12 - 24
c.  Short-Term (Total)                        |12         Short-Term (Total)       12
Total                          60                                  48
TVSED                          None                                      Management      1 x 12 = 12
Planning       1 x 12 - 12
Short-Term (Total)       12
Total
36
Project       a.  Procurement Advisor                          9         Procurement              12
Office        b. Other Short Term                              9         Project Management       12
Consultants
(auditing/evaluation,
etc.)
Total                           18                                  24
Grand Total                                                 342 m/m                              240 m/m



- 65 -
ANNEX 3-15
FAL REDUC OF EGEIA
U%CAL EACATLGI PW
DISIU1 F1PRMFE
IWD F1f  EstSted =     e      bk m t    Sector
Qmrt8rs      7=_cel    Profile
(MU)           ll(MM)              X
1989
lot    3.00         3.00
2.1    1.50         4.50         19       0
3rd    1.25         5.75
4th    1.23          6.98        30       5
1990                                                 I.                                        
19t    1.50         8.48
2      1.48         9.96         43       11
3rd    1.42         11.38
4th    1.42         12.8D        55       17
1991
1lt    1.50         14.30D                                 *~*            ~ ...
29d    1.40         15.70        67      24
3rd    1.00         16.7
4dh   0.76          1746         75      33
1992
st    1.50         18.96
2a4    1.0019986                         4
3rd    0.502D4
4th    0.49         20.95        90      52
1993
Ist    0.30        21.25
23     0. 30        21555        93      61
3rd    0.28         21.83
4th    0.28         22.11.       95       70
1994                                                  -               &
1st    0.19        22.30
2nd    0.18         22.48        97      77
3rd.   0.17         22.65
4th    0.16         22.81        98      84                     I-V I i  I
lot    0.15        22.96
23d 0.12            23.08        99      89 01
3rd    0.10         23.18
4th    0.12         23.30       100       94
1996
lot
2nd                              -       98
3rd
4th                                      100



NOTES
I
l



NOTES



MAP SECTION



IBRD 20821R
i 1' t° \ N   I G    E  R                                   'CHAD
.(  /   E 
K-1%
~~~~~~~~0   N(o~.A                                                                                           TEC  HNICAL  E U AINP ROJECT
ANIGIRIA  FM zrlA^?ti.-  4 5ffi75t  C AmMeO alN lyechle
K1AACAM                                                                                   N L    i  C
KA.W1 PM~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    t~B~4rTehla
8 E   I N                                                                                                    CHAD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~itgTrJ odA
SIDA~~~~~~~~~~u,e.e.e.b.efasdT.te.a.a,a0                          S       0        S       0
U              U                     0*                     II.r  
0  1 A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JLYl~



