Document of
THE WORLD BANK
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 15879
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
(Loan 2926-UNI)
August 8, 1996
Human Development III
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      =       Naira
US$1.00                    N 85.00
US$1               =        1.441 SDR
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AF4NG        Western Africa Region, Nigeria
EQUIPRO    Equipment Procurement Unit of ILO (now abolished)
FME          Federal Ministry of Education
FOS          Federal Office of Statistics
FTC          Federal Technical College, Yaba
IBRD         International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
IFESH        International Foundation for Education and Self Help
MIS          Management Information System
NBTE         National Board for Technical Education
NEPA         National Electric Power Authority
NMB          National Manpower Board
ODA          Overseas Development Administration of the United Kingdom
PIU          Project Implementation Unit of FME
RMN          Resident Mission Nigeria
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report No.6907a-UNI of November 11, 1987
SLA          Loan Agreement (Loan 2926-UNI) dated July 1, 1988
TA           Technical Assistance
TVSED        Technical, Vocational and Science Education Department of FME



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY .......................................................                                                                                 I
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
INTRODUCTION .......................................................                                                                                      I
A. Macroeconomic Setting .....................................................................1
B. Bank's Role in the Sector ....................................................................1l
PROJECT OBJECTIVES .......................................................                                                                               2
A. Original Project Objectives ......................................................................2
B. Project Description and Components .....................................................................2
C. Credit Covenants and  Special Agreements ......................................................................3
D. Evaluation of Project Objectives .....................................................................3
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS ............................................ 4
A. Assessment of Project's Success and  Sustainability ...................................................................... 4
B. Summary of Costs and Financing Arrangements .....................................................................                                  6
C. Implementation  Schedule .....................................................................6
D. Analysis of Key Factors Affecting Major Objectives ..................................................................... 7
E. Assessment of the Bank's and the Borrower's Performance ..............................................................8
F. Assessment of Project Outcome .....................................................................9
SUMMARY OF FINDINGS, FUTURE OPERATIONS AND KEY LESSONS
LEARNED .......................................................                                                                                        10
A. Important Findings of Project Implementation Experience ............................................................. 10
B. Future Operations and  Sustainability .................................................................... 10
C. Lessons for Future Operations ....................................................................1  I
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES .......................................................                                                                    12
APPENDICES:
A. Mission's aide-memoire
B. Borrower's contribution to the ICR
C. Project Impact and Sustainability Plan
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Buak authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2926-UNI)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Technical Education
Project in Nigeria, for which Loan 2926-UNI in the amount of US$23.3 million equivalent
was approved on July 1, 1988, made effective on March 17, 1989, and closed on
December 31, 1995.
It was disbursed up to an amount of US$21.5. The Overseas Development
Administration (ODA) of the British Government provided, on a grant basis, US$1.2
million in co-financing for the project. The last disbursement was made on March 21,
1996.
The ICR was prepared by Sudharshan Canagarajah (ICR Task Manager, AF4PH).
Valuable comments and inputs were provided by Mrs. Eileen Nkwanga (Task Manager,
AF4NG), Mr. Hector Munro (Education Attach6, The British Council), Mr. Steve
Berkman and Mr. Yemi Suleiman (Consultant). The report was reviewed by Mr. Ian
Porter (Division Chief, AF4PH), Mrs. Irene Xenakis (Sr. Implementation Specialist,
AF4PH) and Mr. Franz Kaps (Operations Advisor, AF4DR).
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision/completion
mission in October 1995. It is based on field investigation coupled with material in the
project file. The borrower contributed to preparation of the ICR by contributing views
reflected in the mission's aide-memoire, preparing its own evaluation of the project's
execution and initial preparation, and commenting on the draft ICR.



i



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2926-UNI)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.    Bank's Role in the Sector. Before this project, the Bank's involvement in the
education sector in Nigeria was limited. For eighteen years, between 1965 and 1982, the
Bank financed three projects amounting to US$91.3 million. The value of World Bank
investments within this period amounts to about US$5 million per year compared to over
US$37 million per year between 1985 and 1995 (para. 1.2).
2.    The implementation experience of the above projects was only marginally
satisfactory because of (a) weak management capabilities of implementing agencies; (b)
poor communication between implementing and beneficiary institutions; (c) complex and
inefficient counterpart funding arrangements; and (d) poor project design covering too
many beneficiaries. A few years after the projects closed, the need for high quality
technical manpower in the country became obvious. Based on the implementation
experience of the previous three projects, the broad objectives of this project (Ln. 2926-
UNI) were restricted to five technical education institutions (paras. 1.3-1.5).
3.    Project Objectives and Components. The Technical Education Project was
signed on July 1, 1988 and became effective on March 17, 1989. Its principal objectives
were to assist the Federal Government's program of: (a) improving the quality and
efficiency of middle-level technical institutions; and (b) strengthening planning,
management and coordination of technical and vocational education at the National Board
for Technical Education (NBTE), the Federal Ministry of Education (FME) and at the
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) (para. 2. 1).
4.    The project aimed at achieving the above-mentioned objectives, in two areas
namely, Quality Objectives and Targets; and Management Strengthening. Under quality
objectives were the following activities: (a) strengthen the quality of instruction; (b)
strengthen management capability of the project polytechnics and the Federal Technical
College (FTC); (c) institute a staff development program; (d) strengthen the practical
component of the instructional program; (e) improve the internal efficiency of the
institutions; and (f) establish programs for advanced crafts and technical teacher training.
Management Strengthening included the following activities: (a) reinforcement of
NBTE's capability for conducting in-service courses for administrators, teaching, and
workshop assistants; (b) strengthening NBTE's capability to monitor, evaluate, and
accredit instructional programs; (c) establish a procurement unit for equipment and
instructional materials; and (d) reinforce the project officer's capability to identify,
prepare, and implement projects (para. 2.2).



ii
5.    Credit Covenants and Special Agreements. Several loan covenants were to be
met by the Borrower in order to achieve project objectives. These include: (a) open a
special account and project accounts; (b) audit all project related accounts; (c) increase
budgetary allocation for instructional materials to (i) five percent of total recurrent budget
by 1989, and (ii) ten percent by 1992; (d) provide separate budget categories for
instructional materials and ensure they are used exclusively for their intended purpose; (e)
NBTE to prepare a plan for phased introduction of measures to increase staff teaching
hours and class size while reducing student/class contact hours in the project polytechnics;
and (f) NBTE to prepare, not later than October 6, 1990, an outline for a three-year work
program (1989-91) and conduct a study of relevant technical and vocational education
issues, including the cost and financing of this sub-sector and an action plan for the phased
implementation of the main recommendations (para. 2.3).
6.    Compliance with legal covenants was not satisfactory, especially in the areas of
auditing requirements (item (b) above), Government's counterpart funds (item (c) above),
and NBTE's preparation of a final study report (item (e) above). The NBTE final report
was made available in March 1996, after the project closing date (para. 2.4).
7.    Evaluation of Project Objectives. The project objectives were clear, well-
founded, and relevant. They were based on the realities in the sector at the time. The
improvement of quality of technical education and management and coordination of
vocational skills provisions in Nigeria were felt rightly to be of paramount importance to
Nigeria. In the early stages of implementation local commitment and ownership was
lacking and there were many coordination and management problems. Lack of adequate
and timely release of counterpart funds delayed workshop renovation and subsequent
equipment installation. This disabled the timely achievement of most project objectives
(paras. 2.5-2.6).
8.    Due to delayed equipment installation impact on quality of technical education
delivery is yet to be evidenced in most institutions. Although expected target of budgetary
allocation for consumables was not met, it has increased in most institutions. The project's
management objectives were not fully achieved. Most training was financed and provided
by the Overseas Development Administration (ODA) and there was difficulty in ensuring
the three-way coordination which was necessary to achieve the management objectives. In
the last two years there has been some improvement in this area, especially through the
setting up of the Steering Committee. Frequent changes in project staff and failure to
implement proposed MIS affected the project implementation and realization of project
objectives (paras. 2.7-2.8).
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
9.    Assessment of Project's Success and Sustainability. Overall, project
implementation was marginally satisfactory, despite many delays and constraints faced.
Project sustainability is possible only if the Borrower's commitment is high, as displayed
in the last two years, and ensures continuation in policy direction and strong stake-holder
participation (para. 3. 1).



iii
10.   Most institutions have not shown improvements in the practical components of
instruction, despite the large amounts of equipment and training. Nearly all training
earmarked for staff was completed. Nearly 95 percent of the equipment received under the
project was fully installed and commissioned. With the delivery of additional stock of
books, equipment and journals, library utilization has increased. Better quality instruction
should be expected in the near future since most of these were completed just before
closing (para. 3.2).
11.   Improvements in management capacity has been marginal and delayed. This
adversely affected the coordination between PIU, NBTE and the project institutions and
eventually the timely achievement of project objectives. With the overseas training
received, officials of NBTE have improved capacity to monitor and accredit polytechnic
courses. Most of the courses supported by the project were accredited or re-accredited as
the case may be. The NBTE has improved its capacity for conducting in-service courses
for administrators, teaching staff, and workshop assistants, in the areas of management
and equipment maintenance. However, NBTE's advisory role on course accreditation
needs to be strengthened and it needs to strengthen the practical components of the
instructional program in all technical colleges (paras. 3.3-3.5).
11.   Due to poor communication between the project implementing agencies, the MIS
component was not implemented. Attention should be given to this during the period of
project sustenance. Most project institutions participated in drafting the technical
specifications used for tendering. Procurement training was given to staff of PIU and
NBTE, who later actively participated in developing bidding documents and evaluations of
bids. Equipment so procured were of the right specifications; in a few cases industrial size
equipment was delivered. Maintenance capability of the institutions was not fully
developed through training. NBTE should establish maintenance centers in project
institutions to improve the chances of project sustainability (paras. 3.6-3.8).
12.   There has been substantial improvements in the internal efficiency of project
institutions. Average staff teaching hours have increased from 14 hours per week to 20
hours per week. Class size for workshops/laboratory has increased from 7 to 3 5 students.
Teacher contact hours have reduced from 31 hours per week to 28 hours week. However,
a technical teacher training program was not established due to the creation of six
additional colleges of education and subsequent resource constraint. Also, advanced crafts
courses were not established in three of the polytechnics as envisaged due to late
installation of equipment. The need to maintain project impact cannot be overemphasized
(paras. 3.9-3.10).
13.   Summary of Costs and Financing Arrangements. The total project cost was
US$27.96 million with a foreign exchange component of about US$24.5 million. Of this
amount, the Bank was to provide US$23.3 million and ODA was to provide US$1.2
million on a grant basis. The balance of US$3 .46 million equivalent was to be financed by
the Federal Government, although at the closing date it had not exceeded US$2.4 million.



iv
Almost 95 percent of Bank funds were disbursed; all ODA funds have been disbursed
(paras. 3.11-3.12).
14.   Implementation Schedule. Project identification was jointly carried out by
officials of FME, PIU, NBTE, participating institutions, and the Bank. The project was
approved by the Board and the Loan Agreement was subsequently signed on July 1, 1988,
became effective on March 17, 1989 and closed on December 31, 1995. Disbursement
was rapid during the first two years of project life, but slowed to a trickle thereafter. This
was due to factors such as: lack of counterpart funds, inadequate preparation to receive
and install equipment, unavailability of consumables and mishandling of the special
account. All these factors delayed the pre-agreed implementation schedule (para. 3.13).
15.   Analysis of Key Factors Affecting Major Objectives. From implementation
records it is evident that several factors related to project management, project accounting
and procurement, project equipment, training fellowships and to the project document
affected the timely achievement of project objectives (paras. 3.14-3.22).
16.   Most of the problems in project management stemmed from frequent changes in
project staff, lack of cooperation at implementing agencies and continued non-compliance
with procedures advocated in the project SAR. Day-to-day communication between the
PIU, FME, NBTE, and the project institutions was ineffective during the first four years of
the project (paras. 3.15 and 3.16).
17.   Non-adherence to the Bank's accounting and procurement procedures stipulated in
the SAR led to a one-year suspension of disbursements. Government auditors were
engaged for auditing purposes despite assurances at loan negotiations that an independent
and qualified auditor would be used. Audit reports were prepared and sent to the Bank
long after their due dates throughout the duration of the project (para. 3.17).
18.   Counterpart funds were not regularly forthcoming which led to delays in workshop
renovation and subsequent installation of project equipment. Until the project closing date,
the Government's contribution had not exceeded more than 65 percent of the expected
amount. This hindered meaningful progress in implementation and project outcomes (para.
3.18).
19.   Poor liaison between implementing agencies led to the purchase of some industrial-
sized equipment for the project institutions. Initial lack of knowledge of equipment
specifications delayed preparation of bidding documents and subsequent equipment
delivery. This was compounded by the fact that the equipment suppliers did not always
provide operating manuals in English which made it difficult for project institutions to
operate the equipment even after the delayed installation (paras. 3.19-3.20).
19.   ODA's assistance was successfully implemented by the resident British Council. A
total of 145 fellowships of 331 man months were awarded and completed. Also, 34 short-
term consultants were used. All the consultancies which could not be completed before



v
the closing date are currently being arranged. Some of the training fellowships did not
correspond to the expertise required to operate project equipment (para. 3.21).
20.   Some constraints were dictated by the project design. For instance, the timing of
the Technical Assistance was required to be determined prior to project effectiveness,
which led to the arrival of experts before the equipment was installed. Thus, the TA
program should have been delayed at least until the equipment was installed (para. 3.22).
21.   Assessment of the Bank's and Borrower's Performance. Bank's supervision of
project implementation was not satisfactory in the first four years due to frequent changes
of task managers and task teams. Some project institutions were seldom visited due to
their remote location. In the last two years the Bank's supervision was very effective
because the Task Manager was stationed in the resident mission. The performance of the
Borrower was only marginally satisfactory. The PIU was not effective in dealing with
problems and providing solutions in a timely fashion. The introduction of a steering
committee in 1994 by the FME improved communications between project entities,
facilitated problem solving, and accelerated implementation. NBTE did not complete the
report on a study of relevant technical and vocational education issues including the cost
and financing of Technical Education sub-sector and an action plan for the phased
implementation of the main recommendations (paras. 3.23-3.26).
22.   Assessment of Project's Outcome. Overall the project outcome is marginally
satisfactory. Most outcomes were substantially delayed. In the area of strengthening
quality and efficiency of technical education delivery there has been scattered and limited
improvements. Staff training was nearly completed; 95 percent of the equipment ordered
was installed and commissioned; some have been put to good use; courses supported by
the project were accredited or re-accredited; and TA could not be effectively utilized as it
was arranged before the equipment was installed. In the area of strengthening planning,
management, and coordination the progress has been marginal. Weak management at all
implementing agencies affected the participation and coordination of project institutions
and adversely affected project outcomes. The post-project monitoring committee plans to
undertake the identified needs to ensure that project benefits are sustained (paras. 3.28-
3.29).
SUMMARY OF FINDINGS, FUTURE OPERATIONS, AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED
23.   Project sustainability is uncertain. If the Borrower's commitment and provision of
counterpart funding continues as in the last two years there is a possibility some of the
benefits can be sustained. FME has taken some steps towards sustainability including the
creation of a post-project monitoring committee. These steps if followed systematically
will ensure that most project benefits are sustained (paras. 4.1-4.3).
24.   Following is a summary of important findings and key lessons learned (para. 4.4):



vi
(a)    Project preparation should actively involve all the beneficiaries, thus reducing lack
of project ownership and subsequent implementation delays. Beneficiaries should
be aware of the project components and linkages to the project outcome to ensure
active involvement.
(b)    Beneficiary selection should be based on a detailed study of the needs and
resources available to ensure optimal allocation and high impact. All the training
courses received under fellowship programs should be fully relevant to the
project's principal objectives.
(c)    The Borrower should be required to abide by the Bank procurement guidelines at
all times.
(d)    Active communication and staff continuity is essential for a project's success.
Communication between implementing and beneficiary institutions should be
timely, efficient and effective to ensure smooth implementation. Frequent changes
of project implementation staff should be discouraged.
(e)    A proper accounting system should, in the future, form part of the conditions for
effectiveness, in order to avoid a suspension of disbursements. Delegation of
auditing to an independent and qualified auditor should be made a condition for
project effectiveness.
(f)    Frequent visits to the project sites and joint supervision missions with all
implementing agencies and bi-lateral donors involved in the project is essential to
ensure smooth implementation of all components of the project.
(g)    Contractual obligations should be tied to project implementation activities rather
than previously fixed time periods.
(h)    Project counterpart funds should be budgeted along with the Ministry's annual
requirements. The funds should be released as a line allocation to the project
account and not lumped with the overall ministerial allocation.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2926-UNI)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
INTRODUCTION
A.    MACROECONOMIC SETTING
1.1   During the 1970s Nigeria made significant efforts at developing its social and
economic infrastructure. The result in the social sectors was substantial as the expansion
of primary education reached an all-time high; in the Northern states, enrollment rates
nearly doubled. However, the sharp drop in oil prices in the 1980s impeded Nigeria's
potential for increased economic growth. Diversification in the economic base was
essential. Directly related to declining productivity and economic stagnation was the
critical problem of developing human resources. This formed the major background to the
project.
B.    BANK'S ROLE IN THE SECTOR
1.2   Prior to the establishment of the project, the Bank had a limited role in Nigeria's
educational development. Three projects amounting to US$91.3 million were financed by
the Bank in the sector. The First Education Project (Cr.72-UNI) for US$20.0 million was
signed on March 1, 1965 and closed on December 31, 1977. A follow-up Second
Education Project (Loan 814-UNI) for US$17.3 million was signed on April 18, 1972 and
closed on December 31, 1979. The Third Education Project (Loan 929-UNI) for US$54.0
million was signed on August 16, 1973 and closed on December 31, 1982. These projects
were aimed, respectively, at: (a) increasing secondary school enrollments, particularly in
Northern Nigeria, diversifying the secondary school curriculum, and increasing the number
of secondary and technical teachers and trained craftsmen and technicians; (b)
rehabilitating war-damaged, comprehensive secondary schools in Eastern Nigeria, as well
as the training of technical subject teachers and secondary school curriculum development;
and (c) assisting the Northern states to expand primary teacher training facilities, and
increasing secondary school enrollments.
1.3   The implementation experience of the above projects was only marginally
satisfactory. Expected results were hampered by factors such as: (a) weak management
capabilities of the implementing states; (b) a low quality and overburdened construction
industry; (c) poor communications; (d) uncertainties in the supply of materials, equipment,



2
and furniture; (e) complex and inefficient Federal-state counterpart funding arrangements;
and (f) poor project design involving over 100 project entities.
1.4   Based on this experience, the project under review was designed to address the
broad objectives mentioned below (paras. 2.1-2.2) of technical education in only five
selected educational institutions. The criteria used for selecting the five institutions were
geographically spread and the Government's plan to designate institutions as centers of
excellence and principal catchment institutions in their respective zones.
1.5   Several factors influenced the design of the project. First, the role of the public
sector in the training of technical manpower was crucial as the private sector was not yet
sufficiently developed to assume the entire responsibility. Second, the sharp drop in oil
revenues exposed the economic vulnerability of the country. Diversification and increased
productivity was a natural response which could not be achieved without the development
of human resources. Third, the labor market requirements were such that the-middle-level
and lower-level manpower (technicians and craftsmen) were in short supply. The ratio
available at the time was 1:1:2 (higher, middle, lower level) against a more "normal" ratio
of (1:4:20). Thus the Federal Government wished to increase science/technology training
programs within the polytechnics.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
A.    ORIGINAL PROJECT OBJECTIVES
2.1   The Technical Education Project was signed on July 1, 1988 and became effective
on March 17, 1989. Its principal objectives were to assist the Federal Government's
program of: (a) improving the quality and efficiency of middle-level technical institutions;
and (b) strengthening planning, management and coordination of technical and vocational
education at the National Board for Technical Education (NBTE), the Federal Ministry of
Education (FME) and at the Project Implementation Unit (PIU).
B.    PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND COMPONENTS
2.2   The project aimed at achieving the above-mentioned objectives, in two areas
namely, Quality Objectives and Targets; and, Management Strengthening. Under quality
objectives were the following activities: (a) strengthen the quality of instruction; (b)
strengthen management capability of the project polytechnics and the Federal Technical
College (FTC); (c) institute a staff development program; (d) strengthen the practical
component of the instructional program; (e) improve the internal efficiency of the
institutions; and (f) establish programs for advanced crafts and technical teacher training.
Management Strengthening included the following activities: (a) reinforce of NBTE's
capability for conducting in-service courses for administrators, teaching, and workshop
assistants; (b) strengthening NBTE's capability to monitor, evaluate, and accredit
instructional programs; (c) establish a procurement unit for equipment and instructional



3
materials; and (d) reinforce the project officer's capability to identify, prepare, and
implement projects.
C.    CRED1T COVENANTS AND SPECIAL AGREEMENTS
2.3   Several loan covenants were to be met by the Borrower in order to achieve project
objectives. These included: (a) open a special account and project accounts; (b) audit all
project related accounts; (c) increase budgetary allocation for instructional materials to (i)
five percent of total recurrent budget by 1989 and (ii) ten percent by 1992; (d) provide
separate budget categories for instructional materials and ensure they are used exclusively
for their intended purpose; (e) NBTE to prepare a plan for phased introduction of
measures to increase staff teaching hours and class size while reducing student/class
contact hours in the project polytechnics; and (f) NBTE to prepare, not later than October
6, 1990 an outline for a three-year work program (1989-91) and conduct a study of
relevant technical and vocational education issues including the cost and financing of this
sub-sector and an action plan for the phased implementation of the main
recommendations.
2.4   Compliance with most legal covenants was not satisfactory, especially in the areas
of Government's counterpart funds, auditing requirements, and NBTE's preparation of a
final study report. The NBTE final report was made available in March 1996, after the
project closing date.
D.   EVALUATION OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
2.5   The project objectives were clear, well-founded, and relevant. They were based on
the realities in the sector at the time. The improvement of the quality of technical
education and management and coordination of vocational skills provisions in Nigeria
were felt rightly to be of paramount importance to Nigeria. In the early stages of
implementation the local commitment was lacking and there were many coordination and
management problems which acted as constraints in achieving the broad project
objectives. Lack of complete ownership resulted in the project institutions displaying a
lukewarm attitude towards workshop renovation and equipment installation. The PIU did
not have the required technical education expertise and although NBTE, the project
institutions and TVSED played a role in equipment specification, some equipment
delivered was not suitable for the needs of the technical education curriculum and training.
All these factors affected the timely achievement of the project objectives.
2.6   Some project objectives critically depended on the initial workshop renovation and
rehabilitation which was left to be undertaken by the implementing agencies with
counterpart funds. However, since the counterpart funds were not provided adequately
and in time, the installation of the equipment was delayed which affected the timely
achievement of project outcomes.
2.7   While the physical part of the project objectives have mostly materialized, their
impact on quality of technical education has yet to be evidenced in most institutions.
Tools are stored and ready for lending to staff and students. Books and journals have



4
been catalogued and are being used. However, the last shipment of books and journals
ordered could not be delivered due to delays in contracting suppliers. Although the
expected target was not met, the budgetary allocation for consumables increased in most
project institutions; thereby, improving internal institutional efficiency.
2.8   The project's management objectives were not fully achieved. Some of the
management training, for NBTE and FTC Yaba, was financed by the ODA, and managed
by the British Council, and it was difficult to ensure the three-way coordination between
the PIU, Bank and the ODA. The NBTE and project institutions felt excluded from the
project management by the PIU's desire to control all the activities of the project. The
implementing agencies did not initially reflect improved management capability due to
delays in management training, frequent changes in PIU directors and not implementing
the proposed MIS. In the last two years there has been some improvement in this area,
especially through the setting up of the Steering Committee by the FME.
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
A.   ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT'S SUCCESS AND SUSTAINABILrrY
3.1   Overall, project implementation was marginally satisfactory, despite various
implementation problems encountered in the early stages of the project. Project
sustainability is possible only if the Borrower's commitment is high, as displayed in the last
two years, and ensures continuation in policy direction and strong stake-holder
participation.
3.2   Quality of Instruction. There are only marginal improvements in the quality
delivery of technical education in the project institutions. A few project institutions have
substantially enhanced their ability to deliver quality middle-level technical education.
Most institutions have not shown substantial improvements in the practical components of
the instruction, despite receiving large amounts of equipment and training. Judging by the
level of training received by the teaching staff and the quality and quantity of equipment
provided to the institutions, better quality instruction should be envisaged in the future.
Nearly all training earmarked for staff under the project was completed. Similarly, about
95 percent of the equipment received under the project was fully installed and
commissioned; only a few have been put to their intended use. The libraries received an
additional stock of books, equipment, and journals which increased library utilization.
3.3   Management Capacity. Improvements in management capacity took place after
much delay throughout the beneficiary institutions. This was mainly because of a lack of
coordination between PIU and institutions in arranging training through the British
Council. A center for staff development was also set up at NBTE to serve as a forum for
exchanging ideas on technical education. Similarly, the procurement unit was
strengthened, although there is room for further improvement.



5
3.4   The project institutions have developed new curricula delivery following training
received under the fellowship program. The success in these developments will only be
observed over time. However, there has not been progress in terms of the practical
component of the curricula and instruction in most technical colleges.
3.5   In the area of monitoring and course accreditation, NBTE's performance has
somewhat improved. All of the courses under the project were visited at least once during
the life of the project. Most of them were accredited and re-accredited accordingly. The
NBTE also demonstrated improved capacity for conducting in-service courses for
administrators, teaching staff, and workshop assistants. Better linkages with technical
institutions and colleges abroad could promote greater institutional improvement through
the exchange of data and ideas.
3.6   Unfortunately, due to poor communication between the project implementing
agencies, the MIS component was not implemented. The implementing agency was not
aware of this development until the end of the project when it was too late to rectifky the
problem. Attention should be given to this issue during the period of project sustenance.
3.7   Equipment Procuirement an7dMaintenance capability. Equipment procurement
was mainly carried out under the Bank's International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
procedure. Interference on procurement by the Borrower against Bank procedures
delayed procurement. All project institutions, although not all departments, participated in
drafting the technical specifications used for tendering. Most equipment so procured were
of the right specifications, quality, and durability; in a few cases industrial-sized equipment
were delivered. The arrival of the equipment improved curriculum delivery in some
institutions, and assisted in some institutions receiving accreditation and re-accreditation
for targeted courses.
3.8   Procurement training was given to the staff of the PIU and NBTE. Both PIU and
NBTE staff actively participated in the development of bidding documents and evaluation
of bids. To this end, both institutions enhanced their procurement capacity. The
maintenance capability of the institutions was not fully developed through training. The
project institutions did not establish strong maintenance centers capable of handling the
large quantity of equipment received under the project. There is a need for NBTE to
strengthen maintenance capability of institutions to improve the chances of project
sustainability.
3.9   Improve Internal Efficiency of the Institutions. Average staff teaching hours have
increased from 14 hours per week to around 20 hours per week. Also class size has
increased for workshops/laboratory, from 7 students to a minimum of 35 students.
Consequently, class size for lectures has increased from 24 students to 40 students.
Similarly, teacher contact hours were said to have been reduced from 31 hours per week
(14 hours for workshopsAaboratory and 17 hours for lecture) to 28 hours (18 hours for
workshopAaboratory and 10 hours for lecture). Students' access to the library and
laboratory has also improved, from less than 14 hours to almost 20 hours in most
institutions.



6
3.10  Advanced Crafts and Technical Teacher Training. A technical teacher training
program was not established at the two polytechnics because FME created six additional
colleges of education in the country during the project's life, and thus introducing resource
constraints. Similarly, advanced crafts certificate courses were not established in three of
the polytechnics as envisaged, due to late installation and commissioning of equipment.
The programs have a greater chance of success now that 95 percent of the equipment are
fully installed and commissioned.
B.    SUMMARY OF COSTS AND FINANCING ARRANGEMENTS
3.11  The total project cost (including contingencies) was US$27.96 million with a
foreign exchange component of about US$24.5 million; the Federal Government would
contribute the local costs of about US$3.46 million equivalent. The Overseas
Development Administration (ODA) agreed to finance portions of the technical assistance
and fellowship costs, on a grant basis, estimated at US$1.2 million equivalent, and a Bank
loan of US$23.3 million equivalent filled the remaining gap.
3.12  US$21.5 million out of a total of US$23.3 million Bank funds have been disbursed.
ODA has disbursed all of the agreed US$1.2 million. The Government provided around
US$2.4 million of the counterpart funds, although it agreed to allocate US$3.46 million
equivalent. This is partly due to initial non-compliance and then later due to the
substantial depreciation of Naira. Some of the activities which were to be covered by the
counterpart funds like workshops renovation were later picked up by the International
Foundation for Education and Self Help (IFESH), although they too had to stop activities
abruptly due to US government decertification of Nigeria. IFESH contribution amounted
to almost US$1.0 million.
C.   IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
3.13  Project identification was jointly carried out by officials of FME, PIU, NBTE,
participating institutions, and the Bank. The project was approved by the Board and the
Loan Agreement was subsequently signed on July 1, 1988, became effective on March 17,
1989 and closed on December 31, 1995. Disbursement was rapid during the first two
years of project life, but slowed to a trickle thereafter. This was due to factors such as:
lack of counterpart funds, inadequate preparation to receive and install equipment,
unavailability of consumables and mishandling of the special account. Until project closing
date, the Government's contribution had not exceeded N32,956,245 or after allowing for
inflation and fluctuating exchange rate over the period around 65 percent of the expected
amount. Also, there were accounting discrepancies which were later rectified. All these
factors adversely affected the pre-agreed implementation schedule. Counterpart funding
was provided in the last two years to effect workshop renovation and rewiring. This
enabled the equipment installation to be expedited.



7
D.    ANALYSIS OF KEY FACTORS AFFECTING MAJOR OBJECTIVES
3.14  The main factors affecting the project were project management, project
accounting and procurement, project equipment, training fellowships and to the project
document.
3.15  Project Maniagemenit. The performance on project supervision and
implementation had many problems in the first four years, but has improved in the last two
years. Most of the problems stemmed from weak management and lack of cooperation
between implementing agencies and continued non-compliance with procedures advocated
in the project SAR. The procedures advocated in the SAR for reporting and monitoring
was not fully understood and implemented by the Borrower. Project management
experience at the implementing agencies was inadequate. Due to poor telephone linkages,
the general day-to-day communication between the PIU and project entities was deficient.
3.16  The PIU held quarterly project management meetings, however, these meetings,
did not provide the timely information required for quick corrective measures. Problems
therefore lingered for a long time before they were finally addressed. In the last two years
a Steering Committee was established which improved the speed of corrective actions.
Another problem was the frequent change of the Project staff at the implementing
agencies. The Project Director was changed four times by the Government during the
project life span, creating discontinuity and delays in decision making.
3.17 Project Accointitinig and Procutrement. Non-adherence to the Bank's accounting
and procurement procedures resulted in the Bank suspending disbursements for one year.
Government auditors were engaged for auditing purposes despite assurances at loan
negotiations that an independent and qualified auditor would be used. This was in spite of
the recommendations made by an independent accounting firm whose services were paid
for from the loan proceeds. Audit reports were prepared and sent to the Bank long after
their due dates throughout the duration of the project. The PIU was made to comply with
the procedures before the suspension was lifted, and the project allowed to continue to
operate.
3.18  Counterpart funds were not regularly forthcoming which led to delays in
implementation. Until the project closing date, the Government's contribution had not
exceeded more than 65 percent of the expected amount. This was partly due to initial non-
compliance and then later to the substantial depreciation of the Naira. Although this
improved in the last two years, continued support to project institutions is vital for project
success and sustainability.
3.19  Project Equipment. Poor liaison between the beneficiay institutions and the
procurement agent led to the purchase of some industrial-sized equipment for the project
institutions. Lack of knowledge of equipment specifications by the project entities delayed
the preparation of bidding documents and equipment delivery. The equipment
procurement agent's performance was generally satisfactory. Much of the equipment was
received in good condition. Defective equipment was replaced by the agent.



8
3.20  A few delays in equipment operation were due to equipment suppliers. In a
handful of cases, operating manuals were not supplied and some were not in English. This
made it difficult for the project institutions to operate the equipment. Arrangements have
now been made for project institutions to assist each other with copies of manuals where
unavailable. Also, cross-institutional assistance has been suggested to enable staff to learn
how to fully operate certain equipment.
3.21   Training and Fellowships. Most of ODA's assistance was successfully
implemented. A total of 145 fellowships of 331 man months were awarded and completed
under the administrations of the British Council. Also, 34 short-term consultants were
used. A few of the remaining consultancies which could not be completed before the
closing date are currently being arranged. The British Council effectively managed ODA's
inputs. Some training fellowships did not fully correspond with the area of expertise
required to operate the equipment provided under the project.
3.22  Project Document. Some constraints were dictated by the project design. For
instance, the timing of the Technical Assistance was required to be determined prior to
project effectiveness. Hence, the experts arrived long before the equipment was installed;
they devoted a major part of their time to installing the equipment. This TA program
could have been delayed at least until most equipment was installed. However, if not for
the TA program, the total number of equipment installed would have been much lower
than 95 percent.
E.    ASSESSMENT OF THE BANK'S AND THE BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
3.23   Bank performance in project identification, preparation assistance, appraisal and
supervision was generally satisfactory. The Bank's supervision of project implementation
suffered in the first four years due to a lack of continuity because of the frequent changes
in Task Managers and the task team. Some project institutions were not visited more than
once within the first four years of project life. The difficulty arose from the remote
location of three of the project institutions reachable only by road, which were in poor
condition. In the last two years the Bank's supervision improved when the Task Manager
was stationed in the resident mission. Subsequently, more visits were scheduled to the
project sites; a few of the institutions were visited more than twice within a year.
3.24   The performance of the PIU in implementing the project was marginally
satisfactory. In the last two years, in addition to the quarterly meetings, a steering
committee was established, to monitor project implementation. This helped to chart a
clear and more decisive course for the project.
3.25   A few disappointing performances were recorded. The auditing requirements in
the SAR and in the Loan Agreement were not strictly followed. This led to late
submission of annual audit reports to the Bank. Also, an expenditure based on the single
entry Government accounting system was adopted as opposed to a comprehensive
accounting manual based on the requirements of the SAR and the accounting covenants in
the Loan Agreement. Finally, the project account showed an incomplete record of
income.



9
3.26   The performance of the project institutions was also marginally satisfactory.
Although the spirit picked up later, the institutions were initially less committed to, and
displayed little ownership for, the project; which they considered as belonging to the
World Bank, since the funds were provided by the IBRD. Most of them did not release
their own funds to renovate workshops and install new equipment. The institutions
refused to provide needed instructional materials for use on the new equipment and
requested that more allocations be provided by FME for that purpose.
3.27  NBTE's performance was not as satisfactory as anticipated. NBTE needs to
strengthen the practical components of the instructional program in all technical colleges.
NBTE was also marred by its inability to produce a study report throughout the duration
of the project. Even though several promises were made to deliver the report, none was
fulfilled. Unfortunately, the absence of the report prevented the hosting of a national
conference on technology which could have served as the basis for identifying the future
potential of the sub-sector and a possible follow-up project. However, the training of
NBTE staff through the project improved technical education course accreditation and
curriculum reform.
F.    ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT OUTCOME
3.28   Overall the project outcome is marginally satisfactory. As noted earlier, there
were substantial implementation delays. In the area of strengthening quality and efficiency
of technical education delivery there has been limited and scattered improvements. Staff
training was nearly completed; 95 percent of the equipment ordered was installed and
commissioned. In some institutions it has already been put to good use, while at other
institutions it is still not efficiently utilized; library books and journals were received,
processed, stocked and are in use; courses supported by the project were accredited or re-
accredited; internal efficiency of the institutions improved; NBTE management capacity
has not been very satisfactory; and the PIU after substantial delays has improved its
capacity to better manage projects.
3.29   The components for strengthening planning, management, and coordination were
not satisfactorily implemented; project implementing and beneficiary institutions did not
have good day-to-day communication, although it improved substantially during the life of
the project. NBTE could not produce the study of relevant technical and vocational
education issues including the cost and financing of this sub-sector and an action plan for
the phased implementation of the main recommendations. Most of the equipment was
installed after substantial delays and therefore did not allow the institutions to experience
the quality improvements during the life of the project. Technical assistance could not be
effectively utilized as some of it was arranged before the equipment was installed. Most of
these shortcomings have been or are being currently addressed.



10
SUMMARY OF FINDINGS, FUTURE OPERATIONS AND
KEY LESSONS LEARNED
A.    IMPORTANT FINDINGS OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
4.1   Project implementation has not been smooth from the beginning. Several reasons
can be identified. Communication between implementing agencies has always been very
weak which both delayed and hindered smooth implementation. Lack of counterpart
funds constrained the timely actions in more than one instance. Lack of financial and
administrative management skills at PIU, NBTE and project institutions was difficult to
overcome. Some of the deficiencies in the implementation arrangements were not
identified and rectified in a timely manner and therefore adversely affected project
objectives. Closer supervision, through the increased responsibility at the Bank's Resident
Mission, over the last two years, greatly helped the achievement of most project
objectives.
B.    FUTURE OPERATIONS AND SUSTAINABILITY
4.2   Project sustainability is uncertain. It is possible to sustain some benefits if the
project institutions, NBTE, PIU and FME are committed to carrying out the follow-up
activities to ensure project sustainability. FME, with a substantial time lag, has increased
the recurrent expenditures for consumables to an average of 7.5 percent; this needs to be
increased to 10 percent. The Government and the implementing agencies need to ensure
that these needs are met for project sustainability. A project sustainability plan attached to
this report in Annex C, details these needs. A set of questionnaires has been designed,
with World Bank assistance, which will be administered bi-annually by PIU/NBTE to the
project institutions. The Bank should use this forum to maintain a continuous dialogue in
the sector.
4.3    Any future operation would depend on the installation of the remaining five
percent of equipment supplied and the provision of adequate instructional materials for its
operation. Beyond this, a sufficient allocation for consumable materials should be
provided to enable the project institutions to meet the training needs of their ever-growing
student population. Secondly, there is a need to provide adequate electricity to the project
institutions through the national grid or heavy-duty electric generators. NBTE's efforts in
this direction should be sustained. Thirdly, instructors should be trained in areas which
will enable them to make the best use of the equipment supplied to their institutions.
Despite training and equipment provisions, the practical content of the instruction is still
weak in most institutions. Fourthly, spare parts need to be provided for the repairs of the
new equipment. Fifthly, maintenance centers should be set up in each institution to deal
with the day-to-day routine maintenance, maintenance policy formulation and general
functioning of the equipment. Finally, the implementing agencies should visit the
institutions frequently to monitor the project inputs.



11
C.    LESSONS FOR FUTURE OPERATIONS
4.4    Following are lessons learned for future operations:
(a)    Project preparation should actively involve all the beneficiaries, thus reducing lack
of project ownership and subsequent implementation delays. Beneficiaries should
be aware of the project components and linkages to the project outcome to ensure
active involvement.
(b)    Beneficiary selection should be based on a detailed study of the needs and
resources available to ensure optimal allocation and high impact. All the training
courses received under fellowship programs should be fully relevant to the
project's principal objectives.
(c)    The Borrower should be required to abide by the Bank procurement guidelines at
all times.
(d)    Active communication and staff continuity is essential for a project's success.
Communication between implementing and beneficiary institutions should be
timely, efficient and effective to ensure smooth implementation. Frequent changes
of project implementation staff should be discouraged.
(e)    A proper accounting system should, in the future, form part of the conditions for
effectiveness, in order to avoid a suspension of disbursements. Delegation of
auditing to an independent and qualified auditor should be made a condition for
project effectiveness.
(f)    Frequent visits to the project sites and joint supervision missions with all
implementing agencies and bi-lateral donors involved in the project is essential to
ensure smooth implementation of all components of the project.
(g)    Contractual obligations should be tied to project implementation activities rather
than previously fixed time periods.
(h)    Project counterpart funds should be budgeted along with the Ministry's annual
requirements. The funds should be released as a line allocation to the project
account and not lumped with the overall ministerial allocation.
M:A4PHEXCH\SUDHAR\.ICR4 .DOC
August 1, 1996 2:39 PM



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
(Loan 2926-UNI)
PART II: STASTISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:     Summary of Assessments
Table 2:     Related Bank Credits
Table 3:     Project Timetable
Table 4:     Credit Disbursements: Estimated and Actual
Table 5:     Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation
Table 6:     Studies Included in the Project
Table 7A:    Project Costs
Table 7B:    Project Financing
Table 8:     Status of Legal Covenants
Table 9:     Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 10:    Bank Resources: Missions



13
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives        Substantial        Partial         NegIigiIfl       Not applicable
Macro Policies                                                         z
Sector Policies
Financial Objectives
Institutional Development              i             I                 I3                 =
Physical Objectives (Equipment)
Poverty Reduction                   [                 a                o                 E
Gender Issues                       I                  i               iii
Other Social Objectives
Environmental Objectives             o                o                al
Public Sector Management               l             L                                   iii
Private Sector Development          L                E                 E3
Other (specify)                                      iii               I i
B. Project Sustainability               Likely                  Unlikely                  Uncertain
Highly
C. Bank Performance                      Satisfactory          Satisfactory                Deficient
Identification                       I                                                   r0
Preparation Assistance              i                         I3                            l
Appraisal                            z                                                   ILl
Supervision                         E                                                    ILl
Highly
D. Borrower Performance                  Satisfactory          Satisfactory                Deficient
Identification                       [1                                                  IL
Preparation Assistance                                                                   El
Appraisal                              lE
Supervision                                                                              L
E.  Outcome 



14
Table 2: Related Bank Credits
Credit    II                   Purpose                     Year of Approval  Status
Preceding Operations
Cr. 0072-UNI     Education I                                          1964        Completed
Ln. 0814-UNI    Education 11                                          1972        Completed
Ln. 0929-UNI    Education III                                         1973        Completed
Following Operations
Cr. 2139-UNI      Education University Development                    1990        Ongoing
Cr. 2191-UNI      Primary Education                                   1990        Ongoing
Cr. 2481 -UNI    Development Communication                            1993        Ongoing
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                Date Planned            Actual Date
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                           November 1986
Preparatioii                                                         July 1986
Appraisal                                                            March 1987
Negotiations                                                         October 1987
Board Presentation                                                   March 29, 1988
Signinig                                                             July 1, 1988
Effectiveness                                   October 3, 1988      March 17, 1989
Credit Closing                                  December 31. 1995   December 31, 1995
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY89  FY90  FY91   FY92 I FY93   FY94   FY95  FY96
Appraisal estimate       6.98    12.80   17.46   20.95  22.11   22.81   23.30  23.30
Actual                   2.51    3.35    19.42   20.36  20.64   20.65   20.70  21.51
Actual as % of estimated  35.9   26.9   111.2  97.1   93.3   90.5    88.8   92.3
Date of final disbursement                      March 21, 1996



Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation
SUBJECT                                             PROGRAM                                            ACHIEVEMENTS
A. Improving Quality and Efficiency
1. Strengthening Quality of Instruction  The project focuses on four Federal Polytechnics and the Federal  Implemented partially with delays. Quality
Technical College, Yaba and provides essential instructionial inputs    improvements not evident yet. Need to
including teaching materials, library books, spare parts and     ascertained through the Post-Project
equipment and consumable materials for laboratories and workshops.  Monitoring Committee.
2. Strengthening Management Capability    To aid in improving the quality and efficiency of the institutions, the   Implemiienited partially with delays using the
project would provide training in management skills for senior   assistance of ODA TA. MIS not
polytechnic administrators, delineate more clearly the lines of  implcmented.
authority and responsibility among administrators (rector, registrar.
bursar, acadeniic and administrative department heads, etc.) and
establish a management information system (MIS).
3. Strengthening Staft' Development      To reinforce the technical expertise as well as the practical skills of  Provided successfully withi ODA assistance.
the tcaching staff' the project would finance seminars, workshops,  Effectiveness not evident in practice.
and longer courses for key staff from the various teaching
departments.
4. Strengthening Induistrial Attachment  To relate the training program more closely to the needs and      Implemenited partially. Fracer Stidies could
requiremilenlts of industry, the project would reinforce the industrial  not be completed.
attachment componient of the training program.



Table 5: (continued)
SUBJECT                                             PROGRAM                                           ACHIEVEMENTS
5. Equipment Maintenance                 To strengthen equipment maintenance, the project would assist   Partially implemented. Need for further
project institutions in establishing equipment and facilities   improvement with NBTE assistance.
maintenance units under the department of works at each project
institution.
6.Technical Teacher Training and         To increase the output of high quality technical teachers at minimum    Not implemented. Government established
Advanced Crafts                         incremental cost, the project would initiate technical teacher courses   six additional colleges of education during
(TTC) at two of the four project polytechnics.                  the life of the project and resources were
unavailable.
7. Improving Internal Efficiency         To improve the internal efficiency of the project institutions, during
negotiations, the Government provided assurances that within the
guidelines of the NBTE, it would:
(a) increase the average staff teaching hours from about 14 to 18  (a) Implemented with delays;
hours a week;hse
(b) increase class size from 8 to 16 students in workshops/     (b) implemented;                            0`
laboratories, and from 24 to 32 students in lectures; and
(c) reduce class contact hours from 31 hours per week (consisting of   (c) implemented.
14 hours of workshop/laboratory and 17 hours of lecture) to 28 hours
per week (18 hours of workshop/laboratory and 10 hours of lecture.
B. Strengthening Planning,
Management and Coordination
1. Staff Development                    To strengthen the planning, management and co-ordination of the  Training provided for all project institutions
sub-sector, the project would reinforce the capability of NBTE to  and NBTE. But impact not clear.
provide in-service courses in planning, management and evaluation of
technical/vocational education.
2. Implementation Capacity               To strengthen the implementation capability of FME, the project  Implemented . Effectiveness not yet evident.
would assist the newly established Project Office to identify, prepare
and implement all externally assisted projects.



Table 6: Studies Included in the Project
Study                Purpose as defined at Appraisal/Redefined              Status                      Impact of Study
NBTE Study: Issues in Technical/ Prepare an action plan for phased            Delayed substantially and     Will be used in deciding the future
vocational Educationi           implementation of important findings of the   completed in March 1996.     needs of the sub-sector and to ensure
study on the needs of this sub-sector.                                     that projects benefits are sustained.
Tracer Study: Continuous        Reinforce the industrial attachment component   Pilot Phase was completed.  Liaison officers are in place to carry
monitoring and evaluation of the   of the training program in order to relate the  No funds were available to  out the exercise if funds were made
Graduate of technical Colleges.   training program more closely to needs and  complete the full study.     available.
requirements of the industry



18
Table 7A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate             Actual/Latest Estimate
(US$M)                           (US$M)
Local      Foreign              Local    Foreign   Total
Costs       Costs    Total      Costs    Costs
Improvement of Quality &
Efficiency
Library and workshop equipment,
vehicles & spare parts               -              11.93       11.93              12.23     12.23
Consumable (training) niaterials     0.02            7.13        7.15    0.02     7.13       7.15
Equipment repairs, installation &
rehabilitation                       0.48            -           0.48    0.18     -          0.18
Library books and journals           -               1.01        1.01             0.34       0.34
Fellowships &- Technical assistance  -               2.91        2.91             2.92       2.92
Library fuMituire                    0.15            0.18        0.33    0.05     0.05       0.05
Systems repairs, installation,       0.48                        0.48    0.05                0.05
maintenance
Strengthening Coordination &
Managenient
Fellowships & technical assistance   -               0.38        0.38    0.13                0.13
Programn developilmenit (accreditationl,  0.22       0.25        0.47    -
industr. attach.)
Evaluation. studies and ftuttire pro jects    0.09   0.10        0.19    0.09                0.09
Initial operating costs (equipmenit   0.19           -           0.19    1.29                0.29
book distributioll, salaries)
Physical Contingencies               0.30            1.99        2.29    0.58                0.58
Special Account                                                                   0.04       0.04
total                                1.93           25.88       27.81    2.39     22.71      25.10
Table 7B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate                ActualULatest Estimate
( USM  )              I             (US$M)
Source             Local       Foreign      Total       Local      Foreign     Total
Costs       Costs                    Costs       Costs
IBRD/lIDA                                   23.3        23.3                  21.51       21.51
Government                      3.4            -         3.4       2.39                    2.39
ODA (UK)                          -           1.2        I.)                    1.2         1.2
Total                          3.4          24.5        27.9       2.39       22.71       25.10



Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
SELECTION NO.
OF
CREDIT/LOAN                     COVENANT                     STATUS                 COMMENTS                      ACTION TAKEN OR
AGREEMENT                                                                                                             REQUIRED
22.02 (b)          Open and maintain a Special Account (in          C        Refund effected and accepted by    Close supervision and scrutiny.
dollars) in a Commercial Bank.                           Bank.
3.01 (c,d)         (i) Open and maintain a Project account of       C       Naira 10 million allocated for
3.0 million.                                             1995.
3.01 (c,d)         (ii) Pay into Project Account semi-annually      C        Allocated during past 12 months.
amounts sufficient to meet Govt. contribution
for six month period.                                                        _
4.01 (a,b)          (i) Project and Special Accounts to be         CD        Audit reports were not satisfactory.  Close supervision and scrutiny.
audited for each fiscal year.
4.01 (a,b)          (ii) Audit reports to be presented to Bank no  CD        Audit reports were consistently late
later than six months after end of fiscal year.          during the life of the project.
4.01 (c)            (i) Re: Statements of Expenditures (SOE),      CP        Records maintained adequately;
maintain records until one year after audit              quality of book keeping is still
report has been received.                                deficient.                                                            -
4.01 (c)           (ii) Enable Bank representatives to examine     CP        Collaborated but not complete    Aide-Memoire raised this concern
SOE records and ensure that accounts are                transparency. Audits were         to the FME officials.
audited.                                                 incomplete.
6.01 (a)            Employ an agency to assist in carrying out     CP        TA is 95% completed; remaining    Have been discussing with PIU and
technical assistance and fellowship                      5% to be completed by March      ODA regarding the details.
components.                                              1996.
Schedule 6, Para. I   Borrower to increase budgetary allocation for  CD      Level in 1995 was 7.5% with range  The Government needs to ensure
instructional materials to (a) 5% of total               0.7% to 20%.                     that funds were provided for
recurrent budget by 1989 and (b) 10% by                                                   instructional material.
1992.                                                   _
Schedule 6,Para I    Borrower to provide separate budget           CP        Provided with substantial delays.    Post-Project Monitoring
categories for instructional materials and                                                Committee (PPMC) has assured a
ensure they are used exclusively for their                                                close supervision.
intended purpose.



Table 8: (continued)
SELECTION NO.
OF
CREDIT/LOAN                     COVENANT                     STATUS                 COMMENTS                      ACTION TAKEN OR
AGREEMENT                                                                                                             REQUIRED
Schedule 6,Section   NBTE to prepare a plan for phased             CP       The full plan has never been      Bank is committed to continuous
C                   introduction of measures to increase staff              received, but the measures are    involvement in the sector.
teaching hours and class size while redoing              being implemented; staff teaching
student/class contact hours in the project               hours range from 8 to 14 for full
Polytechnics. This plan to be provided for              time teaching staff; class size
Bank review with 6 months of project                     ranges from 14 to 63; student
effective date with implementation to start no           contact hours are 30 including 3
later than 12/31/91.                                     l ibrary periods.
Schedule 6.Section   NBTE to prepare outline for three-year work   CP        Draft work programs received     PPMC needs to be actively
C                   program (1989-91). Outline to be provided                7/90. Returned for revision.     involved in the sustainability of
for Bank review within six months of project             Second draft 1991/3 submitted    these objectives.
effectiveness.                                           5/91. NBTE current strategic plan                                     N
under Board Review ready by
December 1995.
Schedule 6, Section  NBTE to conduct study of relevant technical   CD        Study unofficially submitted and    The national conference to plan the
C                   and vocational education issues including the            reviewed by Bank 10/91. May      future needs of technical education
cost and financing of this sub-sector and an             1995 - study being revised and   in Nigeria should be organized in
action plan for the phased implementation of             updated in response to internal and  the near future.
the main recommendations. ; This study is to             external comments. Final version
be completed and provided for Bank review                was submitted on March 1996,
no later than 6/30/90.                                   after the project closed..
C =    Complied with
CD=    Compliance after delay
NC=    Not Complied with
SOON= Compliance Expected in Reasonably Short Time
CP=    Complied with partially
NYD=  Not Yet Due



21
Table 9: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of Project   Actual Staff Weeks      US$
Cycle
Appraisal                10.3              24,720
Negotiation through      15.6              37,440
Board Approval
Supervision             137.9             330,960
Completion                3.8               9.120
TOTAL                   167.6             402,240



22
Table 10: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance
Rating
Stage of                Number  Days   Specialized
project       Month   of           in      staff skills      Impl.    Dev.
cycle         [Year    persons   field    represented        status    obj.   Types of Problems
Supervision    11/88        I        8     Sr. Educator      I         I       None yet. Contracts with British
Council not finalized.
7/89         2        14    Sr. Educator      I         I       Absence of adequate communication
between PIU and prolect institutions.
5/90         I        10    Opera. Officer    I         I       Incomplete records of Special
Accounts.
10/90                 12    Sr. Voc.          2         2       Misuse of counterpart funds.
Educator
Training Spec.
Disbursement
Off.
05/91        3         8     Sr. Voc. Educa.   2        2       Procurement infringements and
Lawyer                             inefficient financial management.
Disbur. Officer
06/91        1        7      Sr. Voc. Educ.    3        3       Review of financial management
indicates malpractice.
06/92        1        10    Sr. Voc. Educ.    3         4       Lack of counterpart funds. Misuse of
funds by PIU.
12/92       2         8     Sr. Voc. Educ.    3         4       Delays in installation. Financial
Traifning &                        Management unsatisfactory.
Equip. Spec.
12/93        I        10    Sr. Voc. Educ.    U         U       Lack of communication between
project entities and inadequate
involvement of project beneficiaries.
06/94        4        15    Princ. Educ.      li        U       Only 60 percent of the delivered
Tech. Educ.                        equipment installed. Audits delayed.
Spec.
Opera. Offic.
IFESH                         .
ARPP          05/95         2        10    Princ. Educ.      U         U       Installation of equipment incomplete.
Opera. Offic.
06/95        1        12    Proc. Analyst                       Procurement review revisited. NBTE
study still incomplete.
ICR            10/95        5        22    Opera. Offic.     S         S       Workshop renovations still
Economist                          incomplete in some project sites,
Financial Mgmt.                    incomplete disbursement
Procurement                        documentation.
Princ. Educ.
ICR           2/96          3        15    Princ. Educ.      S                 Sustainability Plan incomplete.
Opera. Offic.                      NBTE study incomplete.
Economist
Ratings: I=none or minor problems
2=moderate problems



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
(Loan 2926-UNI)
APPENDICES
A. Mission's Aide-Memoire
B. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
C. Project Impact and Sustainability Plan



Nr[GER[A
LOAN 2926-lisNT: TECHNICAL EDUCATION PRO.TECT -
IMPLEMNIENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICREI/
AIDE TEMOItRE
1.    A Supervision and Implementation Completion Mission led by Mr. Yemi
Suleiman (Education Operations Officer and RMN Deputy Task Manager) was
carried out from October 3 to October 25, 1995. The mission comprised Mrs. Eileen
Nkwansa (Project Task Manager/PHR Group leader and Acting Resident
Representative): MIessrs. Sudharshan Canagarajah (Project Backup Task Manager at
AF4PH) and Bavo Awosemusi (RMEN Procurement Specialist); Jack Cresswell
(Consultant. Vocational Technical Education) and Oluwole Komolafe (Financial
Consultant). The mission was accompanied by representatives of the Federal Ministry
of Education including: Mvrs. E. E. Spiropoulos (Project Coordinator, PIU); Mrs. M.
Idowu (Chief Project Officer. PIU): Mr. Ranti Akintokun (Assistant Chief Project
Officer. PIU); Mrs. C. Coker and Mr. Patrick Aniekwena (Principal Project Officers,
PIU); Ms. Marv Uwemedimo (Project Officer); Mir. D.B. Kussiy (Project Accountant,
PIU): Mfrs. B.I. Molokwu (Legal Adviser, FME HQ). The following summarizes the
mission's findings, observations and recom.mendations.
2.    The mission met with officials of the six Project Institutions at Ado-Ekiti,
Bida. MNubi/Yola. Yaba. Uwana-.Afikpo, and NBTE, Kaduna. The list of officials met
are attached. The mission expresses its appreciation to the PIU, Rectors of the
polytechnics at Ado-Ekiti. Bida. and Uwana-Afikpo for their cooperation and
hospitalitv during the mission. Gratitude is also due to the Principal of Yaba
Technical College and the Executive Secretary and Director of Programmes of NBTE
along with the staff of these institutions. The mission also thanks the Rector and staff
of the Federal Polvtechnic Mubi for working with it.
Background
3.    The project was signed on July 1, 1988 and became effective on March 17,
1989. Its major objectives were to assist the Government's programme for: (a)
improving the quality and efficiency of middle-level technical institutions and (b)
strengthening planning, management and coordination of technical and vocational
education at NBTE, TVSED in the Federal Ministry of Education and at the Project
Office.
Main Objectives and Targets
4.    The following were the developmental objectives targeted by the Project:
a.    Oualint Improvement:
(i)   strengthen the quality of instwiction;



ii    strren.uthen manalement capability of the project polytechnics and the
FTC:
(iii)  institute a staft development program;
(iv)   strenrthen equipment procurement and maintenance capability:
(v)    strengthen the practical component of the instructional programme:
(vi)  improve the intemal efficiency of the institutions;
(vii)  establish programmes for advanced crafts and technical teacher
trairuna.
b.     Mana-ement Stren2thenina:
(i)    reinforce NBTE's capability for conducting in-service courses for
administrators. teaching and -work-shop assistants:
(ii)   strengthen NBTE's capability to monitor, evaluate and accredit
instructional programmes:
(iii)   establish a procurement unit for equipment and instructional
materials; and
(iv)   reinforce the Project office's capability to identify, prepare and
implement projects.
Overall Achievements
5.    Extensive progress has been made on certain components of the project while
minimal or no progress has been experienced on the others. Generally, the
participating institutions visited had greatly enhanced their abilitv to deliver qualiry
and efficient middle-level technical education through, on the one hand, installation
and use of equipment purchased under the project; and on the other, acquisition and
application of training skills by selected instructors. Arrangements have been made to
install remaining equipment, much of which requires specialist input. Tools are on
hand. and appropriately stored, and tool lending systems are in place. Routine
stocking has been organized to supplement dailv tallies of tools by storekeepers.
Renovations to workshops have been carried out properly in nearly all cases, and most
workshops have an appropriate layout. In addition, some books ordered under the
project have been received, processed, shelved and are being used by students;
budgetary allocation to consumable materials at the project polytechnic has increased
v.ith varying percentages at each institution; nearlv all the courses supported under the
project have been accredited or re-accredited as the case may be. Internal Efficiencv
of the institutions has also improved. Students laboratorv hours have increased as
expected while teachers' contact hours have reduced. Both class size and averace
teaching hours have also increased.
2



Nlanagement CapabilitV:
6.     0lanagement capability was strengthened througuh a 100 man-month training of
senior polvtechnic and NBTE administrators. Fellows spent a period ranging from
two weeks to twelve months abroad. This interaction with institutions abroad has, in
the case of NBTE. led to better ties and linkages with technical colleges outside
Niigeria. It has also led to the conceptualization of a staff development centre at
NBTE. which will serve as a forum for exchanging ideas on issues relating to
technical education. It is difficult to judge how beneficial the training has been to
other project institutions. Unfortunately, the MIS component of management
strengthening was not fully achieved. Poor communication between PIU and project
institutions as regards the performance of the providers (ODA) is blamed. PIU only
got feedback on the status of MIS component during the ICR mission. The
importance of pursuing the goals of MIS cannot, at this time, be overemphasized.
PIU will discuss with British Council, the need to organize training for
polvtechnic staff to use the Lotus Programme developed under the project. It
vas agreed that NBTE will follow up on this.
Industrial Attachment:
7.    In spite of serious economic downturn faced by the nation, students' industrial
attachment did not suffer si2nificant setback. Engineering srudents have continued to
benefit more than business students. As provided under Decree 16, 1995. NBTE has
proposed to government to extend students' industrial work experience (SIWES) to
business students and not restricted to students of technology and related courses as is
now the case. In line with project objectives, basic office equipment and a vehicle
wvas provided for each project institution to increase the mobility of the industrial
attachment liaison officer. At the NBTE level. a committee comprising all project
instirutions was set up in 1992 to work on SIWES. Questionnaires were developed on
Tracer studies and piloted by the comnmnittee. The survey could not hold in 1992 due
to lack of funds. A set of revised test instruments is now available for use whenever
funds is provided bv PIU. The mission believes that the non release of funds may not
have been unconnected with NBTE's failure to account in a timely way for the funds
earlier received from PIU to undertake a study on technical education in Nigeria. In
addition, the cost associated with the committee members' proposal to visit other
countries outside Nigeria for the purpose of learning computer application to data
analvsis, as part of the overall study strategy, may have increased PIU's inability to
raise funds from available resources
Equipment Maintenance:
8.    Beyond training of NBTE and polytechnic staff on equipment maintenance in
UK under ODA assistance, it was not clear what additional efforts were made by
NBTE and the project institutions to establish equipment maintenance units in their
respective department of works. Evidently, much has not been achieved in this area.
If this project is to be sustained, attention should be paid to this aspect. However,
Equipment Mlvaintenance centres have been set up at the Yaba College of Technology,
Kaduna and Enugu Polytechnic. The centres tak-e the lead in repairing faulty
equipment in the technical institutions within their catchment areas while the



rnaintenance unit in each institution carrieS Out routine maintenance and minor repairs.
NBTE auirced with the mission to instruct project institutions instructors to
)rganize to mainrain equipmcnt forthwith. Howsevcr, difficult cascs should be
referred to experts outside the institutions.
Teclhnical Teacher Training and Advance Crafts:
9.     Because of the creation of six additional colleges of education in the country
admirtinr manr students. it wvas considered unnecessary to introduce technical teacher
courses (TTC) at two of the four Project Polvtechnics. Similarly, Advanced Crafts
Certificate courses were not established in three of the polytechnics due to the
polytechnics' non submission to NBTE of proposals to run these courses.
Pol-technics blamed the larter on late installation and cormrrissioning of teaching
equipment delivered under the project. Having commissioned most of these
equipment. the basis for monitoring these pro-rammes is nowv established.
Inrternal Efficiencv-
10.     Average scat teachina hours have increased from 14 hours per week to
around 20 hours per wveek. For workshops,laboratorv, class size has increased from 7
students to a minimum of 35 students and for lectures, from 24 to over 40 students.
Again. teacher contact hours are said to have reduced from 31 hours per week (14hrs
for workshops/laboratory and I 7hrs for lecrure) to 28 hours (1 8hrs for
Nvorkshop/laboratorv and 1 Ohrs for lecmure). Librarv facilities such as books. journals,
and duplicating machines amongst others, have been provided to srudents to increase
their access to a learning medium complimentary to teaching. This is meant to
compensate for the reduction in contact hours.
Procurement Unit:
11.   Procurement unit has not been established at NBTE as envisaged in the
project. but a senior official of the board has been designated as Procurement Officer.
The officer has received a 12-week training on International Procurement and is
currently developing equipment specifications for technical instirutions in the country.
A procurement unit is expected to emerge in the process. WN-hen fully established. the
unit could assist the polytechnics in undertaking bulk procurement of laboratory and
wvork.shop equipment: trainina staff in equipment procurement. record keeping.
distribution, specification writing, and supplementary training in equipment
maintenance. NBTE's rationale for not developing this unit immediately is bome out
of the reality that equipment procurement has essentially been the responsibility of
poly-technics. Given NBTE's other responsibilities, the mission recommends the
settina up of the unit without much further delay.
12.    The Division of Equipment and Mvfaterials Supply at NBTE was expected to
liaise wich the Project Office to procure a large amount of equipment under.the
project. This collaboration did not workl well. Its failure, it is believed, is seen in the
supply of a small percentage of mis-matched and industrial sized equipment to the
project institutions. NBTE felt that the error arose because its involvement in the
4



procurement process was, at best. peripheral. The mission wsas told bv PIU however
that NBTE was fullv involved in the procuremenit process.
lniplementation Qapacity:
,3.   The project assisted in strenrtheninz PIU's implementation capability to
identify. prepare and implement extemally assisted projects. Apart from this project,
PIU developed tvo other World Bank/IDA projects and one Sector Study. These
were the S120 million Primary Education Project, developed in collaboration with
NPEC; and a proposed S15 million Secondary Education Project. The former is under
implementation while the latter is yet to be approved by the Federal Goverunent. The
project also strengthened the capabilitv of TVSED (now TSED) through staff training,
provision of relevant reference publications, and joint supervision of the Technical
Education Project.
Project funding and Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds:
14.   The total project cost was estimated in 1987 at USS27.9 million equivalent
wVith a foreign exchange component of about US$24.5 rmillion. Out of this, ODA
(UK) agreed to finance US$ 1.2 million equivalent of technical assistance and
fellowships on a grant basis ODA was to cormrmit funds before loan effectiveness. The
Bank was to fund the remainina US$23.3 equivalent and the Federal government was
to contribute the remaining USS3.4 million (Naira 19,484,693.5) equivalent to finance
all local costs. These estimates were based on NMarch-April 1987 prices.
IS.    As at October, 1995 the undrawn balance was a little over S2.65 million.
Outstanding bills amount to S2.1 million. This includes contracts for books,
journals, consumables and pavments in Naira to the polvtechnics for installation
already completed. A spending plan has been prepared by PIU which shows that all
funds will be drawn by the end of December 1995. There is no money left in the
special account and so future draw-downs will be made from Loan Account. PIU
a--reed with the mission to discuss the withdrawal process with Mrs. Eileen Nkwanga
as soon as possible. In addition. PIU should submit reimbursement applications to
the Bank, immediately document expenditures to be made bv direct payment
from the special account and seek refunds where necessarv.
16.   Counterpart fund provided to the project between 1989 and 1995 was
N32,956,245. Considering the fluctuating iNaira exchange rate over these years, the
real value of this amount is put about US$ 1,532,954 or 44% of the expected
counterpart fumding. This explains the slow pace of installation, commissioning and
use of equipment delivered since 1992.
Major Constraints:
1 7.   The mission identified some constraints which militated against project
implementation. These include:
(a)   Initial lack of knrowledge on equipment specifications by the project
entities;



(b    non onrovision ot' timely advise to P[U on equipment procurement
iMat"ers due to the location of the agents in Netherlands without a back-
up ?i.ricer at tile ILO o(Cimce in Laos:
C c)   inadequate counterpart funding leading to lack of initial preparation of
proiect sites to receive equipment:
(d)    poor liaison between NBTE and PIU on procurement matters leading
to purchase of industrial sized equipment and non receipt of
a few essential equipment and tools:
(e)    general poor communication betveen PIU and project entities on a day
to dav basis leading to none replacement of equipment missing parts
and operating manuals written in languages other than English;
(f)   late Management response to emerging project issues raised bv joint
World BankIPIU/FME supervision team:
(f)   frequent changes in Management at PIU level - four Project Mlanagers
appointed within the life of the project. This has had a minimal
negative impact compared wvith other constraints:
(a)    premature timing of ODA assistance prior to arrival of equipment as a
result of pre-conditions set for loan effectiveness;
(h)   lack of complete o-nership bv FMIE due to difference
between aovernment's request and resultant project design, coupled
with inadequate monitoring indicators in the SAR;
(i)    unprofessional handling of project funds leading to a long embargo on
disbursements and Special Account replenishment.
General comments on Project Implementation
18.   The followting comments represent the view-s of the borrower, the Project
Institutions and the Bank.
Surnrnarv
19.   Project implementation was delayed by several factors internal and extemal to
PIU. for example. bid evaluation was done outside Nigeria resulting in late delivery of
equipment to colleges in 1992. The assistance received from ODA could have been
more effective uith better timing of equipment and training delivery. The loan
condition which necessitated the TA and other actions prior to effectiveness is to
blame as time for training was utilized. instead on equipment installation. There was
less ownership of project at the project institutions level causing critical lukewarm
response to equipment installation and commnissioning. Also, many equipment were
received without immediate inspection due to lack of space to install them. Several
missing parts were thus discovered after - long after the warranty period. The MIS
component has not improved the lot of the project institutions. There is still no
6



particular general direction chiarted for MIIS at the project instlitutions. Everyone
swenvs be pursuing a ditferent direction.
20.   The frequent changes in personnel and leadership at PIU over the life of the
project resulted in some difficulty in project implementation. The signing of TA
contract with the British Council was a pre-condition for project effectiveness which
has not helped the project achieve some of its objectives. Similarly. Equipro did not
arrange an effective installation plan which placed the burden of most equipment
installation on the shoulders of PIU. For example, it took M-systems - a local firm, at
the request of PIU to rectify the problems of mismatched computer parts supplied by
Ashford.
Implementation Effectiveness and Efficiencv
21.   (a)   Implementation arrangements between PIU, FME, NBTE. and
polvtechnics did not work smoothly at the initial stage. Some improvements have
taken place since the introduction of a steering committee for the project. In the best
interest of technical education in Nigeria more collaboration would be required
bet-ween these institutions.
(b)   Barring certain disagreement over expenditures made by PIU and
NBTE. which led to the Bank placing an embargo on disbursement for some time, the
implementation arrangements bet-ween the BarLk and the PIU seems to have worked
verv well.
(c)    PIU's monitoring and supervision of ODA activities betrays lack of
total control over the organization's contractual obligations activities. The timing of
the TA should have been changed. given late arrival of equipment to project sites.
(d)   With respect to equipment, ILO as the procurement agent had sole
contact with the suppliers. Once the procurement office was disbanded, all the
problems attending to equipment was left with PIMU
NMonitoring and Reporting Timeliness and Accuracv
22.   The procedure advocated in the project SAR for reporting and monitoring was
inadequate. As a result, day to day communication between PIU and the project
institutions was almost non existent. This resulted in PIU producing monitoring
reports which were considered weak and sometimes superficial.
23.   The auditing requirements in the SAR and in the Loan Agreements were not
strictly followed.. Despite assurances at loan negotiations that a qualified and
independent auditor would be engaged for auditing purposes, governrment auditors
from the Audit office were initially used instead. Again. rather than use a
comprehensive accounting manual based on the requirements of the SAR and the
accounting covenants in the Loan Agreement. an expenditure based, single entry, one-
line government accounting system was adopted. This did not iustify the expenditures
incurred on the firm of chartered accountants which prepared the accounting manual.
7



In additioni. audit reports were not prepared and sent to the Bank as and when due. Up
till now (1995i. outstanding audit reports Cor 199?. 1993 and 1994 have not been
recei.ed at the Bank.
The project account also showvs incomplete record of income. The tocal
counterpart fund received on the project wvas N27.600.956 aoainst a total expenditure
of N32.956,245 and a bank balance of N7.856.586. This data suagests an income of
N 1   11.875 which was not retlect in cash inflow. There is a possibilitv that this
amount was received from either of three sources; interest account, special account or
separate budgetary allocation. The Accountant should be asked to put the record
straight.
The following represents the status of the project on a school bv school basis:
Yaka
24 The colleae has the potential to establish a profitable tool-shop if the
equipment supplied under the project are fully installed and commissioned. At the
automobile workshop. this can be enhanced if the plan to expand the workshop is
quickly accomplished. The provision of instructional materials written in English xvill
also help to use two ESAB spot-welding machines in the Fabrication/Welding
work-shop. PIU could assist in translating these materials or seek assistance from Bida
Pol-technic which is already using a similar equipment. In the same workshop, five
ESAB DTB275 AC/DC square wave welding machine have not been installed due to
non delivery of accessories. The manufacturers should be contacted through their
address (ESAB Jitesborg Sweden. Telex 223 16/20625/20552, P.O. Box 8014,
Swxeden) or through the Swedish Embassy in Lagos.
25.   In the Carpentrv/joinery work-shop. the circular saw of the rotary cutting
machine was supplied without carbide tip. Future replacements should correct this
error. However. all equipment supplied to the wood machine shop are in good
workinz condition except the planing machine which had reccntlv developed
elecuical fault. The maintenance group was attending to this. The Refrigeration/Air
conditioning department has not installed a trainer and display cabinet supplied due to
lack of accessories to complete the installation. These accessories were stolen wNhen
the workshop was burgled and vandalized bv unkno-wn persons. The matter was
receiving the attention of the school authorities.
26.   In the plumbing shop, the electrical threading machines were not properly
connected to electricity. The machines should be provided with electrical plugs for
installation on a more permanent basis. Again, one part of the building has lacked
electricity supply since the last one year. Workshop attendants and the maintenance
unit should be called to respond appropriately. The metallurgy workshop has been
extended to install the furnace supplied. The equipment should be tested and
commissioned subsequently to provide practical lessons for. and enhance the
performance of rhe first set of students takina their extemal examinations next ear.
Power supply to the shop is also of low quality and needs improvement.



27.   The Radio TV/Electronics department lhas installed all equipment and they are
said to be in good working condition. Some consumables have also been received.
The workshop needs to install fire extinguishers to improve workshop safety and
enhance equipment sustainabilitv. The mission was also received assurances of an
improved teaching qualitv as a result of these new equipment. Thoughts have
therefore been given to sustainabilit through provision of training to some Instructors
on the use and care of equipment. Similarlv the Principal is looking into ways of
more internally generated revenue. Equipment supplied to the Electrical department
have been installed and are all in good working condition.
Ado-Ekiti
28.   About 85% of the equipment have been received, uncrated and installed. The
remaining 15% require space and specialist assistance. A building is being erected to
instail equipment meant for the Mlechanical Engineering department by March, 1996.
Some of the equipment currentlv installed in the mechanical department are too
choked up and not safetv-friendlv. In addition. a Tig-Mag machine was supplied with
several missing parts. Missing parts can be supplied by the Contractor installing this
equipment. Yaba has a similar problem which could be equally treated. Food
technology equipment have now been mostlv installed and residue laid out for
installation by specialists. These include double effect evaporator, autoclave, curettes,
sedimentation studv apparatus. flowmeter, laboratory rotary vacuum filter, deep bed
filter colurnn. drum dryer, steam generators, pouch forming machine, laboratory roller
mill, oil extraction screw press, solid liquid extraction unit and, solvent extraction
apparatus. The local representative of Tecator is helping with the latter. All land-
surveving equipment have been installed except one vital equipment (Plotter) which
was incomplete when supplied. Arrangement should be made by PIU to supply
whatever size of plorter to the department to ensure fIll utilization of the equipment.
This was further discussed between PIU and the polytechnic on October 19 and 20.
29.   Science technology laboratorv did not receive brochure for its basic electronics
trainers. The polytechnic could check with other institutions which received similar
equipment. Also, the laboratory was neither air-conditioned nor well ventilated with
ceiling fans. Additional requirements were already being addressed by PIU.
30.   Several courses have been accredited at both OND and HND levels. These
include Electrical/Electronic, Mechanical, Agriculture engineering, Building
Technology and Food Technology. Details will be listed in the ICR.
31.   Additional orders for Library Books and Joumals for the polytechnic and other
project institutions have been made through the PIU. Some books had earlier been
delivered. Problems of frequent loss and mutilation of books persists but the
polytechnic has beefed up security to combat the trend.
32.   Budget for consumables/instructional materials has, in most institutions not
met SAR targets. Recent salary increases announced by the Federal Govemrnment
without a corresponding release of additional budgetary allocation to meet the cost has
increased the burden of the polytechnics to provide adequate funds for consumable
and examination papers. The latter has to be supplemented by students. Similarly, a
9



line budget for equipment maintenance has not vet been established. Equipment
repairs may not take place without spares and tools: and this mav lead to gradual
w-indini doxwn of tle newv equipment. One \av to avoid this is to dovetail a new
project to the one about to close. On the short run howvever, the mission recommends
that the implementation committees should be retained to continue their normal work
beyoond project closing date.
33.   Out of 22 computers supplied under the project, 13 are now in full working
condition. The remaining 9 could not be rectified due to defective components and
would have to be completely replaced, as the cost of purchasing missing parts is close
to the price of new products. The network cable supplied was of the wrong
specification. The polytechnic requests for more UPS to serve the number of working
computers. The PIU should aEtend to this without delav to prevent darmage to the
computers due to electric power fluctuation.
34.   Power supplv to Ado Ekiti is enabled through a 33 KVA electric line supplied
throuTh Ekiti township - over 15km away. The polytechnic is therefore the first to be
load-shed when demand for electricity reaches a peakl in the main town. To ensure
full utilization of equipment, the polytechnic requires a direct feed from 33KVA HT
line. The steerina committee should pursue this matter through NBTE and FME.
Bida
35.   Bida continues to lead other institutions on equipment installation under the
project. Nearly 90% of the new equipment have been installed and commissioned.
The balance will be installed by specialist input. The institution has also maintained
an equipment maintenance group based in the mechanical engineering department and
headed by an Assistant Chief Technologist. Mtembership is drawn from major
encineering departments. A workshop safety comnmittee has also been maintained
over the life of the project. The problem of mismatched tractor and plough is yet to
be resolved. The polvtechnic prefers a matching tractor than adopt a trade off
approach to acquire a smaller one. The steering cornmittee should look into this
matter critically. The polytechnic agreed with the mission to do the following:-
complete equipment identification system commrenced already; request M-systems to
upgrade computer equipment for the electronics/electrical department from I mgB to
2 mgB; install servo mechanism in the basic electricity laboratory once PIU provides
funds for spares needed; install generating set in the electronic/electronics laboratory;
install most (50%)of the equipment in the mechanical laboratory; install equipment
not vet installed in the Material Sciences/Strength of materials/Metrology and Applied
Mechanics laboratory; commission the remaining (50%) of the equipment in the
chemical laboratorv and provide lighting and repair the roof; install only two
equipment in the fitting/fabrication workshop; install the CNC equipment in the
mechanical wvorkshop, control dust, and send staff to attend Equipment Maintenance
training to be organized by PIU.
36.   To speed up installation of remaining equipment, PIU agreed to release funds
to the institution as quickly as possible. The modality for releasing funds from loan
account should be discussed .vith Mlrs. Eileen Nkwanga. In addition, the polytechnic
should complete space to install water laboratory equipment. It should also contact
1 0



othler polytechnics for operational manual not supplied with hvdrology and universal
testing machines. To ensure effective use of equipment, staff in this laboratory
should be trained. The polytechnic is commended for successfully repairing a lathe
machine which was damaged on delivery.
37.   The mission also observed that low utilization of equipment was due to lack of
consumable. This matter should be resolved once suppliers under recently executed
contracts perform their obligations to PIU. The mission wishes to point out that
unless shipment of goods takes place before the official closing date of December
31, 1995 payment for goods supplied will not be entertained by the Bank.
37.   The library has received 425 titles of books comprising 1,302 volumes.
Similarlv, 25 titles and 235 volumes ofjournals were received in 1990 and 120
volumes in 1991. Joumal publications for 1992 to 1995 have not been received, but
PIU has just placed order for 1994 and 1995 publications. Both 1992/93 journals can
be supplied through the Federal Universities which have received journals from 1991
to date. The polvtechnic should provide a list of titles required to enable RMN
contact NUC and request for assistance in providing 1992 and 1993 missing titles.
Problem of lack of space persists in the library but a marked improvement in space
management was observed. To solve the present space shortage at peak periods, the
mission recommends the use of classrooms as a temporarv measure. The modality
will be worked out by the librarian. Through a self organized endowment fund, the
polytechnic has been able to put up a library space which is still uncompleted. An
estimated sum of Naira 20.0 million is required to complete the building. The
polytechnic needs assistance from FME. NBTE. or other sources to accomplish the
task.
38.   The librarians need to be trained on computerized cataloguing and circulation
system. PIU will incorporate this in the training for librarians under the remaining
consultancv hours. The mission advised PIU to liaise with NUC and investigate the
possibilitv of acquiring for the polytechnics, TINLIB softfware now in use in the
libraries of federal universities. The problem of books stealing and mutilation persists
but being tackled by the school. The mission suggests that photo copying facilities
be made available within the reach of the students to reduce this incidence.
39.   The mission was pleased to note that NBTE has now supplied the polytechnic
with a 500KVA electric generator. When installed, it should enhance equipment
utilization and effective curriculum delivery.
Yola/Mubi:
40.   The Polytechnic has two campuses located at Yola and Mubi with the
Headquarters in Mubi. The Yola campus will eventually relocate to Yola starting
with the Electrical and Electronic Engineering Department by the end of November
1995. Subsequently, Food Science andc Laboratory Technology Departnent will
follow when the workshops are completed.
II



41.   Prouress has been made on the installation of Food science technology
equiPment at Yola campus. The remainine un-installed equipment fall under the
cate.uorx ot sorphisticated equipment requiring specialist attention. Some of these
equic.ment are Gas Chromatography. Dual Trace Oscilloscope. Farimograph.
Am\ oaraphN . Compact Spray Drier etc. Arrangements have been made with
specialists to install these equipment as soon as PIU releases fund to the Institution.
The mission recommends that, rather than install equipment to be relocated soon. the
polytechnic should trv to install them at the permanent site. The risk of damage to
equipment is grrat during relocation.
42.   At Mfubi Campus, most of the Equipment yet to be installed are in the
Mechanical Department. These are mainly Welding Machines like TOKVA Spot
Welding Machine. Mig-Maz and Tig W\eldinz Units. There is also the need to repair
some of the Protek Oscilloscopes as well as Ulniversal Frequency Counter in the
Electrical and Electronic Engineering Department. The Polytechnic had submitted
cost eslimales to install these equipment as soon as PIU approves funding.
43.   22 Computers received bv the Instirution have been installed and
conmissioned by a local firm - Hasselmeier (Nigeria) Ltd. The Laboratory is very
clean and conducive to learning. Two of the Computers are defective and need
repairs. Like other courses in Food Science and Laboratorv Technology, the
Computer Science course was accredited as a result of the equipment received from
the Project.
44.   The Institution has a good standard Library. The Librarv environment is
hiahly conducive to learning. The Institution received 918 tiles of library books in
1992 along w\ith some Journals and Audio-visual Aids. Also supplied under the
Project were qualiny librarv furniture. Most of the books received were in
Eneineering courses. The supplv of these books and Joumals have increased librarv
patronage by both students and staff in the School. Adequate books and Journals
register are k-ept and the "Brown System of charging" applicable to loaning books to
students and staff is in place. This has reduced the incidence of books lost in the
library. The Librarv staff are well trained and orgaAilzed. More books and journals
are expected before the Project closing date.
45.   Based on the recommendation of the previous missions. obsolete and damaged
Land Survey Equipment received from Hungary and Germany have been separated
from those supplied under the World Bank assistance. The latter are in good working
condition except a theodolite. The mission recommends that the Institution should
undertake the repairs.
Uxvanna-Afikpo
46.   A considerable amount of equipment has not been installed, tested and
connected to electric power. For example. the computers supplied under the project
have been well installed and tested but not hooked to electricitv. This makes their
effective utilization doubtful. In the structure laboratory, what is required is to place
some equipment on benches (not the floor) and plugged to electricity provided from
1 2



sources close to the machine (not too distant). Similarlyv two pieces of equipment in
the sam-e laboraton. could be put to tull use simplv by fabricating a handle which has
beeni broken since the last tw,o or three years. A metal craftsman can make the handle
within two to three days usinm. rild steel. Ceramic department is the worst hit in
terms of equipment not put to use. The departmental staff also sutfers from lack of
training to use these equipment. Some equipmenc were crammed in a small space
only suitable for displav - not training. A number of them have accumulated dust and
rust to the extent that, if they are not test-run immediately, the chances of getting them
to work effectively may not be regained. The mission recommends that experts
should be brought in to test-run these equipment and provide training to the technical
staff on their use and maintenance. Pending the completion of a new ceramic
laboratorv, the mission recommends that few and inadequate equipment supplied for
glass technologv under the project should be tested and safelv stored awav to provide-
sufficient room for the pieces of ceramic equipment now crammed in a few rooms.
47.   On the other hand. several pieces of equipment need expert installation, e.g.
abrasive testing machine, kiln and vibrating table - all located in the block making
laboratorv. A number of the equipment (e.g. strength of materials tester) were
inoperative due to lack of consumable materials. What is needed is sand, gravel and
cement. In other cases, onlv acids prevents full use of equipment.
48.   Of the c4 computers received, 2 1 are now said to be fully functional. The
mission could not test them as there was no electricity supply to the entire campus
durin2 the visit. TIhis has been the case in the last three visits to the polytechnic and
the Rector had alwavs lamented the serious lack of constant electricity to the campus.
Surprisingly, electricity supply to the community around the polytechnic seems to
flow undisturbed. PIU and FME should investigate why the polytechnic has had this
problem all along. and shouid help to solve the problem to ensure full utilization of
the huge investment which the FGN has made so far on training equipment.
49.   Other than .he above, the polvtechnic has made tremendous strides in
uncrating and positioning equipment for installation. A number of equipment could
not be installed at all because they were defective when supplied. Two furnaces and
two air compressors fall under this categorv. Ajaokuta steel industry or Bacita sugar
industry should be contacted immediately to rectify these faults. The polytechnic
should also be allowed to use the ingenuity of its many experienced and dedicated
technical staff and teachers to rectify minor faults within their capacity. Other sister
polvtechnics should also be contacted for help where local ingenuity fails. The
polytechnic was hopeful that as soon as PIU releases money to it for equipment
installation as approved by the Bank. most of the equipment should be conunissioned.
The mission recomnmends that the committee responsible for project inplementation at
both the FNIE, PiU and polytechnic levels should not be disbanded until all equipment
are confirmed to be working in perfect condition; and in fact beyond.
Proiect Sustainabilirv
50.   Project sustainabilitv is now in doubt as FME has not fully complied with the
agreements reached with the Bank. Recurrent expenditure for consumable in most
colleges has not reached the target set. Vern few had any consumable on hand and the
13



departniental heads could describe no particular system of obtaining the materials.
Tlhis continues to oe a difficult problem tor the institutions given dwkindling budgetary
allocations to the t!chnical colleges.. The situation is complicated by a recent increase
in star' salaries xxiwunout a corresponding increase in the recurrent budget allocation to
the schools. Some institutions have resorted to commercial activities and are charging
higzher tuition for Fart-time students to raise needed funds. The mission recommends
funds be provided zo Principal and Rectors to purchase consumable requested by
HODs to enable transfer of practical skills.
51.   There was neither spares on hand for new or existing equipment, nor was there
appear to be anv system for acquiring spares. Participating institutions have acquired
equipment from a x ariety of countries. Even if parts can be fabricated locally, manv
spares can onlv anc would be best provided bv the manufacturers. The mission
recommends that a s-stem to obtain spares for the participatina institutions is put in
place to ensure proiect sustainabiliry.
52.   NBTE has not prepared an outline for the needs of the institutions as agreed at
project inception. The project institutions seem to have an idea of what they require
and have shown =reater determnination to survive. However, government's own
cornnitment appears too weak to assure anyone of a brilliant future for technical
education in the countrv. A follo'w up project mav help to correct this situation.
Loan Covenants
53.   As mentioned in the last aide memoires most of the legal covenants have been
met. Details are artached.
Borrower's ICR
54.   FME has set up a 15 member project completion conmmittee which will
commnence work on November 21. It is hoped that a workshop will follow at which
all its findings will be discussed.
Operational Plan for the Project
55.   An operational plan for project sustainability will be jointly prepared with the
project institutions and PIU. This will be included in the ICR for clearance. The
timetable for preparing the ICR is attached to this aide memoire.
56.   The mission findings presented in this aide-memoire are subject to review by
the World Bank management who would refer to them in correspondence in the next
few wveeks.
Lagos, October 27, 1995
For the Mission:
Adeyemi A. Suleiman
(Mission Leader)
14



Schedule of ICR Processing
Activitv                                       Time Frame
I1.    Transmission of draft ICR to borrower for comments   January, 15, 1996
2.    Borrower transmits comments to the Bank               February 15, 1996
3.    Preparation of the gray cover ICR                     March 15, 1996
4.    Transmission of ICR                                   April 15, 1996
15



BORROWER' S
SUMMARY REPORT
Intoduction and'Backsround
This is the ICR summary report for thfe Technical Education Project (Lu 2926-
UiNI) which was supporred by the World Bank with. an amount of USS23.2 million. rhe
report was prepared by a 15 maember team made up of project implemenring officers in
the Ministy and Project Insdtutions.
Before this project, the World Bank had assisted the Nigerian Gove ment an
tree projects. These arc the Firsr Educazion Project (Credit 72-UTNI); Second Education
Project (Ln 81 4-UN); aud Third Education Project (Lan 929-tNI). These projects wCr
eyt.xeraieA sit:aticrs. times.betweet .1965 and 1979. Thi mjor cenoutic,r; w_^r f
expaasion and quality improvement of Primary and Secondary Schools in specific regions
of the federation. Notwithstnding the contnibudons of these projects, the need for
middle level manpower development in Nigeria gew to a level requiring immediate.
attention. This gave tise to the Technical Education ProjecL
The Proiect
The project was approved on July 1, 1988, made effective onMarch 17, 1989 and
closed on December 31, 1996. The project was co-fianced bythe Overseas
Development Agency (ODA) of the British Government, the FederaL Government of
Nigeria (FGN) and _te inptiopal Fede#Gen -for SelfHe(        T  f   -T. . - .-.*:
- '- 5ontributedthe sumbfUS$I 2mflion equivalentii GrantAidwbile tie secondan ird
contributed UA$S34 milion and US$ 1.0 million respectively - the list being in Grant Aid.
PEroject Objectives:
The major objectve of the project was to improve the quality, efficiency,
planning, management and co-ordination capacity of NBTE, TSED, PIL and five middle-
level Federal Technical Iastinuions namely; Federal Polytechrics at Ado-Ekiti, Bida,
Uwanna-Afkpo and Mubi. The fifth one is the Federal Technical College, Yaba.
Specific objecives relaxed to the project Insttadons were to:-
a-    Strengthen management capabilities of the institutions;
b.    Improve the practical component of the instructional programme;
c.    Strengthen equipment procuiement and maintenance capability;
d     Irnprove the internal efEiciency of the instituions;
e.    Establish programmes for advanced crraIs and technical teacher training;
1



f. Institute a staff development programme
With respect to NBTE, TSED and PIU, the objecives were to--
i     Reinforce NBTE's capability to conduct in-service courses for
administrators, teaching staff and workshop assistants;
ii.   Strengthen NBTE's capability to monitor, evaluate and accredit
:instu-ctional programmes;
- in    Establish a procurementi uit for equipment and instructional materials at
NBTE and Pl.J;
iv.   Reinforce PIU and TSED's capabilty to identify, prepare and implement
projects
lProject Covenants
The following loan covenants were agreed with the World Bank:
a.   Institutions would increase budgetary allocation for consumable training
TuatersS from 5%ao tota I  uae=u,-q ~by 194? to 10% /0ofth t0til,.@w;  !,< 
'Tredxrrenbietby'f992                -   9
b     aInstitutions would provide separate budget categories for consumable
rn    materials and ensie that hey are used exclusively for their
intended purposes-
c.    NBTE would prepare a plan for the phased introduction of measures to
increase staff teaching hours and class sizes while reducing student/class
contact hours in the Project Polytechnics.
d.    NBTE would prepare, not later than October 6, 1990, an outline for tbree
year work programme (1989-1991) and would conduct a study of relevant
technical and vocational educational issues including the cost and
finaficing of this sub-sector and actionL plan for the pbased implementation
of the main recommendations.
e.    Each project institntion would designate a project liaison officer who
would liaise with industry, NBTE and 1TF for effective industrial
attachment.
2



f     Each project institution would put in place a machinery for continuous
monitoring of its past gaguates through tracer studies. To this end, the
project provided a vehicle for each ftnsTinion to monitor these activities.
C.    Each project instituton would establish an equiipment maintenance unit as
a means to ensure sustainability.
Proiect implementation ResulTs
Generally, Project IrnplemenTation experience was satisfactory. About 95% of the
equipment delivered to the project institutions were instalLed, commisioned and put to
use; books/journals were substxntially procured, shelved and being unused by staff and
students; spare-parts and consumable were delivered in Iarge quantity to project
institutions; local taining in computing, library science and equipment maintenance
Courses were undertaken for project staff In addition, the greater number of project
instiEutons' staff benefited from the ODA Fellowships and Technical Assistance, and
from IFESH's assistance for workshop renovation. All these have led to qualitative
improvement in curriculum delivery and in the number of courses accredied and re-
accreditedL
Most of the covenants agreed with the Bank were met by the Project Institions.
For example, institutions have generally increased their budgetary alIocation for
consumable training materials and have provided separate line budget for same.
Similarly, internal efficiency has iprovedp at.theCs..p et-mstuas in .erms of stifft -
teaching houcs; class'size and studenLt/class contact hours. Furthermore, NBTE prepared a
three year work progamme as scheduled and delivered the study reporn on the future of
technical education in Niceria four months after the project closing date; student
industial attachment propamne was effectively carried oit
Unfortmmately, a few of the project objectives and covenants were not achievedL
These include; (a) the introduction of advanced craft certificate courses in the
polytechnics, which could not be achieved as a result of government's introduction of six
new CoUeges of Education (Technical) to carer for these courses; (b) the establishment of
advanced craft certificate courses at the polytechnics for wih-ch NBTE has recently
directed project institutions to rum thesc courses based on improved eqtfpment supplied
under the project; (c) unTimcly delivery of NBTE's report on the future of technical
education in Nigeria which led to the non hosting of the National conference on
Technical Education in Nigeria
Project Implementation Experience
Several factors combined to aid or impede the pace of implementation. Factors
which enhanced implementation include, (a) continuous World Bank/PIU supervision of
the project witiin the last two years of project implementation; (b) introduction by EME,
of a steering comraittee for regular project monitoting close working relationship
' 



between the World Bank, British Council, IFESH and PILJ; usefal inputsma  by
Polyconsults, local consultants and contactors on equipment iistallation. Factors which
imrrpeded project implementation include: inadequate and untimely release of counterpart
funds) weak conmmuaication link between the project institutionsl procurement agent and
*PIU; strict project pre-effectiveness condition limiting FME to sign Technical Assistance
contract much earier than it could have been most effecdve; initial lack of expenience by
project institutions in equipment specif[cation wrting; none inclusion of civil works iln
the project components; absence of procurement agent's liaison officer in Lagos.
Lessons Leamed for Future Onerarions
For fiture operations, the following factors should be considered-
(i)    Condition for loan effectiveness should not lead to a situation in which the
beneficiaries would sign a timc-based, rather than an activity-based conbact.
C(    Beneficiary institutions should be more actively involved in project appraisal.
(iii)   Counterpart finds shouId be vigorously pursued through the Ministry of Finance-
Also, allocated funds should be transferred directly to the Project Account
(iv)   Prdject fundi1ng of major componens saould be fully reimbursed by the World
:nBan  This will prevent non compIction of vital project components due to
inadequate counterpart fiun d.  .  .: -..-
. (V)   Communication between all parties involved in project implementation should be
encouraged on a day to day basis-
Proiect Sustainabilitv
Project sustainabilty is in hand. The govemmt has set up a steering committee
to ensure that the benefits of the project are sustained through direcr and constant link
wi-th the project institutions- The cornmittee will meet twice a year to review reports and
rn~inain  project gans. Also, the World Bank, British Council/ODA and IFESH are to
undertake post-project reviews as and when desirable to ensure project sustainability and
determine future assisnce
To aid the process, each institution has developed a plan to provide consumable
training matenals, library booksi3ournals, and maintenance/staff trairing. A sum of
N55.5 mfllion will be required to execute this plan. FM  has promised to press for
budgetary allocation through NBTE as special gant for implementing the 3-year plan-
Also, they were advised to establish a maintenance unit in each of their insttutons and
appoint a staff as equipment mnuaintenance ofEicer- It is hoped that a day will be set aside
within the moth. In cach instiuion, to clam ad oi all equipment and workishops. This
4



11 i11ff!
,,~ ~ ~ ~~~I1V~:
:~~~~~~~~~



LOAN 2926-UNb TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECr
PROJECr LMPACT AND SUSTALNABLlTy PLAN
1.      I    A proect such as this may be expected to have several leveLs of
impar  These are:
Level One   ial inputs under the poect - equipment, Vamm& consumables,
managet information system
Level Two   cFw= consequences of level one inputs - coe accrd nn
improved instucor skIs, better access to computer-geaeratd
rnanyemest iinformaton
Level T1-ee---imp-ved- classrom-insu=con-qualtariveimprovn   *intesrng,-
processes
Level Four   enhanced student knowledge and sk]s
Level Five   higher achievement levels - bcer course outpur
Level Six    beter employment oppor=  es, salary and advancement witb highLer
levels of employer satciction - improved outcomes
Since it took some tme to instalI and corrmission level one inputs provided under the
project only the ffi-st two levels of impac were avaIable by the project's dosing date.
-    Su lem            Sustainability of proiect benefits arad iproved impa depend
upon the following
cordmued actve comminent on the part ofthe beneficiary osdtutions, NBTE and
the Federal Mlnisry ofEducation togethe w.ith cooperation from the Mmis=y of
F-mance
* -avbity-offnding for conammables spare p-ts, -ntanance, books and
journals
*  appoinnnet of a responsible and accou:table triaintenance ofEcer each
1stICti on
.  mproved income generaton by institLtons
* more effee linio with the comnmizy
* ongong moniror;n and evaluation of progress under the six levels noted above
and of measures to susrain the benrrs



Measwes to Improve L'npact and Szs=aina6ifiy
3.    Short term. To improve short term impact and sustainability the following steps
have been talen.
(j)    Staffin the dlectical engineering department at Bida provided tecmical
assistane to Ado-Eldti and Yaba to install their reraining items of equipmcat -
a power geion and distbution sirmlation plant at Ado and an arman
winding machine at Yaba The cost was from courmnpart ibnds.
(Oi)   Each instittion has been allocated a gant ofl2O20,000 from counterpart
-- - flmds   fconDsxnables.
(m--)   Government has allocated N44 million to two ofthe berfizry polytechics -
Ado Eid and Mubi - to consolidate the project benefits and improve training
* ~cltes..
Crv)  IQ the interests of a more reliable electriciry supply NBTE has provided each
polytechnic with a 500 KVA generator.
4.    Medium and long term. To Tmnrove impacr and susminabMity in the medim
and long tern the Rectors have proposed the following which was agreed by the
ifnistxy of Educadon
(')    -ach beneficiary instirution be designated a center of excellence in at least one
are
(Ci)   Sufflcient recurent fiuding be provided annually over at least a three year
period for consuumables, spares, maintea    books andjourmals
ii0)   Each instittiou wilE appoint and equip a. maintenance of Lcer who w;il be held
--axcontzle-obrthe-state of-the-equipment
Crv)   Each inastution wi aggressively develop its income-generation potentI
particularly in relation to the local productive sector.
(v)   NBTE, PIU and the WorId Bank wiIl carry out a three-year stdy of proecxt
hmpact and sustainability. Iniay, this smdy will be started by the P IU wiu
which a post-project monitoring teamr has been created to assess the contizin
impact of all completed Worid Bank-assisted projects. After a period of time
the technical education monioring study will be handed over to NBTE to
mage- A description of the study is atrached-
bI addition, the Natonal Board for Technical Education wii conduct a surveyr of
employers' ratings of National Diploma and  hecrNational Diploma Diplomnates from
Nigeriar Polytechnics using the anttched questionnare.









IMAGING
Report No:     15879
Type: ICR



