Page  1
                                                   CONFORMED COPY
                                              LOAN NUMBER 2926 UNI
                   (Technical Education Project)
                              between
                    FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                        Dated July 1, 1988
                                              LOAN NUMBER 2926 UNI
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated July  1,  1988,  between FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF
NIGERIA (the Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the  Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project;
     (B)  the  Borrower  intends  to   obtain  from  the  Overseas
Development Administration of  the  United  Kingdom  (ODA) a grant
(the ODA Grant) in an  amount  equivalent to about one million two
hundred thousand dollars ($1,200,000)  to  assist in financing the
technical assistance and fellowships  components of the Project on
the terms and  conditions  set  forth  in  a  memorandum of under-
standing (the ODA Memorandum of  Understanding) to be entered into
between the Borrower and ODA; and
Page  2
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed,  on  the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, wherever
used in this Agreement, the  several  terms defined in the General
Conditions have the respective meanings  therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "Project Office" means  the  Project Office established,
for purposes of the  Project,  in  the  Federal Ministry of Educa-
tion's Directorate of International Education;
     (b)  "Project  Institutions"  means  the  four  Federal Poly-
technics and the Federal  Technical  College, Yaba included in the
Project;
     (c)  "NBTE" means the National Board for Technical Education,
a statutory corporation of the Borrower;
     (d)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
     (e)  "Project  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank  agrees  to  lend  to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the Loan
Agreement, an amount in  various  currencies equivalent to twenty-
three million three hundred thousand dollars ($23,300,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods  and  services  required  for  the  Project  described in
Schedule 2  to  this  Agreement  and  to  be  financed  out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in  dollars  a  special  account in a commercial
bank (the Special Account) on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank. Deposits into, and  payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance  with  the provisions of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The  Closing  Date  shall  be December 31, 1995
or such later date  as  the  Bank  shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of  the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
Page  3
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a  rate  per  annum  for  each Interest Period equal to
one-half of one percent (1/2  of  1%)  per annum above the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings for  the  last  Semester  ending prior to the
commencement of such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower  of  the  Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest  Period"   means   the  six-month  period
               commencing on each  date  specified in Section 2.06
               of this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end,  shall  carry out the Project with due
diligence  and  efficiency  and  in  conformity  with  appropriate
administrative, financial and technical educational practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  The Borrower  shall  continue  to  maintain  the Project
Office in a form and  with  functions and staffing satisfactory to
the Bank.
     (c)  The Borrower shall  open  and  maintain  in a commercial
bank on terms and  conditions  satisfactory  to the Bank a project
account (the Project Account). Deposits into, and payments out of,
the Project Account shall be made exclusively to meet the costs of
the Project to be financed primarily by the Borrower.
     (d)  The Borrower shall:  (i)  pay  into  the Project Account
an initial  amount  of  three  million  Naira  (N  3,000,000); and
(ii) thereafter pay into the Project Account semi-annually amounts
sufficient to meet the  Borrower's  contributions  to the costs of
the Project.  The  said  semi-annual  payments  shall  be based on
estimates of project expenditure  which  the Project Office shall:
(A) prepare each fiscal year  for the immediately following fiscal
year, and (B) furnish to  the  Bank  for  its review no later than
June 30 of  the  fiscal  year  in  which  the  estimates are to be
prepared.
     Section  3.02.  The  Borrower  shall  carry  out  the actions
described in Schedule 6 to  this  Agreement to the satisfaction of
the Bank, said Schedule being subject to modification from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank.
     Section 3.03.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
Page  4
for the Project and  to  be  financed  out  of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be governed  by  the  provisions  of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in  respect  of  the  Project  of  the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible  for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) of  this  Section including those for
               the Special  Account  and  the  Project Account for
               each  fiscal  year   audited,  in  accordance  with
               appropriate   auditing    principles   consistently
               applied, by independent  auditors acceptable to the
               Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each such year, the  report  of  such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope  and  in such detail as the
               Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to  the  Bank  such  other information con-
               cerning said  records  and  accounts  and the audit
               thereof  as  the  Bank  shall  from  time  to  time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
       (i)    maintain or cause  to  be  maintained, in accordance
              with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section,  records and
              accounts reflecting such expenditures;
      (ii)    retain, until at least  one  year after the Bank has
              received the audit  report  for  the  fiscal year in
              which the last withdrawal  from the Loan Account was
              made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders,  invoices,
              bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such
              expenditures;
     (iii)    enable the  Bank's  representatives  to examine such
              records; and
      (iv)    ensure that such  records  and accounts are included
              in the annual audit referred  to in paragraph (b) of
              this Section  and  that  the  report  of  such audit
              contains a separate opinion  by  said auditors as to
              whether  the  statements  of  expenditure  submitted
              during such fiscal  year,  together  with the proce-
              dures  and  internal   controls  involved  in  their
              preparation,  can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
              related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. (a) Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional  events are specified, namely
that subject to subparagraph (b) of this Section:
Page  5
          (i)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
                of any grant or loan  made to the Borrower for the
                financing of the Project (including the ODA Grant)
                shall   have   been    suspended,   cancelled   or
                terminated, in whole or  in  part, pursuant to the
                terms of  the  agreement  or  instrument providing
                therefor, or
         (ii)   any such loan  shall  have  become due and payable
                prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
     (b)  Paragraph (a) of  this  Section  shall  not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that:
          (i)   such  suspension,   cancellation,  termination  or
                prematuring is not  caused  by  the failure of the
                Borrower to perform  any  of its obligations under
                such agreement or instrument; and
         (ii)   adequate funds for  the  Project  are available to
                the  Borrower  from  other  sources  on  terms and
                conditions consistent with  the obligations of the
                Borrower under this Agreement.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified, namely,
that any of  the  events  specified  in  Section  5.01 (a) of this
Agreement shall occur, subject to  the proviso of Section 5.01 (b)
above.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The  following  events  are  specified as addi-
tional conditions  to  the  effectiveness  of  the  Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  the employment of an  agency or agencies satisfactory to
the Bank to assist in the carrying out of the technical assistance
and fellowship components of the Project; and
     (b)  the establishment of the Project Account and the payment
of the  initial  amount  of  N  3,000,000  required  under Section
3.01 (d) of this Agreement.
     Section 6.02. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section  7.01.   The   Minister   of   Finance  and  Economic
Development of the  Borrower  is  designated  as representative of
the Borrower for  the  purposes  of  Section  11.03 of the General
Conditions.
     Section  7.02.  The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          The Honorable Minister of Finance
            and Economic Development
          Federal Ministry of Finance
            and Economic Development
          P.M.B. 1519
          Federal Secretariat, Ikoyi
          Lagos, Nigeria
Page  6
          Cable address:                     Telex:
               PERMFIN                          21248
               Lagos
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                     Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                        440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                 64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                   FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
                   By /s/ Alhaji Hamzat Ahmadu
                                         Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                   By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of  the  Loan  to  each  Category  and  the  percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Workshop and               11,930,000      100% of foreign
     library, equip-                            expenditures;
     ment, vehicles                             100% of local
     and spare parts                            expenditures
                                                (ex-factory cost)
                                                and 85% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally
(2)  Library books               1,010,000      100% of foreign
     and Journals                               expenditures;
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
Page  7
                                                (ex-factory cost)
                                                and 85% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally
(3)  Consumable                  4,820,000      100% of foreign
     (training)                                 expenditures;
     materials                                  100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory cost)
                                                and 85% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(4)  Technical                   2,090,000      100%
     Assistance and
     fellowships
(5)  Evaluation,                   100,000      50%
     studies and
     preparation of
     follow-up projects
(6)  Program Develop-              250,000      50%
     ment
(7)  Library furniture             180,000      50%
(8)  Unallocated                 2,920,000
                                __________
          TOTAL                 23,300,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals  shall  be  made  in  respect  of  payments  made  for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of  the Project are to assist the Borrower in:
(i) improving the quality  of middle-level technical institutions,
and (ii) strengthening  the  planning, management and coordination
of technical and vocational education.
     The Project  consists of the following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower  and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Improving Middle-level Technical Institutions
1.   Provision  of  essential   instructional  inputs  (including,
equipment,  teaching  materials,   library  books  and  consumable
Page  8
(training)  materials  for  laboratories  and  workshops)  to four
Federal  polytechnics,  located  at   Ado-Ekiti,  Bida,  Mubi  and
Unwana-Afikpo and the Federal Technical College, Yaba (the Project
Institutions).
2.   A program to strengthen  management capability at the Project
Institutions including: (i) local  and overseas training, seminars
and  workshops  in  institutional  management  skills  (budgeting,
accounting, student  evaluation  and  record  keeping)  for senior
polytechnic  administrators;  (ii)   clearer   definition  of  the
authority and responsibilities  of  administrators;  and (iii) the
establishment of a management information system that would assist
in the development of suitable software or in the adaptation of an
existing program  to  the  specific  requirements  of  the project
polytechnics.
3.   A staff development  program  for strengthening the technical
expertise and  practical  skills  of  the  teaching  staff  of the
Project Institutions including  seminars,  workshops and intensive
courses for the key staff of the teaching departments.
4.   (a)  Strengthening  of  the  Borrower's  existing  industrial
attachment program designed to relate  the training of students of
the Project Institutions to the needs and requirements of industry
including measures to ensure: (i) greater involvement of employers
in the  placement  and  supervision  of  such  students; (ii) more
frequent, and more  intensive  on-site  supervision by polytechnic
staff; (iii)  designation  and  training  of in-plant supervisors;
and (iv) monitoring  and  evaluation,  through  tracer studies, of
graduates of the Project Institutions.
     (b)  Provision of basic  office  equipment  and a vehicle for
each  of  the  Project   Institutions  to  assist  the  industrial
attachment program.
5.   A program  (to  be  coordinated  by  NBTE)  for strengthening
equipment maintenance  including:  (i)  the  establishment at each
Project Institution  of  an  equipment  and facilities maintenance
unit; (ii) local and overseas training in equipment and facilities
maintenance   (including   training   of   equipment   maintenance
trainers).
6.   A program to increase the output of technical teacher courses
at two Federal polytechnics  included  in  Part A.1 above; and the
establishment, as an  interim  measure,  of Advanced Crafts Certi-
ficate courses at three such Federal polytechnics.
7.   A program to improve  the  efficiency of the Project Institu-
tions including:
     (a)  measures to:  (i)  increase  the  average staff teaching
hours to about 18 hours a  week; (ii) increase class size to about
16 students in workshops/laboratories, and to about 32 students in
lectures; and (iii) reduce class  contact  hours to about 28 hours
per week; and
     (b)  provision of  improved  library  facilities and instruc-
tional materials.
Part B:   Strengthening Educational Planning, Management and
          Coordination
1.   Strengthening  the  National  Board  of  Technical  Education
(NBTE) to enable  it  to  provide  in-service courses in planning,
management and evaluation  of  technical  and vocational education
including staff  development  programs  designed  to:  (i) produce
specialists in evaluation,  monitoring  and project accreditation;
(ii) develop detailed guidelines  and criteria for staff selection
and evaluation; (iii) assess the efficiency and cost-effectiveness
of instructional  programs;  (iv)  assist  curriculum development;
(v) develop a  tracer  study  of  graduates and the responsiveness
of instructional programs  to  the  labor  market; and (vi) assist
Page  9
physical and campus planning.
2.   (a)  Establishment  of  a  procurement  unit  at  NBTE  to be
responsible  for:  (i)   standardizing   specifications  of  basic
workshop  and   laboratory   equipment;   (ii)   undertaking  bulk
procurement; (iii)  training  of  staff  in equipment procurement,
record  keeping,  distribution,  and  specification  writing;  and
(iv) training,  as  needed,  of  workshop  assistants in equipment
maintenance.
     (b)  Strengthening  project   execution   capability  in  the
Federal Ministry  of  Education  (FME)  including:  (i) assistance
to the Project Office in  the identification, preparation and exe-
cution of externally assisted  education projects; (ii) assistance
to FME's Technical, Vocational  and  Science Education Division in
planning and managing  technical  and vocational institutions; and
(iii) assistance to  the  Federal  Technical  College, Yaba in the
planning, management and attainment of its educational objectives.
               *               *               *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1995.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                           Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
     beginning September 15, 1993
     through   September 15, 2007                      775,000
On March 15, 2008                                      825,000
