E-/tt                               -
Loan from the wxorld Bankn
Guangxi Environmental                V* S
Protection Project
Statement on
Environmental Impact Assessment of
Chaoyangxi Comprehensive Treatment Project in
Nanning City Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region
Compiler: Chirncsc Research Academy of
Environmental Scicnces
Ccrtificatc Grade: A
Ccrtificate Numbcr: NEPA Ap 0901
Compiililg Time: April. 1995



a
4  1 I'V II I                              4. i ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I'c'



Contents
Executive summary
L. PREFACE .......................................................  1I
I. I PURPOSE OF ASSESSMENT .
1.2 BASIS FOR THE COMPILING OF EIA .
1.3 SCOPE AND STANDARD OF EIA .2
1.4 GOALS OF ENVIRONMENTAL .3
1.5 CONTENTS AND KEY OF ASSESSMENT .......................................................,  3
1.6 MAIN TECHNIQUES AND MEASURES ADOPTED [N THE ASSESSMENT.                   3
1.7 BRIEF INTRODUCTION OF ASSESSMENT INSTITUTIONS AND PERSONNEL              5
2. GENERAL INTRODUCTION TO PROJECT CONSTRUCTED WITH LOANS.  6
2.1 BASIC SITUATION OF THE PROJECT .6
2.2 PRODUCTION TECHNOLOGY                          .1 7
2.3 MAJOR POLLUTION SOURCES AND THEIR DISCIiARGING OF POLLUTANTS .20
3. GENERAL SITUATION OF THE ENVIRONMENT OF THE AREA OF THE
PROPOSED PROJECT .23
3.1 NATURAL [ENVIRONMENT .23
3.2 GENERAL. SIT1UATION OF ITS ECOLOGICAL ENVIRONMENT .26
3.3 SOCIAL. IENVIRONMEN .26
3.4 PEOPLE'S I.!FE QUALITY .28
3.5 ENVIRONMENTAL QUALIT,Y .29
4. PREDICTED ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT AND CONTROLLING
MEASURES .42
4.1 RECOGNITION OF ENVIRONMENTAL AFFECTING FACTORS AND SCREENING OF FACTORS TO
BE ASSESSED ........                                                     42
4.2 ANALIYSIS ON TI IE CH IARACT1ERIS-I ICS OF ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ................................. 42
4.3 PREDICTION ON TI IE PROJIEC'S ENVIRONMENTAL EFFECT DURING ITS CONSTRUCTION ... 48
4.4 PREDICTION ON TIHE ENVIRONMENTAI. IMPACT DURING TiE II OPERATION OF
TIIE P'ROJECT ............................................................................................  68
4.5 RISK ANALYSIS .................................................................. 135
1



4.6 COUNTERMEASURES TO ELIMINATE OR EASE UP THE LNFAVORABLE IMPACT ................ 136
5. ALTERNATE PLANS .........................................................       140
5.1 ALTERNATE PLAN FOR THE WASTE WATER INTERCEPTING SYSTEM ON
THE CHAOYANG STREAM ...................................                         141
5.2 ALTERNATE PLANS FOR THE TREATING OF THE WATER WAY OF THE
CHAOYANG STREAM ................................                               147
6. ANALYSIS ON THE BENEFIT OF THE CHAOYANG STREAM
COMPREHENSIVE TREATING PROJECT ...................................               149
6.1 ANALYSIS ON ITS SOCIAL BENEFIT ................................... 149
6.2 ANALYSIS ON THE ECONOMIC BENEFIT OF THE PROJECT ................................15......... 151
6.3 ANALYSIS ON ITS ENVIRONMENTAL BENEFIT .........................................  158
7. PLAN FOR ENVIRONMENTAL ADMINISTRATION AND ENVIRONMENTAL
MONITORING ......................................... 160
7.1 SETTING UP OF ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION BODIES .........................................   160
7.2 MEASURES FOR ENVIRONMENTAL ADMINISTRATION    ......................................... 161
7.3 ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING PLAN ....................................: 162
8. P'UBLIC PARTICIPATION ...................................1 64
S. I A.I AND PURPOSI ..6.................................... 164
8.2 M ETI IODSOF INVESTIGATION ................................... 164
8.3 ScoPE OF INVESTIGATION ................................... 164
8.4 SUBJECT OF INVESTIGATION ................................... .                 164
8.5 METI-IOD OF INVESTIGATION ................................... 165
8.6 ANALYSIS ON THIE RESUITS OF INVESTIGATION ...................................  165
9. CONCLUSION ............                   .170
Attachment
2



Statement on Environmental Impact-Assessment of
Chaoyangxi Comprehensive Treatment Project in Nanning City
Compiler of the assessment: Chinese Research Academy of Environmental Sciences
President: Chen Fu(Professor)
Persons in charge of the item:
Jin Xiangcan (director, professor)
Cao Hongfa (director, professor)
Main Participants and their qualification:
Name            Subject Division                       Qualification     Specialth
Jin Xiangcani    Engineering analysis recognition of   Professor         Water environment
environmuent factors
Cao Hongla       Management and monilonng plan         Professor         Enmironunental ecologe
Bon2 Denitin2   Analysis on the environmiental impact  Professor         En virounmental Clhenstrit
during construction
Li Junqi         Measures on the envirounmenital impact    Senior professor    Environmental Chemistry
during construction
Xu Nani il      Alternative plants anid Nattire        Senior engineer    Water environein
enivironment
l:u Guo          Water environmental impact assessme:nt   Engineer       Environmental hv-draulics
.JI1 Daaniue     Environmental cost-Beniefit analysis  Engineer          management
Wan2 Yu          Existing enviroiunental qutalitx      Seiior en2iiieer    Env-ironmziental monitonn2
flan l.ng       Pliblic participationi and demolishing and   Seiiior eingineer    lnVironmnental plan
reimioval work
[I lan Xilig!t  Measures on noise durinig coistnictnoni    Senior engineer   lEnvironimenial engineer
Ciao l:tlmllia  Investigation and assessment of existing   Senior engineelr   Environmental monitonng
Environimental quality
Kwinge Jieren    Investigationi and assessmelint ol exisitilg   Seniior enginieer    Environmiental tionitonng
E'nvironmnental quality
Z;hou Yunxin     Investigationi and assessmenit ot existing   Senior cilgineer    Evinironmnental nionitonn2
Environmental qtualitv
l,glio iiu      Investigation and assessmlent of exi sting   Scnior engin.eer    l nvironmental monittonng
Envirolunental quality
I htnig Chao    Investigation and assessment of existing   Senior enngineer    Environmental mnonitoniioJ
Enivironientai quality
Nlionitorinig participation
ClienJiabao   Xie Ytt     Xie I lonigbit  l.tang .lttiuinig( femiale)  Lang Zlitting(tniale) Z.atiag lhiulting
L.it Yon-iguing Shii Niaiqimig  I ltianig M;toc;ai .ain Jil'eieing  Yuin Weilianto   Xti Xaohta   Zhanig Qtioguitl
1'eii WVeiutgli, imuang l)ong  Wei L.iqutn    ktu Yuuileti  P'an Yiliing  Fei Xuioqi  1.m iie
Suill (itit       luang llaibao Clen Situang  /.iul )anitang  Wei Cuitinim   Wui Xtaovin   L.an I uatllao
f fuzing Sitlitia  Xi Ytuqlimg   Zhitt Wenjiutn    Li WVeikang  Li Fang  I [itnilng Zilenilhenig



a,
I5



~~~~~ir~~~~~~~J
l                              
s"ec;oec4n0e ~~~~~.~                \;. 
A4I
E                                 t             R    f              }, ;tzn
4-~ ~ ~~k-
14-
g    1io 9 ot
g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T- llt INT, 9ifIATf



t     I        so U



EXECUTI E SUMMARY
Nanning is the capital of Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, serving as its
political, economic, financial, cultural center, as well as the region's center of science,
technology and information. It is also the hub of transportation, which links the sea
with southwest China. The State Council decided in 1992 to open the city of Nanning
and turn it into an international garden city facing Southeast Asia with unique ethnic
and local characteristics. The city has a total area of 10 029km2, with a population of
1.07 million (1994), of which 0.76 million living in the urban area.
The city govemment of Nanning is planning to renovate the Chaoyang Stream,
better the city's waste water and rain collecting system and built waste water treatment
plants with loans from the World Bank so as to bring the pollution into control,
improve its water quality and the life quality inhabitants, as well as to make the city
more adapted to further opening up.
1. Main content and investment of the proposed project
See table I for the main content and investment of the Chaovang Stream
treatment project is as follow table:
Table I Main content and investment for the comprehensive environmental
treatment project of the Chaoyang Stream in Nanning City
No.                Procic                             Mam Coniteit                 investment
I *nic Chaovang Strcam Treatmlient Project
id) Inginieerini of renovationl of the river Renovation of'thle nver course.     1 004( l0' vuanl
course                              | zatr supplciemet_                            _
(2) Interceptioni Svsteni of vwaste water  d'IF0-d-2000inin, L=6Skni
I__'__ _ _ _) X 2000f)-C  80oo  2400mi i_iii
(3) pipeline of passing river           1=     l kl;t
(4) liangbei main sewer                  r 1S0 X 2400mm    [.=1.2kmri
(5) Waster wvater raising ptunp station  2 -:f Is (one)
(6) waste water treating plant          2 > *10 mId
subtotal                                                                     25046( 104 yuan)
2  Drainage system prolect in Nanning
I ) Rain trunk                           i: -ani main trnks, d600-d200tu),im      1 2806( 104 yuan)
L I tox I1000-C 2800 x 18 )00niui
(2) Sewer pipeline                     2' <e.-r pipelines d600 X 900nnuit         S27(l0' yuan)
(3) renovationi of pipeliie in Old citv    *" rnlpsine d8()-d 1800mliim one puimp station  2597(104 uall)
(4) cquipmiicnts for maintaining the pipeline nt=iwbr of vehiicle 12              1  164(1  y- uan)
(5) mnaintenanice ofi'hc pipchlnie      le.th 28.3kn                              I .00( l0 0uan)
6O) subtotal                                                    v                 18694(1   % yuan)
_  other                                I a   remitovazl and inhabitant resetticleient    1 35858(1   i unl)
4  total                                                                         57304(1 10 ytian!)



2. Major pollution sources and their discharging of polluttants for the
proposed project                                                                           a
2. 1 The Chaoyang Stream treatmenit project
I Major pollution sources during the construction of the project
(I). Sediment of the Chaoyang Stream, cast away soil during the construction,
and garbage
The renovation of the river course shall clean away a total of 0.2 million m:' of
sludee.
The construction of the waste water interception system will produce a cernain
amount of soil to be cast away. Construction garbage mainly consists of broken bricks,
broken pieces of asphalt road surface, concrete blocks, and waste wood bits, and so on.
(2) Construction noise
The engineering of the renovation of the river course and the laying of w'aste
water pipe lines are all to be carried out in the central part of the city. As the
construction takes a fairly long time, noise of construction machines is also a sensitive
problem. See Table 2 for the intensity of construction machines.
Table 2 Intensity of noise of different sources during construction
Noise source      Noise intensitv dB(A)  Noise source         Noise intensitv dB(A,
Air dnil                   10(          Soil shiited                   94
P'uddle uniwr              98           Road scraper                   94
Scapcr pan                 96           Bullodozer                     92
Excavator                  95           Air compressor                 92
( ) Raised dust
The 0 2 million n' of sludge dug up, the earthwork to be dug and the laying of
pipe lines and its transportation will cause raised dust.
M Major polluted sources and their discharging of pollutants during operation
(I) waste water
After the completion of the comprehensive environmental treatment of the
Chaoyang Stream project, waste water form an area of 258 OOOm;/d will flow to the
Jiangnan waste water treating plant through the trunk pipe line in Jiangnan. then
discharged into the Yongjiang River after primary treatment. See Table 3 for the waste
water composition of the project.
2



-5 /; J-.''
Table 3 Amount of Waste Water of Areas in the project (1994)
Catcluneit       PopulatLon   Dailv sexvaoe _iLdustrial waste %ater    Total
*  M. '.  l o000  I 0000m3/dq    %    I 0p00UY /d           0 IOpOOm'/d
R. Chaovano Stream   271     81.3        69.9    3 5        1 31      116.3
R. Erkeng         147        44.1        49.0    45.9       1I 0      90
Xixianztang       72         26          48.5    22.9       15I      44. 5
(2). Solid wa.,
Sludge produced in the production of the waste water treating plant, mainly of
digested and dehydrated clay cakes and  inorganic matters from the detracts chamber.
Whether the clay cakes contain harmful substances or pollution shall be determined by
the quality of the water drawn in. But daily output clay cakes is fairly small.
(3). Waste gas
Waste gas mainly consists of the biogas produced in the sludge digestion pool,
which is of an unpleasant smell and, as the waste water treating plant is located in the
windward direction of the city, it poses as a negative factor.
(4). Noise
Waste water pumping station produces much noise and it is located in downtown
area, thus much impact xvill be caused.
2. 2 Drainage  .sysIem in IIJ-htzr areas
I Major pollution sources during construction of the project
(I). Raised dust
The breaking up of the road surface, earthwork to be dug. layingt of pipe lines and
the transportation and piling of materials will all produce raised dust It will influence
areas along the transpiration route and even the whole of urban areas of the city.
(2). Noise
The noise produced bv construction machines and transportation vehicles will
have much impact. Please refer to Table 2 fourth intensity of noise sources.
(3). Sludge and castawav soil
The amount of sludge to be dredged amounts to 52 OOOm   If not properly handled,
secondary pollution will be caused. The soil to be cast away during the earthwork, all
will produce some negative inipact on the environment.
2. Major pollution sources during the operation of the project
( 1). Non-point pollution sources
Pollutants like surtace silt, nutritious and organic matters %ill enter surface water
bodies with surface runofl'through drainage pipe lines and pollute the environment.
3



(2). Industrial waste water
The protect plans to lay waster water pipe lines in Tinghong Road and Baisha
Avenue so as to collect industrial waste water from the Tingzichong area to be
transferred to the planned Jiangnan waste water treating plant, thus restoring the
function of the water body of the Tingzichong Stream and improve the water quality of
the Yongjiang River. See Table 4 for the amount of waste water from major industrial
sources and their quality.
Table 4 Main pollutant sources in Tinzichong Industrial Distract
waste wvater     SS            COD             BODs
Namc of factory           100inm3/d   t/d    mg/L  t/d      mg/L  t/d       mng/L_
Namiing Chemical Group   29 1        18.64   641   7.84      269
Nanuing Sugar Refiner'   299         19.61   *656   39.51    1321   9.85     329
Lvsine Factory            7 8         0.82    105    1.22    156   0.47      60
Nanning Tannerv           6 5         8.14  1252    9.96   1532   3.17    488
Nanning Silk Spinning Factorv   4 5   0.69    153    0.42     9;   0.26       58
Nanning Smelting Plant    04          0.02     50    0.01     25  1
T otal                   78 2       47 92          58.96   _                = _
3. Present statuis of enivironmental quiality
J. / I ',v,,ne,zial ,:ialiiv of surfatce wsater
Monitoring data show The water bodies of the Chaoyang Stream, the Erkeng
Stream, the Zhupaichong Stream, and the Shuitangjiang Stream  are all seriously
polluted, major pollutants being COD and BODs, followed by NH--N, as a whole no
longer meeting the standard for Grade V surface water.
The water quality of the Yongiang River is fairly good before it enters Nanning
City, within the standard for Grade III of surface water except few items like (SS, oil
and NH.-N).
After passing through the city, affected by the sewage and industrial waste water
discharged into it, its water quality turns remarkably worse, no longer meeting the
standard for Grade Ill surface water. And the tendency of deterioration is going on and
the major pollutants are organic matters.
3.2 OQuality of atmospheric e'iiirotnment
The average daily value of S02 in Nanning City is 0.064mg/m', exceeding the
4



standard for Grade II of national standard of the atmosphere, that of TSP 0.201 mg/m-.
within the standard for Grade II atmosphere but exceeding the standard for cities in
south China (0.20mg/mrn) as set by the state, that of NOX ranges from 0.008 to
0.0 12mg/m'. So, major pollutants affecting the city atmosphere are TSP and NOX.
3.3 Acoutslic environmental qu/ality
As for the acoustic environmental quality of Nanning, the equivalent sound level
in functional regions of Nanning City in 1994 averaged 61.70dB(A) during day time
and at night, exceeding the standard for Type II areas set in "Urban Area
Environmental Noise Standard". The actual monitored average values was 55.4dB(A),
exceeding the standard by 5.4dB(A). The noise pollution in the city has a tendency of
increasing along with the opening up of the city, the renovation of the old part of the
city, and the flourishing of the real estate market.
3.4 Solid l'aste
Industrial solid wastes from industry and daily life in Nanning in 1994 amounted
to 806 SOOt, of which industrial wastes amounted to 558 500t, accounting for 62%,
and daily life garbage 248 OOt, accounting for 37. 1%.
The rate of comprehensive utilization of industrial solid waste matters has reached
86%. However, though 100% of the city's domestic garbage was transported away,
only 28 OOOt was treated to be harmless, accounting for only 11.3% of the total. So
daily life garbage is causing more and more serious pollution.
3. S Botlomz cla (?/f/le (7haoin-wg Streant
Assessment of the bottom clay with Hakanson index method showed that the
heavy metals contained in it posed as a potential hazard to the ecological system. The
RI risk index of the bottom clay of the Chaoyang Stream was 1400, of extreme
harmfulness
4 Prediction  of thle projects' enzvrioniniental impact and prevention
ineasures
4. 1 lredicuotn of Ihe' iml.)aci dIiriffz i/ic conmStrilction oIf ilie project
I Prediction of the environmental impact of the renovation of the Chaoyang-
Stream during its construction
(I) Environmental impact of the bottom clay of the Chaoyang Stream
In the project of the renovation of the Chaoyang Stream, a total amount of 0.2
million m' of bottom clay shall be dredged. Testing found it contained 13.70% organic
5



matters, The concentrations of mineral oil, Hg, Cr, Cu, and Zn respectively reached
1196mg/k-g, 2.33mg/kg, 212.4mg/kg, 132 346mgkg, and 1 805mg/k-g, denoting
serious pollution. Assessment with Honkanson potential risk index method found its
potential ecological risk index (RI) reached 400, being extremely harmful. Secondary
pollution may occur during the digging, transpiration, and disposal of the bottom clay.
(2). Noise produced by machines used to dredge the bottom clay of the Chaoyang
Stream
Excavators, bulldozers, and ioading machines used in the dredging will affect
sensitive places of living quarters and schools within lOOm of both banks of the
Chaoyang Stream. The noise produced exceeds the standard by 2-5dB(A), lasting 20-
30 days.
(3). Environmental impact of the bottom clay piled temporarily
Under normnal conditions when the wind speed is 2.5m/s, the concentration of the
TSP from the piled bottom clay can reach 490mg/m-' at a distance of 150m in its
leeward., exceeding the standard for Grade II atmospheric standard set by the state by
1.6 times.
The bottom  clay piled may leak out 20 OOOm' of percolate, whose BOD5
concentration may reach 20 OOOmg/L, giving out fouls smells of the fourth level, This is
serious secondary pollution and will affect the landscape of the city.
(4). Impact of house removal and inhabitant resettlement
Buildings to be removed involve an area within 30-68m along both banks from the
middle of the river. 769 households will be resettled, with a population of 4506. The
resettlement of the inhabitants will be arranged by the overall plan of the city. They are
to resettle in Luwei quarters of Xinyang Road and Zhong,xiao Road quarters. The life
quality and living conditions of the inhabitants resettled will have much improvement.
100% of the people involved in the public participation are in support of the project.
The removal of the houses will produce 65 million min of construction garbage, which
will be transported to Santang garbage filling ground as part of the citys garbage. With
other administrative and controlling measures, this will not cause much negative impact
on the area around the construction site of the project
2. Prediction of the environmental impact of the project of the city's sewage
system
(1). Environmental impact of raised dust during construction
Analogical investigation finds out that raised dust during construction may affect
the area within 50-lOOm  in thc leeward of the construction site, where the
concentration of TSP can reach 0.37-8.6mg/mn', 1 5-5 times that in the contrasting
point in the windward direction..
6



Transportation of earth to be flack idled and cast away may affect a distance of
IfOm in its leeward. The concentration of TSP at both sides within Sm from the road
can reach 8-1 Omg/m', exceeding the standard by 30 times.
(2). Environmental impact of construction noise
Construction machines are the main noise sources. Without considering the
attenuation caused by houses and trees, the range affected may reach l00m during
daytime and 300m at night.
(3).Impact of the construction on the city's traffic
30-50% of the road surface will be occupied for laying pipelines, which seriously
affect traffic, causing traffic jams and affect people's normnal work and life.
(4).Environmental impact of pipeline desilting
Statistics shows that 22 pipelines with a total length of 28.4km are silted with 52
600m- of sludge, whose foul smells can affect an range of 25m, where the
concentration of foul smells may reach 15-30, exceeding the standard by 0.5-2.0 times.
4.2 Predictioni of the impact dutri-ig the operationl of the project
1. Prediction on the environmental impact after the Chaoyang Stream treatment
project  is put into operation
(I). Polluted belts along the banks of the segment of the Yongjiang River at the
outlets of the Chaoyang Stream. the Erkeng Stream and the Tingzichong Stream will
be relieved, favorable to the protection of the water source of Lintie Water Mill and
improvement of the environmental quality of the Yongjiang River. The outlet of waste
water discharge is removed dow n to the outlet of the Shuitangjiang Stream, ridding the
potential threat to polluted the water environmental quality of the central part of
Nanning City by the- Chaoyang Stream and the Erkeng Stream. This will play an
unreplaceable role in building Nanning into an international garden city with its unique
characteristics. The completion of the project will realize thle long cherished wish of
"drawing water from the upper reach and discharge waste water to the lower reach", so
that the functions of the cit\ will be in better coordination to produce much
environmental economic benefit
(2). The completion of the project will radically improve the water environment of
the Chaoyang Stream, turning it from a sewage ditch into a clean river for landscape.
This is the most direct manifestation of the environnmental benefit of the project. After
the project is put into operation. water will be drawn from the Yongjiang River into the
Chaoyang Stream, so the lather's water quality will be guaranteed for most years.
Changing of water replenishing period can keep the water quality of the Chaoyang
Strcam at a fairly high level. As the amount of water changed is comparatively small,
and the water quality of the Chaoyang Stream is much better than the original waste
7



water, not much effect will be caused to the water quality of the Yongjiang River. It is
suggested that artificial springs and waterfalls be built in the construction of the water
supplement system of the Chaoyane Stream in coordination with the renovation of the
city, so that the city will be more beautiful and more oxygen can be restored in the
water body. As a result, its qualitv can maintain a longer period to lessen the water
changing frequency. As the present design contains no water replenishment to the
Tingzichong Stream , the project will not have much effect on its water quality. The
water surface of the stream shrinks too much in the low water season and there won't
be any improvement on the landscape. It is suggested supplemental design be made on
the water replenishment to the Tinezichong Stream and carry it out in proper time.
(3). According to the plan of the project, waste water will be led to the outlet of
the Shuitangiiang Stream throug-h river crossing pipelines. This is much better
environmentally than the alternate plans that plan to lead waste water to the waste
water treating plant in Langdong. To lead the tail water to be discharged into the
Zhupaichong Stream. can prevent the water quality of the Zhupaichong Stream from
getting worse than the present condition and make it easy for it to reach the standard
for Grade V water in the future. To build the waste water treating plant in Jiangnan
instead of in Langdong will save much fund of waste water transportation.
(4). After the project is put into operation, the polluted belts along the river banks
in the central part of the city will be reduced or totally illuminated, but the polluted
belts in the Shuitangjiang Stream "-ill grow longer, increasing local pollution intensity.
But as waste water from the citv will be discharged into the Shuitangjiang Stream,
shortening the distance to the countv seat of Pumiao, the amount of waste water
allowed to be discharged will be reduced. This is the inevitable price for cutting the
pollution in the central, part of the citv. The completion of the project will reduce 10%
of total BOD, load, this can improve water quality at the down stream area of Pumiao.
The completion of Jiangnan waste water treating Plant at the outlet of the
Shuitangjiang Stream will reduce 70% of total BOD5 load (at the load level of years of
normal water in the plan). It controls pollution effectively to down stream. This can be
solved by raising the treating level and amount of the Jiangnan waste water treating
plant, so as to achieve coordinated development of the economy and the environment.
(5). At the scale of 260 000m'1d as the capacity of the first stage of the Jiangnan
waste water treating plant, the rate of BODs cut can reach 35%, equivalent to+edui6iig
91 000m '/d of waste water. The amount of waste water from the city in 1996 was 597
700m'/d, that in 2000 is estimated to be 682 000ni/d. In normal years, the amount of
BOD5 entering thc Yongjiang River then will be about the same as present (1996). If
the BODs cutting rate can not reach 35%,  with the discharging point shifting
R



eastward, the DO level of the Pumiao segment will continue to deteriorate To view the
issue from the total amount of control, level one treatment of the 200 000m7/d will cut
15% of the total pollution from the city. It can thus be seen, the project will have
remarkable effect in controlling the deterioration of the water quality in the lower
reaches of the Yongjiang River. It is one of the most important steps to make the
segment of the Yongjiang River from the Shuitangjiang Stream to the Pumiao River
reach the standard for Grade III water.
2. Prediction of the environmental impact of the drainage system of the city when
in operation
The completion of the rain water pipeline network will play a decisive role in
solving the serious water logging of the city, tallying with the demand set in "Drainage
Plan of Nanning City". It also will also have positive effect on the hygiene and
landscape of the city. The operation of the rain water pipeline network will not have
much impact on the water quality of the Yongjiang River and its tributaries.
(I). The three trunk rain water pipelines discharging into the Nanhu Lake are the
main non-point input entering the lake, playing a remarkable role in restoring the water
quality of the lake After the completion of the waste water interception project around
the Nanhu Lake, non-point sources will control the water quality of the lake. This may
cause environmental problems like eutrophication of the lake. During low water level
period, there may be lack of water. So the Nanhu Lake is facing dual problems of water
replenishment and non-point sources pollution.
(2). The completion of the waste water trunk pipelines in Tinghonc Road and
Baisha Avenue will bring waste water in Jiangnan District into effective control,
making full use of the functions of the trunk waste water pipelines in Jiangbei and the
Jiangnan waste water treating plant. This will surely diminish the polluted belts along
the outlet of the Tingzichong Stream to the Yongjiang River. Plus the function of the
Jiangnan waste water treating plant, it will alleviate the deterioration of the water
quality in the lower reaches at Pumiao.
a. The two waste water trunk pipelines will cut the pollution concentrations,
restoring 17% water environmental capacity of that segment of the river.
b. The water environment upper the outlet of waste water treating plant at
Shuitangjiang can be remarkably improved, reaching the standard for Grade V water in
part time of the year.
(3). The renovation of sewage pipelines is actually the construction of branch rain
water pipelines. Betore thc completion of waste water pipeline network, it will not
causc the redistribution of point and non-poinit sources pollution, nor deteriorate the
present discharge of waste water This can solve the problem of serious wvater logging
9



because the pipelines in these areas are too narrow.
5 Measures to eliminate negatiove impact
5. 1. Prevenitive measures to be lakeni durinig the cotistrrchiol, of the project
(1) Strengthen the administration, planning and management of the construction,
and carry it out by stages and sections so as to raise efficiency and shorten construction
time. Dug up earth should be bank filled and road restored in time, so as to reduce
raised dust, noise, foul smells and impact on the traffic of the city.
(2) Optimize the time of working, avoid the use of machines at night that produce
strong noise, so as to reduce the impact on people's life.
(3).Establish temporary traffic routes in downtown areas and busy traffic routes,
and assign people to direct vehicles so as to prevent traffic jams.
(4) Carry out the dredging of the Chaoyang Stream in the dry season, and timely
transport away bottom clay dug up, so as to prevent it from washed into the river by
rain. It is suggested to use encircled bank for the piling and burial of bottom clay so as
to dlininish its environmental impact.
5.2. Countermeasures to be takeli during the operationl of thle project
(I ).The feasibility report did not study the problem that the three trunk pipelines
for rain water to be discharged into the Nanhu Lake will cause difficulties for the
treatment of the initial rain which bring heavy pollution into the lake and waste money
as the three pipelines are not connected, It is suggested, after the determination of
alternate plan, to adjust the design of the depth of the pipelines in Qixin-Jiaoyu Road
and Taoyuan Road, so that the problem of initial rain can be solved.
(2).lt is suggested to redesign the flow of the waste water pipelines in Tinghong
Road and Baisha Avenue as the original design is too small to lead the waste water
from major industrial polluters into Jiangnan waste water treating plant.
(3).There should be vibration damper in the waste water pumping station at the
outlet of the Dakeng Stream, so as to reduce the impact of noise on nearby inhabitants.
(4).AII together a total amount of 336 000m'/d (1994 data) of waste water needs
to be treated by the Jianginan waste water treating plant after the completion of the
renovation of the Chaovang Stream and the sewage system. But the capacity of the
plant is only 260 000'/d So it is suggested that the design of the scale of the Jiangnan
waste water treating plant be enlarged.
5.3. Capacity of fhe' .hIangnan waste water Ireating p)lant
Form the viewpoint of the water environmcnt of the Yongjiang River, it is
t0



necessary and urgent to make the plant be capable of level I treatment. Main reasons:
(1) Analysis of practicality shows that it is very difficult for the water quality of
the Yongjiang River (especially the segment in the lower reach at Pumiao) to meet the
standard for Grade III surface water under the designed condition (Qp=90%=t70m7/s).
The water quality index are DO and NH;-N. According to the field monitoring carried
out in 1991-1994, the flow in low water level period was 1.5 times over the designed
flow, when the concentration of DO exceeded the standard for Grade III water. The
actual oxygen was about 1.5 times that of usable oxygen. This reveals that Nanning
City  poses as a serious threat to the water in its lower reaches, especially to the
composition of aquatic organisms.
(2) According to the result of the "Study on the Plan of the Environmental
Capacity and Water Quality of the Yongjiang River" (Nov., 1993), the discharge of
BODs allowed from the outlet of the Machao River to the outlet of the Shuitangjiang
Stream is 378.7g/s. equivalent to 222 600m-/d of waste water discharged. So the
environmental capacity of the Yongjiang River is fully occupied since the beginning of
the 90's. The actual amount discharged was twice more than the allowed amount. After
the completion of the project, waste water discharging will be shifted eastwards to the
Shuitangjiang Stream, the allowed amount of discharge will still cut by about 200
000m /d. Therefore the treating should cut BOD5 by 60% in the year when the project
is completed, and S'% in normal year designed (2015) to meet the demand of DO of
the water quality.
(3) The above analysis states that the design of the Jiangnan waste water treating
plant shiould be able of level two treating to meet the demand of the environment. It
should be able to carrv out level I treating in the near future to maintain the water
quality and prevent it for further deteriorating. If the waste water is treated in the level
of pretreatment, the pollution load cut will not be able to catch up with the increase of
pollution load, and the pollution will be worse than the present as soon as the project is
completed.
(4) If the Baise Reservoir is to be built within ten years, the runoff flow during the
low water period can reach Qi'.-,=300m3/s, a little larger than the runoff monitored in
1991-94, the discharge allowed can increase to 350 OOOm3/d or so, then the waste
water from the citV still needs to be treated. If the waste water increases to 650
000m-ld, the treating rate required will be 46%. So if the Jiangnan waste water treating
plant is designed with a capacity of 520 000nm-d and level I treating, there won't be
any waste of fund
So the project should build a level I waste water treating plant at the outlet of the
Shuitangiiang Stream in the near future, which will be enlarged to level 2 treating later.
It



Such design tallies with the economical development of Nanning City and at the same
time taking into consideration the demand for environmental protection. It is more
practical than to build the plant of level I treating in one step.
5.4. Addition7 of invesiment of the Jiangnan wasle wuter treatinig plant
The feasibility report only altos 17.44 million yuan as the investment for the
Jiangnan waste water treating plant. This is far from enough to make it reach level I
treating. It is thus suggested to add its investment according to the level I treating
design in the feasibility report of the project.
5..3 Charge on wi'asle iiater discharge
The improvement of the water environment of Nanning City and the water quality
of the Yongjiang River depend on the rational ratio of economic development and
investment for environmental treatment. The investment of environmental treatment
needs rolling development. It is thus suggested to charge waste water discharge fee
during the operation of the project, so that it will be able to pay the loan and
operational expense, and collect find for the further development of the Jiangnan waste
water treating plant and waste water collecting system. This will bring a benign cycle of
water pollution control and rolling development.
6. Comparison of plalls
After analyzing and comparing the recommended plan and alternate plans form
the angles of economic benefit, environmental benefit, and social benefit, it is
concluded that the recommended plan for the comprehensive treatment of the
Chaoyang Stream is the most rational.
7. A nalysis of tlie betiefit of thle project
The Chaoyang Stream comprehensive treating project will bring great
environmental benefit and social benefit by solving the problems of flood and water
logging which have been worrying the city for years and improve the sewage system of
the city, thus greatly improving the city's landscape and people's living conditions. The
project can collect and treat over 60% of the city's waste water, thus reducing the
pressure on the pollution and environmental capacity of the Yongjiang River and
protecting its water quality
The project is financially practicable as the main fund of the construction is
investment from the government during its construction
12



8. Putblic participationz
Opinions were solicited from people from 15 neighborhood committees with 174
households and experts of various fields. The results showed that 100%/o of the
investigated people supported  the construction of the project. 86% of the inhabitants
said they could understand the short impact of the construction, only 14% though it
unbearable. If the removal of the houses and resettlement of the inhabitants are carried
properly with proper policies, their attitude will surely change to support the project
for the overall interest.
To sum up, the Chaoyang Stream comprehensive treating project is an
environmental protection project that will bring remarkable environmental benefit,
social benefit and economic benefit. It tallies with the overall plan of Nanning City and
is totally practical.
13



'A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I 



- ! :~~~~~~~> R1 0 0 r / . ~~~~~~~~~~~~LX  i                                                                              ji|
00*      i         :t                                                      r      ,         '      il    ,' ''-,'                '    ''       ,i.   it 
r    t.   >t  '"  : sS"i''TiN   S                             '-&   :'                "  <>/&   ;;    J tig' 1|§Z} 



I



nT
N,~~~~~~~~T
* ; /vsE ,X=-/  
o-
NzAS \                t   : Q z /               >
b_~~~ ',-    .1  *.  _ ,                            -zz m  . I
|           << ~~~~~~'                          Q V / 
___,                     /'  I_X
K,,',lt, r ,,



I



DRAINAGE SYSTEM PROJECT IN NANNING
PLAN OF WATER SEWERS AND CONDUITS
F                       -       -   -~~~~~~~~- - --      - -
,,        r



)                      i                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I                     I



N                                                                                   \A '            I       la^in scilrftcFi
. , |mAnji ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Road to I_,d\-
,   -    t       01  -- 5\    1 . . ;0)rnmain sewer       -*                       -  r^swOrCScn
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ch Ro   Y1'a
,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~mi sete h!i svAe of th S'Eond '                        tnt                           /  
\  11   ql   A   1  l    \S, li   ~~~~~-  if                                                      d lo lh4x Ro4Tnshnl    ;vayo 
,1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- .. *         \ 1        r                   thlreR°a;Ab                   pnnnBitr      ""' 
!  I  2<,                                            n899der               't-s   c z                  ,                       t           /         |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
--  '        - - !l    I   > -    ij          j            j                                                       ,~~~~~~~~~
-             \                          s, ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~ Ij                                                                     ngon -41asiewate f 
v. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  



I



Fig. 4-4-I  Distribution of BOD; Concentration under Loxv Water Condition %ith 1995 Year Load
Fig. 4-4-2  Distribution of BOD5 Concentration under Hieh Water Condition with 1995 Year Load
Fig. 4-4-3  Distribution of BOD, Concentration under Norrtal Water Level Condition with 1995 Year Load
Fig. 4-4-4  Distribution of BOD, Concentration under Lo%% Water Condition with 2000 Year Load after Level
I Treatment at Shuitangjiangkou
Fig. 4-4-5  Distribution of BOD5  Concentration under Lovs Water Condition wvith 2000 Year Load after Level
I Treatment at Zhupaichong
Fig. 4-4-6  Distribution of ROD, Concentration under Low Water Condition wvith 2000 Year Load after Level
2 T'reatment at Zhupaichong
Fig. 4-4-7  Distribution of BODI  Concentration under Low Water Condition with 2015 Year Load after Level
I Treatment at Shuitangjiangkou
Fig. 4-4-8  Distribution of BOD, Concentration under Low% Water Condition with 2015 Year Load after Level
2 Treatment at Shuitangjiangkou
Fig. 4-4-9  Distribution of BOD, Concentration under lligh Water Conditioni with 2015 Year Load ai'ter Level
I T'reatment at Shuitangjiangkou
Fig. 4-4-10 Distribution of BODI  Concentration under Normal Water Lexel Condition with 015 Year Load
after Level I treatment at Shuitangjiangkou
lFig. 4-4-11 Distribution of BOD, Concentration under Low Water Condition %% ith 2015 Year l.oad al'ter Level
I 1'reatmient when the Beise Reservoir Is Functioning
Fig. 4-4-12 Distribution of 130D, Concentration under Lo%% Wk'ater Condition with 2015 Year Load without
any 'I'reatment
I:ig. 4-5-1  Distribution of D() Concentration under li.o% Water Condition %\ inh 1995 Year load
Fitg 4-5-2  I)istribution of DO Conceiitratikn unider I ligh Water Conditon \ ith 1995 Year Load
Fig. 4-5-3  I)istribution of DO Coiteintratitn unider Normial Wkater level Coonditioni \%ith 1995 Year Load
Fig.4-5-4  Distribution of DO Coitcentration under Low Water Condition %k ith 2000 Year Load at
Shulitan&gjianigkou at'ter Le,el I T'reatnment
Fig. 4-5-5  Distribution of DO Concentration under Lo\% W 'ater Condition %% ith 2000 Year Load at
Zhupaichong after Level I Treatment
Fiet. 4-5-6  Distributiott of Do Concentration Linder Low Water Condition %s ith 2000 Year Load at
Zlitipaichonig alter Level 2 Treatment
iFig. 4-5-7  Distribution of 1)0 Ctoncentration under Lo% k.;ter Condition with 2015 Year Load at
Shuitang.iiangkou af'ter Level I 'reatinemt
PFtg. 4-5-8  D)istribution of D)O Coticentration tinder L.ow ' Water Condition w% ith 2015 Year l.oad at
Shuitangjiangkou al'ter Level 2 Ireatment
Fig. J4-5-9  Distribution of DO Concentration under I ligh Water Condition wvith 2015 Year Load at
Shuitagjianigkou after Lecei I 1'rcatmcnt
l'ig. 4-5-10  Distribution of DO Concentration under Normal Water Le% el Condition with 2015 Year Load at
Shuitagjiangkou after Level I 1'reatment



Fig 4-5-1 I Distribution of DO Concentration under Normal Water Level Condition with 2015 Year Load at
Shuitagpianekou after Level I Treatment
Fig. 4-5-12 Distribution of DO Concentration under Low Water Condition with 215 Year Load w ithout an%
Treatment
Fig. 4-6-1  Distribution of COD,N, Concentration under Low Water Condition with 1995 Year Load
Fig. 4-6-2  Distribution of CODM, Concentration under Low Water Condition with 1995 Year Load
Fig 4-6-3  Distribution of COD,", Conccntration under Low Watcr Condition with 2015 Year Load at
Shuitangjiangkou after level 2 treatment
Fig. 4-6-4   Distribution of COD,,, Concentration under Low Water Condition with 2015 Year Load at
Shuitangjiangkou after level I Treatment when the Beise Reservoir Is Functioning



1. Preface
1.1 Purpose of assessment
Nanning is the capital of Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, serving as its political.
economic. financial, cultural centcr. as well as the region's center of sciencc. technology- and
infornation. It is also the hub of transportation. wvhich links the sea with southwest China T'he
State Council decided in 1992 to open the city of Nanning and turn it into an inteniational
garden city facing Southeast Asia with unique ethnic and local charactenrstics. The city has a
total area of 10 029km2, with a population of 1.07 million (1994). of which 0.76 million living
in the urban area.
The Yongjiang River is a major river flowing through the city of Nanning from the east to
the west. With abundant water, the river is the main source of drinking water and industnal
wvater of the city. The Chaoyang Strcam. a tributary of the Yongjiang River. has been receiving
daily sewage from a quarter of 0.25 million of people and waste wvatcr from over a hundred
enterprises sincc the 70's, functioning as the main Nvaste water discharge ditch in the central part
of the city. Its w%ater is noxv heavill polluted and seriously silting up. bringing harrnful effect noE
onlv to the health and dailv life of inhabitants along the river but also to the appearance and
h! gienc of the city. Tnc city doesn't have an integrated discharge water sy stem and lacks flood
controlling capacity.
-Th citv govemment of Nanning is planning to renovatc the Chaovang Stream. bencr the
city's wastc wvatcr and rain collecting system and built waste water treatment plants with loans
from the World Banik so as to bring the pollutioni into control. improve its wvater quality and the
lifc quality inhabitants, as well as to make the city more adapted to further opening up. Tlhcre
arc tmo proposed projccts:
(I) To renovatc tihc Chaovang Strcami
(2) To improve thc drainage system  in Nanning City.
Thc above two projects arc known as the 'comprchcisi'e treatmcnt of the Chao\ang
Streanm  The purpose of compiling thils asscssmcnt is to predict and analyze the environmental
impact and bencfit (both positive and neiativc) during the construction and operation of thc
project ti light of thic cnvironmental situation and gcneral dcvelopmcnt plan of  Namintig Cit%.
tlhus providing a scientific basis for thc policy making of the project
1.2 Basis for the comilpiling of EIA
1.2 I Documitient Guolitiani (86) 003 b thce National  Environieintital  Protectionl Agenc\
-*Procedurcs of Environment Admiinistration of Constnictioui Programs'':
1.2.2 Doculicnit HLuan1jian (1993) 324 b! the National of Environmental  Protection Agenc\_
State Planning Commission, Ministrv of Finance. and Pcople's Banlk of Chiina "Notice
on  Strengtthening  Environmental Administration ovcr Construction Programs %\lth
Loans froni Intcrnational Financial Organizations":
I



1.2.3 Document Jitouzi (1994) 441  by State  Planning Commission: "Written Reply to
Proposals of Guangxi Environmental Protection Prograrns Using Loans from the World
Bank";
1.2.4 Document Guizhengbanhan (1995) 59 b thc City Government of Nanning:  --Reply to
the Plan of the Chaoyang Stream Control Projcct":
1.2.5 Beijing Municipal Works Designing Instituic (Oct. 1996): "Report on the Feasibility of
the Comprehensive Control of the Chaovang Stream in Nanning, Guangxi Zhuang
Autonomous Region""
1.2.6. -Technical Guidebook of Environmental Impact" as listed in "Professional Standard
HJ/T2.1-2.3-93 for Environmental Protection Trade' bv the National Environmental
Protection Agenc-'
1.2.7. Official wvrinen reply to --Outline of EIA of the project by NEPA.".
1.3 Scope and Standard of EIA
1. 3.1 .Srandard of E:IA
Tnc standard set in-the replay to the standard of EIA by Nanning Citv Environmental
Protection Bureau is used. which includes the following:
(I) GB3838-88 grade V of -Standard of Surfacc Water Environmental Quality'' and
GB12941-91 gradc C of "Water Quahtv Standard for Sccncr and Recreation Area" for
Chaoyang Strcam Water Quality.
GB3838-88 grade Il of "Standard of Surface Watcr Environmental Quality" for
Yongliang River water quality.
Surfacc water of Erkcng and Zhupaicihone Stream shall not be below thcir present watcr
qualhtx
(2) GB4280-84 acidic soil standard of "Standard of Farmiland Pollutants Control Using
Sludg'e for sediment of Chaoyang Strcam and sludge of sewage treatment factorv.
(3) GB8978-88 Gradc 11 of "Integrated \Vastc water Dischargc Standard" for vatcr
discharged by the Jiangnan scwagc trcating plant
(4) GB2523-90 "Limitiig Value of Building Construction Border Noise" anid GB3096-93
Gradc II of "Standard of Urban Environmcntal Noisc" for environmental noise.
(5) GB3095-82 Grade  11 of "Standard  of Atmosphere  Environmental Quality" for
atmospilere cnvironment.
(6) GB5749-85 "Standard of Drinkinig WX'atcr" for ground water.
I 3 2 .Scope of assessUiWenf
I) Assessmcnt scope of water environment
Considerinig the flowing direction of the %%astc water from the planned construction project
and surfacc runoff. Chaoyang Strcam. Erkens Strcam. Zlupaichcng Stream, Nanhu Lake. and
Slitltangiang Stream are sct as the scope of the assessment of the YongJiang tributary. Ikm



upstream of the discharge opening of Jiangnan waste wvater treating plant to 4 km downstream
of Shuitangjiang Stream as the assessment scope of Yongjiang River Howevcr, the scope for
water qualitv assessment covers a somewhat larger scope.
(2) Asscssment scope of solid waste
According to the characteristics of the planned project, sedimcnt and sludge dredged, and
castawvay soil and garbage of the construction shall be assessed. and the scopc includes both
sides of transportation routes and permancnt and temporary material piling grounds..
(3)Assessing scope of noisc and raised dust
Construction area and both sides of transportation routcs
1.4 Goals of environmental protection
Tlhere arc no important cultural heritage cites or statc protectcd rare species of widelife or
and plants in the assessed area.
Goals of the environmental protection of this projcct are inhabitants, drinking water
sources and citv landscape.
1.5 Contents and key of assessment
1.5. 1 Contents of assessnweni
Impact of construction noise
Impact on Raised dust during construction
Impact on city traffic and landscape during construction
Impact of thc  removal of buLidings and resettlement of inhabitants on the environment
Impact of sedimeint and sludge drcdged on the environmcnt
Impact of discharged water from Jiangnait waste water treating plant on thc water qualitv
of thle Yongjiang River w\atcr quality dtirinig the opcration of the plaiiined project
Impact of pollutants from non-poinlt sources on receiving water bodics during operation
1.5.2 Key' ol assessnit't,t
Impact of thc project on people's life and city function during construction
Anaklsis of thc impact of dredged sludge during the trcating of the river beds
Prediction of the impact of dischargcd water from Jiangnan waste water trcating plant on
thc Yongjiaig River wvater qualit! durinig operation
Prediction of the impact of polilutalts from the citys non-poinit sources oni the water
quality of thc Nanilu Lakec during operationi
1.6 Maini teciihniqtues and measures adopted in the assessmenit
6. / IProcechire of,sse('ssment
See Fig 1-2 for the procedurc of thc assessment.:
3



L        Certificate of Entrustment of Projloct
Filed survey and infomiation collect on the project's eavironment I
-       Environmental questions and fancories on the project to be taken|
Recognition of environmental affeting factors
Outitnt of Environmental Impaat Assessment
Sutbnit to NEPA
yes
*                                                        I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
M Xonitoring and ascs i oxitin eniomntlqalsitys Oofdeprojtect
Noise     I   Atmospheric    Water            Solid waste   EUological      Natural and social    Experts optmions
enwotnni         Environment.  Environment    namtr            Environment       Environenit          Detail list
- 4L:
Prediction and assessment on the project's environmental effect
1
Statement on environmental impact assessment of subprojects I
Statentit o,i environmental uipact assessintu on the projec-t of
compreihinlmseve treatniwnt o l thc l1ijianig Ri%er in Guilin
__- _  NoSubinat to  NEPA
To do basis prorposd tnvironmnenital
tecudolopg and nieastires adopted in the projcet.
Fig. 1-2 Procedure of assessment
/ 6 2 Al1aor techniqucs itscd in the asscssment
In  light of thc charactcristics of thc projcct and with  advisc from  cxpcrts. the  matrix
nmethiod is uscd to screcn major cnvironnicntal factors to be asscsscd: thc singic-factor method is
adoptcd  in asscssmcnt of cxistinlg  cnvironnicntal condition; the analogical mcthiod combincd
with  model forccast arc adoptcd  in thic prediction of thc environmental impact: and sampling
stirncy is adoptcd  for public participation. Effcctivc environmcntal cnginccring mcasures arc
proposcd  for major cnvirontiiental probliems  which  mighit appear during  constriction  and
operationi of the project.
41



1.7 Brief introduction of assessment institutions and personnel
1. 7. 1 Brief introduction of assessment institluinont
A comprehensive environmental scientific research institutc directly under the National
Envirotuncntal Protection Agencv (NEPA). the Chinese Research Academv of Environmental
Sciences is of a large scale, wvith multitude disciphinanans. advanced equipments. rich technical
capacity, and wvide scope of research. It has now a total staff of 580, of whom arc  2
academician of the Chinese Engineering Academy. 30 professors, 106 associate professors, and
258 assistant researchers and engineers. It is enrusted with the responsibilitv for the
establishment of state environmental standards and technical examinations. and the
responsibilit of technical monitoring and administration of environmental impact assessment
of construction programs by the NEPA. T'he academy has so far compiled over 200
environmental impact assessments--ranking number one in the country-- involving heat and
electricity supply, air port, sea port . railwav and highlwav construction. and the supply of
natural gas . petroleum, chemicals, iron and steel. as %%ell as w-ater conservatory. agriculture.
animal husbandry, regional development. tourism. electronics. mining. and municipal
engineering.
1. 7.2 Cooperating institutions
Nanning Research Institute of Environmental Sciences
Nanning Environmental Monitoring Station
Guangxi Research Institute of Environmental Sciences
Jinling University
1. 7. S  Niee th lv1ecaf of this r)eport flbr the list of pi r /wk r.Iel tan/ g 1)art ini the I-:IA apici
their qualification.



2. General Introduction to the Project Constructed with Loans
2.1 Basic situation of the   project
2. 1.1 Name of the project:
Comprehensive Environmental Treatment of the Chaovang Stream in Nanning City.
2.1.2 Nature of the project and category ofassessnient
The purpose of the project of the comprehensive environmental treatment of the Chaoyang
Stream is to treat thc river's dark and smelting river, to intercept the industrial waste water and
sewage of the area along Chaovang Stream. and build a new Jiangnan waste water treating
plant. The water discharging pipe netvork is to renovatc sewage and rain collecting system of
Nanning City so as to collect industrial waste water from major pollution sources in
Tingzichong. Jiangnan to be brought to the wvaste water treating plant for treatmnent. Completion
of this project will improvc enviromtental qualitv and drainage system of Nanning City by
solving the problem of water discharging of the city. thus beneficial to improving thc water
qualitv of the Yongjiang River. This project is of long-term positive environmental effect. But it
as the project is to be carried out in dowtntow%n arcas of the city wvith a fairln long duration, the
largc amount of carth to be back filled and cast away. temporarily piling up of construction
materials. and largc amounts of river sedimcnts to bc treated will causc somc negative
environmental impact. The assessment of project is determined to be of A-B category.
2. /. 3 (CiOTrlp)hic locattion oft'iie project
1. The Chao-ann Stream Trcatment proicct
Thc Chaovang Stream is locatcd in north of Nanning  City. flo% ingz from the north to the
south througil the urbani part of the city into the Yongiang Rivr. nh stream is 14.26km long.
and the scction to bc trcatcd is 8.9km lona, from Nanning Heavy Machine Building Factory to
Dakcngkou. with a catclnicnt arca is 17 i kni. The arca to bc served by the project covers
iS.5km2. Sce Fig. 2-1 in the appendix for the layout of the river treating project, the wvaste
water coliccting svstcni and the location of the %\aste water trcating plant.
2. Drainae svstemn  protect in the urban areas of Nanning CitV
The drainage s!stcmn  project is locatcd in the urban arcas of Nanning City. involving
Xinchcng D.istract. Xinigning Distract. Chengbel Distract, Yongjiang District and Jiangnan
District (Fig 2-2 to Fig 2-4)
2 1.4 Scale and incaln confefnt nf thc propj;owed project
I Thc Chaovann Stream Trcatment nroiect
Thc content and scalc of the Chaovanig Stnram treatment project is as follo\vs:
(1). Engineering of renovation of the river course



River to be treated is from Nanning Heavy Machine Building Factory to Dakengkou. 8.4 km
long. is 56.1% of all River length. The catchment of the part is 17.5 km2. 7 1.8% of Chaoyang
Stream catchment.
A. Engineering of renovation of the nrver course (downrstream)
a. Location: from Youai bridge to Dakengkou:
b: Scope: section: 1.7x3.0m. long: 3015m.
B. Engineering of renovation of the rivcr course (midstream)
a. Location: from Heavv Machine Budding Factory to Youai Bridge.
b: Scope: from Heavy Machine Budding Factory to No. 28 School Youai bridge:
35.0x3.4mm, L=2133m; from No.28 School to Mingxiu Bridge: _5.6x3.4nm. L=880m,
from Mingxiu Bridge to Nanmian Bnrdge: 76.0x3.4nimrn L=1325m: from Nanmian Bridge
to Youai Bridge 06.2x3.4mm L=lOOOm:
c. Benefit: c. Benefit: The catchment of the treated part is 17.5 km2 is 72% all catchment
area. Calculated collecting waste water is 196.000m3/d, including industrial waste water
54000 m3/d. daily sewage is 142000m ;/d. Flood detention are 541 900 m;Jd. designed
water level of Yongjiang River (67-72.17m), and have 54ha of surface area of
landscape water and volume of water 107400m3.
(2). Interception system of wvaster water
a. Location. Anji street. Xiouan street. Railway east No. I and No.2 street;
b: Scope: left side of Chaoyang Stream d I 550-2350, right side d 1950-2250. L=2700;
c. Benefit The project shall intercept the existing maste water of the Chaoyang Stream. the
Erkeng Stream. Anji strect. Xiouan Street and the left and right sides of railway and sent
into  the  Dakengkou  of Chaovanig Stream downstream. total waste water value is
840.000 m3/d, including  the Chaoyang Stream area 350.000m;/d. Erkeng Stream area
220.000 m3/d, Xixiangtang arca 270.000111'/d
(3). Waste water raising pump station
a Location: A waste wvater raising puimp station shall be built at the joining point of the left
and right waste wvater trunlk canals;
b: Scope: first phase pump water value is 2.7mi/s. second phase is 6.5 m'/s. lift: 7mn:
c. Benefit: The pump shiall pump waste water of collecting from the interception system of
waste water into Jiangbei main sewver.
(4). Pipeline of passing river
a. Location: pumilp statioIl:
b Scope: 3x d 1600nnmm:
c. Benefit: Thc pipcline shall direct waste water of collecting from the interceptioni sv sten
of waste water into Jiangbci main sewer.
Jiangbei main sc\wer
a Location: along Yongjiang dam and road.
b: Scopc: L=4.2km. 1(3800x2400mm
c. Benefit: Thc sewcer shall transport waste water into wvaste vater treating plant



(6). Waste wzater treating plant
a. Location: near Zhainitan, Jiangnan, the west of Yongjiang River;
b: Scope: area be 73ha. 26m3/d,
c. Benefit: to treat all collecting waste .%ztcr.
2. Drainag-c system project in Nannint
A. Sexver and conduit
(I) Zhiwulu rain trunk
a. Location: Zhiwvu street
b. Scope: d 1800-d2000mrn, L= 121 1
c. Content: reinforced concrete pipe
d Benefit: The catchment of the treated part is 3Sha and into the Yongjiang River
(2) Beihubeilu rain trunk
a. Location: Beihubei street
b. Scope: d600-OOmm, 0 1400xlO0002!2800x 1800mm, L=547 1m
c. Content: reinforced concrete pipc
d Benefit: The eatehment of the treated part is 270ha and into Chaovang Strean.
(3) Lingxiulu-Mingxiuxilu rain Trunk
a. Location: Lingxilu and Mingxiuxi street
b. Scopc: d 1200-d 1400mm, L=4300,0 1400x.x 1400-r2800x2200num
c. Content: reinforced concrete pipe
d. Bcnefit: The catchrnent of the treated part is 186ha and into Chaoyang Stream.
(4) Tangshanglu rain Trunk
a location Tangshang street
b. Scope:      - 1400x1400-  I 1600xl400nim. L=S2 00rn
c Conitent reinforced concrctc pipe
d. Benefit: lihe catclment of thc treated part is 120ha and into Chaovang Stream.
(5) Hcngyangxilu rain trunk
a. Location: Hengyangxi strect
b. Scope: dl200-dl4OO. L=3200.5l60Oxl4O-.-.1 800xlXOOmmm
c. Content. reinforced concrcte pipc
d. Benefit: Thc catclimcnt of the treated part is 1)l6ha and into Chaoyang stream.
(6) Hcngyangdonglu rain trunk
a. Location Hengyangdong strcet
b. Scope: -:1400x 400- -2200x2000inn. L=S'200m
c. Content: reinforced concrctc pipc
d. Benefit: The catchnciit of tihc trcated part is I S Ilia and into Chaoyang Strcam.
(7) Hengyangxilu-Xiviangtanglu rain trunk
a Location: Hieiigyanigxi and Xi%'iangtang street
b Scope:  I6t(xl140(-:lXOlOxlO(8nmm. L="20()
c Content: reinforced concretc pipc
I:



d. Benefit: The catchmnent of the treated part is 64ha and Erkeng Stream.
() Mingxiuxilu-Xingyanglu rain trunk
a. Location Mingxiuxi and Xingxang street
b. Scope: d8OO-dL000mm, 71l800x2200nim. L=1330m
c. Content: reinforced concrete pipe
d. Bencfit: The catchmncnt of the treated part is 46ha and into Erkeng Stream.
(9) Mingzhudadao trcatment
(10) Qixinglu-Jiaoyudadao rain trunk-
a. Location: Qixing and Jiaovudadao street
b. Scope: d1200-14400mm, L=3450m. - 1600xl400-C28OOxl800mm
c. Content: reinforced concrete pipe
d Bencfit: Thc catchment of the treated part is 16Sha and into Zhupaichong Stream.
(I 1) Taovuanlu rain trunkl
a. Location: Toving street
b Scopc: d1400-1200mm. L=24 0m. '1 1600xl600-'_262060x1600rrimr
c Conteint: rcinforced concrete pipe
d. Benefit: Thc catchment of the treatcd part is 108ha and into Zhupaichong Strcam.
(1 2) Mingzhulu-Guctienglu rain trunk
a. Location: Mingzhu and Guchicng Street
b. Scope: 01400xl600-3i2000xl600mmn. L=1 10(m
c. Contcnt:rcinforccd concrcte pipe
d Benefit: The catchliient of the treated part is 72hia and into Zlhupaichong Strcam.
I U) Jiangnailti-Fujiarnlu rain tni;k
a Location: Jiangnan and Fujian street
b Scope: dI00O-12000mm. L=546ini.12:0()0x20()0- 2400x24001lnm
c Content: reinforced concrcle pipe
d Benefit: The catcinicint of the treatcd part is I (Xha and into Zhupaichong Streamn.
B Sewer pipeline
I ) Tinighonig sc\wcr pipcline
a Location: Tingjiatn street
b Scope: dfOO-700mim. L= I O0Oni.
c Content: reinforced coiicretc pipe
d Bencfit: The catcinicit of thc trcatcd part is i i hia and into Jiangbei sewcr pipelinc.
2) Baishadadao sec%er pipclilne
a Location: Nanzihan and Baisha street
b. Scope: d60(-900ni(m. L= .1 5Ol
c. Conitenit: reinforced conicrcee pipe
d Be3ncfit: Thie catchmciit of thc treated part is 369hia and into Jliangbci sewer pipelieic.
C'  lodification of drainage s%steim of oil urban
I) IHiuaxilu drainage s! sten
13.



a. Location: right bank of Chaovang Stream
b. Scope: d 1000- 1800mm, L=990m
c. Content: reinforced concrete pipe
d. Benefit: nhc catchment of the treated part is 120ha and into Chaoyang Stream.
(2) Huaqanglu drainage system
a. Location: right bank of Chaovang Stream
b. Scope: d1200-l600mmn,L=61Om
c. Content: reinforced concretc pipe
d. Benefit: The catchment of the treated part is 106ha and into Chaovang Stream.
(3) Nanjinglu drainage svstem
a. Location: right bank of Chaovang Stream
b. Scope: d800-1200mm, L=600m
c. Content: reinforced concrete pipe
d. Bencfit: The catchment of the treated part is 15 1 ha and into Chaovang Stream.
(4) Hangzhoulu drainagc system
a. Location:  right bank of Chaoyang Stream
b. Scope: d800-1200mm. L=6I Om
c. Content: reinforced concretc pipe
d. Bencfit: The catchmcnt of the trcated part is 64ha and into Erkeng Stream
(5) Chaovanglu drainage system
a Location:  right bank of Chaoyang Strcam
b. Scopc: d lOOOmm. L=470m
c Content. reiniforccd concrctc pipc
d Benefit: The catchmcnt of the trcated part is 46ha and into Erkecng Strcam
(() Suzhoutil drainage system
a Location-  right bank of Cliaovang Strcam
b. Scope d I 000-14OOmm. L=5 30m
c. Content rcin forccd concrctc pipc
(7) Huadonglu drainagc system
a. Location  right bank of Chaoyang Strcam
b. Scope. dXOOmm. L=900m
c. Conteit: rcinforced concrctc pipc
d Bencfit: The catchment of thc trcated part is 165ha and into Zliupaichiong StrCaml
(8) Jinanlu drainage s\stcm
a Location  right bank of Chaovanig Strcam
b. Scope d800tumr. L=600m
c. Conitenlt reinforced conicretc pipe
d. Benefit: Tihc catchmcnt of thc treatcd part is l O8ha and into Zhupaicholnu Strcam
(9) X'inggii_glu drainage s\stem
a. Location.  Left bank of Chaoyang Strcam
14



b. Scope: d 1000- [200nun, L= 1800m
c. Content: reinforced concrete pipe
d. Benefit: The catchment of the treated part is 72ha and into Zhupaichong Stream.
(10) Chaovanglu drainage system
a. Location: Left bank of Chaovang Stream
b. Scope: d800-1800mrn, L=840m
c. Content: reinforced concrete pipe
d. Benefit: Thc catchment of the treated part is 108ha and into Zhupaichong Stream.
(I 1) Gaofenglu drainagc svstem
a. Location:  Left bank of Chaovang Stream
b. Scope: d800-lOOOmmn, L=300m
c. Content: reinforced concrete pipe
(12) Xinhualu drainage system
a. Location: Left bank of Chaovang Stream
b. Scope: d8OO-10Ommn, L=750m
c. Content: reinforced concrete pipe
( 13) Beininglu drainage system
a. Location:  Left bank of Chaovang Stream
b. Scope: d800-lOOOmm, L=350m
c. Content: reinforced concrete pipe
(14) Minshenglu drainage system
a. Location:  right bank of Cliaovang Stream
b. Scope: d800-IOOOmm. L=300ni
c Conitent: reinforced concrcte pipe
(I 5) GonighclL drainagc s stcm
a Location:  Left bank of Cihaovanig Stream
b. Scope: d1400mm. L=350m
c. Conttent: reinforced concrcte pipc
(16) Zhongshanlu drainage system
a Location: south of Minzudadao
b. Scope: dSOO- I000mm. L-900m
C. Contett: reinforced concrcte pipe
( 7) Naanguolu drainage system
a. Location  south of Minzudadao
tb. Scopc: d800nmitm. L=320m
c. Content: reinforced concrcte pipe
(I 8) Kanglelu drainage system
a Location:  south of Minzudadao
b. Scope: d800nmnm. L=250m
c. Content: reinforced concrete pipc
I5



(19) Baoailu drainage system
a. Location: south of Minzudadao
b. Scopc: d800- 1000mm, L=250m
c. Content: reinforced concrete pipe
(20) Jianzhenglu drainagc sv'stem
a. Location: south of Minzudadao
b. Scopc: dlO00-1200mnm. L=350m
c. Content: reinforced concrete pipe
(2 1) Nanhuanlu drainage svstem
a. Location: south of Minzudadao
b. Scope: d I000-1200nm. L=340m
c Content: reinforced concretc pipe
(22) Anningxiaoqu pumping station
a. Location: Anningxiaoqu
b Scope: Q=l m;/s. H=5m.
c. Content: Im'/s. high 5m
2.1 . 5 Schedule of'the project
I The Chaovang Stream comprehensive treatment broicct
1994-1997: Feasibilltv study. asscssment of the project. talks on the loan. initial and detailed
desigining. civil engineering and technical and equipment preparation. preparation for land
requisitioni and inhabitant rcsetticment. calling for tcnders and prcparation to bcgin the
constructioii of the project.
11)(7-1998. Treatnicit of the lower reaches of teic Chaovang Strcam inver bed and thc
constructioni of thc waste wvatcr interccption projcct
I 998-200 1: Treatmcnt of thc middle reaches of the Cliaovang Stream nriver bed
Constnmction of the waste water transfer and treatmcnt projcct of the Chaovang
Stream
Dcc.. 2DO1: Complction of the treatmncti of thc Chaovang Stream rivcr bcd project, complction of
all thc pipc nretwork  project. and itic completion. adjusting and checking of wastc
%water puniping station
20012: Ocrall operation of waste watcr collccting and transfer projcct
2 The drainace piPC network svstcm of the urban areas of Nanning City
Sept.. I1996-Aug.. 1 9Q7 Compilling and study of feasibility report. assessment of thc pro ect
and talks on thic loan
Jaii.. I 997-Sept . 1 '(98.: Inilial design and its approval. compiling  constniction charts for
approval. comilpililng  civil  enginericng  and  equipmcnt plan for approval. and
compiling of papers for contractors cxamination and calling for tenders
Sept.. 1997-Apr.. 2001: renovation  of rain water and sew%age drainage systein of thc urban
nareas and tihe construction of additional rain %vater wells and checkinig wells.
If,



2.1. 6 Investment of the project
The total amount of investment for the comprehensive environmental treatment project of
the Chaoyang Stream in Nanning Citx amounts to 573.04 million vuan (RMB). of which the
treatment of the Chaoyang Stream  takes up 250.46 million *uan, drainage system  of the urban
areas takes up  186.94 million !uan. and building removal and inhabitants resettlement take up
135.58 million yuan. (See Table 2-1-1.)
Table 2-1-1 investment for the comprehensive environmental treatment project
of the Chaoyang Stream in Nanning City
No                       Project                    [ain Content                                      Investment (10'
I    ___ ____ _____ ____ _____ ____ _____ __    j yuan)
I  The Chaovang Stream Treatment Project
(1) Engineering of renovation of the nver course     Renovation of the fiver course. water supplement  13004
(2)  intcreeptison System of vaste water             dl200-d2000rnm     C 2600 - 2000- 0 3800
2400tnm   L=6.3kn
(3) pipeline of passing nver                         L=0.5km
(4) liangbei nain sewer                              02 3800 - 2400nun   L=4 2km
(5) Wastcr waler raising pump station                2 7ni3/s  (one)
(6) waste waler treating plant                       2.6 - lO4m'!d
subtotal                                                                                       ' 5046
2   Drainage svst:nt project in Nanniniig
(I)  Rjitnitrik                                      13 rain mitaini trunks. d600J-d2(J(J0nin (2 1400   I I'806
1000-C 2800 ,I 800mm
(2) Se:wer pipelitic                                 2 sewcr pip.lines d600 - 900mil               S '7
(1) rcnonation or1pirpeline in Old citv              21 pipeline dX00-d l800Smm one pump sUt1tin     :597
(4) equipments fir 1aititaaiaing the pipelignc       tuniumcr of vrieIiCe 12                        1164
(5) mtatitcnan1cc if the pipeline                    lengtih 28.3km                                1300
(6) subtotal                                                                                         S694
3  other                                            tlousc removal and inhabitant rescttloviient   13552
4   total                                                                                          7304
2.2  Production technology
2.2. 1 Cotnpreclinsivc 7rcatnwent of l'h  Chanyang Stream
I. Treatment of the river bed
The plan states open canal combined with covered canal shall be constructed.. Following
figures arc for the concrete technology
(I) Open canal part: Youai Bridge -- Dakengkou
13



Renovation of the river bed -     Ecological recoverv
River wae    Dredge of    (Temporary piling            - 
(2) Covered canal part: Heavv Machine Building Plant - Youai Bridge
River watr    Dredgeof    Fpelin [iBa                Recoverv (or usage)
| empsing_                                            of the land surface
Temporarv piling of sediment -.  transportation disposal site
2 Technologv of the waste water treatin2, plant
Primary activated sludge method shall be adopted for the waste water treating plant. (See
Fig 2-5).
(1) Pretreatment of waste water: Scalping grizzlv screen, mechanical screen is to be used:
inlet water pumping house, fine screen. Aerated detritus pit
(2) Primarv treatment of waste water: Primarv classifier, aeration basin. secondarv
classifier .sludge reverse flow pumping house, and air pumping house
(3) Sludge treatment: Sludge condesing pit,. sludge dehvdration house, sludge storage shed
and sludge treating canal
3 Waste water intCrcepting and collecting system
Concrete technology of the waste water intercepting and collecting svstcm is as follows:
Pulling down ad       [              pipeline     back        restore of
iiiovel of buildings                 laying                   ground surface
4 Rl-er-crossing of the pipes
Pipe sink-ing method shall be used.
2.2 2 7TL-chneox!/' of the drainage sytewn in u(rban areas of Nanning City,
The technology of laying of pipe network for rain watcr and waste water and thc
renovation of old drainage system is as folloxs:
Sirface       ditcl         pipeline        back            restoring of
removing       digging      laying          filling        grounid surface
18



Open canal part
-River bed renovation -- ecological restoration
Emptying of the river water --digging of sediments -|
-(temporary piling of sediments) -- transportation --disposing site
Closed conduit part
pipeline laying --backfilling --restoration (or utilization) of the ground surfacc
Emptying of the river water --digging of the sediments-
1(temporary piling of sediments) -transportalion -disposing sitc
Fig. 2-3-2   Engineering of the renovation of the river coursc



2.3 Mlajor pollution sources and their discharging of pollutants
2. I Conmprehenisive 7reatment of the Chaovang Stream
I Major pollutied sources during the construction of the project
(I) Sediment of the Chaoyang Stream. cast away soil dunngthe construction, and garbage
The renovation of the river course shall clean awav a total of 0.2 million m3 of sludge. The
disposal of such an amount of sludgc is a sensitive problem Secondary pollution mav easily
appcar if it is not handled properly.
The construction of the wraste water interception system \ill produce a ccrtain amount of
soil to be cast away. Construction garbage mainly consists of broken bricks, broken pieces of
asphalt road surface. concrete blocks, and w\-aste wood bits. and so on.
(2) Construction noise
The engineering of the renovation of the river course and the laving of waste water pipe
lines are all to be carried out in the central part of the city. downtown district and not far from
public transportation routes, and the constriction tvill last a fairly long time. thus the noise of
construction machines shall cause much impact. As the construction takes a fairly long time.
this remains a sensitive problem. This is also a sensitive problem. See Table 2-3-1 for the
intensitv of construction machines.
Table 2-3-1 Intensity of noise of different sources during construction
Noisc sourcc        Noisc intensity dB(A)    Noisc sourcc          Noise intenlsity dB(A)
Air drill          .10(                    Soil shifted                     94
Puddle mi\er                 98            Road scraper                     94
Scaper pan                   96            Bullodozer                       92
Exca%azor                    95            Air comprcssor                   92
(   Raiscd dust
Besides the raiscd dust which may bc causcd from the piling and transportation of the 0 2
million m; of sludgc dug up. thc earthwork to bc dug during the construction of the waste water
intcrceptioni projcct and the laying of pipc lincs and its transportation will causc raiscd dust It
shall affcct certain rangcs of the tw%o sidcs along thc routc of construction and may involvc the
x%-hole citx of Nanming.
2. Mlajor polluotion sources and thcir discharging of pollutants during operation of the projcct
(I ) x%aste water
After the compiction of the comprehensive environmental treatment of the Chaoyang
Strcamii prolect. waste wxatcr form an area of 258 000m3/d will flow to the Jiangnan waste watcr
treating plant throtigih the trunk pipe line in Jiangnan. thcn dischargcd into the Yongjiang Ri%er
after primary treatment. See Tablc 2-3-2 for tihe wvaste water compositioni of the project.
20



Table 2-3-2  Amount of Waste Water of  Areas in the project (1994)
Catchmuen         Population   Daliv sewage        rIndustnal waste w aler  Total
1000       I OOOOm3/d     %      iOOOOm3/d       e            m10000n3/d
R. Chaovang Strcam   271       81.3         69.9     35           30 1      116.3
R. Erken-          147         44 1         49.0     45.9         5! 0      90
Xixiangtang        72          26           48.5     22.9                   44.5
(2). Solid waste
Sludge produced in the production of the vaste vater treating plant. mainly of digested
and deh'vdrated clay cakes and  inorganic matters from the detracts chamber. Whether the clay
cakes contain harrnful substances or pollution shall be deternined by the quality of the water
draw%n in. But daily output clay cakes is fairly small.
(3). Waste gas
Waste gas mainlv consists of the biogas produced in thc sludge digestion pool, which is of
an unpleasant smell and, as the waste water treating plant is located in the windward direction
of the citv, it poses as a negative factor.
(4). Noisc
Waste water pumping station produces much noise and it is located in downtown area.
thus much impact will be caused.
2.3. 2 Drai7age s vvent it in urban areas
I Major pollution sources during construction of the project
(M). Raiscd dust
Raiscd dust fomis an iiiportant pollution source during thc constnIctiont of thc projcCt and
is an issue mucil conccnied by the people. Tihc brcaking Up of thc road surface. carthwork to be
dug. laying of pipe lines and the transportation and piling of materials will all produce raised
dust. It will influcnicc arcas along the transpiration routc and even the \holc of Lirbani areas of
the citv.
(2). Noise
As the laying of drainace pipe line system will bc carried otit in the urbaln arcas where the
populatioil is dcnse and traffic hcavv. and as the construction will last a fairly long time, nIoise
produccd by conistiuctioIn machines anid transportation vchiclcs xvill have muclh imiipact. Tnis is
also a sensitive probleim. Please refer to Table 2- -I fourth intcnsitv of noise sourccs.
(3). Sludgc and castawa\ soil
The amounit of sludge to bc dredgcd amounts to 52 000())1   Its transportation an disposal
arc an issuc deserving muchi attentioni. If not properly hiandlcd. secondary pollution will bc
causcd. Thic laying of pipc line nct\%ork. temporary occupation of road surface. and the soil to
be cast away during the earth\ork. all %%fll produce sonic negative impact on the environmcnit
2. Major pollutioni sources durinig thc operation of the projcct
(I). Non-point pollution sourccs
21



Pollutants like surface silt, nutritious and organic matters will enter surface water bodies
with surface runoff through drainage pipe lines and pollute the environment. As the capital of
the region, Nanning is its political. cultural and commercial center With not much industry. So
non-point pollution load caused by rain runoff takes up a high percentagc. It should be a key
link in controlling wvater pollution.
(2). Industrial waste ws-ater
Nanzichong area in Jiangnan District is the major industrial area of Nanning. Major
pollution sources include over a dozen factonres and enterprises such as Nanning Candy Paper
Factory, Nanning Chemical Group and the lysine  factory. As large amount of industrial waste
water is discharged into the Tingzichong Stream. its water bodv is now heavily polluted. black
and smelly. It also affects the Yongjiang River water quality as the former directly flows into
the latter.
The protect plans to lay waste water pipe lines in Tinghong Road and Baisha Avenue so as
to collect industrial waste wvater from the Tingzichong area to be transfcrred to the planned
Jiangnan waste water treating plant, thus restoring the function of the watcr body of the
Tingzicheng Stream and improve the water qualitv of the Yongjiang River. Sec Table 2-3-3 for
the amount of wastc water from major industrial sources and their quality.
Table 2-3-3  Main pollutant sources in Tinzichong Industrial Distract
uaste water       SS              COD              BO1D5
Naiie or factorv            100(IO 3/d   u/d     ing/l  tId       m/1   L/d        III/l
Nainning Clicimiical Group  29.1         18 64    641    7.84      269
Ninning Sugar rctnen        29. 9        19.61    656    39.51    1;21    9.85     3'9
WLine Factorv.               7 8          0 82   1l0      1 22     156    ( 47      6(
NanningTrannmr               6.5          8 14   1252     9.96    1532    3,17     488
Nanninmg Silk Spinning :Factorv   4.5     0 69    1531    0.42      9     0 26      58
Nanliliig Sieliting planit   0 4          0 (02     5      0O (5 I  2                  _
I-otal                     7S.2
22



3. General situation of the environment of the area of the proposed
project
3.1 Natural environment
3. 1.1 Geographic location
An important city along the southwest border regions of China, the city of Nanning is
located in the southwest of China, serving as the capital of the Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous
Region, at 22 10'--20030'N and 107045'--108045'E. The city proper has an area of 1 9388km.
and the constructed urban part is about 80km 2(Fig 3-1).
31. 2 Topographic katires
The city of Nanning is located in the Nanning Basin along the banks of the Yongjiang
River. Thc basin is of an olive's shape. stretching NNE. The land is flat with a ground surface
level of 71.7 - 75.67m (abovc thc Yellow Sea level). The Yongjiang Riverflowvs through the
southwvest of the urban areas of Nanning, dividing the city into a northern part and a southern
part. The Yongjiang River fonns six terraces in the ccntral part of the basin: Terraces of
Gradcs I and 11 are intrastronmato terraces and Gradcs Ill and IV arc foundation terraccs. all
with didactic structure. Most of the Chaovang Stream flows on the Grade 1I terraces of the
Yongiang River. and parn of it on Gradc I tcrraces. The drainage area of thc Chaoyang Strcam
inclliecs from the north tO thc soutl. To its nortlh risc tIIC Naanshall Mountains of the Nanning
basin and to its south is thic urban arca of the city. The Chaovang Strcami flo-ws throughi the
urban areas of thic city to enipty into the Yongjiang Rivcr.
3. 1 3 Suirfrice uiater and 'lrOunin/ watater
The Yongjiang River is thc largcst rivcr running through the citx of Nanning. 480m vwide
at the Nanning section. a% Craging 300m. with abundant amount of water and a stablc rivcr bcd
The averagc aniual runoff over the ycars of the Yongjianr River is 124.6 billion nm'/s. The
drainage arca of uppcr 'ongiaang Rivcr is 78228 kmi. Major tributaries of the Yongjiang
River distributed in Nantilng includc the Zhupaichong Stream. the Tingzichong Strcam. the
Chaovang Strcam. the Erkctig Strcami. the Liangfcng Stream. the Xinvu Strcam. thc Keli
Strcam. and the Shilling Strearn. of w\hich the Liangfcng Stream is the longcst. followed by the
Xinvu Stream and thc Zhtipaicliong Strcam. whose rainvatcr catchmcnt areas are all over
100km2. Other tributaries are fairlv short wvith rainwater catchmnent arca under 100km2. wvhich
are distributed to the banks of the Yongjiang Rivcr and flowv into thc Yongiiang River in the
urban arcas of thie cit (sCC l'able 3-1-1). Major lakes include thc Nanhiu Lake. which has an
area of I .6kmn. thc Xianesi Lake. and the Bailong Park.
23



-- Location of Nanning city
<7>    \130Xt  0'  t  \    t9F~~~~~~~~'-',>%                      ;'
--fS2             j                                                           )  I  ' 
! j X , N > w --
! - -i-                                                  I\                   K- 0 , 8 01'141t  StreaX
t\ .--, .i.X$' :e*< 7~~~-   4#   ,--J
[                                  (       ,I j'  10 '.~*     ,           ,:'-   '7-D- I.i/dn
Rodf    oL        X1 ,
LI. .  . . .. . . ... . . . .. . . . . ..,
e~ Feuhuaa~i  ' 7I:Nann-ingIrzdd C#:
Nan in~~~~~~~~~~ 



Table 3-i-1 Parameters of Major Tributaries of the Yongjiang River
River         Catchment area   Length    Average gradient   Runoff       Maximum Runotl
kaf              km       O.k               Coefficient a    C (m /s)
Zhupaichong    117             35.9       2 41             0.75
Xinvlt         132             29.3      2 96             0.75           410
Keli          66               34.3      4 61             0 75           635
Ferhiluang     24              16.8       I 6'8            0 75          269
Ximiniiiglhtu  35              8.8       7'                0.75          430
Shillng        31              8.6        1 82             0.60
Shipu          9               7.2        9 S8             0.60
Chaovang      24 4-            13.5      2 16              0.70           13 5
Erkeii         II              6.8       2 58              0.70          98
Tin-7ichong    10              7.5       4 43              0.70          83
Note: based on data of the report of flood resisting plan of thc city
Ground water in the Nanning Basin can be divided into 1. II. and [II types. Type I. pore
water of the loosc deposits of the Quaternary System of the Nanning Basin. which has an area
of about 138 km2. with flat landscape. distributed in the Grade I, 11. and III terraces of the
Yongiang River. Tpe [Il: red beds pore crack watcr, distributed in hilly terraccs at the fringe
of the basin and Grade IV, V, and VI tcrraces and destructionial tcrraces of the Yongliang
River. Tpc IlIl: fragmental rock crack water in thc lown mountains and hills around the basin,
where ground water is storcd in thc cracks of rocks, of phreatic water ty pe.
3,1. 4 Ch('irat
Thc citv of Nannmilg is locatcd to the south of the Tropic of Cancer and belongs to the
subtropics zone. with rich rainfall and sunshine The climate there is %%Ct. t-ith a long suLiniier
but no winter. Frost-frcc davs in a %car number as manm as 343, with 1 .827.0h of sunishiine and
avcragc atmosphere prcssurc of 1 004.1 milhbar
(I) Air temperature
Thc averagc air temperature of thic arca is 2 1.6'C. thc highcst in July (averaging 28.3TC
over thc years). the lowest in January (averaging I2.X"C over the ycars). with the cxtreme higi
of 40.ATC (May 9th. 1958) and the extremc lo%% of-2. 1"C (January 12. 19 5).
(2) Prccipitation
The cit\ of Nanniing has rich rainfall. a%craging 1.2400mm/a (data ovcr 30 scars). wvith the
highiest 1.970mm/a (1952 data) and the lo'%cst '52.9nmn/a (1952 data). Influcilced the vear
throughi by wvanm air masses from the oceans and ininerland air miasses. rainfall is conceiltrated
in the flood period from May to Septeimber. lhen  tic rainfall accounits for about 72%yo of thc
annilal total. The retirning of warm air masses from the occans starting in May brinig along
storms, whilch often conies abruptly. The possibility of daily niaximumtii stornm in May to June is
25



about 45%. Influenced by typhoons. August and Septembcr witness another penrod of heavy
rains. The rainfall in June is the highest in the vear (averaging 217.5mnm/d over the years) and
that in December is the loxvest (averaging 25 .9mnn/d oxver the vears).
Annual evaporation reaches 1,218.6mm (data of 25 vears), with an avcrage annual
relative humiditv of 79%. Sunshine duration reaches 1,827.OhI/a, with a sunshine rate of
4 1.5%.
(3) Wind
The average annual wind speed is 1 .5-2.3mIs, and there is no distinct fluctuation betwveen
different seasons, with that in February to July a little higher than that of other months. The
maximum wind speed is 18.Orn./s (NNE, August 11. 1962), and the extreme high 31.5m/s
(SSW, July 4, 1971). Northeast wind prevails in winter and southeast w%ind prevails in
summer.
3.2 General situation of its ecological environment
The total area of forests of the city is 275.300ha. with a coveragc rate of 39.1%. and a
coverage ratc of greenland is 3 1.6%. There arc over 3,000 species of plants in Nanning.
Among wild plants over 150 species are useful, including perfume oil plants, oil bearing plants.
starch plants. tanning containing plants, fiber plants. medical plants, and omamcntal plants.
Timber trecs include pine, fir. guni, and oak. Among precious trees is -crythropjloeuni ferdii.
and among ornamental plants is the wvorld famous rare golden camcilia (based on information
from).
There are no rare spccies of wildlife or plant living in the arca to be asscssed
3.3 Social environmncit
J. S. l Adrinrs(rative division
Thc city of Nanning lias the jurisdiction ovcr 8 districts and counties. with a total arca of
10 029kmn. of xvhichi I 939kn1 is urban area. The fi%e urban districts are Xingning. Xincheng.
Yoongxin, Chcngbei, and Jiangnani, and the two counties arc Yongning and Wuming. The cite
has a population of 1.07 million (1994), Of which 0.76 million living in the urban area.
3.3.2 Characteristics of the city
Thc citx of Nanning is thc Capital of the Guanexi Zhuanlg Autonomous Regioll and is the
political, economilc. and cultural ccntcr of the rcgion. The city began to opcn to the outside
%%orld in 1992 with the sanction of thc Statc Council. Nanning is also an important city in
southwest China witlh very advantageous gcographic location: it sits at the banik of the
Yonijianig Rivcr, not far from the sca. facing soutileast Asia and backed by southwest China.
Along vitilI the completioni of the Nanfang Railway and the Nankun Rail%vax and the opening
of air traffic, Nanning is becoming the thoroughfare to thie sea for the four provinces in
southwest China: Yunnan, Guizhou. Sichuan. and Guangxi. TeIC city's function and radiation
26



capacity Hvill increase wvith cverv passing year, and its si'nificancc in politics and economy wvill
increase, too.
3. 3.3 Agriculture
The city of Nanning has an area of 10 029km: (including the t-wo counties). wvith 167
420ha of farmiland. of which paddy field 93 865ha. and non irrigated farmland 73 370ha. The
area actually sewn with grains is 94 5O0ha, and sugarcane filed takcs up I I 340ha..
The total agricultural output valuc in 1993 reached 2.65 billion yuan (1990 fixed price),
showing an increase of 7.2% over the previous vear. The total output of grains is 746,900t,
that of sugar cane 3.116 million t, that of meat 102.600t. and vegetables 5 19,500t (according
to the government's wvork report of 1994).
3. 3. Industri'
The total output valuc of industry reached 10.9 billion yuan (1990 pnce) in 1994,
showving an increase of 18.3% over that of 1993. Thc developing rate of light industry is far
quicker than thosc of heavy industrv and agriculture. The total output value of light industry
reached 5.525 billion vuan in 1993. and that of heavv industryv was 2.782 billion vuan. Major
industrial products include coal. cement, glass pancs. sugar. cigarettes. wine, and walking
tractors.
Tertiarv industry has undergone rapid development in recent ycars. The GNP of the
whole citv in 1994 increascd 2 1.2% ovcr that of 1993. of which primary industry incrcased by
7%. secondarv industry increascd by 24.42%. while ternarv industrv increased bv 24.44%.
The tlhree accounted respectively for 16.88%. 39 12% and 44 20'%. of the GNP. The number of
total industrial employee was I 447 700 (1993 figure). of x%litch those employed by primary
industrv. seconcdary industrv and tertiarv industry respectivclk accounited for 53 64%. 19.78.
anld 26.58%
3.3. 5  resent strae of infrtasructure
1. Water supply and sewage system of thic citv
Therc are four tap water mills in Naining (Lintie. X;iiao. Hcinani and Xhun\ao). Anotiher
at Clienchuni shall bc built according to plan. All the tap w-atcr nilils draw water from the
Yongjiang River. get it treatcd bcfore scndinig it out. Thlsc iiitlls supply all the water for the
inhabitants' daily use and part of mdtistrial watcr. The total production capacity of the water
mills is 594 OOOt/d. supplying a total of 250 69 milihon t/a of "watcr (1993). Sonic of the
cnterpriscs have thcir own water mills. and four of thenm arc of fairly largc scalc. Thc total
lenigthi of tap water pipclinc was 427km in 1993 852 001( iniiabitants arc now using tap water.
avcrage constiming 412.6L/d of watcr per capita.
ThC cit1t has a total of 204kmi of sewage pipcline. The city produces 200.55 million t/a of
waste water. of which daily scwage amounts to 97.78 millioni t/a. Most of the waste \\utcr is
directlv dischiarged into the tributaries of the Yongiang River without any trcatment, so the
27



tributaries of the Yongjiang River are heavilv polluted. The water looks blackish and stinks.
The watcrbodv of the Yongjiang River itself is also polluted to a certain degree, severelv
affccting the quality of water supplied by the water mills.
(2) Flood controlling system
Nanning has been suffering from serious and frequent floods. Backwvard flow often
happcns to flood the cityv when the wvater level of the Yongjiang River nses. As the scxver and
conduit are narrow and the tributaries do not have sufficient flood discharge capacity,
backwater will happen to cause flood in the city during storms. The city of Nanning faces great
threat when outside and inside flood happens at the same time.
The length of the section of embankment in Nanning along the Yongiang River is 34km.
There are flood prevention sluice gates at the inlets w-here its tributaries flow into the
Yongjiang River. and pump stations control the flood level.
(3)Public transportation
Second rate highwi-ays like Nanbei. Nanwu and Nanvu have been built since.the beginning
of the 90's. And the city government planned in 1996t o renovate several roads leading out of
the city like Mingxiou Road. Youaibei Road, build a new road: Changhu Road, extend
Wangzhoulin Road. Baisha Avenue. the east section of Dongge Road. and Binhai Road. Thc
total length of existing public transportation has reached 5 53km (table 3-2)
Table 3-3-1  Quantities of Transportation, 1993
Goods (I 000t)           Persons 1.00 A) person/a)
Raillav                      2.840                     3.840
| lagohwxTiv             447.160                       20.140
Water coourse                 1.590                    .30
EA _viati_on6 I  8.64()                                It))
Nanning has no"w an airport. which links many air routes at honic and abroad. But the
scale of the airport is a far crv from what the transportation hub in south"xest China calls for.
Tlicrc are along hc Yongjiang Rivcr many dockyards. which facilitates convenient cast-west
transportation.
3.4 People's life quality
The constnicted arca of the city of Nanning has developed to rcach 80km . vith a urban
population of 1.07 million bV the cnd of 1994. of which 0.76 million arc non-agricultural
population. The GNP reached 10.3 billion ysuan in 1994. Pcople's living standard lias becn
raiscd along with the developmcnt of the ccononiv. Thc average daily living inconic of to.vn
iilnabitants rcachcd 4.099 vuan/a and the pcr capita nct incomc of farmcrs 1.306 vuan/a.
%khich mcanis an incrcase respectivcl of 16.74% and 10.09% over thc year before w'ith
deductionl of thc clements caused by inflation (according to the government's report on its
"ork).
28



There are now 8 parks in Nanning Citv with a total area of 333ha, which receive a total
of 4.86 million person/a. Thc area of parks and green land have reached 2.000ha, green areas
of the constructed part havc reached 2.289ha, avcraging 4.3mr  per capita, wvith a green
coverage of 31.6% (1993).
3.5 Environmental quality
3.5. 1 Water environmental qualitY
I Background situation of the quality of surface wvater
(I). Background situation of wvater quality of the Chaov ang Strcam, the Erkeng Stream,
the Zhupaichong Stream. the Tingzichong Strcam  and the Shuitangjiang Stream  and its
assessment
The six tributarics of the Yongjiang River-- the Chaoyang Stream, the Erkeng Stream,
the  Zhupaichong  Stream, the Xinyujiang  Stream. the Tingzichong  Stream  and  the
S-huitangjiang Stream--reccive the industrial and sewage from the urban areas of the city of
Nanning. The first four lie to the south of the Yongjiang River and the last twvo to its north.
A. Monitored results and analysis of the water qualitv
The results monitored over the Chaovang Stream. the Erkeng Stream, and the
Zhupaichong Stream. Analvsis in 1994 shown in Tables 3-5-1 and 3-2 reveal hat the major
items exceeding the standard (for Gradc V of surfacc water) are the DO, COD and BOD5.
NH3-N, and oil. This suggests that the major pollutants affecting the threc rivers are organic
oxygen consuming ones.
Table 3-5-1 Results of Monitoring the Cliaoyang Stream and Other Rivers, (1994)
Unit: mg/L (except thiat of p1i and otherwise noted)
Iteinl          Chamovzniu   ,    I rkcn2       Zhtzpalchon2     'I'igzichonig   Slituitilg
___ _           7.22            621             7(iS             847           90(
SS              1037            56 0             121 7           1598          462 0
Ilardness(CT)    103 4          11 7            82.47            135.7         231.8
CODCr           243.6           195 (            I 13 75         1157.1        284.8
Bl0D5           141 9                            nd 30 ;4        237 4         65.9
DO              0.o0            nd               1. 9            2 06          3.17
IN]13-N         2414            123             S 35             6 97          18.8(
N102-N         0) t)fiX;       () 7066          () 0 06(         ( lII         00 27
N0.1-N          o 54            0 552           n 571               107        1.371
S04             I 66            0 24            tid              (105          0.03
ClE             54 f             2 I4           32.23            556 (4        182 10
CN             () 004           0.1             id              ()(09         (0010
29



Counted Table 3-5-1
Item           Chao ang         Erk-eng        Zhupaichong     Ting7ichong   Shuitang
Plhenol        0.032            0.041          0.051           0.025         0.016
Hg (pg/L)       1 037          0.20             0.227          0.253         0.283
As             nd               0.015           nd             nd            nd
T-Cr            nd              nd              id             () 02s        nd
Cri 6          nd               nd              nd             nd            nd
Cu (g/L)       2.0              5.0             2.0            17.0          0.11
Pb (pg/L)      0.037            0.01            nd             0.087         nd
Zn             0.085 0041                      0.012          0.060         0.048
Cd (10-3I1.)    0.002           nd             0.0017          0 008         0.008
Oil            4 158            41.58           2.52           7.78          23.89
B. Assessment of the water quality ovcr the years
T-he standard for Grade V surface water set in Documcnt GB3838-88 -Environmental
Quality Standard of Surface Water" was used in the assessment the water quality . As for
NH3-N, the reconimended standard of 1.0 Ig/L was used. The method of average value of
comprehensive pollution indcx was used in assessment. The assessment of the water quality is
as follows:
a. The pollution of the Zhupaichong Strcam was comparatively light, between lightly
polluted and heavily polluted. both the Chaoyang Stream and the Erkeng Strcam xvcre heavily
polluted to seriously polluted. and the comprehensive pollution indexcs of the formner is higher
than thosc of thc lattcr. The ordcr of seriousness of pollution is The Chaoyang Stranm > the
Erkeng Strcam > the Zhupaicihong Stream.
b. Thc comprehensive pollution indexes of organic pollutants account for ovcr 90% of the
total. while those of heavN mctals account for only a small ratio So the pollution of the threce
rivcrs is mainly caused by organic mattcrs.
c. Analysis of their comprchensivc pollution indcxcs shows that the pollution of the
Chaoyang  Stream.  Erkeng  Strcam. Zlhupaichong  Stream. Tingzichong  Strcam  and
Shuitangjiang Stream arc getting worse ycar by year. This is caused by the rapid devclopment
of econom' and the increasc of population of the invcstigatcd regions wvithout syxnchronized
waste water treating facilities.
(2) GeIIeral situation of watcr qualitv of the Nanning segment of the Yongjiang River
The Yongjiang River provides the maini sourcc of w atcr for the city of Nanning. It has a
total Icngthi of I 34km and the its upper strcams arc the Yongiiang River in Yunnan Provincc
and thc Zuojiang Rivcr it \'iet Nam. To monitor thc changc of tts x\ater qualittv, cnvironmcntal
protection institutions chiosc a contrasting scction, a control section. and a cutting section at
Laokou bceforc it flows into thc citv. both at thIC Slhuitangjianlg Strean where it flows out of the
citv and at I'Lmiao in its lower reach
30



250
200 -
150
iug/1 loo'-X/                                                             1-30D1
100 
50                            ,
0
Chaoyangxi  Zhupaichong  l'in-7ichon2  Shuitangjiang
25
20
m2/L 315                                                                   m 13-NN
10
S
o
Chaoyangxi    Erkeng    Zhupaicliong l'ingzclhoiig Shuttang tlang
50
40
30
mgI '~ 70\ioil 
20                                                                      Ol
Chi.loyaligxm    E.rk:n   Zhulpaichlong   111°7i:izlioitt, Slitittanl ilanig
1200
10(
12-P. 00
80()/\
IngI. 60)0                               /4- \) +                              l)
400
200
ChalowangI     l.irke:tg  Zhipaicihons  1'inUlcilOing   Shult,: n,::
Fig. 3-2   Results of Monitoring thc Chaovang Stream andl Other Strc;tms
I1



A. Results monitored and their anal-sis
Table 3-5-2 and Fig. 3-3 show  the results monitored at those sections in 1992-94  The
data reveal that the wvater quality of the Yongjiang River is fairly good before it flows into the
urban area of Nanning. Most items are within the standard for Grade [II surface water set by
the state, except a few items (SS, oil and NH3-N). Its water quality remarkablv deteriorates to
worse than Grade [11 surface water after it flowvs through the urban areas is it is affected by the
waste water discharged into it,
B. Assessment of water qualitv
The order of wvater quality pollution: Shuitangiang > Pumiao >Laokou.
Table 3-5-2 Monitored Results of the Shuitang Stream
on the Yongjiang River, 1992-1994
unit: mg/L (except that of pH and other%%ise noted)
I[ten                 lokou                        Shuitangjiang                      Pumiao
1992       1993       1994      1992       1993       1994      1992       1993       1994
pEI             8.24       8.27       S. IS     S. IS      8.02       8.03
SS              13S.4      60.9       133.0    49 6        102.8      66.4      74.30      64.9        58.7
lI ardesz (G)    73.75    77.74                 7S.14      79 73                76 69      78 13
IX)             7.18      6.72        6.65      5.61       5.34       5.11      5.38       4.63       4.80
C(oD.\Itl       2.17       2.75       3.48      3.31       4.88       4.60      2.75       3.50        3 76
130)D          0.63       0.53        1.2       1.84       1.87       2.28      0 92       0 98        1.1
NiXl-N          0 065      0 068      0094-   0.539        0 573      0 597    0 374       0 444      0 505
NO->-N         0 010      0 0012      0.015    0 01l      0 1I       0.025    0 016       0.0oS      0.(19
NOi.N           0 5x7     0634        0.598    0.574       0.597      0 583    0 597       061S       0.573
P'henol        00(1)       0001      0.001     0001      0001       0.001    0 001       0.001      0.001
C\              0.002      0 02       0.O0I    0002        0 002      0.002    o 002       0 002       0.002
_       _       0.0039    0.0037      0.004    0 0043      0.0055     0.005    0.0036      0.0035     0.005
I ig  pg 1.    0.05        0 05       0.05      0.05       0.15       0.05      0n II      0 05        0.05
Cr           0 0.002      0002       0.002    0 002       (.()02     0.002    0.002       O 002       0.002
1P. pgL         0.8        0 8        1.0       0.8       0(          0.        08 o       0 8         1.0
C d    1ig 1.   0.035      0.(35      0.035   0o035        0.035      0.o       0 035      0.035       0.8
OI1             0.034      ) 026      0.02      0 116      0.922      0.002    0 025       0.025       0.02
. ndutiavitv    232 0      247        260       243        251         248      244 7      254         259
The wvatcr quality at thc cutting section. i.c. Pumiao section is a littic bctter than that of
Shutatialnjiang scction. but not as good as that of the contrasting  section, stiggestiig  that
l)ollutants discharged into the river from  the citv of Nanning have been wholly degraded and
self cleaned at Pumiao of Yongjiang County, still posing as a thrcat to the lifc of inihabitants in
32



Pumiao and its lowvcr reaches. Therefore, pollutants discharged by the city of Nanning must bc
controlled or cut.
ElCOD
E BOD
ONO'-
92 93  94  92  93 94 92  93  94
Laokott   Shuitanlipang   Pirniao
Fig 3-3 The Results Monitored at Those Sections of the Yongjiang River
2 Monitonrng and assessment of existing water environmental quality
(1). That of the construction area
The areas investigated mainly include the Chaovang Stream. the Erkeng Stream. thc
Zhupaichong Strcam, and the Nanning scgment of the Yongjiang River. All together 9
monitoring polints wvere chosen, of which 3 werc on thc Chaoxang Strcam (rcspectively at its
upper, middle and lower rcaches), one on thc Erkeng Stream and 2 on the Zhupaichong Strcam
(at its upper and lower rcachcs). Another monitoring point was chosen at the junction where
tiic three tributaries flow into the Y'ongjiang Rivcr. At the samc time hydrological data and
water samples at the outicts of the water mills as well as data of watcr quality of the upper and
lo"xer reachies of the Yongjiang River xNere also collccted Sce Fig 3-2-1 for thc localities of the
monitoring points
A. Results of watcr quality monitored
NMonitored rcsults arc lists in Table 3-5-3.
B Asscssmcnt of watcr quality
See Tabic 3-5-4 for thc pollution indcx of the itcms of tile Cilaovang Strcam. the Erkcng
Stream and thc Zhupaicihonig Stream. The table reveals that thc index of items likc COD.
BOD;. NH-.-N. coli. Hg and petroleum all cxcecd the standard. The comprchensivc index is
4 QS. being seniously polluted.
Thc index ot' COD. BOD;. NH;-N. coli. Hg and pctrolcuml in the Erkcng Stream all
exceed tilh standard. Thic comprchcnsivc index is 2.68, being seriously pollutcd.
Tnhc index of COD. BOD,. NH.-N. coli. Hg and petrolctum in thc Zhtipaichonig Strcam all
cxceed tihe stanidard. The comprehensive index is 2.32. being scriously polluted.
It can also be scen from Table --54, influenced bv the three tributaries. the indcx of
COD. BOD.. NI L;-N, coli. Hg and petroletim at their inilcts into the Yongiiang Rivcr all excecd
thte standard. mvith comprilehensive index respectively at 2.19, 2.40. and 0 6 1. respectivcly being
scriously polluted. seriously polluted. and lightly pollutcd.
33



Table 3-5-3 Results of water quality monitored
River       item      SS      CODCr  BOD,  NH-N  NO-N    NO-N   Hg pigL  As                 oil      coli
Chaovang    Average  71       211       87      21 S5  010    0046    2.56    0007    3 00         5 87xlO
Strean      ratio'    33       100      67      100     0        0        100      0        67        100
Erkeng      Average  68        156      77      6.595   008      0022    0.22      0.009    5 2.      2IO
Streani     ratio     0       100       100    67       0        0        67       0         100      300
Zhupaichong  Average  130      150      3s      8.643   0.38     0.032    0.05     0.011 2O            8.OxI0
Stream      ratio.    50       100      83      100     0        0        147      0         300      100
Outlet of   Avcrage  42       4.73      5       0 ss4   0.36     0.030    0.03     0.004    13        s. lx1.0
Chaovang    ratio*    O       0         67      100     0        0        0        0         100      300
Outkt of    Average  22.3    5.2        43      0.76    0.54     0.030    0.003    0.006    1.4       8.3xlO
Erkeng      ratio'    0       33        67      100     0        0        0        0        300       300
Outlit of    Avcrage  55      3.5       1       0 0o179   0.64   0.025    0.001    0.009    0.13      S. I x10
Zhupaichong  ratio'    0      0         67      0       0        0        0        0         33       300
Se:tion of    Avcrage  33     2.4       I.2     0 tS4   0,65     0.028    0.001    0.004    0 02      2.0xlO
Sasuq ao    ratio.    0       0         00 o0                             0        0         0       0
Setion of    Average  26      2.7      3I5    0o -O   0.60       0.032    0.001    0005    0 02       2 4xlO
Slituuangjaang ratio'    0    0         67      0       0        0        0        0         0
Note ratio I is ratio ol exceeding standard
Table 3-54  Pollution Index
.rcam    Ss    C(I)-, HO()D, Ntl1- N0(-N  %() -N  fig          A         phenol   oil      I 'r1de'x   ]kllutiol
Ns                      utg!!.       .             .                  I degree
Clijoyatu  )J7   S4    3109   437    0         OOJ   0050   2 56  00 7   0.31     30       48 J      I
E rkeng   (1 45  6.2    9 6   332   000    0020    220        0.09       0.10     52 22     6        I
/hupai   08 7  60 f    4     117.3  0.007   003o   0 50       0.11       0.20      2.3     2.        1
Outket of  0 2X  0.79   3.2   3.8   0.02    (1 20    ( 30     0.08       020       2.6     2.19      I
Cls"!aovan                                                     _______
ut1te:t 1f 0X  0X7   1.1   3.4   (1.0I   (o20    0 to         0.12      0.20      2.8     240       3
Erkeng                I_I_I
luikltof  (1.37  0.58   2.X   0.4   0.03    00       0 10     0.18       0.20      2 6     0 61 
ScLtiosi ol tl22  (040   0.55   0.37  0.03    (.19    0 10     0.08      0o21      040    028       3
Salnitao       I__I                                                I__II_
Secmonol 0 17  0.45   0.25   0.54  0.03    0.21      (10      0 10       0.2tJ    0 4      0.30     -3
Shllitasig        _
I Senously polluted   2. light polluted    3 fairly clean
.34



3.5.2 Atmospheric environmental qtialitv
I .Background situation of atmospheric environment
This assessment makes use of the results monitored at four points in Nanning City in
1991-1994 for the analysis on cxisting atmospheric environmental quality of Nanning. The
results reflect the background values of the atmospheric environment of the planned project.
(I). Analvsis on the results monitored
A. SO0
Table 3-5-5 Average Daily Value of S02 Monitored over Nanning, 1991-94
3
unit: mg/Nm
Y'ear   Qingshan     M1unicipal          Bcihu    Qu Agricultural      No. 2 Radio      Average of
Monitoring Station            Sclool              Factory         the City
1991   0.016         0.040               0.024    0.036                0.057            0.039
1992    0.023        0.093               0.057    0.036                0 i 10           0.074
1993    0.023        0.090               0.079    0.054                0.08            0.078
1994    0.024        0.056               0.057    0.050                0 0oo            0.066
Ave    0.022          0.070              0.054     0.044                0 089           0.064
The table shows that the average daily value of SO2 of the four vcars is 0.064mg/Nm3. a
little over the standard for Grade 11 atmosphere set by the state. It showed a tendencv of
increasing in 1992-93. being respectively 0.074mgtNm-' and 0.078mg/Nm3. 0.23 and 0.30
times over the standard. The average concentration over the years is t hc highest at the point at
No.2 Radio Factor, being as high as 0.089mg/Nm3, followed  by that at the Municipal
Monitoring Station, being 0.070mg/Nm3. also over the standard for Grade II atmosphere. As
tile amount of SO, will increase along with the development of the city's construction and
uidustry and the increase of coisumilptioni of coal. it is estimated that thic concentration of SO,
in the atmosphiere will continue to exceed the standard.
B. TSP
Table 3-5-6 Avcrage Daily Value of TSP Monitored over Nanning, 1991-94
unit: mg/Nmn
Yca.r    Qingshall *,   lliictipl Monitoring   lkcihu  Qui Agrciultural  Ni, 2 Raidio   Avcragc or
St;zt on                         School            Fiactorv         thc City
1991    0.1(1        0 128                0.358     (t.51               0 23.           0 219
1992    00ox2        0 126                0.209       0.121             0241            0 174
l99,    0(.95        0.242                0.274       0, 168            ( 154           0.210
1994   (1J.A)4       0.211                0.232      0 17(0             0 IX6           0 200
.\sc.    0.096      10.177                0.268       0 15.              (205           0201
35



The table shows that the average value of TSP of the urban areas over the four vears is
0.201mg/Nm', within the standard for Grade 11 atmosphere, but exceeding  the standard for
cities in the south of China set by the state (0.2mg/Nm3). It wvas the highest in 1991, at
0.21mg/Nm3. Of the points monitored, the average value at Beihu is the highest, being
0.268mg/Nm3, followed by that at No.2 Radio Factory, at 0.205mg/Nm3.
C. NOx
Table 3-5-7 Average Daily Value of NOx Monitored over Nanning, 1991-94
unit: mg/Nm'
Y car    Qingshan    %tunicipal       Llcihu     Qu Agncultural   No. 2 Radio     Average of
.__onitonng Station          School            Fadon.         the City
1991    0.007      0.10               0.012     0.008             0.017           0.012
1992    0.006      0.011              0.009     0.006             0.019           0.011
1993    0.006      0.011              0.011     0.007             0.008           0.009
1994    0.006      0.008              0.007     0.007             0.009           0.008
Ac    0.006        0.10              0.009      0.007            0.013                 _
The daily average concentration of NOx of the atmosphere fluctuated between 0.008 and
0.012mg/Nm3. with not much variancc and shoxving fairly light pollution. but within the
standard for Grade I atmospherc. So are the values monitored at all the points.
2. Assessment of the atmospheric environrment
Comprehensive index method is uscd in the assessmenit. Table 3-5-8 shows the avcrage
pollution load of TSP ranks thc highest. at 58.99%, followed by SO. at 32.02%. that of NOx
being thc smallest, at 8.99%. So it can bc seen that TSP and SO0  are the major pollutants
affecting thc city of Nanning.
Table 3-5-8 Comprehensive Index Assessment of the Atmospheric
_____________ Environmental Quality of Nanning
11cI  _                  1991          1992         1993         1994            Load Ratio
SO2)    Daily Avrage    (0.032          0.074       0 078         0 066                  _
pi               n 21          0.49         0 52         0.44
I:i              (1 198        0.445        0 397        0.295           32.02%
TSI'   DIaily Avcragc     0 219         0.174       0,210           200
Pli              0730.58070067_ 7.  n jX() 71               fi7
( 69          (.)527      0 588         0 619          59 98%
No\    D)ailv Average    - (1(112       (01 1       (419)        0 00g                  _
l'i               0l  I1_      (1. 11       009           00')           ___ 12
0 |113      0. 11()      0.0611 (0C86 ,9./9
__________   l'i  I   06        1.IX         131          115  _06_            _ I  ;l II _1
36



2. Assessment of atmospheric environmental qualitv
According to the assessment outline, the items monitored are TSP and bad smell. 5
monitoring points wvere selected, at which samples were taken for three days i.n succession.
(1). TSP
Results monitored arc summed up in Table 3-5-9. It showvs that the TSP is from 0.05 to
0.58mg/m'. except the 2-. other stations arc exceeded standard for Grade 11 atmosphere. The
3 point monitored is the highest, maximum times is 0.93.
Table 3-5-9   Monitored Atmospheric TSP                               unit: mg/Nm3
N     Location of           3-day      Range      Number       Number of      Standard      Maximum
o.    Monitonng             Average               of           Standard       Exceeding     Times
Samplcs     Exceeding      °e
I =  Monitonig St3tzion     0.1B       0.05-0.36    12        2               1 7          0.2
2     Bureau of lindustrv and   0.15   0.06-0.22    12         0              0
Conirnen:c
3     Prefecturc Bureau of'  0.24      0.10-0 58    1 2        2              1             0.93
Agriculture:          I__ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _               _ _ _ _ _ _ _
4_    Chengbei Branic of    U 21       0.09-0 49    12         2              17            0.63
Public Secuntv Bureau                                                       _
5    Traflic Police         0 16       0.05-0 44   12          I              8             0.46
_ Ieadqunrtrs
(2) Foul smell
Thc Chaoyang Strcamii has had foul smiels for a long timc. MIonitored rcsults arc listed in
Tablc 3-5- 1 0
Table 3-5-10 Foul Smell Monitored over the Chaoyang Stream
Location                      Statc of foul smiecll
Wk'alking Tractor factory    Normal
Xiuxiang Road Bridge          Hydrogen sulfidc can bc smlclcd Ini from the river
Prefecturc Hospital           Hydrogen sulfidc can bc sncllcd 20m  from the river
Nanmian Bridgc                 Hydrogen sulfide can bc smcllcd 20m  fronm the river
Y-ouai Bridgc                 Hydrogen sulfide can bc smcllcd 30ni from the river
J. .. 3 Noise e'nvlronntalc7J quahit
1. Background nolis cnvironmicintal situation
(I). Noise pollution at function districts
The Citv noisc sources arc various, incitiding thosc of daily life. traffic. industn- and
37



construction. See Table 3-5- I I for the results monitored ov er the noise in a 24-hour succession
in functional regions in Nanning from 1989 to 1994.. It shows noise pollution in the functional
regions of the city of Nanning has been increasing from 1989 to 1993.
Table 3-11 Noise Level Nionitored in 24-hour Succession in Nanning
unit: dB(A
Year  -Month Special lining  Inhabitant    Type I        Type If        Industrial    Along the road
quarten      cultural       niixed area   mixed area      quarters
quanrc
Ld   dL Ld           La      La    Ln       Ld    La       Ld    Ln   Ld    Lnl    Ld.   Ln:
1989  Jan.  49.1  43.8   56.7   48.7   59 7   51 1   56 8   48.1   61.5  55 8  70 1  64 4   65.8  61 2
1990         54.2  49.8   54.2   46.6   57.9  48.4   59.5   53.9   61.0  548  684   61 4   63.2  58 1
1991  to    54.0  48.1   52.4   44 1   60 3   51.5   59.8  48.6   60.0  54.1  71 5   67 1  69.2  63.9
1992         50.6  44.5   51.6   43 4   61.0  47.9   60.5   48.6   62.2  53.0  69 S   62.8   71.7  64 1
1993   Mar. 47.0  43.2   51.6   40.7   604   54 1   57 1   51.0   59.8  52.2  744   670   70.9  60.8
1989   Apr.  56.3  54.0   54.0   51.6   56.4  52.5   57.1   52.4   59.1  55.1  6-4   579   62.2  56.8
1990         48.5  45.3   52.2   48.9   59.4  45.4   57 8   51.1   61.1   546  7 )  63 6   63.6   574
1991  to    53.4  48.4   54.5   51.0   58 4   429    57 8   50.8   59.3  520  69 *:  65 1   69.7  59 2
1992         52.1   48.0   50.9   43.4   59.9  46.1   567   45.3   62.6  584   69 8   54 0   71.9   68 9
1993  Jttn.  50.9  43 8    52 5   48 4   61.3  47.8   65 1   53.6   59.6  52 0  6S I   59 6   68f X   65 0
1989  Jul.  58.1   55.3   55 6   52.4   62.0   55.0   62.3   56.4   60.3  54 0  69 9   64 0   66.1  59 8
1990         50.2   47 1    501   45.5   56    500    57.9   623    58.3  53    .           5 5   64 6   5S 
1991  to   4J9   417    558   506    564   442    614   53.9   548   50 6  6S:   645   674   601
1992         49.1   43 3    48 7   19 5   56 6   42 3   64 1   47.4   57.6  51 Q  6')s  64 5   71.4  66 8
1993  S.   558   545    594   510    549   50t6           92   53.1  5584   529            640   fi91   658
19S'9 (Ot   52.3  55.3   55 6   500 5O       0   4S 1  61 5   54.1   60.3  52 5       9   61*   h  64.6   590 
1991)        518   46.4   56.0   453    599   471    627   50.8   61.9  555  ' 1  649   676   601
1991  tli    49.6  42.6   51 4   425   6i 9   44 9    57 9   47.3   62.1  t15  __           71 0   72.0  64 4
1992         52.4   450    52 1   40 1   61 5   466    61 9   48.1   60.8   5           I t   6i  0   734   650
1991  Nov.  53.4   45 9    54 9   47.0   60 6   58 9    56 7   44.8   64.8  578 6S      ' I 614   69.3  6i6 6
19X9  wihoh: 53.3  50 5   54 8   50 7    590   517    59 4   52.8   60.3  54'4  (S 1  62 (   647   592
199(1  % ar  51 2   47 1   5 1   46.6    5 3   47 7   59 5   52.0   60.6  54 6  *-N N   6fi I   64 X   R 5
1991         51.5   452    540   470    59'2   459    592   50.2   59.0  526  -I -   66.9   69.6   61.9
1992         51.0   45 2    50 8   41      59   45 7   60 X   46.8   60.X   53              6:1   72.1   662
1993         51    46       54     46 X    59 3   52-    5-5   50.6   60.6  51        .       1)   695   64 6
(2) Traffic noise pollution
From  Tablc 3-5-12 it can be senCI that the averagc flowv of  ehicles in Naniiing in 1994
3S



increased 111.28% than that of 1991. The avcrage traffic noise in the roads in 1994 reached
74. IdB(A). \vith an increasc of 4. IdB(A) over that of the previous year.
Table 3-5-12 Comprehensive Statistics of Traffic Noise along Trunk Lines of Traffic
unit: dB(A)
Average  road   Average load   Weilghted average                         Average car
Year    lentllh (kil)    \vidth (in)    tralfic noise Leq    [lo    [.50    L90   flow     ()er
hour)
1989     54.17           29             70.5               72 8    67.0   61 5   599
1990     54.17           30             71.4              74 1   67.4   61 9    544
1991     54.18           30             72.3              74 8    68.5   62 9   665
1992     61.93           30             70.9              73?    67.0   61.4   774
1993     62.0            30             70.0              72.4   67.6   63 .5   10(8
1994     62.0            30             74.1          _   ?56    69.4   64 5    1405
3 Monitoring and assessment of the existing noisc environment
lic assessment used the grid points method with key points at highly sensitive area and
road crosscs. Altogether 21 monitoring points were chosen Timc monitored were May 29 to
31. 199'. at 7:00 - 18:00 hours during daytime and at 22 00 to 6:00 hours at night See Fig 3-
5- 13 for their averagc value of noise level.
bjill                                      TThe average value of cquivalcnt noise
1 600                                      level monitorcd duritig day timc is 58 9dB(A).
14z)0(1                     /               falling within the standard for Type 11 area
1o00                                       set in "Urban  Arca  Environmental Noise
80 -                                       Standard".  that  at  night  is  55 4dB(A).
4(1(1                                      exceeding the standard by 5 4dB(A) Of all
2( )                                       the values miolnitorcd during the threc days.
(i ''29 excecd the standard during day tUieC. wvith
1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994           a standard excecding MtC of 46 03%: 50
values nionitored at exceed the standard with
Fi. 3-5   Average Car flow in N'anning        a standard excceding rate of 80 6i5`%o The
average  value  at  10  points cxcccd  the
standard durinig daytimic. accountinig for 47.62%/4 of all tile points. IX excecd the standard at
nighit. accoulitinig for 85.71 %  It can thus be seen that noilsC pollution is very scrious in thc
arcas assessed. cspccially at nighit.
Of all the monitorinig points. thc equivalent noisc Ievcl at points No. 12, No.3. and No 14 arc
the highicst both during day timie and at nighit. P'oint No 1 2 is located indtie juncture of' busy
traffic. while points No.3 and No 14 havc more complicated noise sources as thev arc locatcd
in downtonvii areas, where noisc comes from  traffic. constmiction, peopie's life aild othcr
39



sources. Point No. 18 is geographically remote wvithout anv strong noise source nearbv, thus
monitored noise level there is comparativelv loxv
Table 3-5-13 Average Value of Noise Level Monitored                                    unit: dB(A)
No.     Monitonng            Time          Average       No.    Monitoring Location         Time         Average
Location                           Value                                                        Value
Monitored     _Nonitored
I =     No. I Professional   Day Timle     53.6          12     Entrance to                Da% Tmne    72.1
I ligh School       Night          50.6                 Beihunan Road              Night        63.6
2       Bureau of Industry    Day Time     52.7          13       - Hospital for Woman      DJ! Time    53.7
atd Convierce       Night          52.5                 and Children               Night         49.7
3       Red Cross            Day Tinie     65.5          14      Xiaojinshan                D7ty Tinme    65.0
Hospital            Nighit         63.7                                            Night        64.1
4       No.9 Hfigh S-hool    Day Time      61.7          15      District People's          Da% Timne    58.7
Night         58.3                 Congress                   Ntpht         57.0
5      No. 13 Higih         Day Time      59 S          16      Municipal People's         DJ! Time    55.8
Sciool              Nighlt         50.7                 Congress                   Nitcht        49.9
6       No.28 High           Day Time       54.2         17'    No. I Hospital attached to    DJ!% Timc    57.9
College of Traditional
SciJool             Night          50.7                 Chinese  Wedicinc          Night         56.4
7       Nationality          Day Tinie     61.6         IS       Langdong                   Da% Time    35 1
Ilosputal           Niglht         57 7                                            Nieitt       44.5
t       IkithU  inlabitant    Dav lime     63 4                  Pulmpl statioll            D, Tame    63.2
quancrs             NlgJlt         54                                               Nlght        63.3
.)      Suburbs              Diy Time       58 0         '0     JiaiItiaI l)istrnt          Da.% Tiliw    60 S
Go.enumelit         Night          51.-                 Goovernment                \aeht         55 1
I ()    Nnauig               I)DaI -stime  63.'         21 I     Nanuiing Ticatcr           Dx. Timc    53.5
Prefeettirc
Panw ConumitteC     Nilt           544                                             Nadit         54.5
II      Jiannming i hospital    i)a 'rTime  63.4                 Average of                 Da! 'ITime    5S.9
_ _________________  Night         60 9                  all the powt.s             \idt          55.4
3 5.4 .Solid waste matiers
I. Background situation of solid waste in Nanning
Solid waste mattcrs in Nanninig mainly consist of industrial solid waste matters. daily life
garbage, and constructioni rcfLtsc. Thc total inidustrial solid waste matter produccd in Nanning
in 1994 was 558 goot. The rate of comprehensive utilization overceded 77O. In 1994 the citv
transported away 244 X)Ot of domcstic garbage. whosc rate of trcating %%as vcn  low, thus
40)



causing much pollution to the surrounding environment and ground wvatcr..
2. Monitoring and assessment of the sediment  the Chaoyang Stream.
Sec Table 3-5-14 for the results of the monitoring over the bottom  clay of the Chaovang
Stream.
Table 3-5-14 Bottom  Clay of the Chaoyang Stream  as Monitored
unit: mg/kg
Monitoring Point            AS      fHg       Zn       Cu        Cr       O)l     Iac.r(0o)   RI
Walking Tractor factory      2 10    0.28     2987    6086       161      663       7 2S       417
Coliegc ofChiniese Medicine  42.4    2.75     748      202       241      5248      6 00       4S8
Naiumian Bndge              40.      2.77     3955    94.5       284      2503      4.68       504
Youai Bridge                60.8    2.73      745      169       213      5769     407         494.9
Dakengkou                   27.6    2.63      594      83.8      163      3711      1 S0       450
The Hakanson  index method was adopted  in the assessing the potential ecological
hiarmfulness of heavy mctals in the bottom  clav. (For details. please see the assessment of
environmental influence of the construction period.) Results of anaklsis find out the fivc RI
values are all above 400, extremeln   harmful to ecology. The water body' will also be senously
polluted through wvater exchange. This deserves serious attention. Great care must be taken
wvhen using thc bottom  clay as fertilizcrs for farm  field and forests.
41



4. Predicted Environmental Impact and Controlling Measures
4.1 Recognition of environmental affecting factors and screening of factors to be
assessed
4. 1. 1 Purpose
Factors affecting the environment at different stages and their degree were studied
according to the characteristics of the construction to be undertaken for the project of'
comprehensive treatment of the Chaoyang Stream, and major environrmental problems which
might appear during the construction and operation of the project were screened out to be used
as basis for key assessments.
4.1.2 Methods of screening
The matrix method was used in the screening.
4. 1.3 Resul of screening
The rcsult of recognition of environmental affecting factors and screening of factors of the
proicct of comprehensivc treatment of the Chaovang Stream are listed in Tables 4-1- I and 4-
2.2.. those for the laving of drainage pipeline are listed in Tabics 4-1-3 and 4-1-4.
.llajor cnvironniental problcms and affecting factors of the project of the treatment the
Chaovang Stream
(I) Raised dust and noisc during construction affect the atmospheric quality and people's
life Cleaning away of the mud from the rivcr bed might causc secondary pollution.
(2) The impact of thc projcct is mainly positive when the projcct is complcted and put into
operation. while the ncgativc impact is local. as the sludge discharged by the water treating
plant might causc secondary pollution.
2. Major cmvironmcntal problems and affecting factors of the project of watcr sc\\-rs and
conduits
(A) Raiscd dust and noise during construction affcct thc atmospheric qualitv and people's
life, while the impacts is the mainly negative ori city traffic and inconvenience pcople's hLf
(B) TleC impact of the projcct is mainly positivc whcn the projcct is complctcd and put into
operation, while thc sicgativc impact is local. Pollutant from urban non-point sources and water
discharged by thc water treating plant might affect the quality of the rccciving watcr bodics But
thc impact on Lakc NanhU is long term and irreversible.
4.2 Analysis on the characteristics of environmental impact
See Table 4-2-1 for tihc positive and negative. long term and short term. reversible and
42



Aesthetic aid tourism                                                            7
0:                            -   -                        - - ___ - 
U      Culture heritage
_ Recreatiorl                         7                              7      1       4 C    _ _ 
c      Livirw standard         7      _       .                                    - _
_~  ~   iealth and sak'est                                                             -k _    >   7
AY   _  Social econom__
e _ Transportation                                                   7          7
_     Water supply quality            _
_  _ Agriculture
-  dCtvopnient
Industry development .
t   Land use               7      7                7      7
J i          Forest vegetation            _- _. __
-   .t  Aquatic ecology_ _
y   Cit% land scape               7      7                       7
F a irnmland ecololy                                                   - _  _
C2,      __    __    ___         -      -                            _    _ -   -   -
U rhban ecoiog         7 
o      Noise entvironnient                       7                                      7 - _
Atotiosphere quality                                                     7 - _
S Surfice water qluihlit       =
v     Surface water
=  ,; hydroloEy  ___________
_     GCrouind wvater quality  _
Ground water
'3  hy drology
-r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
L                        "a-a  -E  -s  -                                 C L
43



lTable 4-1-2 Affecting factors in theChaoyang Stream environmental comprehensive treating project (during operation)
Natural reso!i;cL s   =cog =                    cii rc9ourc%.   =           Socaial en irolmnleiit               I.il qu lit    =           __,_ '_ 'lCo USiVis
*teltotll&tielll  _~~                                                                                                         ~          ~          ~~~~~~ _  _ -~;;
SI.eIt,I *-.                                                                         *.m; -,1
L    |S   I 12 1'1: .l I X  C                                                             4. -4 - .
- -    -                     -    C                                          c. :                                        2 _  _ 
ISpludg  dislwm_              * I  2  2                                 _                            I      2                             I      2                       _         20
Cic ligratra io                                                  _              2 1                         I            t                2    . 1   _ I   + I           + I      Q
I apilig sietitl  _*
Sludgedispoal                    C.1           -                                                                      .2-                       -
Coli:ltisior}          I1   .9    +6    ,13    ,4         =      =          +1 ,0    +4      =      +3    +3    =         2      :2~    +1 +4          8    +5     =      9_
*33                                    17                                * 12                                  +46          _            10
Notc J--scrivus unipact, 2-- mcidititit imlpalmt I--lighlt imipact  "- vilcllpC,""Ilegatisve ililpacI



'I'able 4-1-3 Affecting  fncto  s in  Nianning CitySevage constr uction  project (during construction)
Nitural resodures    _                    .c        resl i  trces ocsocial enviroumenI                 _       _         khb (Ialitv                          Conclusion
I'r. e.ts- .%. aI                                                                               -2      *
Sels agcd  -oiut                           _        '     _...                                                              _      _~ .                             _                 _
1:    -       -~
dloramnlg  sstm:n*l
{1118.1.1  _
0                            ,..                                 *       _               ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Q.
Projectsov'W taller                                       .2-     1 r                                                                       .2      .                     12                    .
Sc%.is t,,dg.c,,isdti lIls't
Proecs ill' SC%% ageIItillt                               -2      r                     *2          I                                        31  -    I  2               . I            21       .12
I2 2II  .  _         _   _                                                                                         I    -2    -
4-                                                                       -       -      -       - -                     - -7  -6  *(  _ 4  *9  6  -7   -4  7
-16         2                            .12                   -16                                                    -12               .56



Table 4-1-4 Affectitig  factors itt Nanninig City Sewage concturction  project roject (during  operatioll)
Stage ttl'           VI           ~~~                                       ~L >¶                                                                - >->
ne-  -  -                              - -      ~
LIatural resourc"s  i:.eological tsrotwI -S  Soeial em irolunem                             Lile qualilx6  2                          o.)     l
C.                                                 U6 a0. ,'.~ 6    .      .    -.     .
0.  C.                        .-             -             I   ~                      0  C CL
I'rvjecls ol-\V.tef         *I       2      2 .12         I*2                          1      1.I                  .2                     t2      t 2    * I                                t   2  27/5
Se%w.rs                                                                                                                        I      I .  _  _  _                                  2
Proje,ts otS    ge          *I      *2     -2     *3    *I*2                           2                     I 62                         + 1     42       I   + I   + I           42 o25
Pipelilles~~~I- _    _              _        _. _- _                                  __
F   Proje.:ts ol n1aidificationl of'* I  2  . *   .1      I              2            * .1                         . I                    * 2 -2         + 2    + I    *I          .2        .2 5
JxJuliage s.Nstem ml old
adjull; ram k -.tier itiltos
mind Checkinig %%elb                                                   _                                         
desi0ling anJi mialliltetallce      +2     * 2     2                                  *2                            1             + 1             +2    +2    +I    +I t             I       t17
ofpipeliflc  I                                                                                      I -    I LI  --                    '   LIL 
subtotal                    -4    +'12                    3      =      *6     =       12    _       =      .2            =      t       +G_=                                      t8.
-17 .2                                                                  4 16                                  .6.-2
PWJ~L1SOII~~iI~  -I -2    -2    .3 -I  -2                                                                                           1 7-2 'I    '2  'I  '2    'I    'I    'I  +2  '25



irreversible, local and extensiv e impacts of the Chaoyang Stream  comprehensive treatment
project. Unfavorable impacts are basically during the construction period, of short temi and
reversible, while favorable impacts are basically during its operation. extensive and of long
tem     So after the project is put into operation, its major impact is favorable.
Table 4-2-1 Affectinig factors in the Cliaoyang Stream  environmental
comprehensive treating project (during construction)
Negative impact                            Positive impact
short   long    revemiv irrever- local   wide    short   long    wide   local
tenm    tesut    e       sive                     t.rm    term         _
Surfice watLer hvdrologs   s
Surface water qualitv    s
Natural     Ground waier hydrologv  s            =.                                =
resources    Ground water qcuaitv    | s '                              s_
Atimiosphere quality                                       .'
Noise environmentit
Urban ecology
Frramllarid ecology
Eology       Cityv landscape          |.
Resources   Aqluatic ccology          .______
Fores- %cgetatioui
ILa.nd use
Inidustry de.veelopriit
Soc.:,aI    A\Lrilittitrc &e%vioplitit                                                                             ____
cl:\ Ir 1ruentmei  Water sttppl!. qu1111\lX      
l'ransportatlon
social eccgonoivy
I Icalth and safest      s                                                  _ ,
living standard          s          _
Recreatio'                                                                           s
qiuzalax     Cuitire ltt ritagc                                             =
Acsthetic and iourisimn             ==
Note  'sliort-tenil--relirs to the period of constrcltion
*oiong-tenii--reklrs to lt:e period ot operaittioi
4-7



4.3 Prediction on the project's environmental effect during its construction
4.3. 1 Prediction on the project's environmental effect dzuring its constnrction of the project of
(haotvang .Stream renovation
A the construction of the project wvill last quite a long time and a number of construction
machines and vehicles for transportation wvill bc used. plus the large quantity of polluted bottom
clav. earth to be back filled and cast away as wcll as temporarily piled up construction;
materials. problems like construction noise. raised dust, foul smell, secondary pollution. traffic
blockage. and interruption of ecosvstem and city landscape will have negative impact on the
environment and cause much inconvenience to people's life and the environmnent.
1. Analvsis on the environmental impact of the dredoing of sediment on the river bottom
It is estimated that about 200,000m3 of sediment has to be dug up during the construction
of the project, of which large quantities of pollutants will accumulate. Thus the cleaning away.
transportation and disposal of the bottom clay will have certain impact on the environment.
1 PhMsical and chemical properties of sediment and major pollutants it contained
Besides natural causcs such as %,ind. prccipitation and falling dust, the serious deposit in
thc Chaoyang Stream is mainly caused by artificial factors like the deposit of suspcnded
stibstances from industrial waste watcr and se%vage. and garbage from industrics. construction.
municipal engineering and daily lifc. Large quantitics of brokcn bricks. glass. plastic. tree
leaves, bamboo bits werc found in the sampics of sediment taken from the river bed. Organic
matters contained in it includc deposited night soil not vet decomposed. castaways from the
kitclen and industrial organic castaways. inorganic sedimiients from  industrial waste water.
There is also products from thc decomposition of aquatic organisms and inorganic salts from
%%astc water. In a wvord, the composition of scdiment is vcr\ complicated.
(I) Organic contcnt in the sedimcnt of the Chaoyang Streamtl
Table 4-3-1 lists the organic content of the fivc samnpics of bottom clay takeni from the
upper. niddle and lower rcaches of the Chaoyang Stream.
Table 4-3-1 Organic Content in the Sediment of the Chaoyang Stream
S;anple Nutnbher   t.ocation                                Organic Conteni 1%)
I                [tipper Walking Tractor Factni             11 .3
2        ColIcec olCFraditional Chiiiiese Miedicine  25.2
3 "              NJmnnian Iridge                            12.1/
4_                Yotai L1ndae                              136
5"               Dakcinkou                                  6 5
(2)Contcnt of heavy metals. As. and mineral oil In sedimenit
As thc Chaovang Stream has been receivine %%astc water from over a hundred factories.
48



largc quantitics of heavv metals, As. and mineral oil have entered the bottom  clay through
exchange with the river water. Table 4-3-2 lists the content of these monitored.
Table 4-3-2 Content of Heavy Metals and Oil the Sediment of the Chaoyang Stream
unit: mg/kg
L.ocation                  As      12 Zo ;         Cu        Cr    Oil       Watcr(%)
Walking Tractor 1Tactor.   21  02    8   2,987    6,086       161     663    7.28
College oC Chinese Medicine   42 4   2 75  748       202     241   5,24S      6 00
Naniniaii Bridge           40 8   2 77   3,955        94.5   284   2,503   I 4.68
Youai Bridge               60 S   2 73     745       169     213   5,769    4-07
Dakengkotu                 27 6   2 63     594        83.8   163   3.711      1.80
(3) Analvsis of the potential ecological risk of heavy metals in the sediment
A. Index of potential harmfulness to the ecosvstem caused by heavy metals deposits
In order to give a quantitative analysis of such risk, the potential ecological risk index used by
the Swedish National Environmental Protection Agency and Lars Hakanson of the Pusala watcr
quality laborator-v was used in the study.
B. Mcthod used for the calculation of potential harrmful index(RI value)
a. The determination of singlc heavy mctal factor of contamination (Cif)
Cif = Ci surfaccJC n
C'f- pollution   coefficieit of a certain hcavy metal
C' surface - conceintratioln of that mietal measured at the surface of the sedimlent
Cln- refereniceX. valuc needed for calculation
b. The degrec of hicav  metal contaminationi (Cd) Is thc suilm of 1ally heavy metial
cocfficiciit.;
('ci =    C
c. The toxic responsc factor. or the Tfe valtic. can bc used to shov the toxic degrce of
heavv metals and thc sensibilitv of the \\atcr body to heavy metal pollutioln
d. Tnhc potential ecological risk factor of a certain hcav\ metal. or thc E14 valuc IS
determined in the following way:
Efe = Te -Ce
c. Thc poteintial ecological riski idcx of many heavy metals In thi sedimieiit. or the RI
valuc is dcteninieied in this a!
rI-I
I '     ,
49)



By summing up the above wve can get the following equation:
RJ=ZEE,- E         C T  e    C, I C,.
C. The determination of the indexes used in the assessment
a. Heavy metal concentration at the surface of scdinient
Thc value used was the onc actuallv measured.
b. Refcrence value used in calculation
The highest background values of the earth bcfore the industnralization were used as the
reference value for calculation.
D Heavy metals assessed
Toxic heavy metals Hg. As, Cu. Zn. and Cr were chosen in this asscssment.
E. Toxic coefficients of heavv metals
Heavv metal toxic coefficients provide information on heavy metals' harmfulness to human
body and aquatic ecological system. The sequence is like this: water - sediment - organism -fish
- human body. The problem can be discussed from manv angles. We mainly proceed from the
"principic of clement abundance" and "element releasing intensity" raised bv Hakanson. That is
to sav. the toxicity of a ccrtain heavv metal is related to its intensitv of release: the easier a
metal releases. the morc toxic it is. Processmg of a series of data finds out the order of the
toxicitv of the above five mctals is: Hg > As > Cu .> Cr > Zn. Standard processing of their
toxic cocfficicnts determnines their value as respectively Hg = 40. As = 10. Cu = 5. Cr = 2. Zn:=
I. See tables for the Te- value calculatcd from thesc figures.
Table 4-3-3 Maximum Background Values of lHeavy Mietals before Industrialization
Ullit=ppm
Ct                _   _     _ __C_r                .As               Ilg
__________________   j 175        90             j  5                (    25
_________________      Table 4-3-4 Potential Ecological Risk Factor
Ciu               7.ii             Cr              A     _s          _      _    _
I             1  '        .     1()               40
F. The division bcetwccn the harmfulncss to ecological system of hcavy metals in sediment.
ccological risk index. and degree of contaminiationi and thc relation between ccological risk
index Ej'
E! < 25      -light ccological risk
25 S Er <-C() --medium ccological risk
50 S Er' <I () --serious ccological risk
100 S Ef' <200--ycn scrious ccological risk



Ef' < 200    --extremely serious ecological nsk
The relation between potential ecological risk index RI and degree of contamination:
RI < 95 --light ecological risk
95 < RI < 190 --medium ecological risk
190 S RI < 380 --senous ecological risk
RI > 380 --very serious ecological risk
Table 4-3-5 Values Calculated against the Highest
Background Values before Industrialization
Ef'
Sample L.ocation           As      |fg       Cu       Zn        Cr          RI
Walking Tractor ihctor'   14.0      44.8     3 38     17        3 58       4i7
Collcee of Chinese Medicine   28.0  440       i1 2    4 27      5 36       488.8
Naiuian Bridge            27 2      443.2    5.25     22 6      6 32        504
YOLuli Bridge             40.5      436      94       4.26     4 74        494 9
D)akenrgkou                18.4     420      4 65     339       3 62       45()
The folloving conclusion can be draw,n after assessing the potential ecological risk of
heavv metals in the sediment bv using Hak-anson's methods Er' of As contained in samples
taken from the five sampling points raniges 14-40. of which three are of medium nsk: the Er' of
I Ig at four sampling points are all over 200. posing as very serious ecological fisk. The Ef of
Cu is above 200 at one point. also posing as very serious ecological risk. Tle Ef' of Zn and Cr
at all the points are less thani 25, posing no potential ecological risk. As for the RI of all the
heavy mietals, the values found at all the five points are above 38() (scrious ecological risk) Tne
bottom clay of the Chaoyang Streamil is seriously contamniated. major pollutants being Hg. As.
and Cu.
Simple treatnient for the landscape such as water supplement and coverng up without
dredging cannot get rid of the large quantities of heav  nietals contained in the sedinicit. which
\\ill be reieased to pollute the water even no more heavy mctals are to be disciharged into the
river. As the wvater in the region is acidic, heavy metals will be easily released into the water
bodv of thle river to cause sccondary pollutioni. And flood will bring pollutants from its bottom
cla\ of the Chaoyang Stream into thic Yongjiang Rivcr. polluting the latter
Besides. organic matters rot easilv at high temiipcrature in summer. releasting large
quLizntities of foul gasses. The fotul simell and flies and mosquitoes from it make people sufTer.
*-o sUIli Up, there are the followving probiems:
a. Large quantities of heavy metals and other pollutants are contained in the bottom clay of
tihe upper. middle. and lowcr segments of the river bed. comparatively more seriois in the
middle and lower reachies.
b Suppleentinlg \%ater wvithout dredging cannot clean away the pollutants which w'ill
SI



release into the wvater body to cause secondanr pollution, even to the Yon_iiang River in the
flood season-
c. Special methods should be used in digging up, and disposing the bottom clay containing
rich heavv metals and other pollutants.
d. High organic content in the bottom can be used as fertilizer.
II . Anal sis on the process of nrver bed dredging
The purpose of dredging is to ect rid of the pollutants in the bottom clay so as to remove
the internal pollution sources from within the water body. Consideration should be taken not
only for the feasibility and economical rationalit% but also for meeting environmental demands.
The length of the river bed to be dredged is about 8km. from the Nanning Heavy-duty
machinenr Plant to Daklengkou. See Table 4-3-6 for details.
Table 4-3-6 Dredging of the Rive Bed of the Chaoyang Stream
Range of Dredging              Stj2e  Lcngt  Investment  Widtl  Depthi  Earthw, ork  %
b_ (in)  (10 vuan)   (ni)    (ni)   tnm )
Youai Bridile to Dakengkou     199   3.01    9.1         18      2 7     110.250    55%
No.28 !fig2J Schlool to Youai Bride  1J9S  3.21   9.6    1 2     2 5       65.100   32%
fleav-duw  Machinery Pliant to    1999  2 13   3.0       8       15       25,560   13%
No. 28  ligh Schlool             _
Total                                 X.3-1   21.7                       2-) .910    100%
As thc total lengtih to be dredged is 8km. the total carthwork to be dug amounts to
200.91 Oni'. and drcdging is cstimated to.be compicted in thrcc years from 1997 to 1999.
Ill. Dredging methods
Drcdging will bc donc after the river watcr is withdrawn. As the river bed of the Chaoyang
Stream is fairl narrow and the quantity of its water is not very largc. pollution intcrccpting
pipes will be built first and external w%ater sources cut tip. Reaming water will be pumpcd out
and the dredging "ill be donc after the rivcr bed is lcft to bc air dried for somc time.
Drcdging can be donc all the year round. B1ut as high temperature "%ill intensify. the
volatilization of toxic gasscs and rain water will wvash avav the bottom clay piled temporarily
to causc secondary pollution durine the rainy season, it is recommcnded to dredge the rivcr bed
in the drn scason.
As the carthwork to be dug is not very muci but the dredging sitc -will strctch a long
distance throtigih densclv populated inhabitant quarters. the constniction unit has decided to
carm  out the dredging by both men and macihincs as machines cannot be used in manv parts
ThIe whole job will last threc ycars. averaging only 2km/a. Though the progress will be slow in
this wav, it will causc lcss distirbance to the pcopic living nearby as therc wvill bc less and
shortcr noise from the machines.
IV. Analhsis of the environmental impact during the dredging
(I) Analysis on noisc pollutioni
52



Machines like excavators, bulldozers and transporting vehicles used in the process of
drcdging xvill produce noises of high levels affecting surrounding environment, especially sound
sensitive areas. Investigation found cxcavators, bulldozers and loading machines can produce
noisc of 95dB(A), and the enginc starting of heavy trucks can producc noise of 95dB(A).The
folloving formulas can bc used to calculatc th1e wveakening of these noise sourccs as the distance
from thcm increases
L. = LI -201g7 Iy  -AL
In %vhich: Yi. y:--- distance from noisc source, m
LI. Li. -- noise level at the distance of yj. -'!. dB(A)
A L -- influence of buildings. trees. etc. on noise, dB(A)
Calculation finds out that for a noise source xith a level of 95dB(A). the noise level can
stili reach 68dB(A) at the distance of 20m from it, 62dB(A) at 40n, 58dB(A) at 60m, 57dB(A)
at 80m, and 54dB(A) at 100m. According to the standard for Type I area in the "Standard for
Urban Area Environmental Noise Lcvel", that is inhabitant. cultural and educational quarters.
noise level therc should be belowv 53dB(A) during day tLmc. for Type 11 area, that is inhabitant.
cotmnmercial. and mixed industrial quarters, it should be below 6OdB(A). Noise sensitive places
along thc Chaoyang Stream like thc Beihu inhabitant quarters. the Nationalitv Hospital. and the
Guangxi College of Traditional Chinese Mcdicine will be affccted, and tihe noise level in tile
inhabitanit and comniercial quarters in thc lowver reaches of Youai Bridge will exceed the
standard by 2-5cdB(A). Accordtng to the planned progress of the dredging. it is estimated each
noise sensitive point wvill bc affected for about 20-30 days
(2) Anal\ysis of the Impact of temporarily piled sediment to the civironment
If not transportcd away in timc tile sedimnctt piled along thc rivcr bank will produce foul
smiell, fonr  raised dust when aired dry and blownn by wvind. and bc washed to spread by rain
water and causc secondary pollution to surrounding soil. xvater bodies, ground water and the
atmosphere throughi soaking. secpinig. leachinig. and volatilization T-hus toxic substances and
causative agents \ill spread through thc mcdium of watcr and the atm1osphere. Obscrvation has
founid that thc surface of sedimiient containing 20% of water pilcd along the bank of thic river w\ill
become dry in a few davs \tith a wind spced of 2 Sm/s. TSP in the raiscd dust from  the
scdiment pile can affect as far as 15O;im in thc leeward direction. Withill that rangc thc
conccntrationi of TSP in the atmosphcrc may rcachi 490ugim3. about 1 .6 times of the standard
for Grade It of environmental atmosplheric quality. Without rain. part of the 20%, of water
containicd in thc bottom clay w%ill cvaporatc into the atmosphere, part w\ill soak through the
bottom of the pilc to flow to lo'v lying places to spread its pollutants. In case 50% of the water
soaks out. therc will bc altogether about 20000ii(0   of soakage. \%hich will contain 20.000nmg/l,
of 30D5 and 30)000nmg/L of COD. forming a scrious secoridarv pollution source. lHeav  rain
Of storm wvill wash awvay all thc sedimcnt pilcd. thus causinig more serious secondary pollution.
This equals shifling the polluted bottomil clay to thc ground surface to be disseminated to larger
areas and it \vill be almost impossible to "gather it up" aeamn.
j3



Sediment piled up along the river bank also affects the landscape of the city if not removed
in timc. Investigation found out the foul smell it gives out can reach the 4th grade. (Intensitv of
foul smell can be divided into 6 grades from grade 0 to grade 5: grade 3 gives out obvious foul
smcll. grade 4 gives out strong foul smell: and grade 5 is extremelv foul.) producing veny
unpleasant sensation. The foul smell is caused by substances like ammonia, hydrogen sulfide.
volatile alcohol, aldchvdc, and acid produced in the anaerobic decomposition of organic matters
contained in the bottom clav.
V. Analvsis on the environmcntal impact during the transportation of bottom clay
The following environmental impact w\ill be caused during the transportation of bottom
clav:
(I) Poor sealing during transportation or the bottom  clay being too thin \ill cause
droppings along the transpiration route to harm the environment.
(2) Vehicles transporting bottom clay \ill add to the crowdness of traffic.
It is reconunended that the following measures be taken in the transportation of bottom
clav:
a. Use well sealcd garbage vehicles or ordinary trucks lined with double weaved cloth and
covercd with tarpaulin to prevent bottoni clay from dropping out;
b. Directl) load the bottom clay dug up unto transportation vehicIes during machinc
operation so as to reduce its chances to touch the ground at thc construction site:
c. Statistics from road traffic noise monitoring found out:
Normal vehiclc flowv of the area is about 1,00-3.000/h. Trucks with loadinig capacity of 4t
' ill be employed to transport the bottom clay for a total of 10 vehicle times/d singlc ways.,
and if countcd double wav, it mcanls 300 times. 4o times will hiappcn in cach of thc 8 working
hours of a day. So it is estimatcd at least traffic flow will increase by 4% is Icss crowded roads.
and about 1% in crowded roads. Thcrcforc it is rccommended to carrn out the transportation
betorc and after nomial working hours so as to reduce tihc pressurc on traffic.
VI. Utilization of bottom clay as a rcsource for forests and thc closing of piling ground
(I) Fcasibilitt of using bottom clay for forcsts
Tlic total amount of sediment of the Chaoyang Stream to bc piled is about 200,000m3.
accordinig to the Municipal Environmental Moniitoring Station of Nanning. The Administration
of the Chaoyang Stream holds that scdimcnt dug up can be used as fertilizcr for lawns and trees
(but not for farm fields) and for hygiene land filling. The segment of thc Chaoyang Strcam from
thc Heavv-duty Machinerv Plant to No.28 Higih School contains about 25.560m' of sludge.
%--hich is only lightly polluted and can bc used as forcst fcrtilizer. Naining Medical Herbs
Gardcn can provide 27ha of piling ground. the transportation distancc averagcs 5kIm (based on
the intial plan of bottom clav disposal by Chaoyang Stream Administration).
The scdimcnt of thc Chao-yang Strcam contains much organic matters uld manm  trace
cleniets besides the three :iiaini clements of contained in fertilizer: N. P. and K. It can be used
as fcrtilizcr for forcsts to raise the soil's fertilitv and raise forestr) production.
(2) Secondarv pollutioni in fertilizing forests and its preventive nieasures



The shifting of chemical elements in soil is mainly carried by wvater. Washing and
cluviation by rain water ,will move pollutants contained in the bottom clay through surface
runoff and seepage, the former causing surface soil pollution along its wva and the latter carries
pollutants into the subsoil. Organic matters and oxidizes of Fc. Al. and Mn will be fixed in the
layer 20-30cm decp through absorption and complcxion. So proper amount of bottom clay used
as fertilizer for forests wvill not damage thie soil or pollute ground wvater.
The above analysis shows that the prevention of runoff pollution through rain water
cluviation and washing is the key link of techniques required. It should be pointed out that the
bottom clay transported to the botanical garden shiould be used in time, othervise it should be
piled in a planned way, with lining below and cover above to prevent it from being washed
away to pollute surface wvater or producing raised dust to pollute the atmosphere.
7. Sediment used for hygiene land filling and prediction on its environmental impact
Sediment of the segment of the Chaoyang Stream from No.28 High School to Dakengkou
cannot be used as fertilizer because in it much heavv metals have accumulated through deposit
over a long timc. Its total amount is about 175.350m3. accounting for 87% of the total
containcd in the sediment of the wholc of the Chaovang Stream. This amount is to be used for
sanitarv landfill according to the original plan. The feasibilitv report compiled by Bcijing
Municipal Engineering Institute suggests to open up a landfilling site in Yanziling, and the
Chaovang Straum  Administration suggests another location near Santang in the northeastern
suburbs of'the city (Fig. 4-1)
(I) General situation of Yanziling
Yanziling is in the northeast of the constricted city of Nanning. It was turned into a
inhabitant quartcrs in the latEc 80's. which nowl has 1.408l houseiholds wvith 5,342 people
Adjoinilig the quartcrs arc thc ActE Ienc Factor-v. Carton B3ox Mill. Leathier Clicmical Factor\-.
No.4 People's Hlospital. District Brancih of Electricity Desiginillg Institutc, Zhivaull Higil School.
Police School. Nomial School of Nationalities, and thc 5th Division of No. I Assembiling
Company of District Constnrction Corporation. Its surrounding areas arc undergoing furthcr
constructionl According to thic overall plan of the city. both thc cast and %vcst sidcs arc the oIx
direction for the city's furthcr spreading.
Yanziling is a hilly place to the cast of Wuming Highway and to the northi of Nannifl'-
Wuzhou H-lilhava". It consists of a hill wvith an eevation of I 18-I 32ni and thrce vallevs with an
elcvation of about 25m. It is located in the drainage arca of the ZhilIpaichiong Strcam. The top of
the hill is about 1.3i0m awia\ from the river. Thc flow directioni of rain gathered is mostl\
throughi densely populated quartcrs except the northi valley. \here thcrc are sparsc inhabitants
Watcr of the north valley is directwk dischargcd into thc Zhptipaicliong Stream. and water fronm
the west and soutil valleys flows inlto thc Naniliu Lake before it flows into the Zhtipaiclione
Stream.
In the \alleys are vast crop land anid pools, most of w%hichi are now used for agriculture
Thlic top of the hill is mostly of cla% -- dcposit of thc Quaternarv Period. Thei top laver of the
vallexs is of cultivatcd soil or silting clay. at about 2-3m deep. Belowv it is mostly weathered
. 



N
XC/  *1 i~f                    I S  
1/  \S   ;o            } a  !
4~~~~
-    \  S    ..                     \:                        Ls7dong~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~[  n
:            7     -    '  ii       \je         . 9               '/
er Fe~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~     - 
T                                                       0
"I~~~~~~~I 
.-        V -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 2!;       .  
Chaoyang strcam comprchousivc trcatmcnt  -t in  RoadlnniT TStream
~~~~~~~~-                               / .1. 
-  . .
A                     O
Location of filling ground site resettlement   t th e,/
Chaoyang stream compIeheusive treatment pr ect i'n Nanning city



niudclav and still below lies the rock laver. In somc localitics there is a laver of gravcl on top of
mudclav.
Ground water there is mostly stored in top layers. closclv related with surface water and
the change of seasons. The highest ground water level is over 1.5 below the ground surface. The
local people all use watcr supplied by the city's wvater supply network and nobody uscs ground
water. The quartcr has already built its initial road ncr"ork and its infrastructure is already in
shape and the quarters has a fairly sound administration system. Field investigation found no
garbage disposing ground in the area and there is no plan to build one there.
Considering thc fact that Yanzilng is within the 4km range of the dowrntown of Nanning
City, it is not advisable to build a garbage disposing ground there.
(2). Brief introduction to Santang
A. Climatic and hydrological conditions of the filling ground arca
Nanning City is located at the bank of the Yongjiang Rivcr in the olive-shaped flat
Nanning Basin. its ground surface elevation at 7 1.67-75 .67m, surrounded by low hills with
elevations from 200 to 500m. The average annual air tlmpcrature is 21 .6C, with an average
precipitation of 1.300num/a. The overwhelming wind of the ycar is thie eastward wind, the
average aniual wind speed being I.5-2.3mIs, with a maximum of 35.2m/s. Most part of the
urban areas are of Gradc If tcrraces. inclining to the middle of the river with a gradient of about
0.07% and the clevation of the tcrrace surface  beine 74-80m. 10-15m above normnal water
level of the YongIang River. Thc terraccs arc fonried of alluvial matters: braided subclay in the
upper layer. gray subsandy clay in thc middlc layer. and gravel in the under layer. wsith a total
depthi of 25-30m and ground wvater is 6-1i6m decp.
Within thc range of 0.5kim from thc Proposed filling ground is mostly familand groxineg
maize and a few\ placcs have somc bushes. Thc ccntcr of the filling ground is lo%\ M iv
surrouLided on three sidcs by small hills accessible by automobiles.
B. Principles for the scicction of bottom clay burial uround
The following principlcs should bc considered w%hen sclecting a burial ground to prevent
sccondary pollution:
a. In the leewav direction of the citv!
b. In thc loNvcr reaclies of the city's watcr source.
c. In the lower rcachcs of thc city's ground water.
d. Far a%%a% from inhabitant quartcrs and scener\ spots.
c. Meeting the demands of plans of the local government.
f. Mlecting the demands of the design of the project
g With convenient transpiration. and the road leading to it should be all weather road.
Ii. Seepinig rate of the soil < 10-7cm/s, and
i. The land is of fairlv reasonable price.
Of course it is hard to find a place compictely sati-tvIng the above conditions, howcver. it
is possibkl to select thc best place throughi comprchensi\ e analysis.
vVhat follows is an analvsis over the conditions of Santang (Pleasc refer to the tablc of
57



strata of Nanning Citv and its surrounding areas.)
First of all, a burial ground in Santang can meet above mentioned demands d. e. f. g. and i
Although the soil there is of E3, mainly consisting of sand rock, aleurolite, muddy sand rockc.
quartzose sand rock, and powvder-lined sandy mudstone, belonging to the structure of Oligocene
Series of the Tertiarv System of the Neozoic Etathem. Though it has a fairly high seeping rate.
it has little impact on ground water as it is far away from the urban areas of the city of Nanning.
which basicallv relies on the Yongjiang Rive for its water supply (accounting for over 90%)
The situation will remain so even till the vcar of 2010. Water sources on the Yongjiang River
are all located in the upper reaches of the outlet of the Chaoyang Strearn. Even with a little
entering the Yongjiang River through surface runoff. the water quality of the wvater sources on
the Yongjiang River will not be affected.
Though the overwhelming wind the year round is the east wind, what prevails in summer is
mostly the southeast wind which will bear no influence to the citv. The northeast wind in winter
vill affect the urban areas but the air temperature then is low and thus the influence is small.
So as a whole, the burial ground in Santang can basicaliy meet all the demands.
C. Possible environmental problems caused b' land filling
The bunral of bottom clav mav have the following environmental problems because the
bottom clay contains heavv metals:
a. Soakagc from the buried bottom clay may causc local pollution to the ground vater
nearb!;
b. Foul smell produced by the bottom clay may affect pcople nearby:
c. Soakage may affect surrounding familand: and
d. Washing and eluviation of rain water may cause pollution through surface runoff.
2. Prediction and analysis on the environmental impact of Waste water intcrception
pipeline network
Thcrc is so far no ideal sewage system in Nanning City. The one existing is basically to
reccive rain %zatcr and scewage together to be dircctly discharged into natural water bodics
nearby and finally to 1owv into the Yongjians River. Thc city's sewage system covcrs an area of
only 26knm. accountilig for only 38.2% of thc city's constructed area. (The average national
rate is 54.29%). Tlc average pcr capita length of scwagc pipeline in Nanning is only 0 2 Im
(\while tihc avcragc national ratc is O.5m).
Waste water intercepting pipelincs built in the early 60's are no longer in good function So
tlhis project bears great signilficancc not onl\ to the treatmcnt of thc Chaovang Strcam but also
to the overall sewage system of the whole citV.
i . Leigth and progress of the job
The constructioni of waste water intercepting project plans to build sewage pipelines along
both banks of thc Chaovang Strcam bclox\ Youai Bridge (thc ollC along the right bank \%ill join
the one along the cflt bank aflcr recciving waste water from the Erkeng Stream). "hich then
cross the Yongjiang Rivcr to join the trunk scewvagc pipelinc in Jiangbci District. A pumping
station is to be built at the juncture of pipelines from the left and the right banks.



Tnhc wholc construction is to be completed in 5 ycar sacording to the plan.. The total length
of pipeline is 25.5knm. involving a construction area of 36.2km2. \with an engineering water
dischargc capacity of 898.OOOm3/d in the rainy scason and 400.000m3/d in the drv season.
Because the construction involves a v\ry long distance, lasting a long timc, and be carried out in
urban arcas of the cit'v, and a large number of machines will be used, there will bc incvitably
much impact on the environnment.
11 Possible cnvironmicnital problcms during the construction
(I) Drilling macihines. excavators, loading machines, and transportation vchicies used for
the w%astc wvater intercepting projcct will produce much noise at the level of 90-95dB(A).
Calculation finds out that the noise level in the inhabitant, cultural and education quarters of
Txpe I areas, and inhiabitant, commercial and mixed industrial quarters of Tvpe 11 areas will
exceed the standard set in Document GB3096-93 "Environmental Noise Standard for Urban
Areas" -- respectively being 55dB(A) and 6OdB(A) during day time -- when the noise produccd
by the machines is added to the original background noise of those areas.
(2) Most of the constructioni will adopt the method of underground pipe-jacking. As no
large amount of refilling carth or construction garbage will be piled. therc will not be much
raised dust in most part of the construction site except in thc segment down Youai Bndge.
v,here the openl slot construction will produce certain amount of refilling earth and castawvay
earth to be piled for 15-20 days. Wihen thcre is strong wind, tTIC concentration of raised dust can
reacih 3mg/nii at Im in thc leewav direction. I .5ng/mr3 at 25ni. and 0.5 mg/n3 at 5On Thc
concentratioin of TSP will exceed the standard at placcs within the rangc of 60m in the leeway
direction
(3) A total iumtiber of dozeins of thiousanids cubic metcrs of carth wdill have to be cast awav
af'tcr the open slot construction. It can bc used for ground or road leveling. As the earth to be
cast away is just local carth. its droppinlg during constructionl iXfll causc no other pollution
except raised dust.
(4) All the wastc wvatcr pipclines will bc laid at the sidcs of the existing road. Ther IS no
nccessity to block traffic along the direction of the pipclines. But the piling of refilling earth and
laxil n  of the pipes w.ill occupy ccrtain part of the bicyclc lane and thc pavcmcnt. \}hcn a
pipeline crosses a road. in most cascs a hole will bc dug under thc base of the road instead of
opening up tihc road surface. But vehicles withi hcavy load have to bc prohibitcd to pass for a
siort period Thcsc tw\o factors will havc some impact on traffic. especially in Mlngxiu Road.
Henvang Road. Zhonghua Road, Youai Road. Chaovang Road. and Ninvang Road. which all
ha%c busy vehicle flows. It is estimated that thc constructioni will affect each road for about 20
da\ s as is nceded b\ thc construction.
About 1.0()( truckloads of building materials (dinas. cement. ctc ) and cast away earh will
be transported for thc conistrction. But it wvill not bc very concentrated in time and wvill thus
add ittle pressure to traffic.
(5) Dians. concrete pipes. and casta%\a\ earth  and so on piled along the roads of
construction Site v ill af'fzct the landscape of the city and cause somile damage to the grecen land
constructioii siEc \\Ill af'i'cct the laildscape of t,I



and trees. causing some harm to the ecological environment
3 Prediction and analvsis on the environrnental impact during the construction of the wvaste
water treating plant
I No buildings need to be removed before the construction of the liangnan wvaste water
treating plant and work can start after requisition of land needed. As the site is not located in
dow-nto--n area, the machines and transportation vehicles wvill not cause much pressure on the
traffic
1 . Therc are not manv inhabitants around the site of the planned plant. so there von't be
much environmental impact. But there will be somc negative impact like raised dust from base
digging and loading, unloading. piling and mixing of castaway earth, materials like dians.
cement. and lime. and noise from construction machines and transportation vehicles. Raised
dust mav affect areas within lOQm in its leewvard direction that the concentration of TSP %Idll
exceed the standard- To reduce the impact, enclosing fence can be built around the site befoire
construction started.
4. Prediction and analvsis of the environrmental impact of the laying of trunk pipcline in
iiangbei area and the pipe line crossing the liver
1, Machines. cranes and transportation vehicles shall be employed during the
construction of the trunk pipeline in Jianbei area and its attached engineering work, as ditches
shall be dug along the banks of the Yongjiang River. So there will be somc noise affecting
ncarbv areas where inhabitants, cultural and educational institutions concentrate and
commercial areas mix with industrial areas. When such noise is added to the original noise. the
total will exceed thc standard of 55dB(A) and 6OdB(A) set for typc I and typc It areas b!
Documcnt GN3096-93 "Urbanu Environmcntal Noisc Standards".
11 Largc  amount of cast  awav earthwork- will bc produced as the trunk pipcline in
Jihnagbci
shall usc concrcte squarc pipes Such earth can be uscd for land road lcvcling. As the matcrial
will bc transportcd by and bv. there won't bc much impact on traffic.
Ill. As there will be ditch digging, pipe sinking and land backfilling during the process of
sinking the siphon pipcs. navigation on thc river will be affcctcd for sevcral days.
. Prediction and analysis of the impact of Chaoyang Strcam treating projcct on the city's
ecological landscapc
Tic construction of thc project involvcs a largc area in the city's sensitivc urban part.
wlhcre several major streets will bc dug with a total length of about 25km, accounting for 10 O
of thc cit-'s total road. At the samc time, the piling of construction garbagc. bottom clas.
castawvav carth, and tilc temporary constniction huts and camps. storagc sheds will all affect thc
city s landscape. 7he constniction will last two to three years. A certain number of lawnis and
trecs will be damagcd to causc damage to the ecological system..
6. Analysis of the environmental impact of building removal and inhabitants resetticmcnt
i Scopc of removal
hlc scope of removal involve 30-68m on both sides of the rivcr's central line for pipelinc
60



layling and riverbed wvidening. Sec Table 4-3-7 for the concrete scope of removal for
construction and material piling.
Table 4-3-7 Range of Buildings to be Removed along the
Open Tunnel Construction Site
No.    Scmnenit of thie Chiaovaiig Stream                Leingth(m)   Removal Wk idth(tn)
I       lfeavx-duty Machinlerv Plant to No 28 HIgJi School  2130     30
2       No.28 Iligih School to Youai Und2e               3170        35 
3       Youai Bridge to Dakengikou                       2700        42-68
Houses to bc pulled down in thc range are mainIy simple ones of single or two stories.
Some parts of the region border parallel small lanes and side streets. Only a few high-rising
buildings %vill be affected bv the construction for short tenrs and their land will be retumed
after the completion of the project.
11. The amount to bc pulled down and removed
See Table 4-3-8 for details.
Table 4-3-8  Statistics of Removal
No.       Items to be luilled Domi or Renioved     Unit              Quantit
Buildings belonging to instItutions     1n2                81542
2         Inhabitanti houses                       i2                38052
i loTisehiolds to be deXmolished        household         769
4          I 'Optlatioii to th re:moved            people            *I 0o6
L l.amiip and cabile posts                                           420
6         Trees
7         I'llllIc toilets                                            .
8          ;Green lields                          in6 864)1
9         LI.and to be pernianentlY uLsed          ha                3 5
In        Laid to hc coiniiensated                 n'                1:535
ill. Policv for iniabitanit rescttimcent and compeinsationi standard
Tnhc "Interimil Rules and Rcgulations for the Administration of I-lotise Removal in Naaniniiig
City" was put ilto effect on November 3. 1(92 by thc Nanning Municipal Govcnimcnit. Thc
nilcs provide details for houses to be pulled down. thc removal and resettlenient of inhabitanits
and conccned complensations.
As most of the hiouscs to be pulled down are in Types 1-2 regionis and the peopic will be
resettlcd in Ty-pcs 3-4 places. thc standard for compensation for removal from Type I ro Ty pe 4
places is to bc carried out. No compensation xvill be made for public houses, and thc
compensationi for privatc hiouses \%ill be carried out at the ratc of I Sm2 per houseihold  Thc
C, I



following index wvill bc considered in a comprehensivc vav for land requisition: building density
< 31%, net population density < 1.500/ha; average number of stories: 8: building volume rate:
3.8.
[V. Analvsis of the environmental impact of inhabitant rescrtlemcnt
(1). The environment of the area for resettling the inhabitants to be removed frorn
construction sites.
House to bc pulled down and removed involved in the project fall into four types: a.(Public
and private) buildings; b. Public facilities like roads, public washrooms, lamp and
communication posts; c. Trees and green fields; and  d. Cultivated farmland to be requested.
No rare or threatened species of wildlife or plants are found in the planned construction
sites. There arc no cultural relics under key protection or quarters concentrated bv national
minorities or religious communities. According to the overall plan of Nanning City, the
inhabitants to be removed .%ill resettle in Xinvang Road quarters and Zhongyao Road quarters.
(See Fig. 4-2 for the layouts.) Both quarters arc in the central part of downtow.n areas of the
citxy with convenient traffic and there arc within easy reach schools. hospitals, shops and
markets. Thc new inhabitant quarters arc already in good shape with overall planning for power
and water supply.
769 households with 4 500 peoplc will resettle in the new quarters At the ratc of 1,500t/d,
they will produce about 550 OOOt/a of waste water. wvhich will be discharged into the citv
sewagc system after being treated in septic tanks. No additional pollution will bc caused to the
Yongjiang Rivcr. Their domestic garbage will bc collected by sanitar- workecrs to be disposecl
by the garbage trcating plant and so no major environmental impact -vill arisc in thc new
qtiartcrs
(2) Life qualitv of thEc iliabitants aftcr rcsetticmeit
Most of the public buildings to bc pulled down are of brick sinicture and only a fcxv are of
concretc structurc, and niost of the privatc houses to be pulled down are simple houses of brick
anid wood structurc. Ve-, few of thcm have hygicnc facilities or se-,agc pipelines. nhc average
per capita living spacc is onlv gil.
In the new qiartcrs cach houschold will havc a suit of ncxvel built apartmcnt housc of
brick-concrcte structurc vith wvater supply. kitchcns. hygienc facilities and sewvagc pipelincs.
and the pcr capita living spacc will bc incrcased to 12mZ. So thcir living conditions will bc
greatly improvcd as compared with that in the old houscs. And public facilities in thc quartcrs
have becn built beforehand to give muchi convince to tihc new scttlcrs
(3) Estimation of cost of the resettlcment
The basic pricc for land in the new living quarters is 680 yuann!m. and tile compreihcnsive
constriction pricc for nornial houses of brick and concrete mixed stnicturc is about 550
Yuan/mn2. Added with fecs for roads and w-atcr and ccctric po%\cr supply and tax, thc overall
investiment for land rcquisition is at 2,908 vuan/m 2 Thic total cost for the rcmoval for thc
project is calculated to be about 103 million yuan.
(4) Public participation of tiic inilabitants to be removed
62



: t?    \                      , X .. X, ,                                                e~~~~~~\ \ \
/ - ' 5I 0 0 -L ~~~~~~~~~~~~r S<\~~f   At   I.                4;' V d|gji
\ I.!-I1                      DadXIlg         --D .'.-Ss                                         .-......,.i
j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   .  ...... __..__._.
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
4                 <I~~~~~*
__  District                                              4pMszd¶a.y) 't
Pe                g TA, -                                                     I 
I~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~-                                 O
IJ   ..$   ~~~~~Read Tl4dghrtiant
-000,~ ~~~~~~.-- 
Location of removing.resettlement for the.                                    .<-- 
Chaaoyang stream compJreheusive treatment ioject in -Nannin'g city



Opinions from ten people among those investigated are analyzed as samples. accounting
for 10% of the total. The subjects investigated are people to be removed for the construction of
the project and the renovation of the old city. Txo of them didn't knoxv the planned project and
eiglht of them had learned about the projcct from public medium. Hcre is the result of the
investigation:
a. 100% of them are in support of the planned project and hope it wvill start soon as they
had suffercd from the foul smiels and pollution of the Chaoyang Stream for a long time.
b. The project to treat the Chaovang Strcam would grcatly bencfit tclc pcople, they said.
Though it might cause some inconveniences, they agreed to be removed because of ovcrall
consideration for the public, but they hoped they would be compensated in somc Nvavs.
c. People of Yonghe Village agreed to have their land to be requested for the project but
they hoped enough Iand would be left for the tertiary industry and surplus labor power would
be properly arrangcd.
d. The Yongxin District Governnent which is in charge of the administration of the
quarters where the inhabitants removed for the project will resenle and concerned neighborhood
committees all expressed welcome to the new comers and said the environment of their quarters
wouldn't bc affected by the planned resettlement.
V. Impicmentation of the plan of the removal
The first stage of the removal involves 493 households of inhabitants living along the
bank-s of the scgmcnt from Youal Bridge to Dakengkou of the Chaovyang Stream. Thc removal
has been fitted into part of the overall plan for renovating the old city. The pcople to bc removed
will rcscttle in the 6th building in Zhongyao quartcrs. 168 sutts of apartment houses will be
built late at the site of the project, and 208 suits bouglht for the people to be removed, and the
rcst of tlhemn vwill be arrangcd to live in thc hiouses to be built in tic 3ha of land to bc rcquested
b! the quarters. nhc distance of thcir renmoval is about 1-. ;kmi The second stage of remloval
involves 276 households up Youai Bridgc. They will also be arranged to rcscttic in Zhoniz'ao
Quarters.
Major job for this work to be donc at prcsent is to nmake a detailed invcstigation of the
exact arcas of the buildings to bc removed. pull down illcgal buildings. negotiate with people to
bc rcmovcd and get other preparatory work ready for thc actual renioval.
VI. Analysis of the impact of construction garbage for thic project of inhabitants
resettlemcnt
Thcrc wtill be quite a largc quantity of constrLction garbage to be cast away from houises
pulled down sucht as bricks. concrcte blocks. uscicss wood and steel bits and cnds, and pieces of
demiiolished road surface. Calculation finds thiere will be 95.000iil' of broken bricks. 6.5 miillioni
Ill of concrcte blocks. and 26.00iiim of asphalt felt. Thcsc would be transported to garbage
disposal grounds at Maluling and Gaolime (5-6kmi away to thc northeast of thlc ceintral part of
thic city) to bc filled. As thelir quanttt\ is linlitcd. they w-ould be part of the solid xvastc mattcrs to
bc disposed according to the cit\'s overall plan. But their transportationi w%ill cause some
pollution of noise and raised dust.
64



4.3.2 Prediction on rhe environmental impct during the constnrction of seuage svstem of the
city,
1. Analysis of construction raised dust
(1). Sources of raised dust
Raised dust is mainl\ caused by the breaking of the road surface. ditch digging, the piling
and transportation of castaway earth. the loading and unloading of construction matcrials like
dians, cement, and lime. thc mixing and transportation of concrete. the clearing away and piling
of construction garbage. the transportation of sludge, the backfilling and restoration of the road,
as well as caused the roads by people walking through and vehicles.
(2). Analysis of the impact of raised dust
a. Field investigation and analogical analvsis reveal that wvhen thc weather is fine or in
normal condition, the concentration of TSP may reach as high as 8 6 1mg/mr3 within Sm of the
construction site, exceeding the standard by 27.7 times. But it decreases to 0.37mg/m3 at a
distance of SOm, exceeding the standard by only 0.23 times.
b. The same investigation finds out that the concentration of TSP along the route through
which earth castawav and to be refilled is transported may reach 8- I Omg/n3, but at I SOm of its
leewvay direction it can approach that at the contrasting point wx-ind %%ard direction.
c. Investigation shows that enclosing of the construction site can grcatlv improve the
situation and the area affected canu be rcduccd bv 30-40% to be within I OOm from the site.
The above analysis suggests that raised dust will have sonmc impact on the surrounding
environment. especially at the old part of the city where the strects arc narrow with a dense
population. Tihc scope of the impact may rcach 100-I SOm. But thc impact will disappear as
soon as the construction is compicte and roads rcstored. So thC imipact is local and of short
durationi.
2. Prcdictiotn of noise impact on the environment
As large numbers of construction machiines and vclels shalil be used during the
construction, and those macinieiis and vehicles will all produce noise of high intensity, therc will
be somc impact in a certain scopc.
(I). Analy sis on the predicted noise impact
Scc Table 4-3-9 for thc results calculatcd with attenuation equations of Lhc intensity of
noisc along with thc incrcasc of the distance from  sound source Thc noise produced by
construction machines will be the major noise sources. Not consideriig thc effect of houses.
trees and air, the higltest intensity of noise at l()(m from1 the sounid source ma! reach 6OdB(A).
reaching the standard of daytimc for type 11 arcas, and at a distance of 2000. it still can reach
54dB(A), cxcceding th:e stanidard of night for type 11 areas,
65



Table 4-3-9 Sound value of noise at different distances from the source
Distance from noise SoLirce
Noise source    Noise intensitV df3(a)  2nm  4Gm   6Gm   80m    I 0(1Gm    20Gtm    30Gm    5OOm
Air drill             I0O          74   68    64    62    60         54       50      46
PuNddle nixer          98          72   66    62    60    58         52      48       44
Scraper pan            96          70   64    60    58    56         50      46       42
Excavator              95          69   63    59    57-    5 5       49      45       41
Soil shilter           94          68   62    58    56    54         48      44       40
Road roller            94          68   60    58    56    54         48      44       40
Bulldozer              92          66   60    56    54    52         46      42
Air compressor         9?          66   64)   56    54    52         46      42
Electric saw           99          73   67    63    61    59         531     49      45
Sliaker                79          53   47    4 4       =                             =_
(2). Analvsis on thc result of analogical comparison of construction noise
a. lnvestigation finds out the intensitv of noise produced by excavator, bulldozer, mixer.
and so on can rcach 92-98dB(A). but it dccrcascs along with the distance The maximum value
50m away is 78dB(A). exceeding thc standard for daytimc of type 11 areas by- 18dB(A); thc
maximum value at lO()m is 64dB(A).still cxcecding the samc standard by 4dB(A) and that of
night bv l4dB(A): at 200m the maximum value can reach 52dB(A). exceeding the standard for
night by 2dB(A).
b. Monitoring during the sewage pipeline laying and road restoration In Nannting found out
that thc noise reached 85.3dB(A) mni  from the bulldozer .74.6dl3(A) at 35m. and 57.6dB(A)
at 100)m. The last value still exceeds the stalidard for daytimc of T!-pe 11 areas by 7.6dB(A)
Thc value at nm cxceeds tle liniltcd value for daytimc at thc boarder of construction site bv
lOdB(A). excecds the value for night by ()dl3(A).TIhc valucs at SSnm and lOOm cxcccd thc
standard for niglht rcspcctively by 20dB(A) and 3OdB(A).
Investigation shows that noisc produced by construction maciiincs w-ill affcct its
surrounding arcas %sithin 50-OOm. The values cxceed the standard by a largc margin. and thus
will affect the inhabitants living nearby. espccially at night -whcn they sleep
3 Analysis on thc inpact of construction on traffic
Laying pipeline %%ill take up 30-50% of the original road surfacc. Scriousiv afEccting  the
vclicies passuig thc constructioni segmncits. especially along crow.ded roads likc the Chaoyang
Road. Jiangnan Road. H-lenvang Road Construction in the old parts of thc city -vith narrow
strects. the iimpact will be bigger as pavcmcnts .bicvclc lancs, and trees along the roads will be
affected. Therc might be traffic jami for minutes or dozcns of nlinutes hI'li s %%ill affect not only
pcople's work and life. but also the busiliess of shops and restaurants Raised dust and noise
will also add to dic pollitioln
4. Analysis on the Impact of pipelinc desitiling
66



Incomplete statistics from  the Nanning MUunicipal Engineering Administration reveals that
22 pipelines with a total length of 28.4knm are silted, accounting for 10%  of the citV's total, of
wfhich 24.4km is open canal, and 4km closed conduit. Thc depth of silt is 0.5-2.2mn. and the
amount of silt to be cleared awvav totals 52 575m3. See Table 4-3-10.
Table 4-3-10 Amount to Be Desilted in Pipelines in Nanning                 _
Sewer       rTpTc          Lcnzlt      .Anount       Sewer         Tpe          Iene-th       nutint
Ql?1! i      closed condtiit 1080        3165        Wuliting      closed conduit so5        2254
open canal    2200         6930
Guanyingge   closed conduit 800         1024         Shibazhun    closed conduin 400         2247
Wu'.i        closed conduit 5100        5508         Zliunihualu    closed conduit 300       16S
open cannl    350          1890                      open canal
Minzu t,     closed conduit 4500        4840         Xiguanlu     closed conduit 600         438
Ttlgztictitsg   open. canal    1200     7500         Tivulu        Closed conduit 1200       1440
Xthuiu       closed conidutit 1200       1800        Tiaantaolu    0 Closed conduit 600      '17
Guchenglu    Closed conduit 550          528          Binhulu      Closed coniduit 337       847
Wcis,U lu    Closed conduia 513         667           Danhiulu     Closed conduit 240        23. 0
Guangningiie  Closed conduit 900         1296         Srniaojiclu    Closed conduit 525      1134
ik-idat1uqu  Closed conduit 706          515          hcmnraolu    Closed conduit K0{        576
BcidalIt     Closed condu  360           518         Total                      21l          52576
The silting of the sexwage pippelines In Nanning were caused by ihc scdimlenIt of suspended
matters in tlhc large amoullt of industrial %%ater and scwage. and thire are also construction
garbage, civil cngineering garbage and daik  garbagc in hlic openi canals  As the rain water
pipelines and sexwagc system  were the sanic in thc old parts of tihc clt. there x%ere largc amounts
of daily garbage and industrial casta"axs  The colltCelt is sinilar With the bottomil clay of the
Chaoxanig  Strcam. Investigation  fouLid out that thc bottom  clay of thc Chao%ang  Stream
containcd large quantities of heavv metal and As. with Hg. As and Cu as major pollutants.
whose comprcihensive risk indcx indicates serious pollution. So thic silt caniniot be uscd for
agricultural fcrtilizer. It is recommcnded that it be sent to garbage burying ground to be
disposed or used as forcst fertilizcr.
Largc amounts of sludgc wvill bc cicared from the silt. As it contalins muclh daily garbagc.
thc digcstion of piled sludgc will producc foul smiells, polluting thic construction site and the
atmosphicric cnvironimicnt. Foul smclls will stiniulatc pcoplc's smiell organs. make pcopic fccl
unpleasant and sick. eveni difficult to breathic or vomit and shed tcars as a reSLIlt of  poisoning
Thcrefore. comprhceinsivc foul smiell conceintration was Closed as an item  for monitoring
at thc sitc where desiltinig was carried out Field monilboring found out that at lin fronii open
canal or catch-basin, thc concentration of foul smclls rcachied 15-30 (ithlti no unlit). excecdinig
tlie Grade  I standard  for foul matters discharging  by 0 5-2  timies  IlIC fol11 smills are
67



unbearable. At 25m from the source the standard can be met, but light foul smell can still be
smelt.
4.4 Prediction on the environmental impact during the operation of the project
4.4. 1 I'redicion on the environmental impact on water  during the operation of the proiect
According to the demands set in the outline of the assessmcnt. this assessment is to have a
proper understanding of the overall environmental impact of the project, especially hov" and to
wvhat degree the project can improve the water environment. The assessment gives an analst's
from the local environmental viewpoint.
1. Aim and purpose
To provide feedback information on the proposed project as and as reference for concerned
policy mak-ers by analyzing the existing water environment and the project's impact on it after
the project is completed and[put into operation.
2. Selection of hydrological conditions
The Yongjiang River has a fairly wide surface and rich wvater flow. Its upper stream  is
converged by the Zuojiang River and the Youiiang River, and its lower stream  flows into thc
Youjiang River. The drainage area of the Yonguiang River controlled by Nanning Hydrological
Station is over 73 700km2. The minimum  water flowv recorded is I 6m3/s  The water flow
during thc flood season accounts for about 80°o of the annual. total. and the maximum month
water flow accounts for about 30% of the vear's total.
1) Determination of designing timc
As the non-point source load of the Nanning scgment of thc YonDiang  Riu er is
Comparatively large during thc high water season. wheicni the water temperature is fairly hlt.h and
saturate DO is comparatively low. It is thcrefore necessary to investigate the impact of point
and non-point sources on thc quality of the water body so as to detemiine thc time of designing.
Table 4-4-1 Lists the data of the %%ater quality of the Yongiiang River monitored at
different sections in 1993.
Table 44-1 DO Monitored at Different Sections of thic Yonjianng River
Samping  Watu.r Flow               IX)    Saturation   0x5cvti Alu3al  I)fic i satl
Seas II  Tiull      1         SeLtion       iig I. |          rng,'il,      mi l.
DrV     fi3r I1 ILaokou                     n 79 I 73 24      2.4X          4             1 7
to        45        Slitiiiatanla rng  ,t  _4    !_41  12 5_50    4   -.
23                   I'tiliiuao    _ 6:   2X U2      6 73           4,,
We,'t   Jtjl I1        .      1 Itkoll      6i4 !3  91 45     I -tf         2XSs
to       21fiO       Shiuitanglantg   6 04   7X.75    1.63          267            -
2X                   Pu2iiao       c 34  '75 43       1.90          2 74
Nonial  No" I(0               Iaokou        69 94   N(o 32    1 7(0         .t !4
lto     J474         Shuitaut 2t   f 6I i,  21 XO    7.11 tO                       -
22                   I'umtiaio    c 41 1 67 91      31.20          1 6.1



It can bc scen from the tablc that the maximum oxygen dcficit ratio appeared in the drv
season. being respectively 127% and 155% at Shuitangjano and Pumiao already beyond thc
standard of Gradc IIl water bodv. This suggests that the dry scason is the key pollution
controlling pcnod of the river. The water flow in the wet season of the river in 1993 was 8.5
times that of the dry scason, and the actual oxygen deficit was reduced by only about 50%. the
water quality still was of Grade Ill water body wxith somc marein This suggests that it is less
difficult to control organic pollution in the wct scason. The sitution in thc tipper reaches during
the normal periods is better than in the dry or .vet seasons; the situation in the lower rcaches in
the norrmal periods is worse than in the wet season but better than in the dry season. The ratio of
deficit oxygen at Pumiao is alreadv 88%, with a very limited environmental capacity Once the
point sources or non-point sources increase. the standard would be exceeded. In conclusion. the
designing time to be determined is mainiv during the dry season suppiemented bv the wvet season
and the normal season.
(2) Designing factor
Runoff was chosen as the major factor for hydrological designing and water temperaturc
wvas chosen for other designing.
(3) Designing period
The average month (30d) was used as the designing period
Low water designing period: the month of the least runoff in thc \ear
Higih water designing period: June
Nomial water level designinig pcriod: November
(4) Process of designing
Constant. considercd on tre basis of monthly averagc.
Designiing guarantee rate
Low water penod (tie least runoff in the ycar) P = 90)°
High water period (Junc): P =  0%. P = 10%
Normial water level period (Novermber) P = 50%/ P = 9(1' 
(5) Designing combiniationi frequency:
Mainly tilc runoff of thc Yonii iang River was uscd  ithuz consideruiungi thie \ater flow of
its tributaries or the combiniationl of their watcr flowing inr o the 'oneiiang River or the
combiniationi frcquency of rnioff and water tempcraturc
(6) Dcsigninisg runoff and water tempcrature
The values of runoff at diffecrcnt designing guarantee ratcs can be calculated through the
avcragc daily hydrological data recorded from 1947 to 1994
Runloff of thie Yongiianag River:
Low water period (ninimum monthlyk runoff)  Qr=t)Q"0   170i) I"s
Highi water period (JuLe):  Qp= 50% = 1.800m'/s
I 0% = 3,900mn is
Normial water lecvl period (Noveniber).Q1=5'0% = 63)0nm
QP=90%) =  70nm   s
Viewed froml1 tht chtaractcristics oftihe runoffof tile hih .atcr period. ( ---.   2. 1 67 .
(21.



The synchronized water flow monitored for water quality of the Yon_iiang River in July 1992
was 4 265m3/s, and that in Julv 1993 was 2. 160m3/s.
Shuitangjiang COD=0 (92) -0.45    BO 9) 32) = 081    DO(93) =10
COD A I (93            BOID, 93
Pumiao       (CODvM  (92) = 0_55;   BOD5 (92) = 1.17    DO(92)   1.01
COD,f (93)             BOD, (93)   17. D0(93 )
It can be seen that the value of CODi,n lowered by half when the water flow doubled. that
is to sav, non-point sources load of CODNb,r showed almost no increase when the volume of
runoff (rain) increased. In this sense, Qp=50% seems more dangerous than Qp=10%. The
concentrations of BOD, and DO showed no remarkable increase when runoff increased.
concentration ratio being nearly 1. This suggests that the influence of organic pollution from
non-point sources to the water body remains almost the samc when the amount of rain varies.
As a whole Qp=50% poses as being more dangerous than Qp= 10%
During normal water period Qp=50%/Qp=9O% = 1.70.
0(92) = 1.47
Q(93)
CODAIfl (92)           B 0  OD5 (92) _1      DO(92)-
Shuitangjiang: CODI n (93)           BOD, (93)            D0(93)
Pumniao:     COD h ((92) = 061[   BOD  (92) = 104;  DO(92)   1.00
COD4  (3)          ' BODL, (93)              DO(93)
The above calculation shows that during normal watcr level period. watcr quality was no
bctter vhcn the runoff increased about 50%. Statistics show the load of point sources (including
sonic non-point sourccs) decreased instcaid of increasing. So it is unfavorable when the wvatcr
tlos' is fairly largc (within 10' quantity degrcc) during level water period, that is to say.
Q,=50% poscs as bcing more dangerous thaii Q,,=10%
Table 4-4-2 AAmount of Pollutants Discharged througl
Public Pollution Discharge Ditches
ILtil'l                      1992                    1993
COD (1Ta)                    149.7(0. 1              94,50i. 7
Ii 'O), I Thfl ).6i .9                               29.23f6 7
Wate%watcr i 10 - 7aJ) ()42.021 7                     .39.912 
Based on the above analysis. the ninoff of the Yongjang River selected for thc dcsigning
arc
Low %vater period: Q. 90%   1 70m 3/s
I lighi water period: Q0 1,   = I X(t.80tl Is
Normnal water levcl period   Qp s(, = 630m11 ts
Thle designinig water temperatuirc was the monitored %alucs fronm 1987 to 1992
7()



Low wvatcr period: T = 19.25TC  (March)
High wvatcr period: T = 28.68°C  (June)
Nonmal period: T = 21.95TC (November)
The following formula was used to calculate the value of saturated DO:
=   468
31.6+ T
Relative saturate DO arc:
Qs(T= I 9.250C)=9.20mgIL
Qs(T=28 .680C)=7.76mgIL
Qs(T=2 1.950C)=8.74mgIL
The assessment of the project requires the runoff at three points in the middle reaches of
the Zhupaichong Stream has to be taken into consideration. but as there is no hydrological data
for the Zhupaichong Stream. its runoff can only be estimated through analogical comparison.
The confluence model in Nanning region usuallv uses fully stored runoff production. The
data of precipitation and evaporation monitored bv Nanning Monitoring Station werc used to
consider the designing frequencx' of the Yongjiang River:
Table 4-4-3 Monthly Average Rainfall and Evaporation of Nanning City
6lonthI      rainit;hll (imm)    evaporation (hmi)  Note
Mar. 1963    54 8            6S.6                 T%pical low water vear P1=9(01;.
Jun. 198!     84 9           IS2 .3               kp1ical hdih -water WeXr P=SJ%
Nov. 1971    (1 I            122 '                I 1      KiOnna! year
The table sliow%s the avCragc mlonthlv rainfall is less than that of evaporation ThCerefore it
can be infcrrcd that the average moninthl  runoff flo%\s inito the Zhupaichong Strcamil mainly
throtighi ground nuloff, and throtigih surfacc runoff only during stomis in thlC hight v water scason.
It can also be consider against the average flow controllcd by the Nanzi ing Hydrological Station.
Major basis for catculating arca Mtio:
A i-ea   'w U.l'II    %fI7r1r
The designilig ninoff valucs of thc Zhuipaicihonig Stream are:
Low wvatcr scason (minimumii  monthly runoff): Qp .  n = 0 27mi3/s
F-ugih water season (Junc) Qlp 5l) n = 2.86mi Vs
Normial pcriod (November) Q1. -5(.. = I .(Oim Vs
In the low wvatcr sCason. indListry and agriculture consumc largc quantitics of watcr and
the actual amount of clean water flow is too little to be of any significance to the designing. So
thc actual designinig flow water can be uscd is:
71



QP=90°o
3. Analysis of pollution load at outlets of pollutants discharge
The spatial and time distribution of the pollution load of the Y'ongiang Ri cr is the basis
for environmental assessment and vater quality simulation. The major pollution sources in
Nanning in recent years major camc from industries, daily lifc. and secondarily from agriculturc
and other sources. T'he uneven distribution of water flow of the Yongjiang River causes its
environmental capacitv to be uneven. Tle low water season is the key period to be controlled.
(1) Point sources
a. Present composition and time and spatial distribution
The feasibility report of the project
states that the amount of wvaste water
_  BOD s-discharged in the urban areas of Nanning
=Iui   coDI  City in 1994 was 560 0(0m3/d, of which
_ss |DSS320 000m-'ld was industrial waste water,
__           [     jo ACt  accounting for 57 1%. 240 000m3/d wvas
domiest'ic sew\age. accouniting for 42.9%.
Thle average daily load.
BOD, 89.0tId
Fig. 4-3  The radio of the amound afnd load of        COD  207 Ot!d
waste water in Nanning Citv
b Representative pollution factor at
preselt
Major pollution load in Nanning City are of organic matters T'ablc 4-4-4 lists the amount
of' waste water discharged and cquivalent pollutioni load of Nanningt Cit In In 19' I
Table 4-4-4 Pollutants in Wastc Water Discharoed in Nanning, 1991
Pollutint            Anmotunt Di)charued (t/a)    t,quivaliir L.oad   Ratiot
I 30IN   _            7.421 S                  7.484.26               (171
COD                  t1.4 9  1                6.149-'                41 72
SS                   27.779 4                  555- 5)                3 77
SO.12                7 7. 3                    154.76 I(15
As                   7 78                     9 2.25                  oi
Oil                  41.39                     .2.78                  ii
I'-Cr                290                      53,64                      7
I'hlletiol           i1)                       4.0 U                   02
T-I                  r C) 0(9.X                9 X                    o(o(
Otheers              "I 25                     1 5(tt                 Iol
lTotl                126.8X0. i 5              14740 '72              1 (1)
72



Table 4-4-4 shows the equivalent pollution load of BOD5 and COD are the highest.
together the two account for 92.43%  of the total pollution load. So it can be seen BOD5 and
COD  are the most rcprcscntative pollution  factors. Therefore, the assessment is mainly an
analysis of organic pollution load
c  Forecast of the amount of waste  water in the N-car 2015
Table 4-4-5 lists the amount of waste water of Nanning City and its central Nanhu District
for the vear 201 5 estimated on the basis of the feasibility report of the project.
d, Timc and spatial distribution of point sources in different time of water environmental
assessment
See Table 4-4-6 for the waste water ioad of different ycars prcdicted on the basis of
existino load
Table 4-4-5 Prediction on the Pollution Load of Waste Water of the Tributaries of
the Yongjiang River in Nanning City in the Year 2015
Doiie:stic Wasie Water      iidustrial Waste            Citv Scwattc
Dranta e       rrt butar-      .Anount   fI)D5    CO D    -\nIOrUnt  130D5   COD    Amount    B(ODS   C(i))
lO'm' d   ftd)      (t d)    10m' d   ftd)    (tld)     O'ni0 d    (         id)  t d)
Xaxiangting    xnX1mlIan        80          12 0    28      54        10 8     16      134        .228      44
l:rkcng ltld  I rkCng          60         90        2 1     S2         11 4    35       142         2(4      56
Chla\o[nIv     chIt'ain.g'      14 3      21 5      50      54         loX    29        19 7        32 3     7')
Nanihi        /Ihtapahong      6 2        9 t       Z2      1 6        1 2     5        7 x         12 5
\.athlu :1ui.    7 5        11 2     26                                  7 5         112      2fl
J,.tiplant.l  IIiIscIth"I11     59        9)        20 9  [1 12        22 4    5I 7    17 I         11 it I    i
sIi*ati.ititja.,is  57     8t5       2t)1 126           252     53 1       3 t       317      78, 4
SIuJ11tng      VIo~IuIu|uII5gII  6 4      96        22      156       31 2    70        22          40 8
6.-t.ll   (,00  XV{}i)  -   21)    600  115    265      i20         205      45
Table 4-4-6 Forecast of Waste Water Load of the Regions in Different Years
,ll E rk>>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S I,l huaJci. ltnv il,,ng-          x        ,.,  ittiang,;, 'I.t
& \.tih,U      Jti-'nig    p.un'g   pIang      g & MNIaduolle
19)t)4   )920    I11)I    627             1,J 65    1165        4 69      .343             Y8X2
A\mu1unt      I.),)7   ') 61     12 54    6X                 17    112 19        21       4 14             6172
(IoJ'          2000,w    11)25   1t52     784             1 1)q9    1,114      610       54 6             68(20
2011s     142    197      1I5             17 ,      I8 3        13 4      22               120
I)i.h:lrS      11(11 )I   1if4   161       150      I       4       1 S 4       17( )     185
* rI          C(M ItM.                                            7 4'HK
(m1g 1        (01))    '¢)-1     401       S4(,           427       427         32S       41X



T'able 4-4-7 Mlonthly CODM,n Load of the Catchment of Tributories of the Vongjiang River in Nanning
11"111ti   I SItslbu R. I.Itil It KH , Idi   . .iiv  I.rkcL  I);iD.mk     Nnilm  /.IuX idltmich ng Naiiall R hallgkol  R. Pcnging  It. Mach1do   lki.111 Lillpichung  Tol;gI
I        52       2 114     6 09X    13 422   7.465  21 165  7 543        10 837     .161      37.78         4.00         4.613     .176       4.353       120.17
2       .403      1.542     4.448    9.791    5.445   15.438   5,502       7.759     .1172      7.55         2.984        3.365     .128       3.175        87.65
I        o2        .11     )90       I 91  I  107   * 1-140  I I l       1 578       (12.1     5 (.         (.07          684       026.      .616         1 7 X I
4        008       .030      087       192     .107     303    .o0          IS2       .002       54           059          .066     .003       .062          1 72
5        765       292      8 449    IX 59      10 342  29 122  10 450   14.737      .223     52.33         5.667        6.391      243       6031         166 48
6       8  )96    3.2 K9X   * 948 9  20 X90  1 16 175 129 31X  117 I94I  165.542    2.500    S87.89        63 65X        71 791    2 734     67 751       187o. 11
7       4 541     17 378    50.134   110 345  X1.369  173.997 62.013      87 446     1.320    310.55        33 627       37.923     1.444     35.789       987.X8
8        656      2 510     7242    15 9        .) X.X64   25.133   8957  12.631     .191      44.86         4.857        5.478      .200      5.170        142.69
9        219      .840      2.423     5.334    2966   8411   2998         4227        .064      15.01        1.625        1.833     .070       1.730        47.75
M(       (81(1     00(1      000      /))1    .000    0o00    .000          000       .000      .000         .0o0          000       .0(0      .000           0(
I!       459      1 756.    5 06p7    11 151 i6 202   17 5X84   X 267     8X 17        1.33     31 318       3 .398      .3 8.12      146     .1 617        99 8.1
12       I15       I 2 (1    1.17.1    7 647   *1 241   12 058   4297      6 060       091      21 52        2 330        2 628      1,(P     2 480        68.46
:1  ;    1I 59*7   6 I S15   121 215  4o1 29)  224 295 615  19 *U22r 649    I 1  ) 60(f.    4 826    1115 02   122 902  1_  6I05    5278         1380 04     1610.57
4                                                                                                                               .         I



Tahle 4-4-8 Monthly COD 1,, load of the Cateniiletit of Trihtitorics of thlc  'oY gijia.ng River in Nnniiing
:til"l,il   R  Sliiul R 1.1,o ke.l R. K1l  Rt X.\IN-Vv  I,rkita  ID)aLng  li N;iiiIii   AhN.IIidIpi N Ud IN hanio IjVlllialcigI I? Madla'  I      I Iwl. lcic'Ill"    I .i.i3
1      2 5s7K    9*945    3(0731   67.004    39080    113078   43265            53 594       71       1759 91      21 135       22549          (019  244115      606i 17
2      I 9(9      7.370    22 773   49 6f52   21 960    83 79-4   32 6(1    .39 714          579      130 17        IS 662      16 709      755      IN 1.34      44X 45
1       42(0      i 623     5 016    30 935      6 378    11 .155    7 061       X 7.17      1 21     21 71         1 4149      16 6X       1I66      I996 1911' 77
4       046       .176       544      I 86       .691      2.(001    .765         941        0314      3 II          .74          399       0ix        431        3071
5      .1511     13 556    41 887   91.328    53.267   154 126   58970          7304-9      1 065     23979        28107        10734-1   319        13 3731     84 86
6      34 94 5    334 9.30   416 932  909.051  530 205  1534 329  586 971    727.107    10.601   23865 5           2X6 737     305 918   13 X25   132.183        8210 38
7      19 058    73.587   227.383  495.771  29.  59  836.671  320 l11    396.544    5 782    1303 72               156.318     166 %39    7 540    383 363       4477 71
8      3 062     11 709    36.130   78 885    46 030    133 128   50936         63 097      .920.    207 3 3       24 882       26.547    1.20(3    28 806       712 48
9      3.072      4.139     12 789    27.884    16 263    47.057    38 004      22.303       325      73 23         8795        938X4       424      If 180       25 184
I0       000       .000      003       .003     .0002       .004       002       .002        000        03 I         0o           001       000        003          02
II      2 360     11 140    2S 769    56 386    32 770    9-3 820    .6 279      .4 9.30(    65 5     1347          3 2 7722    30R1)(1     X.l    205331         5(7 36
12      3 0'9     5 828    31 007   39 262    22.899    66 258    25 353        33 4(03      458      303 09        3 2 384     33 232      597      44 .47      354 60
all vcar  7( 237    273 203  838.032  3827 146  3065 685 3083.522  1179.713   1461.448   23 308    4797 45           576 326      614 811    27 788    667.670     16502 45



ITabe 4-4-9 Nlonthly BOI)N  Load of the CRtchlimlenit of Tributories of the Yongjinng River in Nanni
muulih   R 8liibu  R4. [uoI2i. R.  IRI\Il R. Keli  R  . iig _ -arkug   Nauuli Zl t.hipa,ldolng   Nanan  It. hang enI    4 R. Fenghuang  R. Machao    L3eian    lingzicliong    Total
1         2         3         4        5       6        7          8           9         10           I I          12           13          14         lottal
I      1 146     4.734     11.688   23 825   10 761  3(0.X44  14 044      20.780       .252      82.93        6.086        7 401       .237         6 353      221.09
2       9(05      I 7.17    ) 223   128 X05   X 493   24 145 1 1 ( X-     16 406        199      65.46        4 X03         5 X41       .87         3.(15       174 50
3       274       1 132     2794     5695    2 572   7 371   33157        4 969        .060      1982        12433          1 769       057         1. 19       52.85
4       047        196       484      986      44      1 276    581        .860       .010        3.43         .252         .306        .010        .263        9.15
3      1.464     6 046    14 925   30.424   13.741  39.387  17.933        26 543      .321       105.90       7.771        9 451        303         8. 13      282.32
6      8 9X3    .37 097   91 582    86 680  84 314 241 678 110038    162.866          1.972      649.81       47.683       57.989       1.860      49.782      1732.33
7      3 566    22 986    56.746   115.671  52 243  149 749 68.182    I10.915         1.222      402.63       29.546       35.931       1.152      30.846    21 73.39
8      1 3(4      5 1846   23296   27. 12(2   2 241  315 X86  I 5 975     23.645       286       94.34        6.923        8 419        270         7.227      251 50
*)      574       2370      3x3o    I2 924   5J8X6   2343J   7.u20        104403        126      41.51         3.046       3.704        .119        3.180       110.65
lo      0ss)tl     "z00  ((2  t1      .0o08 O   (104    020     010         107         000        0.1         .(0(2         002        .000         .0(12       .)7
1        ) 998    4 120    1(1 171   20 733   9.364   26.X41  12 221      1 X.08       .2129     72.17         5 296       6.440        .207        5.529       192.39
12     175        3 105     7664    15.623   7(056   20 226  9.209        13 630        165      54 38        3.991        4.833        .156        4.166       144.98
:til wal 1 220231   9()Jt)   224 -12   457 475  206 619 592 251 269 65X    199 116       43.13    2392.40       226.832      142.107      4.557      121 993     4245.22



The actual points at which waste water is discharged into the river can be determined on
the basis of the different plans in the feasibility report.
(2) Non-point sources
Tables 4-4-7 to 4-4-10 list the load of BOD5 and COD from non-point sources of the
drainage's of Nanning City based on thc analysis and prediction of "Studies on the Planning of
the  Environmcntal Capacity  and  Water Quality of the Yone  aang  River". The time of this
assessmeint extends to the y'car of 2015. The non-point pollution source load is 1.3 times that of
the vear 2000. As the non-point sources load was calculatcd oln thc average rainfall over many
years. it mav not tailv with the different time appraised. So sonic rough adjustment was made
according to the designing runoff ratio. Taken into consideration was mainly addition of the
increase of non-point sources during the high water period.
Q,_1800
K =               -  = 1.32
)       11360
As for the loxw  water season and normal periods, the onainal designing shows that non-
point sourecs then are comparativelv fewncr to be within the rangc of safety. so no adjustment
was made for these two periods. Table 4-4-12(1-6) lists the non-point sources load after
readjustment.
Table 4-4-10 Existing Non-point Source Load of Drainagc's in Nanning City
Drainage Nk. I                              3            4               5            6              7
Draiinage       Shipul:C     I hgtnt.CIIJ1.nj  KC.ijlzltn  Xinmupang    Erk.nc        D)ak.nlg       N;UIhu
.krcXtj 4ki )   9            3' 01)         606 00        1 Q                         it3) 5(I)      14 44)11
SS (t a)        3.044 2'fl   12.152 700     23.X93 1 2    46.020 5 50   t,       951  Ifl,)17 614)    2.455 (064
('OD\11 (L  )   16 597       03 515         18.3 235     403I 298        24           (Ic 3 5919     226 64)
C(i)DCr (t)    701237        271 201        80.1   2      I.827 146      ). ".5 x55    .083 5:22     1. 17) 783
1(01)5)(I a)    22.013      90 909          224.428      457475         2t!t .)       592 251        2t.9 6'5
1'.P kta)      0.741          971           6.019        11 633          I t           3458         1 366
Tr-N T)         31 iso       124.7tl        244.2x      | 4f67305        26 95        71 1 o        1)771
D)r.kiage ,. o    8            9              10              11 I            1I
I )ral4n.lc     Zihupalch'n g    Na.i'.m      I hanIg IifJng   Fgi iilw \- 1.1. haolic  1H IJII       iuo&i oig
.\rea (kni-)    117 oon         I 200         591 00          25 o0o)         :o 000       : 60       3 500
SS(t J)         41,25J 29'     .79 4()6       22.147 70      J4.4)5 X69    I     2 o   21w.   5181    1.152 251
I(VIIl tt a)   319.60t         4826i          1.13502          122902       j  .3S 61)5    5278       1.10 X04
OtL)crt a)      1.461 44 t      21 308        4.797 45         575 126      |14 8I 0       p 7xx      667 670
iIt0)s(t .1)    339 116        4 81.           .52 40         116 X52         1 42 1f),    4 i57      121 995
F i'o .1)       10 37          ( 095         55 52            1 23(4           293        410 )20     )7X5
FN(t a)        419 9)6         1 6x')        2,345 3,3        tx 26 1       |J  19s )9    44229       11 20'
I.,Ia          .\Arca (kii-    SS(t.)         C0l)1 )f   I t! C()I)cDr(tI )  I             It M 1)ls)  Ir,.1)   TN(t 4)
1.072 96       345.50)4 24)   3.61o 57       16.54)2.4.6      4.245 22    9  5)      .48X9) 17
77



Table 4-4-11 Predicted Non-point Source Load of Drainage's
in Nanning City in the 1'ear of 2000
I)rainage     Shipuhe      Luowenjiang    Kelijiang     Xinxulijiag     Erkeng        DAkeng        Nanhu
Arca(km 2      9 000       35.000          86 000        132 000         11 000        30.500       14.40
SS(iia)        2.X93.863    12.235,75      24.481.9S0    47.951.700      1.577 342     10.347.370   4,185.022
COD(Mnt/a)    13 152       113.604         290 266      619 430          237 856       771.59R      406.014
COD)C{tia)    54 398       525.033         1,345.934     2.S79 164       1.156 900     3.7S4.496    1.995.500
B3OD5(t/a)     19 172      135.609         313.379      649.444          _02 611       717.126      369.526
Ip(L'a)       0702         3.070          6.249        1 2.3'2          1.238         3 782         1.692
T N(Ua)        29.801      122.463         242.082      473.069          26.462       67.4?0        20.900
Drainage No.   8             9          |IO                I I             12            13          14
Drainage      Zhupalichong   Nan'aui      Liangfengiiang    Fenghuanghe    Machaohe      Beian      Tingzichong
.V,a(kn2) 2   117.OO        1.200        59100            25000           3000O          2.360      3500
SS(t,a)        41.912.710    45 A82       22.7693.70       5.725 908       6.X1.334     76.470      2.243.900
CODM4n(tia)   495 231        3.141        1.303.4S         534 854         410.710        X 439      210.718
CO)DC.r(La)    2.311 907     17.366       5.64 96          2.612 463       1.98Xx 4XO    40 I X5     1,030 11f,
1101)5(1a)     529 441       3.810        1.740.51         447.843         337 978        5.950      176.264
'T'P'(t.'a)    10 674        0.016        55.68            2 237           2 290         0.032       0.878
IN('al)       41< 171       0.246         2.331.97         35 053         54972          0406        13.574
ITowtal       Arga(Lkni)    SS(La )      *CO)tnilW(a)      CODCr(L'a)      TtI)5(t )     1P(L'a)    TN(tL a)
I .07' 96     390.252.30   5.418.50         25.4 2' 46     5,648 6'       10().36    3.833.84
(3) Contrast of point and non-point sources
Tabic 4-4-13  shows thc contrast of thc timc and spatial distnbution of point and non-point
sources flowing into thc Yongiang River in Nanning City.
Table 4-4-13 Contrast of Point and Non-point Sources Load Flowing into
tihe Yon jinng River in Nanning
Mtitii Desipied    13([)c  (L/d)                CODc, (lid)                 COD1),, (L/d)
I'olnit      Non.-poinlt   Point         Non-point    Point             Non-point
March                7(!25        3             475        6|                1).'9           1 2
J,nilr 2oi                        132            J75L         725            IlS             161
Sept<tne :r         2i'5          It             475       3|    8           IOS             6.5
N,:te                          3A-    .  t . 1 1 :  c-I mon.Iaed all$ XU-.IAra  * t r   - -   .. . z 1 |     * *D),    '11 
It can be seen from  thc tablc that non-point sourccs duiring the low  water season is less
than 2TX%. Non-point source load is fairly large during the high water season and shotild not be
7R



Table 4-4-12 (1) Fxsiing loao    Or of           1)5, rfo-,,i Non-point  SoiuIces                                 u    t
U SIli lR I ,,--,I? kiil NnR           v  Li Llig  O)koi,  N.,,111,, /li1,j;,ildwil-  \,,o.,g,  It I ,i,:I'.,I    I            Iisp,l,,  .g  I.I.,,   ,  I ' ' ' ! j''i,'    I
1) 27 71   1 12       2 7941    5 (6')5    2 572   7 .171     .157    I- 969      (1 160      1) X.          I *1I 5        7699       00 "'7         S I )         X N5
6     I I X9).   49 I) I6    121 255   27.1761  1 116312  1')' 9X2 1.15 691    215 6(5   2 611 I    XNl tl4        '( 132        7W ,77       2 46I       6S 9I 1     229 16GO
9     0 99x       4 120     10 171    20.7331  9 364   26 841  12.22   1 IX 08X          0 219)     72 17          5296          6 440 (      0 207        5 529       19 21 3)
Table 4-4-12 (2) Load of BOD5 from  Non-point Sources iri the Year 2015                                                    tin i 1:  (t)
=.   R Shliiu   R, Immen   R. I':eli  R.Ninvv  Erkeng  Dakc_g  Nanhin  Zhupaichong  Nanan  R l.iang fn    R Fcn  kiai    R. Slachao    Ikian  Ti l luwho8 lld;           I .a
3     0.472       1.968     4 8.32     9.856    4.448   12.76   5.816        R.592       0.112     34 288           2 52         3 056        0 096       2 632        91 44
6     2( 572     84.960    209 744   427.539  193 099 553 498 252 012    373 001         4 516    148X 213        109 204       13.2 807      4 260      1 i14 012    196 I 4
9     1 726      9.127      17 594 1 35.862   16.199  46428  21 138          21 289      0378X1  124 840           9 160         11 1401    0 359         9 956 *4    3 32.81
Table 4-4-12 (3) Exsiting Load of CODM,1  from  Non-point Sources                                                                   unit: (t)
I- Slli    I.              I RI Ug RKeli  R.| Dakeug  Naliu   /lip-hiu| Naian |  I Ea.!:nglig DI  'l:i,ikeInN,G Z      |-pa hlnaig     I khRF  lli!. R"!I  a iF n    I!. 1  *I, "Ti I
3     0.082      0310       0.905      1.991    1.107   3.140    1.119       1 157      0024         5 60          0607        11684         0026         0648         1783
6     11.381     43357    125658  276.570  153816 436.110 155.430    219 178             3.31      778.366        84 281        95051         3 620        9 X'702    2476 01
9     0 459       1.756      5 067 1   11 .151   6.262 | 17 584 | 6.2 67 |   8 837    | 0 133       31 38          33 9R         3 8.12   |0 146          31(617       99 81



Iable 4-4-12 (4)   Load or BOD5 from  Non-point Sources in the Year or   2015                                         unit:   (t)
=    It Slubu  It I ~     It I~~Ia  It. .\i,   l   - .i,lsi / liN Impldlii g '    ;allal  1) I ..iglcg(eng It I iIualn.g It M1:leII  Ij   I iig.ilaioig  Fot:i
.     0 lo      IJ.60X     1 76      3XX       2 152    6 136    2 184I     3072      0.04N      10.92N       1.184        1.344    0.048      1.264        34.8
6    22 20t1    X4KI 979   24S 157   5.19 5X4  .100.093  X5S K4S  310.1 242   427.614    6A.45K    151.583   164 435      185.44.t   7 063    175 008      4830.70
9     0.X98     3.425      9 X86     2 175    12.102  .14 .loS   12 229    17.242     0.261     61.222        6 629       7.475     0.287      6 16X       9194.75
,rabk 4-4-12 (5) Existing Load or COD(. f trom  Non-point Sources                                             uni t:  (t)
Rt Shiki  It K lmo.wn  R Kdo    i. INrlEng -ig DAg   Mi,nim  Zhupaio             Nangan  It R.iiangfoig R. Fenghiiang K. ailchao  13eiani  l Tingzichoig  T lotal
3     042       1.623     5016      10935    6378    1X 455   7 061        X747       0.128      28.71        3449        3.68      0 166     3.996        98.77
6    46.267    17S.647   552.018   12o3.584  701 991 203U.IX7 777 ISli  962.690    14 036   3160.1N9         379 640     405.035   18 304    439.810      10870.54
9     2 16       8.34     25 769'   56 16   132.7701  94'820 X    36 279)   44 940        0.655   147.52      17.722      IX 908    U.X54     20.531      0507 46
TInble 4-4-12 (6) LIoad of COD(.,. f,*ow   Non-point Sotirces in the Ycar of 2015                             unit:  (t)
= It Sli filt Lutel,lx It (.dl   ItS.mov    I               );tk llg  NanIm  Ztl.michong  Naainn  It. I |ianglnig It. Fellgyu:Isang It. hfil,es| Ik-iauil   | hli.igidog  T otal
31 I    0.8-'     3.246    100 32     21 87      12.756    3691    14.122    17.494      0.256     57.42        6.898        7.36     0.332     7.992        197.54
6 if   9253.1    157 29-'    1 111.036  2107 16X  141113.'98  -10(62 1741 155.1 30   19253 38    2R(071   6320.37  759 28   | (1.07   36.601    X79.62     21741.08
9)I    432        3668    SIS.l  |i2372 325.54  |8'64   72.558                89.88       131     295.04       35444       3781f   |.708        43.062      1014'92



negicctcd. During normal water lcvcl period. howevcr, non-point sourcc load might account for
5-7% and there ,-ill be some influence. But it can also be left out in the calculation considering
the precision demand of general water quality simulation and the prccision of statistics required
by thils assessment.
4. Condition and standard of surface xatcr control
Present functions of the water bodies of the Yongjiang River and its tributaries
The Chaovang Stream: receiving waste w-atcr
The Erkeng Stream: receiving waste N%ater
The Zhupaichong Stream: receiving waste water and irngation
The Shuitangjiang Streamr receiving waste water and imgation
Upper and middle reaches of the Yongjiang River of the Nanning scgment; sources of
drinking water, navigation, receiving untreated citv sewage
Lower reach of the Yongjiang River of thic Nanning segment: agriculture and fishery
receiving untreated citv sewvage
Functions of the water body of the Yongjiang River as planned for thic year of 201 5
The Chaovang Strcam: gencral landscape
The Zhupaichong Stream: general landscape
Upper and middle reaches of the Nanning segment of the Yongjiang River: source of
drinking water. navigation
Lower reach of the Nanning segment of the Yongjiang River: agriculture, fisher%, and
receiving trcated waste water from the city
Conditions and standard to be controlled over the water bodies according to the functions
planuied:
Thc Chaoyang Strcam: Standard for Grade V of water sct in "Environmental Quality
standard for Surface Water' with rCferenice to the standard for Grade C' of water set in QLalitY
Standard for Landscapc and Rccrcational Water Bodics"
Thie Erkeiig Stream  no lcss tlhan existtig conidition
Teie Zhupaicliong Stream: (before 2015) no less thani exastinig conditiois. (after 201 5)
standard for Gradc IlI of water set in "Environiicital Quality Standard for Surface Water"
Thic Nanninlg segment of the Yongaiiai River: standard for Grade Ill of x\atcr sct in
Environmental Quality Standard for Surface Watcr"
The standard of Grade I of comprehensive discharge of wvaste water sliall be follo\ked to
conltrol the concentrations of pollutants discharged into the Yongiiang River according to the
fuinctions designed in the projcct. T\pical valucs are listed in table 4-4-14
Table 4-4-14 Standard for Waste Water to be Discharged into thc Yongldiane River
unilt mg/L
I 'oil utants  IA\tenided   P'rcsciLt                 Monitored
Cliiaovanti  Streatti  Irkeni! Streaw  /AiiipI icliOngl S t:7;iNi
Ii(YD5    3ii 63 014                             qfl
C(Dc)r     ( ia        j()50   362               277               ;
.X;I



It can be seen that the water discharged into the Yongjiang River by the Chaovang Stream
and the Erkeng Stream is already worse than it is required by the functions of the Yongjiang
River and poses as a threat to the watcr plants in the lower rcaches.
Because no quantitative standard has been established for mixed arcas vct in China, the
length and range of the mixed arca will have to be dctcrmined by concrete situations and
functions. Thre wvavs will be uscd for the controlling standard for the mixed area of the
Nanning segment of the Yongniang River:
a. Top limit of controlling length of the mixed area from the waste water outict in the
upper reach to the water drawing point of the water plant is I ,OOOm.
b. In normal condition. the top limit of controlling wvidth of the mixed area (polluted belt) is
1/3 of the width of the river.
c The maximum length of mixed area should not exceed 3km.
The above mcthod a took into considerationi the protection of drink-ing water sourcc so as to
reduce the cost for treating drinking water and substances harnful to people's health.
Ntethod b took into condition the fact that the segment has many waste water outiets along
both banks from the city and pollution is plugging the river from both sides. To leavc one third
in thc middle of the rivcr for navigation is a fairly low demand
Method c looscned the restnction on the length of mixed area because therc is no more
largc scale watcr plants in thic lower rcaches but most of the waste vater discharged will be
concentrated in this segment. and because it is cconomicallv and tcchmicallv difficult to meet too
strict demands.
i Analvsis on the function possibility of thc vatcr bodies
(I) Background conditions of vatcr from the upper reachcs to Nanning
Water to the upper rcaches of Naining mainly comes from the Zuojiang Strcam and thc
Youjiang Stream. llic drarinae's of thc two rivcrs arc undcrgoing rapid cconomic devclopment
and pollutants received have been incrcasing.  A numiecr of sugar rcfinerics. starch proccssing
factories and caincd food factories have bccn put up in Longzhiou County and Ningnming
Countr% along thc Zuojiang River to dischargc large quantitics of pollutants into thc river. As a
rcsult. in ilarch 1993, part of the river water turned ycllowv and brovn, causing deathi of fish
and poisoning animals and human bcings. Influcnced by this. the concentration of DO in the
i1ole of the Yongjiang River decrcased. This attracted tihc attention of the prefccture
cnvironmental protectio n bureau and government. Watcr quality of thc Nanning segmcnt of thc
Yongliang River is closely related with the: water quality to its upper rcachcs.
*Rcgulations to lProtect the Water Body of tile Yongjiang Rivcr" stipulatcs that the within
S)Om ranLc from tilc banks in the part from Jinling along the Youjiang River and the upper
reach of thc Zuojiang Strcam dorn to thie Xinyujia ng Stream is thic outlet of thle Yongiang
Rivcr to discharge tvastc %%atcr and poisonous and harmful liquid. where no industrial garbaec
or otier solid waste miattcrs arc allo% ed to be dumped. To strictly carry out thils regulation  ill
play an important role in coutrolliig thei pollutioni of the vatcr body of the Yongjiang River
Field nlonitoring in receint %ears found the water quality at the Laokou section is fairly
82



good, but where the concentration of COD,,,, already cxceeded the standard by I 1I1% and the
average value of DO reached 6.6rng/L in 1994 when the runoff was close to the designing
value for the loxv water season. The environmental capacity of the Yongjiang River was almost
totallv utilized. If the pollution load in the upper reaches exceeds the 1994 value, there will be
problems for the water qualit\ from the upper reaches. In this sense. it is fairly difficult for the
qualitv of water supplied to Nanning City to meet planned demands in the designing low, water
condition. It xwill depend on the point pollution control along thc Zuojiang Rivcr and the
Youjiang Riv'er in its upper reaches.
(2) Dcmand for the quality of water to be used in the nmiddle and lower reaches of Nanning
CitV
There are now four water mills along the Nanning segment of the Yongjiang River, xvith a
total production capacity of 620 OOOt/d. Two more mill will be in operation by the year of 2015
to add the capacity to 1.6 millionl t/d. Therefore. the water quality of the middle reach of thc
Yongjiang River (the southern and middle segment in the urban areas of the citv) should be
controlled to bc vithin the standard for Grade Il[ surface water as set in Document GB3838-88.
Drinking wvater and water for daily life use in Pumiao Town of Yoongning Country to the
lower reach of the city arc all ground water Even inhabitants living along the Yongjiang River
seldom takc drinking water form the ricr. There is no other special demands for the water
qualitv (such as for rare aquatic animals. etc ) for this segment of the Yongjiang River, so wvater
of this segment is required not to excecd the standard for Gradc Ill of x'atcr
Field monitoring over the Sliuitangjiang sectioni and the Pumiiiao section In recent vears
found tihe water quality was poorer than the standard for Grade III xxater when the runoff was
larger than thic designing value for the low \xatcr scason. T'ake the major controlling factor DO
for cxamiplc, when the water flow  %\as 25-n Is in the lowx \%atcr scasoln of 1993, the
conicentration of DO \"as S 84nig/L at thec Shi.EtanMjiang section and 2 62nmg/L at the Puniao
section. neitheir reaching the standard of Snliz/L for Girade Ill of w\ater Thc Putiniao section was
onlyt of Grade V of surface %xatcr. This reflccted serious pollution
Thcrefore, unless thc organic pollutioni load of Nanning is cut or eCv c,environmcntal
capacity is dcveloped. the water quality of the lo\xer reacilcs of the Yongiang River cannot
satisfy the demands tinder thc present designing \%atcr flovx of the lox\ \\ater season.
(3) Analysis of \aste watcr cuttinig capacity In normial vears in Nanning City
Plannecd functions of thec Yongiiang River require the water qualit\ at least to satisfy thc
demianid for Grade Ill surtfae water. It is thicrefore necessary nmacroscopically to determine thc
quantitv of waste water to be cut and the amount allox%ed to dischiarge
Calculation (in studics on thc environmictal capacity and planined water quality of the
Yongiang River in November 19)93) finds out that uitider thc miixed condition of thc section, the
allowed amount of \xaste wvater dischargcd fromi tEic outict of thc Mlachaohe Streatm to tihe
ShUitangiiang Stream (in the low water seasonr xhicn P-90`%)is
BODs         37X,4g1s
C OD\1,      ('20 5gfs
. S. I



Taking 170mg/L as the concentration of BOD5. the amount of waste xwater %vill be 222
600m3
Tak-ing 90mg/L as the concentration of COD1,r, thc amount of waste wvater w,-ill bc 68 940
)OOm3 The capacitv of BOD5 is Icss than that of COD.
Thc amount to bc cut from the present level:
1  226   = 62.90/0
60
The amount to be cut according to the amount of w%-aste water to be discharged in the year
of 2015:
-122 26 8 1.45%
120
Considering the hvdrological conditions of the region, it can be concluded that to satisf; the
planned demand for the year of 2015. all the water treating plants must be in operation bv then.
(4) Analysis of the possibility of its realization
Great efforts must be made to bnng the water quality of the Yongpang Ri%er to meet the
denmands required bv its planned functions:
6. Methods of simulation and thc slecction of index
Vertical two-dimension model is adopted for this asscssmcnt on the Yon_iang River, and
cross section one-dinmension model simulation xvas used under certain necessar\ conditions.
(1 ). Simulation mcthod
A. Equation of basic water quality
The model of avcragc onc-dimcinsionial section:
l?'   I        A &('
t-  =- -    1) -4 -kc -i-S 
6:''   1 -1 CX
The vertical two-dimensional nmodel
U1+I i= ----.hA4 -+--ht h    -r kc + S                                 (2)
dXR    £    h cY'      hT Ii C
InI which:    c -- conccntratioln
A. h -- arca of the section anid depth of water
u. v --floz' spced at the x.! direction
MN.M    -- mixcd two-dimensional coefficient of x and y direction
Di. -- longitudinal coefficie,nt of dispersion
k -- first order rcaction coefficient
S -- itcm of pollutant source
B. Watcr quality sinulation factors
BOD5, DO. COD,\, or COI),
C'. Multicomponent coupling Iod.cl
In mlost cascs multicomponicnt couplinig equationis. i.c BOD-DO coupliln cquations were
used in tilts asscssmcnt as orgaic matters were thic major factors studied.
AI



One-dimensional:
BOD;:        U    =--   ADL T - -k.                              (3)
ak   Ac2X    LeA'
DO:BOD,    (J y=    : ADI. eX - k)L + K,(Os- O)                  (z4
dX    A ZX       8Y          -
Two-dimensional:
c7T    I 8,    d7
BODc:        U-- =-hA t,   - k. L                               (5)
8X   h ckX      C
DO.BODs    U-A =                     k . -(Os- O) - k   L       (6)
cAX   h cX       -
In wvhich:   L -- concentration of BOD5
Os -- concentration of saturated DO
O -- concentration of DO
D. Nelthods of calculation and accumulative flow
Because the rivcr bed zigzags and the topography is complicated, gencral analysis wIll
produce too high errors. So numerical simulation was used in this study and the method of
accumulated floNv was adopted.
Two-dimensional accumulated flow steady-state water quality model:
Equation for accumulation flow:
di'   c'         &K, c  l .v
- -IreD    I          C   -                             (7)
(  tl cq        cq(. ..  ,,
Forimiation of conservationi of mass
q' = fJiu1fl                                            (8)
Suppose                D)r = h1uDv                                            (9)
Inflow tunit: q,C,1
Antd latttudinal dissemiiiatton'
Aq.
A,  I)((                 D,   C .          A(
Aq,S
Reaction ttemil:
KUC,,A' K=K  *C  *..S
ItECII source: Q,C.
InI "whicIh: SA -- surface area of the ulnit



A,, -- side arca of the unit
Difference equation:
C       1)    (Q- -C,I     )      - D     (C,;   (           K          h *  h +smc
q7  +q 2      )"                q(,   q;,. I)    qC
2
/)n /ll                 0~~~~~,. 1.l + /1 ]-I
Supposc       a=                              C=, 
q.q,                               q,7q,.I
b= -a-a+ I +               ,   d = C,;,  +   c 
q,C                      q,
Theii aC,,.1+bC.1,+cC,.,.1=d
When thie central angle forrned by the arc length of the side 0<200, and the error of the
ratio of arc leniLn and chord Icngth is about 1%, straight line can be used without correction of
the coefficient.
(2) Seiection of hvdraulic conditions for water qualit% simulatioll
Factors of hvdrodvnamic water flow speed and water depth must be dettermined in water
quality simulatioti. The only data of the upper reaches available for the study arc those by tile
Naining Hydrological Monitoring Station. Experience tells.
U=aQp                                                                    (12)
ZQ,                                                                   (IQ3)
Inl which   U -- average flow speed at the section (nmis)
Q -- water flow (nim/s)
Z -- water level (ni)
ac  P. p!. 5- - coefficient and parameters of experience
Thitis designing water levels and avcrage water flo%% speeds with different vater flows can
be calculated See Table 4-4- l for the values of and a. P. y anid S of experience.
T'able 4-4-15; Parameters of the Relation betweeni Water Flow, Flow Speed, and Water
Level as Monitored by the Nannino I lvdrolo-ical Monitoring Station
-     -#   .  --  Ik
Seasonl            :Flow Spccd & Wa;ter l:iom             WiEer l.cvel & Water :lo'-%
L_o__ W_aler_S__ aoll    (   17)     | 1(  4.'  X77 S                         0 1 -5 6t
t [i ivaler Seasoll   (I (05.7(05      11 642.5           4.- 80(6. 1        0 49,46C)
Normatl P cnod,s    O Ol) I .  '       I) X43 .4       5|2   12.7            1)25,11)1
Sf6



Sec Table 4-4-16 for the water leIvels and flow speeds with diffecrcnt wvater flows.
Table 4-4-16 Elements for Hydraulic Designing
D)esigned Water Fllow (mes)      Desmied Flow Speed(nils)           Designed Water Level (in)
170                              010                                60() 52
3tO                              0 163                              61 17
630                              0 326                              61 74
18()t                            0 704                              63.47
See Tables 44-17 to 4-4-20 for the reference values. The wvater level at different section
was induced  through  the  ratio  between the wvater levels at scctions  at Dakeng, Lintic.
Shuitangjiang. and  Qingshan. and  that at the  section  of Xitangxiang  Town  (Nanning
Hvdrological Station). See Table 4-33 for the concrete figures. The x%ater level of other sections
Wvas interpolated from these values.
Table 4-4-17 Hydrological Characteristics of Different Sections of
.the Yongiiang River in the High Water Season
Section         Drainage Area      Water Flo%%       Water Level      D)ischaree Aret     Floow Speed
___________________  (kin2)  i n1 /;  (i )            )kil.             (in/s)
Shansu6on12     31,600.00          688; X           65A0               0 (00              0 85
J1inlItin       4(,j(30 0(1        520)             65 36            8006 006             0 65
Laokou          713,.44 00         1.'2'4 (         64 07            2.w2 0               0 59)
Xixiantzaii      I 71,70( 00       I .2'0 0         60)              2 1  .120i0          0 58
I )akeng        73.900 00          1.2314 0         62 47            2.o i 7 o            0 47
1.iiitele       79,'61 00          1.214 0          62 -.l)           1.711)0             0 72
Shultan2;iang    74.661 (iO        I .24'J 0         62 03            1 .45i n            01 X6
Qln-shai        74. 670 1(I .24 (                    61 2-8           2.I 1N)             0 1 59
I'tiiiiiao      7f.,S82 Ot)          'S132s         61 2X            2202 n)              ° i8
_____________________  78.0}46  430'  1.tIS 0        5905,2.72)) (t                        1.18
1.iujlil2       7S.496 0(3         1.30Il)          59 65            3.724 o             0 35
87



Table 4-4-18 H%drological Characteristics of Different Sections of
the Yongjiang River in Normal Periods
Section          Drainage Area    Water Flow       Water Level    Discharge Area   Flow Speed
kr2             3M                                              MS
_____________    kmn2)           (in3/s)         (m)             (kI;11)          (m/s)
Shangzhong       31.600.00         242.0(0         63.69          484 (10           0.50
Jiiiliitg        40,800.00         191.0(          63 67          480.00            0 40
Laokou           73,344.00         438.0()         62 38          1,44() 00         0.30
Xixiantgang      73,700.00        440.00           61 30          1,520.00          0.29
Dakeng           73,960.00        442.0(0          61.07          2,127.00          0.21
Liiintie         73,963.00        442.00          60 93           1,260.00         0.35
Sluitamgitang    74,661.00        446.00           60.49          864. 00           0.52
Qinigshan        74,670.00         446.00          60.33           1,538.00         0.29
Puwniao          76,882.00         459.0(         59.77          1,7               0.26
Lin2hl     .    78,046.00         466)00           5 8.54         2,173 00          0.21
Liutiing         78,496.00        469 )0           58.14          3.2420(0          0.14
Table 4-4-19 Hvdrological Characteristics of Different Sections of
____________thle I ongjiang River in the Low WVater Season                    ______
Section          Draiiiage Area    Water Flow       Water L.e el    DisiLharge Area   Flon Speed
(kin2)         (                 fill/s)  in    (kin2       _ ______
Slianezillolnu     1,f600 00       154 00          60 36          42S.00            0.36
Jlllilni         40,800.00         121.0()         63.32          420 00            0.29
I.;lokols>       73.3-14 o(        279 0           61 93 *        I.280.00X         0 22
X1m,\zlutal.n   73      028000                    609 ')3,       1.3 .0(I          0 21
I)akcng          71,.960i.0        2S100           6( 85          2.05100           0.14
L.inmlie         73i,963.()        'I10           fi 0 58         I.08O 00        0.26
ShuI:an2liuallne  74,6611          2)() 001        60 16          767 00            1)37
Q______ha"l.l    74.670 00         24 t00          59 96           1.402 00         0.20
lunmtiao         76.f82.0(0        292 00          59 40          1 f49.0           0.1
Li mli           78.046 00         297 0(3         5S 17          2,() 1.0)         0.15
It.iujir      7S,49f6.00        290(0)          5777           3,219.00          0 1
Table 4-4-20 Desioned water Level at l)iffrcent Sections
Iesiigned  W\ate rD )akenog  Yzolwilanig       lin.tZlioii' l a Santlaritini    Slittingi ang   Qingsltai
170               60 .14      A)1 1; I        h( 1 7          ) 94        5( 7R6        59 560
301(               6(099 ')     os" (6           72          (I .1'       60 .31        60. 12
6.340              61.51      ,I .4-1           1 63'7       6112         60.9?2       (6 76
I Six)             6i *14     31              63 07         t' 01        62 96         60 50
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _     J  _ _ _ _    _     _  _    L   _ _ _  _RR



The depth of water at different points of the simulated region can be indu;id from the data
of the topography under the water of designing water level, and the flow s5eed at diffcrcnt
points can bc detcrmincd throughi the folloxving relationship:
q =    ho(_b,
h
qI     h
In whici:      q -- pcr width wvater flow
h -- water depth
qh -- average per width water flow and water dcpth of the sections
bO.b1 arc parameters, when the section is a rectangle %khich can satisfy
the Mining equation, bo=1. b1=5/3.
Based on the topography data measured and diff&rent  designing wate- levcis and take
bi=5/3, the values of bo at different sections can be wvorked out:
Wharf in the upper reach of Dakeng: bo = 0.95-0.97
Zlhupaichong: b0 = 0.94-0.96 (flood season bo = 0.78)
Tingzichong bo  0.81-0.87
Fomier hydrological station: b( = 0.95-0.97
Qingshan b( = 0.82-0.88
Tnese figures show that the width/depth ratio of thc Nanning scgmnt te. the Yongiang
River is comparatively large. equationi ( 14) xvill havc desired results.
ULidcr thc forcc of long timc \\atcr flow. thEc nvcr bed in the Nlannin_ -egeinict of the
Yon iamg River is founid not to bc svimmictric and the topography shows a r.-earkable Icamig
chiaractcr Wlicn there is no more detailed field survev data, usiig cqulation  -1) \lill achieVe
higher prccision.
(3) Sclection of water quality simulation parameters
A. BOOD  attcnuation cocfficicit K,
The BODO  attenuationi cocfficicilt K$  is relatcd w\ith thc concrete cha.1cteristics of the
ri\er. and its attenuation can be divided into CBOD and NBO[). and 1K, can a!-e be divided into
K1, and K1K,i BccaLise the flow spced of thc Yongliang Rixer is f1a1irly quick. os.: thc attenuation
of C'BOD wxas taken into considerationi in this stud\ The tiUle etTect of NBOD usually comics
tie da\s later and it w%ill not bear anv influence unitil at 86kmil in the lox\. reaches at the
aicrage wvater flow spcd of ().2111/s.
Table 4-4-21 lists the Kt  v-alue wvorked out In thc laborator\. T'hc a' ._eC Value at thC
sectionis w\as 0.08X5 in normal periods and 0.23  in the lo%% w-ater season. Gcr.:7allk natural K1
g9



value is larger than that worked out in the laborator-v.
Table 44-21 K1 Value Worked out in the Laboratory
*______________    _________________      unit:   per   d
Sectiol           L.ow Water Scason   Normal erinod      I ligh Wk'ater Season    Average
L.aokou          0o n                 00                 .                    ( (8
-Xint iangekou    -                   ( 1(4              -                    ( 104
Shuitanguiangkotu  0.3(0              1 0. JO             (A(                 0 17
Puttiiao                              0.07               0.07                 0.07
Table 4-4-22 Concentrations of BOD, Monitored at the Sections, 1991-93
Year    Seasonl          Dates        Water Flov"     Shititanigliang CI   Pumiziao C2  a
(I3Is) 0BODs (mngL)              BOD5 (mn/L)   C2/Cj
lo, water       Mar 11,22    260             2.85               1.(8           0.38
)991    hi2lh water      Jun. 11.24    1465           2 67                0             0 41
normal          Nov. 11.21    322             269               066            025
low water       Mar 11.22    27(             2 f4               1 .)3          0.39
:992    higih water      Jun. 11.24    4265           0 70               I 03           1.47
normiial        Nov 11.21 I        2 2_ 5        0       1       71            0.32
lo  waler       Matr 11.22    25;             .3.1I             I 33           0 40
I 9 3) . iighi wvater    Jun. 11.4    2 16'6         1) S(             0.88            1 02
nonral          Nov' 11.21   47-3            1I 45              ( .74         10 1
It can bc seen by analyzing values  oniotiLored as listed in Tablc 4-4-22. tlhe noll-point
soLircc load of thc scement between Shuitangliang and Ptuiiiiao bcars much impact on the
increase of thc BOD5 valtuc at thc Pumniao section This is reflccted bv the fact a > 1.(. When
thc water flow is smaller. thcrc is no or little runoff an the region. and thc cocfficient then
0 25 < a <() S I
W\ lihout considering the impact of longitudinal discrete. the K1 value between the Shuitangjiang
sectionI and thc Pumtiiao section will be:
KX
a=exp(- -)                                           (17)
if
Supposc u  zl-5Im/s. x - 26f,((n).a =0 25-0) 'I .  Tlicrn
K1 = -Ina  = 0.',-, - 069/c/                                 (18)
x
The value is hligier than the maximliLumn  \aluc in Table 4-4-21. wlich means the values
%%orked out in the laboratory can be uscd as tile lo\\cr limit of thic K, value. Thc actual K1 value
shiould be larger tihan thc one estimated above as the longitudinal discrete was not taken into



consideration.
The range of the K! values in designing:
The Lowv water season and normal periods: 0.07<K10<0.4.
In wvhich: 0. 15 w%as taken as the KI value in the upper reaches of Shuitangjiang and 0.035
as the Ki value in the loxer reaches of Shuitangjiang.
The lhigh xvater season: 0.07<K10O<0.025.
In actual calculation. thc value of K1 wxas adjustcd to be lower %vhen the DO value became
negati'Ve.
The formula used in adjusting the temperature in simulation is:
K1=KJ0T- 20                                              (19)
In wvhich: T -- xater temperature, the lowver limit of the K1 value, representing its value
when T = 200C and here 0 =1.047.
B. Deterrmination of Kc (the coefficient of the attenuation of CODm4)
The attenuation of CODr,1 is poorer than that of BODs, and part of it is hard to degrade.
As the indcx used is of single item. smaller Kc value should be selected to be on the safe side.
Table 4-37 lists the monitored values of CODk1n at the sections of Shuitangjiang and Pumiao.
Its corresponding coefficicnt is between 0.71  and 0.89. As a  is not included  in  the
undergradable base valuc. 0.9 was taken as a, so:
K, =  --Ina = 0.053 / dl
x
Table 4-4-23 COD.,, Concentrations Monitored at Sections, 1991-93
Year  Sezasoni     WEes         Water Flow    shultalngialln     Puliiiao
(in3ls)     Ci COD\10nl2IL)    C2  CO)\I,, (m1IA.)   C2/CI
low s;aater   Mar 11.22    26)         4 1S               3 61                 (0.S7
I%  1 ' hli11 iater  i.nun 11.24  1.465     5.76                2 7X                 0.4S
inornial    No% 1 1.2 I    .22.5       2.80               2.50                  0.89
low water  NMar 1122    27(1           3.34               2.64                  0.79
l92  hli2ii water  Jun 11.24    4.265        2.87                2.33                  (.91
no_ nonrimll  N    11.21    322.5      4 04               3.27                  (.81
low %iater   Mar 11.22    255          6.09               4.3.1                  ) 71
I.) .;  highi wvater  Jun 11.24    2.16()    5 76               4.21)                 (0.73
_ onnlial   No, 1 1.21   -174          2.80               I 98                  0.71
Thic K1 value uscd in the designing:
Kcr= 0.05/d
C. Estiniatcd K. %alue for the atmosphieric OXygen rcstoration
The gcncral K- equationi of cxperiencc  is:
91



K, = PUtm/'H
In which:      U -- average flow sped. ni/s
H -- average water depth. m
P, m. n -- parameters and indexes of experience.
The O'Connor-Dobbins equation wvas used in this assessment, that is, P=1.698. m=0O.5.
n= .5. A constant K20 was added because the O'Connor-Dobbins equation didn't takec into
consideration the impact of the %%ind.
K2= 1 698 U° 5/H'-5 +K20                                  (21)
In which the unit used U - m/s. H - m. K-- lid. Take K20 = 0.03/d
Viewed from the concentrations of DO monitored at Shuitangjiang and Pumiao in 1991-
1993, the oxygen restoring capacity is comparatively veak in the lowver reaches of the river. It
is estimated
K2<O. I/d
Suppose U = 0. 1rm. h  5m. then
K2=0.089/d
So equation (21) is desirable.
D. Latitudinal mixed coefficient Mv
The bending of the Nanning segment of the 'Ylongjiang River results in a strong mixing
po\ecr. favorable for the dilution of pollutants in the river water. The follow\ing formula was
used in detcrmnining thc longitudinal mix coefficient and cstimated value:
MI, =aHU*                                      (22)
In wvhich:      H -- water depth
,H    F --- Friction resistance flow speed
g -- acceleration of gravitV
I -- gradient of water surfacc
In nomial straight rivers witth an even flow speed. U, = 0. As a rcsult. M.usuall\ onl\ has
latitudinal dissemination. and the a value used is comparatively small, at about 0. I  In the
case of bcnd rivcrs. bccause U,=O and bccause the vertical distribution is uneven. NI, include
not onlv latitudinal dissemination but straggling causcd by lateral shcaring. the a value used
then is of larger scope.
a= 0(6t50=0.340 9
According to thc rcport of the dissemination coefficicnt (Studies on the environmental
capacitv and water quality of the Yongjiang River. November. 1992), the a value betwveen
X inyujiang Strcam and thc Shulitangjiang Screami is 0 06-0 86.
For bending rivers
Dakeng segment  0. 16
Tingzichong segment 0.68
Zhupaichong segmncit: 0.86
For straight rivers
92



Xinvujiang segment: 0.15
Shuitan,gjiang segment: 0.06
Experiment found the values of the Dakeng segment and Shuitangiang segment to be
smaller whilc those of other river segments comparatively reasonable. This was because the
n.%er bed of the Dakeng segment was deep along the left bank and shallown along the right bank.
so that the surface laver of water may incline to the on shore \w-hile the bottom lavers incline to
the offshore, exerting a kind of pressure on the polluted belt. As for the Shuitangjiang Stream.
there is in its topographv a scction contract in its upper reach and a sudden section expansion in
its lower reach, the ccntrifugal effect of the river water in bending causes whiling. thus forming
a long narrow polluted bclt along the concave bank. Latitudinal circulation at the bend of rivcrs
cause rabid lateral movement. Though the experiment cannot give a total reflection of the
situation as fewx samples were taken at different vertical layers of the river water. it showed that
the concentrations of pollutants arc higher in the bottom lasers than those in the upper layers at
some points dow-n the pollution discharge outlet. T'his proves thc existence of contorted water
flows. which cause higher mixing power of the whole segment of the river. But the actual
rcflection varics in different localities. at some place the polluted belt is squeezed to one bank or
the opposite banLk of the river.
The M,value was calculated according to equation (22) and a=0.6. E-0.0 I Im2/s (the
minimum valuc)
(4) Back ground conccntration used in designing
Thic background concentration values of the water coming from the upper reaches of the
Y'ongjiang Rivcr were calculated through simulation based oti thc monitored results at the
Laokou scctioni and water samples taken fromii the Zhongyao Water Plant and corrcsponding
ninoft
Lo\v water scason:         BODR = 1.0img/L
COD>s1,  3.8mglL
DO = 6.9mg/L
High water scason:         BODs = 0,img/L
COD,,,, = 2.2mng/L
DO = 6.4Smg/L
Normal periods:            BODs = 0.70mg/L
COD\,,1 = 2.4ntig/L
DO = 7.2mg/L
Tllc values taken as a wholc arc safc.
-  Prediction of water quality and contrastivc analysis
*Simulation of present \%ater qualitV
*Water qualitt analysis during the construction
*Watcr qualitx simulation in normal water level years
C'ombiiation of factors in thc plan
93 



*\Wfater flow: 170m3/s. 630m3/s, 1,800m3/s, 300m3/s
* Norrnal vcars: 1995. 1997, 2000. 2015
*Level of treating: no treatment (r= 0), level I (rj>30%), level II (p1>83%)
* Pollution discharge outlets:
Zhupaichongkou (designing plans I. 2. 3)
Shuitangjiangkou (designing plans 4. 5--recommended plans)
Dakengkou (present plan)
See Table 44-27 for the actual combination of plans. As the impact during the
construction is mainly within the Chaovang Stream, the table does not include that in 1997
when the dredging of the Chaoyangxi segment is finished, that is to say, the asscssment of the
impact of the construction on the %vater quality of the Chaoyang Stream is given in later parts of
this assessment.
See Figg. 4-4 to 4-6 for the results of water quality simulation. 12 simulation plans were
made for BOD-DO and 4 for COD,i.
The segment calculated is a 13km segment from the upper reach of the Erkeng River to the
point at 4km in the lower reach of the Shuitangjiang Stream.
The efficiencv of level I and level 11 treatment is low in actual CODi)n simulation.
respectively being 10% and 15%. Most COD v1n values vere estimated by deduction from
CODCr. That is to say, most of the prmarv treating rate is of COD.%., part. and the estimated
value of CODCjCOD\ =4.4, equivalent to CODC,-.,iWCODr=O D         .48%. That is to sav, onl
w%hen thc COD allowed to be treated is above 80%xwill it bear much impact on CODin.
In the actual calculation. the point source load of the Xinyujiang Stream and the Kelijiang
Stream -was added onto the background concentration at the upper border section. The load of
the Machaojinag Stream wvill be discharged into the ShuitanLitang Stream in 2015.. and so the
non-poitit source load was considercd in the high water season (water flow 1.X00Oinv/s) plan.
Table 4-4-24 Combination of Water Quality Simulation
No   Desirrin2 Rlintotl' of Nonnal    1'reating  Dischargc Ot,tict   Simuilationi   Plan
R Yonegiazmn (m'is)   Year Load   Level    Location
_   i 7()                1995         No       Dakcn2kou        I1rcscit
_   ItIs()                1995        No       D)aketndou        quality
63()                 1 )995      No       Dakcngkott
4    1703                 200H        1        Shultigar iantkoou   Year of   Reconiicnded
170                 20(3O       1         Zhupaichongkou   comilplCtion ( Comparative
0 .    I 70              3) 30       li        7.hupaiclhotikou
7    170                  2015        I        Shuitanig2ianiikou
.i;   17(1                201 x       11       Slitntaie; iaimiroti  Nomial   Recommeiinded
{v   180)()               2015        1        Shuttanielan-kou   designiiiig
In1  630 .(2015                       1        Slhuitgnati2.kou   year_______
I l   3(00               21:i         I        SlhuiItamigiazigkou   Nornal swar  Flei Reservoir
I   i 70                201 j        No       1)aken2kou        Nonnal wcar  Comparative
94



0            1 oo0          2000           3000           4000           5000           500C
4000 r                                                                                                         00
Zhupaichong
I                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Streanm
3000                                                                                                         3000
Dakeng    -\                                 0'i                 /t1                                  2000
Stream
Erk-eng
Stream
I Ovo                                                                                                     -4 1000
Coordinatr   unit: m                                             Sliuftangfiang
Concentration  unit: mg/L                                           Stream             1
0   1  -         I              I              I              i          -    I I                        0
0            1000           2000           3000           4000           5000           6000
Fig. 4-4-1  Distribution of BOD. Concentration under Low Water Condition with 1995 Year Load
0            1000           2000           300C           4000           5000           6000
I              I                                            1 -    I
40C0 0                                                        Z/:up;uc/mng                                j4000
3000 *-                                                 /i                                        \    730hOC
Stream  7   ~~~~~~~~~                                                                        2000Stea
.Strearn
Coordinate   unit: m                                                \
Conce:ntration  unit: mg/l.                                     .'zwiitjwng
.Streaznt
0   '            I                             1, I  L                                       I            0
0            1000           2000           3000           4000           5000           6000



0            1000           2000           3000            4000           5000            6000
4000                                                          Zhupoichong                                       4000
StreamN
3000                                                                                                            3000
Dal;eJ tg ,    4     ~         \    '    /                       /                            I i  2000
Srrean   t 
Erl;eng                                                               
Stream
1000                                                                                                            1000
Coordinate   unit: m
Concentration  unit: nigIL                                       Slzuuangriang
Strearn
0                                                                              I               I      --      0I  I  I  -0
0            1000           2000           3000            4000           5000            6000
Fig, 4-4-3  Distribution of BOD, Conecntration undcr Normal W'ater Level Condition wjih 1995 Year Load
0             000           2000            3000           4000           5000            6000
4000
4000
izJupaiclhongs               
Stream
50^'3  !                   ,4n'vX                 -                       ''',  !^-s~~~~~~~~~~~~ 3C,0
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
-nCr,  t-/   /   i   /    /   \,  20C5
E:rkeng         -:
Sitream                                                               /                             /      -- 100
Coordinate   Ullit: m                                               SmIIIIIJq1algtn
Concntragion  unit mg/l.                                               Streanj
i                 I              I           _ _ 1-                     i      ._.1. -                     I    O
0 )          1 000          2000            3000           4000            5C-O            6000
o in. 4-4-12 )istribution of r0D   Concentra ioi under Lowr WaterCordition with 2015 Year



3500                    4500                    5500                     6500                     3500                     500                    55o0                     6500
)00  _   '                                                                        _  4000    4000  _                '                                                                   40(
Z/i cI/pa/Ciong                                                                                   Z/Aupaichiopnr,
S,irealnSrem
~4-
000                                                            ~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~3000    3000                                                                       3 0(
000-                                                                               _  2000   2000                                                                                   -  20
Shuwilangliang                                                                                 .S11lnilan1,1a(ig
Coordlinate   tiliil: 111  Streant                                                             Coo)rdinte;lt    Ulii: Im   streall,
Conccntration  unit: mg/L                                                         .Consceiiralion  tunii: mig/L
3500                    4500                    5500                     6500                   3500                    4500                     1-500                    6500
Fig. 4-4-4  Distribultion of BOD, Concentration undcr L,ow Water Condition                      Fig. 4-4-5  Distributiion ol'BO)D, Concentratlion uliidcr L.ow WValer Con,dilion
wvilh 2000 Ycar Load aftcr Lvcvl I rrcalmcnt at Shuitangjianglkou                              sih20   crLa  fc  cc      Cltei lZuacln
K    ( 



3500                     4500                     5500                     6500                   3500                     4500                     5500                     6500
:)  .                                                                      t     _  4000  4000  _                                                                                     4000
Zj,t4paicIiVP?g
Sireamt                                                         lSrbll                                       
o                                                                                    3000  3000                                                                                       3000
/{    /I/                                                                                              I       
2000  2000                                                                                       2000
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1000  1000                                                                                       1000
Coordinate    Ullit: nl   Streamn                                 Coordiiiate    unit: m
Coontraion l  uniil: ngil      'oncentraion  unit: mg/L
350                      4500                     500                     6500                  3500                     4500 .45500                                       6500
IFig. 4-41-7  D)istributlion of1301), loncenirnaion ,n'fl,k Ir /
1:: ' '-( ^' -:'stti,^ 4"()-- 'enctrwe; .... 11(1(rIlkrm I.... \t,tilitill



6500                       3500                        4500                        5500                        6500
3500                       4500                        5500                                                                                                      65 
4000                                                                                       4000          4000         Zhupai4000   _                                                                   I
4000   - 
\                           ~~~~~~~Zhupatchong
Z7j14p)(olilo?g                                                                                                  Sitream
3000   3000
2000                                                                                       8 /' B  ,%,   / °  1  2000    2000                                                                                    2 2
iooo    1000     -ji:                                                                    ,/ -1
Coordiniaic    tinil: m
Coordinate      ulnit: m       Streann                                                                      Concer,ira ion  linit: -ngl      .Strearn
Concentration   tinit: mg/LI
0                                ------~.-.I-0                                                      0                                         .      -     -.-._.L                                  
n350                        4500                       5500                        6500                     3500                       4 50C0                       5t'02                      6500
Fit 41-1.-9  D)ilrillulion li   Aic  Cl) (inceiniralln ilntlu r I u1g1 Watelrl Condiion
l:ig4.4-4S    Dlistr ibtiliono {111I), ( eoilciilr;iiiotitiidcr l o%v Walcr ( linelilioi
2 Trcatlcnt at Shuilangiingkoui                                              ' di 215 Year I Liodalter I evel I 1 reililiclilm c ii Siilingjiailgkoi
WithI 201I5 Year Imid ale It vcr.ey)



,00                   4500                    5500                     6500                  3500                    4500                     5500                    6500
.-.---.-- 1-..i-.- - * -     - 1- ----4-                           ---  ---                              - mX--                                                1
4000    4000  __4000
Sei-eun                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Streanm
3000   3000                                                                                    3000
2000   2000                                                                                   2000
Coordiniate    uliil: Im    AlrtifangUianlg                                                                            51ltuilangiiantg
COnicenlratiotl  unit: mig/L  Sitream/                                                       Coordinate    unit: m       Srreatm
Concentration unit: ing/l.
!01   ___  __   §                                      0           0                                                                                 0
00o                  u50(.                   ruS00o                   6500                  3500                    4500                    5500                     6500
C tig. 4-4-1u   Distribution ot L30Dd  Conccntration under l.ow Wnnir Condition
:ig. 4.4IU ()istribution ol uBp0)  Couicenltrtiion under Normial Water l.vel Colldition                      with 2015 Ycir Load tfler Level I Tlreitmnenl 'wicn the 1e3ise



0            1000          2000           3000           4000           5000            6000
4000  -                                                                                                       4000
ZhEoaichong
Stream
3000                                                                                                          2,.  
2000                                                                                                          2 _ ' 2000
1000                                                                                                          1-000
-  Coordinate    unit: mn                                              Situziang,iawug
Concentration  unit: mg/L                                           Streamn
O   1            I 1                       1       1       1      1                          iI  I  I    ( IL C
0            1000           2000          3000           4000           5000            6000
Fig. 4-5-1  Distribution of DO Concentration under Lowv Water Condition with 1995 Year Load
0            1000           2000          3000            4000          5000            6000
I      I      I       I       IIiII                                                ! .  i -,
4000                                                        ZhUUIl Oftt l$4Zf0                         j,   _  4 S
40(o                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4r00
Streain!
3000                                                                                                          3
2'9000 _ ~               \ 2 \                     )/ /                / 1/                        /    i_ 2~~IV
Dakeng                                                                                            -
mnoo                                                                                        A                 IC.QO
Coordliiate    unit: m
Concentration  unit. mg/L                                     ShU:tangazjng
00        I    _ 10I00             .   I       I       l      I       !Streant                            0
0            1000           2000          3000            4000           5000           6000
Fig 4-5-2  Distribution of DO Concentration under lfigh Water Condition with 1995 Year 1nad



0            1000           2000            3000           4000            5000           6000
4000                                                                                                             40(
Zliltpaichong                                     4000
Stream
3000  _                                                                                                          3000
J6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
2000      /                                                                                                   -  2000
Dakeng                                                                                                           2000 ti* i
E;rkeng
1000                                                                                                             1000
Coordinate   unit: m
Concentration  unit: mg/L                                        Slzuuangiang
Stream
Q         f      I                                                              I -                         0 _ lI _        
0            1000           2000            3000           4C00            5000            6000
Fig. 4-5-3  Distribution of DO Concentration under Normal Water Level Condition with 1995 Year Load
U               UvU(        ZJUu            Juuu           5uVQ            S000           6000
I      I       I       II  I. I                       I              I           I     -,y    1
4000  _i( paiCIo,g                                                                                            -  4000
Streant
3-000                                                                                                         - .   3000
o 000          /2000
D)ak;eng  11  /                              +                          A                            11//  
Erkceng                                                                          s       J      z 
1.000                                                                                                            10
-Coordinate   unit: m                                                        S/nutaagjiung
Concentration  unit: rng/L                                                   Stream
O     1       1   .    .          1 1            1 I  I     I        I              .1   .   I  .L   l I  I  O
0            1000            2000           3000            4:.3o0         5000            6000
Fig. 4-5-12  Distribution of DO Concentration under Low Water Condition with 2015 Year l oad without any Treatmcnt



3500                            4 500                           5500                            650C                          . -
'\  It~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
2000                                                                                                              2000  2000                    /
3 0 0 0                                                                                                                      (                                                        : /   \ \  7 $  \   |   5   ! f i l l   a   q 0  r   I
1000                                                                                                                 C /  /                                                        -                  ."
'                              .~~~~~~Stretwni                                                                  CordnjlrelIl;C     iil 11. mIII                  etn
C nordiliac       tll1111II
(oor(hnnte  unitConcentration   uns[ ing/1.  .VrconC,nc nr1 .on                                                      an.                      '(1'/7
Ci' nccnlratlon    unii: img/l.                                                                                            (ocnrln znlm^l
0                  I               I                                            I I                         0               0
3500                           4500                            5500                            6500                         3500                            4500                            7-5(K                           ,5OC
Fig.4-5-4   Distribution of DO (oncentration undcr Low  Waler Condition with 2000 Year l.oad aI ig .1I5-S   D)'%ribulmn o 1 )1) (onccnrilraion iin(tcr 1 .ow  Waler ( t'lni700o  il lit 2000l  'cai
ShLiangliangkoie aflcr l.cvel I rreatment                                                                                             I , 1      /t1a lp;/ tiinp   .1lics I C% el I I mamcmtlI



3500                       4500                        5500                       6500
3500                       4 500                       5500                       6500                                    _______          _______________
; ' ' - f i 1~~~~~~~Ij  I                                                                                                                I  l
0                                                                                            4000   4000                                                                                                   4000
I ~ ~~ ~~ -E                                                                  ./I,}ltl¢}g)
I~     ~       0'                                                  II II                                                         N 
~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~3000                                                   3000                                                                                              300C
nr.                                                                           11\111o>,*/       °0'°'                                                                                                    °
I,                            Ut.            W                             AJJ,,,,, jlEe
-                                                                 ~~~~~      ~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~21000  2000        ("200(
r   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,~~10                                                       1000                                                                                              10
111111 nh1114M
,_          sr*.lEw                                                                ('tll)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ordinmel  t illl ill
( suucciutr:uI tuit   It(Xc) II1),-I ,' '0                      )1                                                     65.00
h r Of1 oi 1)() Concen1traltion tinder .o%% Wvitter Ciiditln sitht 200t Yeair           lFig 4-5-7  Distribuuton olf DO Concentration under Low Waler Coondition with 2015 Year
~  4.5m6hI o)s r       a trlofl   of I )( )' one n I n  un der 2   \V1  aer, il   d                                Load   at  Shuilangi iangkou   afher     L e. ve l   1    Ire atm en t



t,54tt1'' ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    I '$l' 1 1                                               IUtjI!-) I8  Z 1.3,0- I,@:1   ld  11111! IIj&II'IIII  IV IW I
J .)   tI It  '   )     I   W H I I , l tJ  I LtO LI   I I. )   ( 1 1 1''   In   cl I I I      I   J l ! . ' k  ~   I   O[   t j llA %   U O t ! tP U0t)  J ,) I I ! A \   A N W   I   J 1 5 lU '  L i l u xl w olU !)   ( (i   j o   ui ll t qjl Si (   X -1-1 |)
]09                                             30CJ                   00s;                  0059                   oo00;                   O  07                  O0G2
0             0                                                                              0------r-  0
8                        /wta,2,ls,~~~-I/tt I2   lit I I tlitIII vj ILI.tlls,                                                      10;ttl  iititi   tlOl Iiluont.mtl.)
1-                                                                                                                              Ltd _  VgDlU/IIIt
! ,  .lilrtil,'lldl,< v§ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ltl
t  ,'O,OOLwaX                         '°°°I 0001                     A ,_ _    'u0                                                     0001
0001~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00
,lN        :'', -. I  /   I!
(( i I,i    i                                ,/                    , ,                               0
. !   o i                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~ooc>ooo z                                                                            oooz
/1               ~~~~000                                                                                           ool
I                                              I",  ,',j                                             .11
000V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00
o o L;                  0            .            I                   i  ; 1   o c.1                             .-_ I
;)0G9 ~   ~~~~~ ~                                    _______0g  OOOc'rrr                                                          >ettC



4 500_-oo                                                     6500                            3500                           4500                           5500                           6500
4000    4000                                                                                                1               400
ihqatc/_ ong                                                                    f
,' .7                                                   /                                           . 7o2   2000                                                                                         200C
>  t                   '~~''''~~''~'''~~'  j;,-'                                100(   1000                                          ' _'   'V'/1000
killi II                                                                                          NLl ncennraiilily
('t11i<'111'11111]tlllll 111v.'1.
t50                            X   t, 3                                                        500                       35 00C                         4 500                          ss5                            GS (00
I m;ak;1    lt,i,g   ;,g  ,,  a flet Ir  1  ts11  're  ;i1ill otte i                                                          s1lol     S iill  i;l  l     a   ticrte      N o m a Wevtt I~vc I,111 I 1             201 r5lil  Y c
I )~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~Ia   1    1111gmlkuairICC    Iriivci



0             1000           2000            3000           4000            50000           6000
I      I                       I              II~                   i i
4000                                                                                                        i
3000                                                                                                               300 
2000                                                                                                     /         LiIo
Dake'zg
1000                                                                                                                 OQt
Coordinate    unit: m                                               Snii:fngjt.ine
Concentration  unit maiL                                               Stream
0                  I-I_                                           I               I                          1,
0             1000           2000            3000            4000            50C J          6000
i p 4-6-1  Distribution ol COI,,. Concentration under Low Water Condition with 1995 Year 1load
0             1000           2000            3000            4000             000          65000
-1000
,              ,                                                       -
30100  _
2000
Erke'ig
Coordinate no tit Il
i - '-' \ - L
Cocnrtintit m"v-.-,
0             1000           20-!2            7 -D.3J 0nc                                           0
I:,- 4.6.2  1f)p;tribLuziOll t C')l)"1 (Xincentnttit)iuiiiuder low v. kater Condition   ith?.9')cirIoi



0            1000            2000           3000           4000            5000           6000
.~~~~~~~~ I
4000  _                                                                                                         40J
3000                                                                                                         -30%
Dakeng
Erkeng                                         .                              9               /       /
1000                                                      _C' -_' 
Coordinate    unlt: m ;
Concentration  unit mgi,l                                        SIzi,ilig,,smg
0                                                                                                          0
0            1000            2000           3000           40 C-           5000           6000
I-! 4-6-3  Distribution of COD)M.s Concentration under Lo%, \tater Condition %'uh 2015 IYear Load at
Shuitanetiangkou aftcr Ie%el 2 treatmcnt
0            1000            2000           3000            4or.           5000           6000
4000  -Cj
300oL                           ,                 -- -o                     8 'aj~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ t 3'
3000                            ,
2000   /~'
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ r
I   ordineetateo   unit m1>1
0                I          _ lf.               ;                           ' ._                 ._J 
1000~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0            1000            2000            3C000          :'.-. S000
FIw 4-6-4   Distribution of COD,, Concentration under l.ol Vkkmer conditiol with 2015 Year



(1) Impact on the vater quality of the Yongjiang River during tihc operation of the project
Tables 4-4-25 to 44-27 list the different length and width of polluted belts as a result of
different plans (taiking the standard for Grade IIl surface water as reference).
Plan I rcpresents the present load and discharge while Plan 12 represents the load of the
year of 2015 without anv treatment. both using the dcsigning low water year with a water flow
of 170m3/s. At the present load, the BOD; polluted belt at Dakeng and Erkelng is 1.740m long
and 75m wide, that of oxygen dcficit -4Om long,- and that of CODS,, I 540rn long: at the load of
thc year of 2015. the BOD5 polluted belt wvill increase to 5 520m long. which w\ill join the
polluted belt of the Tingzichong Stream to block the wvhole watcr surfacc. and the oxygen deficit
polluted belt at Dakeng wvill increase to I 000m long, joining that of the Tingzichong Stream
to block the whole river surface and the latter will join the 500m long oxygen deficit belt of the
Shuitangjiang Stream. The COD.t, pollutcd belt will increase to 4 700m long. also joining that
of the Tingzichong Stream to block the whole rivcr surfacc. It can thus be seen waste water
discharged in the drainage areas of the Chaovang Strcam and the Erkeng Stream must be
gathered and treated at present and in the future. as the length and width of polluted belts under
the designing low water conditions %xould be unacccptabic. Scrious pollution will appear in
whole segments of the river under the designing norrmal years.
The tabic shows the realization of the Chaovang Stream comprehensive treating project
'vill cffectively guarantee the water quality drawn by Lintic Water Mill. W ithout the project.
water quality wvill detcriorate so greatly that its BOD, conccntration \will reach the value for
Grade V water, but the project can improve it to be within the standard for Grade 11 water.
Plan 2 and Plan 3 respectively represenit the present pollution load during high water years
and nomial wcars. Tnc BOD, polluted belt at Dakeng and Erkcng wvill reach I i00nm. cxccedine
the limit of I (O()lt. So it is neceSsar\ to treat the waste w%atcr of the C'haoyang Strcam drainagc
arca even during higih water and normial years.
Plani 4 represents the load of thl \ car of 2000 aftcr the completioni of the project. and Plans
7. 9. and I( represcit the 2015 \car load with thc completion of the project for lo\\ water, high
water and normal cars. Calculation finds out that with the project in operation the polluted
belts in Dakcng and Erkeng wvill disappear: thosc in Tingzichong and Zhupaichong will rcniain
wvithin the standard for desired water quality: the pollutcd belt in the Shulitanigiang Stream nill
become longer but not wider according to the calculation: its length w%-ill be liitcd to 3 0QOnii in
thc highi water scason and over 4 400m in the low watcr scason and nomial periods. As a result
of the proiect. thc water quality of thc Nanning scgment of the Yongjiang River will be
improvcd. especially that abovc thc Shuitangjiang Strcam. in which oxygen deficit bclt will
disappear. TC pollutcd belt in the Shuitangiiang River will be longer f3ut as it is located in the
lower reaches, where its functional demand for the wvater quality is less strict The pollutcd bclts
In thc Shuitangjiang Streanm are narrox  and close to thc baniks This is because of the
characteristics of the local water \a
M t9



Table 4 -4-25 Prediction on the BOD5 Polluted Belts in the Nanning
Segment of the Yongjiang River                             unit :m
Plan   Dakeng and Erken    | Tingzichong        Zhupaichong       Shultaanjiang     Reference
No.   Length    Width        Lengthi    Widtlh  Length   Width  Len2th   Width  Ficg 4-4
1      1740     75           530       63      280       64       3580     92       1
2      1340      71          200       78       300       58      lI(i      50      2
3      1360      6.          250       65       60        60      800      68       2
4      no        no          530       66       290       70      > 440(    98      no
5      no        no          550       66       910       100     >44()    104      5
6      no        no          550       66       280       64      >440(    98       6
7      no        no          860       81       670       91      >4400    125      7
8      no        no          860       81       400       70      >3'750    90      8
9      no        32          400       69       520      41       28Iu      I0(     9
10    no         no         470        78       330      66       >44-00   68       10
II    no         no          890       100      590      87       >4400    86       1I
12    5520      nver         2500      river    1570      162     >4400o     98     12
.      dtli                u ldthl
Table 4-4-26 Prediction on the Oxygen Deficit Polluted Belts in the Nanning
-Segment of the Yongjiang River                      unit :m
I'l.n   Dakeng and Irkeng    Tingzicihongo      Zhupaichiolig      Shuinw zai1r
No.   Lens.gthl   Wizdthi    Lcngil    Width  L.ength   Widtli   I ensth      Width   FtLi 4-3
I      .340     44           51        70       n1o       1        ;s0I10     82 S
2      noo       no          no        no       no        no       no         110
; o       nI          no        nio      nio      nlo       II(        n1o       2
4      noo       no           o        no       nio       no       > 0t)      98        no
5      no        no          no        no       no        no       >! ()      98        5
6}    110       ItO          110       110        0       no         41        9()      f
7      nto       n10         Ito       no       n1o       n1o       'of)   9')S         7
8      11M             110   no         no      no       tno        8./2                IS
9      nio       .2          tio       nto      nio       nio       I of 1     64       9
10    10o       110          n o       nio     n1o        no      ">;50)      6S        1(1
_    110         110         110       110      110       110 *    '-t4 Hi    I8 II
12    no         no         nio        IIO      nno                   )12
II(



Table 44-27 Prediction on the COD1  Polluted Belts in the Nanning
Segment of the Yongjiang River                    unit: mn
Plan   Dakeng and Erkeng  Ting7ichong    Zhupaichong       Shui tangnian2    Reference Fia.
No.   Lengtil   Widtlh   Lenth  Widthi  Length   Width   Length   Wk idth   W idth 4-4
I     1z540     134     480      80      170      56       >4400    90(
8     no        no       520     94       390      70      >4400    109      2
I I    1060     100      480(    8.      350      75       >44400    79      .
12    4700      ri ver    1670   nfver   516      91       >4400    7S       4
_ width     _     idth
Table 4 -4-28 The Quality of Water Drawn at Lintie Water Supplying Plant
Plan No.   BO15 (mg/L)   DO (mi/L)    CODM,, (mir/L)    Note
Plan I    3.07           6.13          5 14             Existzni load
P'lan 12    7.38         5 37           7.05            2015 load withouc thls prOqtict
P'lan 8    1.78          7.14          3 73             2015 load itlth this project            .  
Plan 8 is similar to Plan 7. onl, its treating level is raised from level I To level 2. the BOD5
polluted belt in thc Shuitangjiang Strcam  decrcases to 3 750m  and that of oxygen deficit
dccrcases to 3 560m, still somewhat over the limit of 3 000m desired This can be solved bv
taking some other measures along with the development of the econiomi
Plan II and Plan 7 are similar except about the water flo%w during thlc lo  water season.
Takcn into considerationi tihat thc Beise Reservoir %%ill soonI bc constrLcted. tlhe water flowx
desigined in Plan II is 300nm3/s Compared with Plan 7. it can reducc the \ idthi of the polltied
bclt in the Sluitangjiang Strcam by about 40iii
Conclusion of tie assessment:
a. The projcct w-ill greatly improvc the cnvironnicmital wvatcr qualit% of thc Dake;ng and
Erkecng Streams. Their polluted bclts at thcir otitlct along the banks of thic Yong iang Rivcr will
disappear. This \vill play an important role in rcalizing the goal of tirning thc city of Nanning
into a modemized garden city.
b. The project can collect about 35% of waste water from the urban areas of Nanninilg City
after its is compIcted. Thic waste water xvill bc discharged into thic YolonLiang Rm'cr after level I
treatmiicnt, and 10% of BOD5 load can bc reduccd. It provides a foundation for achicving the
goals of pollutant total control of Nanning City In accordance with plan. the construction for
level 2 trcating will start immediately after that. and thcni thc Jiangnan wkastc \atcr trcating
plant will reachi desig,ned capacity, that is. 70)% of BOD% load will be reduccd to bring, niorc
rciiarkable environmental benefit..
c. According to the plan of this comprehensive environmental treatmiietit proicect. a wastc
\\atcr treatling plant of level I wvmll be built at thc outilct of the Shuitangliang Strcam in the near
ftiturc. and later it wvill bc enlarged to reach level 2 treatinig abillt\ . Thiis talliCs wkith the reality
l lIt



of the economic development of the citv. It is more rational than to build a level 2 waste treating
plant in one step.
d. The project is necessary and urgent viewved from  the angle of the city's water
cnvironment. It is recomrnended to put it into construction as soon as possible.
B.  Analysis of the project's impact on water quality during its operation
Most of the waste wvater in the Chaovang Stream will be drawn out through the trunk
pipelincs along both its left and right sides after the completion of the first stage of the project.
Water will then be pumped into the Chaoyang Stream from the Yongjiang River to maintain its
clcanness for the landscape of the city.. The water supplement pumping station has a capacity of
O.4m3/s, able to change the whole water in three days. The quality  supplemented water can
meet the standard for Grade II[ water. When it enters the Chaoyang Stream the supplemented
Water bod- basicallv remains stagnant with verv low oxVgen restoring capacity and the wvater
quality will soon deteriorate to exceed the standard for Grade IlI water but still meet the
standard for Grade V watcr of landscape, just likc a small lake or pond. So it is possible for the
water bod\- of the Chaovang Stream  to mect desired demiand. Thhe water quality of the
Chaovang Stream can be thoroughly changed if proper water exchange or replenish period can
be used as wvell to solve problems like foul smell or eutrophication of the wvaier body.
Bcsides. artificial springs and waterfalls can be added to beautify the vie\% and increase thc
restoration of oxygen in the water body. so that the water replacement circle can be longer.
During stomis in the wet season, some waste water may entcr the river through the sluice
gate on Youai Bridgc. But the timc of ovcrflow will not last long, and so is the timc of its
tmpact. Thc large amount of wvater cntcring the river can directlv dilute the overflown waste
wvatcr. Therefore. thc dcgree of pollution wvill not be serious cxcept during the first rain. As it
will last only a fe\ days. the pollution broughit by the first rain will not cause serious impact on
the environmcnit.
Sonic water of the C'hao\anlg Stream cnters the Yonilianig Rive during wxatcr cxchangc.
But its quantity is not much and the water quality is near that of Grade V %atEcr. and the impact
oii the Yongjiang River will bc limited in timc and voluImie.
Conclusion of the asscssment:
After thc compiction of thc first stage of the project. the water in thc Chaovang Stream will
be improvcd from scvage to Grade V water to be ablc to mect the dcmand for general landscapc
functioni during the dry seasoni and most time of the wet season. It is the direct manifestation of
thc bencfit of the proicct.
4 4.2 'rediction on the environmenral inmpiact ofthscwt,e .    svrem dierins?zt~ it'eration
The prediction on thc environmental impact of thc sewage system of thc Nanning City
during its operation mainly includes: analsis of its impact on the impro%ement of the citt's
ccological system. landscape and vater bodics, analysis of thc effective control of the projcct on
flood in the urban areas and the surface runoff that pollutes the city, and anal sis of the impact
112



on the eutrophication the water body of the Nanhu Lake after the separation of rain and waste
Water.
1. Analvsis on the rain water pipeline construction
There are altogether 13 sections of rain water pipeline. of which 5 flowk into the Chaovang
Streamr, with a catchment area of 791 ha, two into the Erkeng Stream. with a catchment area of
1O8ha, 3 into the Nanhu Lakc. with a catchment area of 590ha. I into the Zhupaichong Stream.
with a catchmnent area of 72 ha. I into the Tingzichong Stream. with a catchrnent area of 108
ha, I directlv into the Yongjiang River, with a catchment area of 38ha.
The pollutants collected by rain watcr arc from non-point sources. w%ith various time and
spatial distribution. Point sources produce relatively stable quantities of pollutants, though their
distribution is uneven; while non-point sources have relatively more even spatial distribution.
but the time of entering the watcr bodv is changeabic. mainly depending on the process of rain-
runoff. Acceding to information from abroad and the experiment carred in Nanning in 1993.
the first rains or the first storm each vcar is the timc vhen the most pollutants are produced.
Different objects can be considered to analyze the environmental impact of rain pipeline.
This assessment mainly takes into considcration two types of non-point sources receiving water
bodv: rivers and lakes.
As far as rivers are concemed. the project involvcs the Chaoyang Stream, the Erkeng
Stream. the Tingzichong Strcam and the Yongjiang River. These w.iater bodies rcceive certain
amount of non-point load no matter the rain watcr pipclines are constnucted or not, that is to say.
With similar precipitation process. the rain watcr pipelincs can only discharge the rain
accumulated on the strccts morc quickly. speeding up the flowv of runoff into the nrvers without
chianging the total  amount of non-point sources load. except that the peak value into the water
bodies is sooncr. Accordin, to thc analy sis of thc general rcport and the data of monitoring over
the water quality of the Yongiiang Rivcr--thc final waste water receciing watcr body of
Nanning City--over the years. it deseives attention to see if this will lash the non-point sources
of the rcceiving water bodics and cause the worsening of the pollution of certain water bodics.
Thc water quality in high w\atcr period is bctter than in the low water penod. Thc Yongjiang
River is a point sourccs controlled rivcr, thus these non-point sources bear no controlling
impact on the pollution of the \atcr body of the Yongjiang Rivcr, nor wtil cause remarkable
environmental impact  the w-atcr body of thc rivcr. nhc main function of the rain watcr pipelinc
nctork is to prevent flood and dischargc wvatcr accumulated at lo%w--k\in, places. so as to
maintain the environmental hygienic and image of thesc areas. It is highly of civil engineering
character.
As for lakcs, this project inaolvcs the largest landscapc.water surfacc in Nanning Citv--the
Nanhu Lake. The major problcm  of lakes is thcir cutrophycation. that is the incrcasc of
nlitritious substanccs of N and P. which cause rapid grow\-th of pl)vtoplankton. As a resLIlt, the
w%ater body lacks oxygen and aquatic animials will die. and foul smells appear Abundant studies
founid that the control of non-poiuit sources pollution now poscs as a ver\ serious problcm for
lakes in China and in the \world as well As ticre is so far no good sewage s\stem and rain wvater
113



pipeline netxvork for the Nanhu Lakle area, it is obviouslv necessary to take into consideration
the control of non-point sources pollution, and this will achieve double results if considered
dunng the plan of the project. Othenvise there will be much regret. So the environmental impact
of rain wvater pipeline network is one of the key points in the assessment.
(M). Analvsis on non-point pollution sources
The rain w\atcr pipeline network in Nanning City' includes 13 trunk pipelines, which can
effectively collect (non-point sources) pollutants brought by the surfacc runoff of the
constructed part of the city for planned collection and unified disposal.
Non-point sources are the comprehensive reflection of various human and natural
activities of the city. Their pollutants are usuallv accumulated and wvashed by the surface runoff
to affect w%ater bodies in the lower reach. Its process is shown as the following figure
|Atlilospliere of (lie citv 
D)ust talling-     priecipitation
mian ~Substanlces at ij;h     Wasliting otf  |W utce|     |atcr bodies Irn |
ierotinid surf,ie   ninofrater                       the lower reacr
Nion point sourccs are important components of pollution sourccs in the city. Usually thcy
appear to be pollution sources without stable discharging outicts. accumulated \%hen the
x\atdier is fine and discharged during rainy days. Thc discharge of non-point pollution in the
cII\ is concentratcd in the rainy scason. especially during the first stomi after a long spell of
drouhlit. "hien scriously polluted surfacc runoff will forn Its concentrations of pollutants may
r.ach those of daily sewagc. Thc fact that the w ater quality of somc segments of certain rivers
in China is wvorsc in high water lcvcl period is cause by the dischargc of non-point sources For
e\ample. the Lijlang River in Guilin is of such a casc.
A Composition of pollutants from non-point sources in Nanining
a Accumulation of particles on ground surfacc
Field sample taking and monitoring by Nanning Rescarcih Institute of Environmental
Scienices and stimulation of artificial precipitation show  that the amount of particles
accumiiulated on ground surface in Nanning is 2.4-222g/m. the sample taken from the living
quarters of the Guangxi Daily bcing the highcst. at 222g/lm(?). Sec Tabic 4-4-28 for details
1114



Table 4-4-28 Accumulated Particles on Ground Surfer in Nanning
Quartos               Living             Corinniercial       Industinal               Traffic
Sanipling point      Nanning  Guangxi  Hiotigxing Dangyang Pharmaceutical Alanl1 beer Lingjiang   Tinghiong
daily    theater    Road    factor'         platt      Road       Road
Volue ofsa;npling (g)   109    200       122       79.7      127.7         106        98.9       91.2
Area ofsamiiplitig (m)  4x4    3x3       4x4      31 3       4x4           4xt         40x 5      4 v9
-moLint ofpaniciles    6.8     222       7.6       S 7        O0           5 3        4 5         2 4
accuniulated
Tim.s( Id)            I         I        3         25        l             1           2          2
b. Pollutants contained in ground surface particles
Investigation found out that the amount of particles accumulated in living and comnmercial
quarters is higher than in industriar and traffic quarters. This means people' daily activities
produce more ground  surface particles than  production activities  Table 4-4-29 shows the
content of organic matters and N and P are higher around then living quarters of Guangxi Daily
and beer plant is higher than that before Hongxlng Theater in Dangyang Road. This tallies wvith
the data collected during artificial precipitation.
Table 4-4-29 Pollutants Contained in Ground Surface Solid Particles
ph1        Waler(%0)  Organic    Tl         TN        S-P        N0,-N    \Th-\       NIIN
__matt.r(Io)  (nigkg)  (mgkg)   (nikg    Imgkg)   'mgkg)   (nigkg)
Giu.ingNi daily    7 L       2 54   %        71    0 059     0 274       25 5)        7       2 'I2        5
.uainlg           9 40       2 3 7      I1 57     ( 069      0 267.     68          5 <       , 92       37 1
iiuongxinig       -12        14(        7 R9      0 061      0 I4       41 6        _          1 25      12 2
D)airigyang       9 70       1 64       8 58      fl 056     ( 19(      47 4        4 6       42 .1      22 3
[k:r plaIIt      :8 53       262        13 12     0 053      0275       268         I e         42       14.7
pliamnacetic:1l   8 97       I 76       5 60      0 028      0 112       P') 5      '9        I <I        79
Ijngpng           10 76      1 (S       611       0 0 tl53   0 170       51.5       3 ;       4 92      13(0.0
Tiugh11onig       9 15       1 47      11 29)     0104       0 214       14          3        3.1 5      100
c. Concentrationls of major pollutants in surfacc runoff
Thc conccitrations of major pollutants in surface nimoff were collected in stimlulatioll
cxperimiients in sonic quarters. It can be secn froni Tables 4-4-30 and 4-4-3 1. tii concentrations
of both  CODCr (I OOOg/L at Liniianig  Road) and TP  have exceeded the concenitrationi for
etitroplwcation  o0.2mgI/L  Tnh   TN   concentration  monitored  at most points cxcecded  the
conceiltration  of eutrophycation  (02.rng/L) over 5 times, thc  highest reaching  1i6 3mg/L
(lmljiang Road).
I I5



Table 4-4-30 Water Quality of Surface Runoff in Artificial
Precipitation Experiment in Nanning                         unit :mge/L
pH  SS       CODPi, COD,, BOI).   NH,-N   NOT-N   NON-    S P            TP      TN
1 8.06   422.0   25.79   165.0   14.25    0.343    0.01 i    0 745   0 023   0 142    3 54
2  8.10   161.0   9.28    76.4    8 30    0 229    0.005    0.760   0.022   0.112      2 3:
GCtangxt      3  8.12   70.0    9.09    66.4     4 59    0.266    0.006    0.756   0.022   0 122    2.SS
Dailv         4  8.06   41.0    6.52    40.2    4.21    0.173    0.003    0.839   0.022   0.104    2.06
5  8.10   19.0    4.04    20.1    1.80    0.158    0.004    0 726   0.023   0.076    2. '
I 8.10  170.0   12.16   83.8   10.95    0.17    0.00S    0.790   0047   0 212    1.75
2  7.98  4169.0   552.6  2580.0  352.20   0.221    0.047    0.764   0.062  0.563    4.12
Nanning       3  8.01   566.0   42.96   18.3   46.04    0.198    0.013    0732   0.064  02.31    2.81
Street        4  8.04   218.0   14.96   88.8    13.20    0.198    0,010    0.817   0.062   0 167      I 84
5  8.11   146.0   10.56   634     975      0.178    0.009    0.813   0.063   0237      1.16
1 7.88  772.0   38.86   404.0   88.45    0.031    0.002    0 526   0 022  0 556    2.25
2  7.63  2629.0  212.7  409 0   900.1    0.263    0.003    0 413   0 012   1 63        4.5'
liongxing     3  7.93  414.0   41.31   204.0   46.10    ( 059    0.003    0.526   0 018  0.361        1.66
Ilicatcr      4  7.99  287.0   31.10   1590    33.85    0062    0.004    0530   0.01X   0.164        160
5  7.54   3150   X0.49   425.0   159.7   0.63S    0.065       1 13   0.025   0 556    5.55
1 7.84  45020   300.9  1230.0   150 1    0 201    0.029    0.503   0.028   0.823       l 2 6
2  8.00  1285 0   73.55   775.0   93.64    0.087    0.003    0 575   0.025   0.347    3.23
Dangyang      3  8.07   555.0   35.59   414 0   26.66    0.082    0.006    0.620   0 020  0.247       2 54
Rstwd         4  8.15  182.0   16.82   97.2    13.22    0022    0.005    0590   0.016   0 107    0 20?
s  8.14  9020(   21.71   11R.0   13.26    0019    0.006    0605   0015   0.121         1 52
I X.15  140.0   6579   3090   216.9S   0269    0014    0643    0 014   0211           2'1
2  X 19  314.0   24.95   102.0    604      0 178    0007    0.624   001X   0 11       I 02
1iln.mwe:utitlic.l .3  7 17  153 o    16 (0    66 5    2 85    0 2''9   0.006    0 643    0 001)9   0 t65    0.84
14  S      34 0   5.39    20 5     110        312    0.006    0.643   0022  0) 102    1 5s 
5 g IN   110    49S    153        08 5    0(067    0.003   0f628   0015   0 1(0:    I
j   06  16.63) 0' (13 2  43(0(1  45.06   0 420    00 49   ( 0673 (I 015 S       6        94
2 S.10  242,0  1 I s   87 (    16.14   (1 l92    0.011   0 568'  n 0(Y)9  n 09n    2 76
Wainli l1eer  3  8.12   321 0    5.44   28.1    9.88    0 144   0.008    0.586   0 005  ( (;1)    3.14
pI.tiit       4  8 06   17.0    4.95   20.5    10.30   0.161    0.006    0.579   0 (12    1029    2.98
_ 5  8 10   4     4.20    1 5.4   8x58    ( 127   0.006   1 57)  0 (H4  o( (32    2 -
I 8.t06 4 11980   252.6  1080 0  400.20   ( 727   (. I I    (1 892   0 (314  o 57      16;
2  X10  567(1   5496  23(1o   6937   n 221   (.018   (1783   0.0 31  0 3 -4    6 13
1.inejtan~~~  3 812  444(~ 139 76   188,0   57 33   (16   0011I   0 76)   (1022  (1239    0 3
I Itgialg.   1  S 12  44-1 0                            0X 7 IXXn 53* (1 1 i        11 n 6  )n    (    ) 03
Road          4 X 06   161 0   12 58   RI 2    17.39)   (119   0,008  n  794   0032  0 I7    01So7
.5 8.10  2 180   2(1.56   93 9    1(0.20   0.181    (101 I   0 756  0n022  1 1o        ( 1 . 32
8.0)6  1266 0  69 44  0()4(0  i 5.22   ' 079   (o(15   0 54i.    06 I        (        Ifi 6) . .   -
2  R.l30  1272.()  114 80 655(1 8(0) 3         (065   (1 042    (157')  (1)12  0) 266    3 62
I 1111lI.n    13  S 12  10120 (l  58 72  327 (   43.52   () (X7   (1(1)20   (1586   (012   0 2(     14 It6
Roa..d        4  X 06  232 (1  38 93  . 17        1.65    1 112 (0I  1(, o    o 579   (1(16   ) 244    4 64
5  8.101 229.0)   19.96    2(1   16-5 5 -(1173 0 01)()   1157')  (1(006  Il)           21



Table 4-4-31 Average Water Quality Values in the Process of Artificial
Precipitation Experiment in Nanning                               unit:mg/L
rHp       Ss       COD,,  COD,   BOD,   NH-N   NO-N   NO,-N   SP                  TP       TN
Guangxi Daily     7.76     98.18     8 79    57.60      5.08    0 209    0 005    0.737    0 022    0 101      2.42
Nanmiing          8 05    741,61   85 55    388.8    59.60    0 194    C. 014    0 796    0 061    0.250    2.05
Ili ngxing        7.85    815.69   73.00    273 4   214 35   0.148    0009    0 563    0 01         0 577    2.60
Dangyang          800    1128.13   66.34    4326    47.72    0068    O008    0.581    0020    0.270            3.01
Phannac.uticaI    S. IS    106 III   16.11    68.4     3.60    0 232    0 006    0 638    0 016    0.105       I.28
Beerplant         8.25    355.07   24.05    108.3    17.35    0.205    M015    0,597    0009    0.068    3.46
l'Tnghong         8.25    571.20   4705    325.3    43.09    0.130    0015    0.587    0.012    0.241    3.32
Liigjiang         8.01    865.74   61.75    277.0    88.69    0.243    0 025    0 792    0.028    0.270    3.87
(2) Characteristics of non-point sources pollutants outflow  in Nanning City
Different from   point-sources  pollutant outflow, the key  of monitoring  for non-point
sources should be that in the initial moment of the first stomi after the di- season, that is also
the kev in the control of non-point sources pollution. called peak pollution value. If that peak
pollution has no remarkable impact on the water bodies of the lower reaches. the runoff of other
periods can be considered as safe. Fig. 4-4-4 shoxvs the outflow  of non-point sources pollutants
in  Nanning   City  as  stimulated  and  monitored  by  the  Naniniiig   Research  Institute  of
Environmental Sciences and other institutions.
Table 4-4-32 (A) Chanige of SS during the Artificial Precipitin
in thc Urban Areas of Nannirto
(tu.t11gi dail   Nuumnnii  strect lloI gxiNig  l);gvang     W'angli  lk.:r" Pliami.J calt if I Liij antnS Rad  1'ingh'rg
thetalr       Road           plant         1:3;nr%                         Road
lill   nig 1.  111:i lig 1. Li n     iuo   1.  ilunn    InL   mn_i  m  L  jnmm  |0mg 1.  nu%m  I   Lu.  nunm   i g i
5 5   422.0    1 6    170.0   3 5   7721)   4 2   4502.0  5. I   16'6      8 s   1)    2 9   41920   3.6  2025 6
9 4    161 0    6 4_ 2169.5   70   170(5 j  I.0  2893.5   100   9300)    5 6    .31404   11 2  238 25  5 4   1266 0
_5 I   70))    80 (   4169.0  10 0  26290(  17.0  1285       30   242I 1-  ' X    2'.' 5   145   5670    98   126)4)
225    555    11 2  23675   16.0  1521 5  27.0(  920.0   190   17P 0   '8    153 (    2S i   505 5   11 5  12720
264    410    130   5660 (   200   414')  9(1    555.))   220)   320 ! 18)   '$5   264   444Jt   175  11460
524   :n    17 9   3920   320   350) 5  45.0  .68,5   2x0     45        o          40    37 s   '02.5  19   10(20
390    190    19 5   218 0    40   2870   40   120   Sb    170 ! 4 022    40 8   1610   27   6 f,260
4:4 .    11 1 4 4 3i 6   120   42 n   301 nI  660   542.0  41 0    t0 5 .i,  o  . 11    50 -   189 5   290)  23.2 n
(I    0)    44 2   146(l  42.)   315)   71 t)  902.0   4'0    40 o                dl    431   218)1   649   2305
.0     0}     o)    .(        0       1)   72.))  541.2   43.0    24 1  U         I)    (1       0    7:1  229
117



Table 4-4-32 (B) Change of BOD_ during the Artificial Precipitin
in the Urban Areas of Nanning
Guangxi daily  Natmuing street flongxing  Dangyang       Wangli  Beer Phaniuacutizcal Lingjiang Road Tinghong Road
theatcr       Road          plant         fartoy
ntm    mg'L  mm    mgL  nun   mg/l.  nimi   mgiL  mm    mg I   nmn    mg L  TMm    mng I  mm    mg/l.
55   14 25   1.6   10 95   .5  S8S45   4.2  150.10  5.3   45 06   2.8   16.98   29  400.20    6   89.95
9.4   83.0    6.   1820O   70  494.27  13.1  121.S7  10.3  30 60   5.6    604    11.2  234 79   5 4   56.22
15 1   4.59    8.0  353.20  10.2  900.10  17.3  93.64   1i5   16.14   7.8    .44   14.5  69.7   9         68.26
225   4.40    11.2  1996   16.0  473.10  27.8  60.15   19.3  1; 01   9.S   2.85   23.1  63.35   155   80.30
26.4  4.21    13.0  46.04  20 1  46.10  30.1  26.66   22.2  9.88   185    1 97   26.4  57.33   175   61.91
2.4   3.01   17.9  29.62  32.4  39.97   456   19.94   28.0  1009   2 I   I 10   37.X  37.36   19.4  43.52
390   1.80    195   13 20  348   33.85   48.4  13.22   30.6  10 0   25 8    .98    40.8  17.3 9   27.8  47.58
434    1.08   436   1148   42.9  96.77   66.8  13.24   41.3   944   29.9    85    50.3  13.80   299   51.65
0     .00    44.2   975   42.9  159.70  71.1  13.26   431   858        0     .00    53.1  10.20   64.9  34.10
0      0        0  0  00    0      00    725  7.96   43      515      0      00      0     00    7. 1   16.5
lTable 4-4-32 (C) Change of COD Cr during the Artificial Precipitin
in the Urban Areas of Nannino_
Guangmdauly  N.lig tiog strct Ilongmug    I)ang%ang      Wangle  I  r lPc h l'lata uctlic:al I.ngliang Ro3d T-ntiehonig Road
theater       Road          plant         taclto
|an m  I.  mm    mig 1. mm    nag 1.   m    mgl 1. to    111- 1.  lltlm  tig 1.  11101   mg 1.  nu1   tils1.
5   | 1650    1(6     3     :    40441   4.2  1230 0   5    4900    2X    3090   2'   108410   36   9664
1  A   764    6 4   11 IQ   70   4065   1 .1  1002.5  1 0      20t  56    102)0   1121  659.0        4   604 0
| I1   664    8|X0 25800  102   409.0  17.3  775.0   1. 5 |7.0    78  |4.3   14.5  2-X.0   98    629.5
225    c33    112 22  lfi)  306.5  278   594.5  19-   575    9X4  66.5   23.1  2130   115   655.0
26 4   402 1l1) I    18S-3   201 41-40   i0.1  414.0  22.2   1 2       IS    43S   26.4  1880   IS 5   491.0
-,214   3 0.2   179   5A 6   *2.4  181 5  45.6  255.6  280   24;   23 1   205   37X  134,6J 16        4   327.0
191)   201    19.5   88 8    4 S8  159.0  48X4   97.2   30 6   201 5   25 8    17 9   408 X 1 | 2   27 X1  322.0
|& 4   121   43 6   761   429  2920   66fi    1076  41          18 )   2)| 153   503   876   299   3170
|t  0        4 1)  | 142| 63.4 | 429   4254)  71.1  118)| 41  I 4      0      0 t)   531    9 9   649   214.5
44    (l1| )  0      t0    (4      0    () 725    71)%   132    42     i                     1)   732  1   112.0



Table 44-32 (D) Change of COD,Nn during the Artificial Precipitin
in the Urban Areas of Nanning
Guangxi daily  Nanming street Hongxing      Dangyang      Wangli  BEer Pharmaceutical Lingjiang Road Tinghong Road
theater       Road           plant          factory
rum    ng;L   nn    ngi/L  mm    mg/L  mn    mg L  m n    IngL   rmi   mgML  mm    rig L  nun    mg/L
5.5   25.79   1.6   2.16    3.5   38 86   4.2  300 90   5.3   103.20   2.8   65.79   2.9  252 60   3 6   ill 10
9.4   9.28    6.4  282.38   7.0  125.78  13.1  187.23  10.3  57.54   5.6   24.98   11.2  153.78   54   69 44
15.1   9.09    8.0  552.60  10.2  212.70  17.3  73.55   13.5  11.88   7.8   20.49   14.5  54.96   9.8   92.12
22.5   7.81   11.2  297.78  16.0  127.00  27.8  54.57   19.3   8.66    9.8   16.00   23.1  47.36   11.5  114.80
26.4   6.52    13.0  42.96   20.1   41.31   30 I  35.59   22.2   5.44    18.5   10.69   26.4  39.76   17.5  86.76
2.4   5.28   17.9  28.96   32.4  36.21  45.6  26.20   28.0   5.19   23.1   5.39   37.8  26.16   19 4   58.72
39.0   4.04    19.5  14.96   34.8   31.10  48.4  16.82   30.6   4.95   25.8   5.18   40.8   12.58   27.8  48.83X
43.4   2.42   43.6  12.76   42.9  55.79   66.8  19.26   41.3   4.57   29.9   4.98   50.3  16.56   29 9   38.93
.0    .00    44.2  10.56   42.9  80.49   71.1   2 1.71   43. 1    4.20    .0    .00    53.1  20.56   64.9  29.44
.0     00    .0      00      0      .0    72.5  I3 03   4';.  2.52    .0    .00    .0         0(    7*.1   1996
Table 4-4-32 (E) Change of TN  during thc Artificial P'recipitin
in the Urban Areas of Nanningc
Guiangxi daily  Narumirrigstrect lioungxirg  Daligyalrg   Wangi   BCeer Pharmaccutical ligrJaanrg Road Trlighong Road
thcatcr      RKad            platn         l.iltor.
nnru   org/I.  ttmu    rulg 3.  imm    rIg l. m    lfg n .  im   ng L  mnm    rulg'l .lmull   vi p.  mmilll  nig I.
55     .54    16    175    35    225    42212 60    53I   594    2.8 12                29    l6:0    36I2.58
94    2.32    6 4   29       7 0     38  1.J 1  701    13t     4 :S    56    i2    1 2   1 1.22   5 4    1 61
151    288    80    412    10)2   4.52   17    323 .   135    276    7g  I 9           145    61I    98    263
22.5   2.47    112   3,46   16.(1 309   278    28    19                          8 295    98  84    231    323    115    362
26.4   2.06    130   2.81   20.1   166   3O 0 1 254   22.2    14    385  1I1S   264             32    175   389
32.4   2.16   17 1   2   3':  2.4   1.63   456   1 -'7   280(  1306   233    1 5.3  .378        64)   194   4 6
90    2.27   19.5   3 g      48    1.6(    484    20    306   298    259  8 81        408      87    27 8   4 3
434   1.36   43 6   3 511   42.9    58   668    s6    433    287    299   118   5(0             60    209      460
.     00    442   31 6   429    555   7131   H 52   431  276   .0               14(1   5331    32    649   3.37
0     00      0     041    (0       )    72.5 |')    433  |.66    .0 I         1)      (      00    73   | 213
1 19



Table 44-32 (F) Change of TP during the Artificial Precipitin
in the Urban Areas of Nanning
Guangxi daily  Namnungstrect IHongpng    Dangyang    |A angh   Beer Plumtaiseutica1 L.ngiang Road Tinihong R53d
theater      Road          plan         factor   _
mm   mng L  tnm . nig'L  mnn    mg'L  nui   mg;L  mnm    mg L  nm    nig'L  mnm    mg L  mm    nmg L
S.S    142    1.6  .212   ^.S  .558   4.2    .2'   53   .166   2.8   .211    2.9  .573    :6           558
9.4    112   6.4   .388   7.0   1 093   11.1 .  583   10.3,  128   5.6   .117   11.2  .454    5 4    349
15.1  .122    8.0   .563   10.2  1.630  173   .347   I3.5  .090   7.8   .091   14.5  .i34    9.8        Os_
22.5   11    I 1.2  .397   16.0  .995   27.8  .297   19.'  .065   9.8   .065   23.1  .286   1 1. 5   .266
26.4   104   130.  .231   20.1  .361   301   .247   22.2  .039   18.5  .083   26.4  .239   17.5 c       _-
32.4   090   17.9  .199   32.4   262   4S.6  .177   28.0  .034   23. 1   .102  '37.8  .193   19.    201
39.0   076   19 5   .167    4.8   164   48.4  .107   30.6  .029   25.8  .102   40.8   147   27S    2'2
434 4 .046   43.6  .202   42.9  3601  66.8   114   41.3   .         29.9  .102   50.   .154   29.9   244
0    00(o  44.2  .237   42.9  .556   71.1  .121   43. 1  .032   .0   .000   53.1   161   64 9    214
0    000    .0   .000    0    000   725    073   43.  .019    0    .000   .0    000   73 1    ls4
It can be secn from  Fig. 444  and Table 44-32. thc characteristics of thc outflow of
non-point sources pollutants is similar to that of manv other cities in China.
The concentrations of pollution of SS. COD\ ,,,. CODv. and BOD; arc vcer  high in the
iiitial stage of the rain but decreasc rapidly then. The stage of the first 20(mm  of rainfall
concentratcs the major part of the pollution load  This suggests that thesc pollution load arc
mainly produced in thc initial stagc of the rain. The cases of TN  and TP are diffcrent though
thiecr concentrations arc the hlighcst in the initial stagc of the rain. they do not decrease as
obvioustv as ttic four abov-c mentioncd substances.
The uniformity of the changc of the concentrations of CODM,,I, CODCr and BODi with
that of SS suggests that these pollutants exist as particles or attachcd to particies. produced and
washed Into the rivcr with thc surfacc runoff. %%hilc thcrc arc largc amounts of soluble TP and
TN besides particlcs.
C  Non-point  sources pollution load in the urban arcas of Nanning Citv
Their load was calculated with solid particle accumulation cquatio. llToSe of CODD ,,.
COD(r  and  BOD5  and  of TP  and  TN                   were  worked  out  by  the  Y ongiang  Rixer
Environmeintal Capacity and Water Quality Planning and Research Institute, and the existing
anintial load of SS, COD\Iii* CODCr., BOD5, TP and TN in the constructcd part of Naniniiig C ity
are calculates as rcspectivxel  to be 21 603t, 2 02't. 9 910t. I 877t 9.40t and 1.4.0)t
I2 '



Table 44-33 Statistics of Existing Pollution Load of Different Catchments
in Constructed Part of Nanning City
1              2            3             4            5           6              7
Catchment  R. Shipu          R.Lueweng  R. Keli         R. Xinyu     R. Erken   R.Changyang L. Nanhu
Area (km2)        1.310          4.310        7.250        20.000       8.250        21 750         14.400
SS (ta)           29.813        122.216      863.117      2116.552    2544 951      6587.613      2455.064
COD.,, (Ua)       3.499         11.004        82.714       21 t.666    219.590      6 0 968        226.649
CODc,(Ua)         15.630        53.273       420 828      1031.834    1046 157      1021 388       1179.7S3
BOD, (ta)         2.396          12.619       74 557       171 763      199.604      569 932       269.658
TP (tia)           .010          .055          .438         .993         .864         2.627         1.366
TN (ta)            .062          .793         6.931         14.825      15.840       35 770         19.773
___________8  9            to10          11          12            13            14
Catchment   R. Zhupaichoig      Nanan      R. Liangfeng  R. Fenehuang  R. Nlachani    fRean    R. Tinazachone
Area (km 2)       15.880         .310          13.19       17.690       9 630         2.360         8.310
SS (tUa)         1615.244       30.526        1646.17     1220.349    1038.166       55 181        1277.771
CODO  (ha)       146.590         3 303        146.39       110.395      103.752       211          130.479
CODc,(tUa)       743.395         14.988       694.42       524 418     470.213       :7.788        666 321
BODs0 (a)        141.159         2.563        11841        98 204       90 143        4 457    |  121 510
TP (Ua)            .731          .010          .63           536         .35!8         0:U          .767
TN (Ua)           11.381          .093         10)98        8 731        3 895         229          10.437
total        Area (krn2)    SS (Ua)        CODO. (Va) BODE (tia)   CODc,(Ua) TP (Ua)            TN (Ua)
144.94         21602.74    2022.21        9910.45      11877.07   9.40            139.76
(4) Annual amotint of pollutants produccd by rain water pipclinc ncmork in urban areas of
Nanning
The non-point sourccs pollution load of the 13 trunk rain watcr pipclitcs in Nanning was
cstimated on tilC basis of tilc calculation of the non-point sourccs pollution load of the 14 quartcrs in
tihe constructed part Of thc city by Nanning Research Institutc of En% tronniental Scicnccs and othcr
institutions.
a. MaximumLI  load appears in June
Monthlv statistics of thc 14 quartcrs found thiat the pollution load of all thc pollutants
appear in  June, that of CODMI,. CODC,. BOD5  and  of TP  and TN   in  June accounted
respectivelv   for 55.6%, 5 1.8%. 49.8%. 3 1.91U. and 331.5%  of their annual total. Like in many
othcr cities in China. non-sources pollutants accumulate.in the dry season. the heavy rain in
May and June washcs them  into receiving water bodies. Thc rain also washes the citv. Thc
lowest load appears in Octobcr. approaching zcro
I21



Table 4-4-34 Length, Water Catchment Area and Annual Non-point Sources
Pollution Load of the Rain Water Pipelines In Nanning City
Svstern    Project               Length    Area      SS     COD.,   CODcr   13OD5         TP       TN
(mu)    (ha)     (i/a)    (t a)    (tia)     (Va2)    (fJa)    (Va)
R.Yongjiang Zhiuvlu               1211      38       8.8      0.       4.4      0.7     0.003      0.04
Chaovang   Beihulueilu            5471      270     639.0    60.2    293.0    55.3    0.255        3.47
Stream     Xiulinglu- Mingxiuiu   4100      186     563.3    531 I    258.3    48.7    0.225       3.06
Taiigshanlu            1000      120    362.3    34.2      166.2    31.3    0.144       1.97
11cowangsilu           3200     106     320.8    30.2    147.1    27.8    0.128         1.74
_I ongyang-dong        3200     151    457.2    43.1       209.7    39.6    0.182      2.48
Erkeng     fiongvanpgxlu          2200      64      197.5    17.0      81.2    15.49    0.067      1.23
Stream    -.xianging             1330      46      142.0    12.3      58.4     11.1    0.048      0.%8
I inxiuxiluXnganglu '        
Zhupicheng Mingzhudadao           3450      165     168.0    15.2      77.3     14.7     0 0.076   1.18
Streamn    Qi ing1u.Jtao%0uu      2450      108     109.8    10.0      50.6     9.6     0.497      0.77
Taovuaniu              1100      72      72.7      6.6     33.5      6.4     0.033     0.51
I isigzhulu-Gu:hcngJu    3546   108     166.1    17.0      86.6      15.8    0.100      1.36
JiangnanJuFhijanlu    32458             3207.5   299.7   1466.3   276.5    1.758       18.69
_________ ____________1_____ 3245X               3207.5  299 7      1466.3   276.5  1.758    1%.69
b. Pcak value appcars at the initial stagc of the stormi
Data from  of the four types of function arcas of the city and artificial rain cxperimcnt
rccal that the peak load usuallv appears in the initial stage of tic storm. ThIc first 15-20
minucts of the storm w%ashcs al CODN1,. CODC, BODi and TP to form major polluted surface
nioff. TN  takes a little longcr time, about 30 minutes (rain force being 1.5-2.5mmlminutc).
There is a grcat ditTcrcnce between point sources pollution and non-point sourccs pollutioni. To
ceffcctivclv brine non-point sources pollution of the city into control, the kcv lics in controlling
the first storn after the dn- season. cspccialiv the initial stagc of thc stomi, and the surfacc
runoff caused b' tthC stomi after a long spcil of drought
(2). Enivironmental problems of the Nanhu Lake
A. Natural conditions of thc Nanhu Lake
The Nanhu Lakc is the largcst lakc in the urban areas of Nanning City. It is located in the
southeast of the clt. at 107 41'E and 22 12"N. The lakec lies from  NE to SW. about 3 400rn
long and 300-380m  wide. vith a water surfacc area of I .OkSm. Thic annual watcr level is about
70.3m. With a depth of I 5-20m and a capacity of 1.73 million ni3. The watcr level is adjusted
by sluice and its catchlimcit area is 6.7kmn.
The lake arca is located in subtropic occanic climinate zonc, With a long summer but no
%%inter  lihc avcravc air teniperature over the years is 21.6C. the highest 40.4 'C. the cxtrecne
low  -2.1 'C   Average rainfall over thc vears is 1 300 6mni. evaporation  I 145.5mm. with an
122



average wind speed of 1.5-2.35m/s.
The wvater of Lake Nanhu comes from precipitin over the lak-e surface. surface runoff in its
catchment and waste water from the city. The water goes out through evaporation, leakage.
water consumed by fishing and irrigation, and that flowvs into the Yongjiang River through the
Zhupaichong Stream.
90% of the lake area is constructed part in the citv, with a population of 242 000, reching
260 000 plus the floating population. Population density is 33 200/km2. In the area are mainlx
administrative, commercial, cultural and educational, and scientific research institutions and
inhabitants, wvith very few industrial enterprises. According to the oxverall plan of the citv, this
area is to be built into a financial center, and a center of intemational exchange and recreation
of the city.
The existing functions of the Nanhu Lake are aquatic recreation. agriculture. fishing, flood
storing and irrigation, and waste water rcceiving. Fengjing Bridge and Nanhiu Bridge divide the
lake into three scenery parts: the upper lake, the middle lake and the lowver lake. Along the shore
of the upper lake is a 4ha fingerling pond. The lake an.nually receives 180 manumits of tourists.
produces 350 000kg of fresh water fish. The total income fronm tourism and fishing is over
200 000 yuan.
Tlc functions of the Nanhu Lake arc threatened bv the development of the city and
increase of the amount of waste watcr it reccives. All thc functions are carried out with water
belowx the demanded standard. The sludge accumulated on the bottom of the lake rcachcs (50-
1Ocnm as compared with 20-30cm in thc 80's. Raised fish ofteii die and fish caugght from the
laklc has a quecr smell. The Output of fish has becn declininiig and theorists are increasingl%
complaining about the conditions of the lake.
B. Environmental probiems of the Nanhiu Lakec
According to the rcsults of monitoring by the Nanning Environmcnital Monitoring Station
on thc watcr quality of the Nanhu Lake (Tablc 4-4-35), the lake is seriously polluted and its
%\ater body has basically lost its functions of a lake. Major water quality indcx of the lakc are as
followss
1J&x              COiX,.   1110)i),   ITN      T-i'      INil -N   iChLi     TC.'h
Standarde ceedigti timies  2 09        1.41 II IJ    1 . (4         129       IM100
Silting of the Nannhu Lakc is speedingr up rapidly. T-he silting rate in recent 10 %ears
increased to 5-10cm/a while in the 30 -cars before that it was only 0.67-1 Ocnm/a
123



Table 4-4-35 Water Quality as Monitored, 1991-1996
unit: mg/L
_ _ _     _DO  CODi, BOD,  SS         oil    Chia   SD       TP      TN     TOC    NI3-N
1991          7.78    5.19   10.27   11.42   36.6    .    77.85   0.45    1.63   11 27
1992          8 29    4.79   14 79   2703    438     _             0.21    1.10    101 
Mat. 1993     7.20    1.19   12.68   19.65    23     .      23.3   0.35    1.467   151
Apl. .1994    8.89    4.87   19.90   35.58    30           177.59   0.20    1.56   12.62
May. 1995     8.43    6.2    16.0    21      30            206.5   0.23   0.996   11.5
Apl. 1996     S.3 I 1    4.2    18.0  20     73      0.1   205.99   0.28   3.502   18.68    .      14.7.
May. 1996     S.33    4.4    18.3    S5      97      N    219.76   0.24   2.004   14o00    22    12.04
GB3S3S-88   6.5-8.5    3      8       6   .          1.0     .      0.5    0.2     10               0.5
GB12941-91  6.5-8.5   ) 3     10      8                            > .    > 0.5   0.05  .            0.5
phenol  CN     As      Hg ug'L Cr'    Pb      Cd     Zn      Fe      Mn    NO;-N  NO.-N
1991           N      N       N       N      N       N       N      -                            _
1992           N      N       N       N      N       N       N                      .      . -
6tMai .1993    N       N      N       N       N      N       N              -         .
API.A 1994     N     0.005    N       N       N      N       N .
.1av.1995      N       N      N      0.27     N      N       NS
Apl. .1996     N       N      N      0.09     N      N       N    0.08 1   0.34    0 1   0o077      0 08
Mav. 1996      N       N      N       N       N      N       N    0.039   0.28    01    0.200      0 05
G113838-9       I 001    02   0.3    3.00    03      0.3   0005    2.0    0.5    0.5    30           2.0
(3) Analysis of thc wastc water recapping projcct and rain water pipcline project o3  thEc
Nanhuii Lake
A Prcscnt responsc of the Nanhu Lakc to waste water and rain watcr
Statistics reveal that thc runoff pollution ratio of the Nanhiu Lakc over the years is 0.472.
that is. thc amount of wastc water received is more than twice that of natural runoff rcccivcd. In
low watcr -cars (P=95%) it drops to 0.36. Natural runoff flowing into the lake can no longer
dilutc thc waste xvater. In low water period, the runoff pollution ratio drops to about 0.01. wvhcn
thc lake is litcralIv turncd into a waste xater recciving pond.
The amount of wastc watcr cntcring the lakec in the dry season is about 47 O()n()m. and
stavs for about 36 days. Thc Nanhu Lakc is actually- an oxidation pond of waste water. During
daxtimc the surface layer has mtich DO as the algae produces oxy,gen. At the bottom  lavcr the
DO is very low% at night because of oxygen consumption of the bottom  clay (mctabolization of
dead algae) and fish dic from time to time.
Field monitoring finds out that thc wvatcr in thc Nanhu Lake contains largc amount of coli.
but the water and bottom clav has no clear heavy metal pollutioni so far. This is becausc thie
waste water it rcccivcs is mainly daily scwage. So it will bc comparatively casy to disposc the
sludge dredged from the lakc.
The water in the Nanhu Laike novw cannot meet the standard for Grave V surface water and
124



in a state of "extremely eutrophicated"' The lake can no longer perform its function of fishery
and landscape.
B. Impact of thc project of waste water intercepting
a. Impact on the amount of water
After the completion of the waste water interccpting project, all the polluted watcr from
point sources will be sent to be treated  in  Langdong  wvaste water treating  plant and  then
discharved into the Zhupaichong Stream. The water in the Nanhu Lak}e shall be replenished by
rain water An analvsis on the water balance in \cars of different water level was   made on the
basis of data provided in "Surface Water Resources of Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region
(September. 1984). The amount of water entering the Nanhu Lake can be calculated by taking
its land converging area as 6.7km2, wvith a water surface area of I .Om2. the total catchment
area of 7.7m2, and the runoff coefficient  a  ' 0.75. See Table 44-36 for the result. In normal
conditions. the amount of wvatcr in the Nanhu Lake is stable, retaining a water level of 70.3m
and a capacity of about 1.7 million m3 during low water period.
Table 44-36 Monthly Distribution of Water Entering the Nanhu Lake
in Average Rainfall Years
1i      2      3      4      5       6        7       8       9        10      II    12    all %car
raitniall     iS     67    51.3  67.8   1580   246.0   173.3    3814   248 5   27 7   4.7   856   152 "    Pp z0°o
(niml)     [ __I_ _                                                          _       _      _                      41936)
.Ilocrlgls .IlscI ir) 395 38.693 29.623 39.1 55 91 .245  142.065 100.081 220.259 1435.5)9 15 .97 2.714 49 431 4  883 171
(i0'tl) 'i                                                                                               ______   _____
cntiritig I.lA: 1 .135  I.3S2  0.956  I.305  2.943J    4 736   S 228    7 IOS   4 784  0 5    06 O090 I  595
O(1)'t i d)
rtl.jA        I      24 9   I37_3  7S 7   33 5   2 ;3 S   201.9   2704    224    ,5 I         I O  10 *)  1') 0)  1' 50%°
ct1l(  IcLt i Sl    14. 380 21L541 4S449 195 4SJ4 1 U020 116.597  156 156  12936  l, 595 0058  6295  75) 17'
110 :0l'  1._                                                               _
.nlcrmg LOi.Z '1279   0 514  0.695  1.515  6 S 06   4 SO1    3.761    5 017   0 411   1 213  0 002  0 2'):
(OW'm'd)
rainmll      27 4   81.1    1 .5  59.0  1911 ()  280 2   144.8   165 7    5) 4    300   61 7   40    1 18o8 s   P75°O
Cut.nkrla,i4JL 15824 46.835  7796 .4.07  110 31)3 161.816  83.622  95.692  29106  17'25 35632  2SI   64') :2
10'il I)              1                      -                                             . _
.nlnring l;k4l  5 510   I 673  0.251  I 16 I  5f65S   5 '94   2697    I 017   )970)2  0 59  I 1S8  0075
t I O'iti' d)   !                                                                                      I ___
r;e'iu::ll   1 1-    3.9 3'23I  50.5  2577   2661)    56.6    145.6   1228          IS 8    55    290O  11))4 3         -95"0
1111                                                                                                               1954)
ClItri,l 1 .   s 72)  2.252  18 (653 2'9 164 14 822 15. 6 1 5 32.687  84,084' 74 093  7 9)70  : 1 76 16 748  579 IN
Calr1:ig lak'  1 () ()8n   0.6()2  0972   481 x       121 I()54    2.712   2.470   0257      O   0 o 40
t1()'10ll-1}  1                                         I                   _
Data reveals that in Nears when the anlotint of lcakagc and that of evaporation arc in the
125



same grade, the average leakage is about 1.5 million m3/a. or 4 1 00m3/d.
The anount of water consumed by irrigation and aquaculturc is not much and can be
considered as leakage.
Taking into consideration possible deviation of runoff and safety coefficient of water
replcnishment, the amount of water in the Nanhu Lakc after waste water is intcrcepted
corresponds to 0.05-0. Im3/s of the water flow lacking.
b. Water quality responsc
Table 4-4-3 7 is the result of monitoring over the amount of vater entering the Nanhu Lake
(under nornal precipitation).
Table 4-4-37 Amount and Quality of Water Entering the Nanhu Lake
(average over the Years)
v3lue (IO'[)   C'OV(t)    BOD,fl)       TP (1)       TN ()        TPRI Y
Iotal value         2528.2        38472        1503.7        63 53        374 97        59
Conxentration (tng'L)             152 2         59.6         2 6          14.8 
I'oinit value        1717.5       26R3 1       1233.0        62 09        351.53        5.7
percentage(Io)        68           69            82           97 7         93.7
.oneenlfrtion (mnigL)              156.2        71 8          36           20 5
Non-point valic      81().7       1184 I        270.7         1 44         23 44        16.1
FleCienta5c(Io)        32          31            18           2 3           6.3
ceocentratliKr (mngL)              4G6.1         33 4         I) Is         29_
Thic table shows that. with tie interception of waste water. the total load of pollutants
will bc cut by over 69%. cspeciallv that of nutnrtious salt T'he amount of TP and TN is cut
respcctivcv by 7% and 59'3 .75%. lhtis greatlv improving thc water quality of the Nanhu Lake
But the amotiint of water repicnished to the lake is also cut by 6fiX%D. so the index of pollutants
still cxceed tihe standard. If water can bc drawn from the Yongpiang River to rcplcnish the lake.
the  water quality of the latter will be gristly improved.
(3) Response of the Nanhiu Lake to the rain water pipclinc project
Thc rain  vatcr pipcline projcct will be to the west shorc of the Nanhu Lake and will
interccpt 88%  of the convcrgc of the Nanhu Lakc , that is to say. the project can control over
80% of the, non-point sourccs of the Nanilit Lakc area. As rain water pipelines only Interccpt
rain water without any treating. it has no bcaring on the quality of water entcring the lake. nic
amount of lion-point vastc water cntcring the lake rcmaims thc samc only more rapidly. nhc
amount of water entering the lakc will increase a littic during stormis. (Thc renovation of the old
part of the city is not taken illto consideration hcre.)
In a word, the rain water procect of the plan will not chanigc the serious pollution of the
Nanhu lake.
4. Analysis on the environimcntal impact of,the rain water pipeline project on the
126



environment of the Nanhu Lake area
The above analysis shows that the project of rain water pipelines cannot changc the
present pollution of the Nanhu Lake. Non-point sources pollution still exerts much impact on
the lake. OnlY by treating non-point sources pollution can the Nanhu Lake restore its water
quality to the standard demanded by its functions. It can be seen that the present report about
the rain xvater pipeline designing does not mcet this demand.
It can be seen from Table 4-4-3 S. rainfall in June accounts for 17.6% of the annual total,
but the pollution load accounts for over one third, cspecialiy SS, CODW, and CODCr. wvhich
accounts for about 50%. If rain water does not enter the lake. the pollution load entering the
lake can also be cut bv about 50%. The lake lacks no water during high water penod. It is
workable that this part of rain water does not enter the lake, and this will do good to the quality
of the lake water. The following is a proposal for disposing this part of rainwvater.
Table 4-4-38 Monthly Distribution of Non-point Pollution Load
of the Nanhu Lake
L_____ 11      2      3      4     5      16       7     8     19    0        II    12    allyar
r-infall    37    45.5   537   87 0   146   234.1  1972  212.7  121.9  84.6  386       2    13290
ISS ()    66.674 47.124 I  173  0.624  9532 1 165.395 676 664 80 546 24 159  0.001  543 76  S 9016  2455.064
COIX.,(t)  7.543  5.502  1S119  0   1O (0   117 394  62 013  8957  2 998    0    6 267  4 297   226.649
CODI) (   43I.265 32.060  7.061  0.765  58 970  586 971 ! 20 118 50936  18004  0 0(2  36 279 25 351  1179783
IB}OO.(1)  14.044  11084 31357  0.581  179I0    1008  68 182  15.975  7.029  0.005  12221  9209  26965X
rrt) )   0(194  0.079  0033  0 019  0 112   0 425   02))  () 1(   00(57  ()()()  0085  0 0 WO    I 366
R(1)-N (  1.279  1.058  0 407  0 100  I 5C5   66 ON   4526  1 41X8  )7.5  ()()02  I 144  2912   1977;
Plan I: Adjust thc trnk lincs in Qixin Road and Jiaoyu Road by maklilg use of the
original pipelines and adding somc new pipe. clevate and deep-bury the trunk line in Taovuan
Road so that the three trunk lines fornm latcral relation. Than add 400ni trunk line to the cnd of
thc trunk line in Taovuan Road to connect it to Jingtou. so that rain water can be directly
dischargcd inito thc Yongjiang River. At the same time build a controlling sluice to regulate thc
anmountit of rain water entering the lake.
Plan 2: Design the trunk line close to tihe west shore of the Nanhu Lake accordilg to tihc
converging flow so that the tihree trunki lines can both draw rain water into sewage pipelines and
lead waste water into the Nanhu Lake. The waste watcr intercepting coefficient does not
necessarilv be ver\ highi. but thc crossing strcture  ill be a bit complicated.
As the Nanhu Lake will lack water after the waste water is intercepted. Plan I may be
more practical. The 400ni trukik pipeline added can be used both \vavs: discharging rain water
during high water period. and drawing water from the Yongjianig River into the Nanhu Lake in
low water period. As the silt content in tile Yongjiang River is low, the plan is morc casily to bc
127



carried out.
If the above plan is adopted. the project wvill be an environmental project as well as a civil
enginecring project. For a wvater bodv sensitive to non-point sources pollution load like the
Nanhu Lake, it can save time and monev to combine non-point sources control into the rain
water pipeline project. It is inevitable to treat the Nanhu Lake soon ,if not in this project. After
dredging of the lake's bottom clay to clear away its internal sources, the function of non-point
controlling function of the rain xvater pipeline project will be outstanding. Good design in this
can reduce the rate of silting of the Nanhu Lakc. thus reducing its future internal accumulation
and release, playing a kev role in keeping fair wvater qualitv of the lake. At the same time the
concentrations of organic matters and nutritious substances in the water body will be reduced to
keep a good landscape and ecological environment.
2. Analvsis on the impact of the waste wvater project
(I). Comparison of the two subtrunk waste wvatcr pipelines
The two sections of waste water project are both located in Jiangnan District. That in
Tinghong Road has a catchmcnt area of 13 Iha. belonging to the catchment of the Tingzichong
Streawn the one in Baisha Avenue has a gathering arca of 369ha, belonging to the catchment of
the Shuitangiang Stream. Together, the two gather wastc vater from an area of 500ha. tak}ing
up 30% of the total area of 18.353km  under the junrsdiction of Jiangnan District. As the project
is planncd to bc carried out in 2001 aftcr the compiction of the project of joining the wvaste
water trunkl line in liangbei District with Jiangnan wastc water treating plant, which discharges
its trcated water into the Yongjiang River. So the project will bc a concrcte stcp to lead most
waste water in Nanning City into the Yongjiang River after bcing treated in Jiangnan waste
wvater trcating plant. As to the tmnnk line in Beisha Avcnue, it reduces the load ot the
Slhuitangjiang Strcam upper the waste water treating plant while it gathers wastc '%ater  The
trunk line in Tinghong Road also cuts the load cntcring the Yong,iang Rivcr from  tile
Tingziciionig Stream wlhile gathiering waste water, thus improving the watcr qualitt at the outict
of the Tingzachlong Stream. diminishing its threat to Lintic vater mill at the opposite shore
Ficid monitorcd data showed the conccitrations of COD, BOD5 and NH3-N at the Tingzichong
sectioln respectively rcached 500mg/L. 300mgiL and 7mgfL, indicating scrious pollution of thc
water. If not trcatcd. not only the Tingzichong Strcam nwill rctain its bad nanic of a "foul ditch".
but the polluted belt off its outict will kccp incrcasing to threaten Lintie water mill. Thereforc.
the waste water projcct in Tinghonig Road is more urgcnt than thiat in Beislia Avenue.
(2) Analysis on the amount of waste water gathercd
The wvastc water trunkilhiuc in Tingihong Road receives waste water from niajor industrial
polluting cntcrprises like Nanning Candy Papcr Mill. Nanning Silk Spinning Plant. and
Na-nning Aluminum Plant. thc first two of which discharge a total waste water of 34 400n3/d
(29 900mn3/d and 4 50013/d) According to thc dcsign. the maximum diamctcr of pipes in
T'iigihong Road is d 700mm.  hlic flow speed inside the pipclinc is 1.29m/s W\hen thc
conccntration is 0.57. the dcsigned flow is 0.28nr3/s, which means 24 400mn3/d of waste "%atcr
128



passing through, less than the amount of the amount discharged by the two factories To receive
all the waste water from the two factones, the filling rate has to reach 80%. Suppose waste
water amount standard is 100m3/ha  d. the amount of waste water is:
a=131xl00=13 1OOm-'/d
It turns out to be less than the designed water flow. So the flow in the original design is too
low. not suitable for the waste water pipeline in Tinghon Road.
Take 106 500m3/d as the amount of waste water in the catchment of the Tingzichong
Stream, the concentrations of COD and BOD5 respectively 427ng/L and 184mg/L, the total
amount of organic matters:
COD       45.4755t/d
BOD5      19.5960t/d
But the total amount discharged by the first two factories
COD       39.93t/d
BOD        10. It/d
It can be seen the amount discharged by the two factories  takes up the major part of the
pollution load of the Tinghzicheng Stream:
COD        -87.8%
BODi       5 1.6
Thierefore. to lead the waste water from the two factories out of the Tingzichong Strcam
'ill have reniarkable environuilental benefit. So the designed flow of the waste water pipeline in
Tinghong Road must be largcr than the amount of waste watcr discharged by the nto factorics.
naml vcl:
Q > 3 44nmi!s
At least anotiler 0.6-1 0mn/s shiouild bc addcd if taking into considerationi of \aste water
discharged by otlier factories and daily sewagc. There must be an increasing coefficient as the
plan should consider the development to 201 5. According to the average increasinig rate, the
amount of waste water in 201 5 shall incrcasc by 60% over thiat of 1995. But the dcsigned flow
of waste water pipclinc in Tinghong Road can incrcase only 20-300% of the capacity. So thlis
assessmeint suggcsts the designing institution make careful checkinig and dcsign To reccivc all
thie \astc water from Nanning Candy Papcr Mill. the designed flow of the waste watcr pipclinie
in Tlingloglig Road shotild at least bc 5.0m3/s. If part of the waste vater is to enter it, the
polluted belt outside thc Tmlgzichong Strcam can bc improved
The wastc water tnilk pipcline in Bcisha Avenue recci es waste water discharged by
Nanninilg Clicmical Group. Nanninlg Tannery. Nanning Silk Spinniig Mill. Lysine factory, and
Nanning Smielter. which together dischargc a total of 438 ()00m- /d of waste water. Take 369ha
as the catchmieiiit area and I00ni-'/ha  d as the waste watcr stanidard, the amount of wastc water
is 36.) 000n-'id With thc maxiniiumil pipe diameter and a flo%\ speed of I .66m-'/s. and filling
ratio ol() 62. the: flow  vill be 56 570m3/d. That is to say, the designed flow is particle. but it
still snmaller if considering thC development goal for the year 20 I 5. The total dadl\ sewagc in the
129



Shuitangjiang Stream is 57 000m3/d. To calculate from the ratio of constructed area. the dailv
sewage of Baisha Avenue amounts to about 10 000m3/d Takc 1.57 as the industrial wvaste
wvater increasing coefficient. the total amount of -aste mater is:
Q - 1. 08 -  1. 57 x 4.38  = 79 600m31d
Obviously, the present designed flow is a little too lo,. So the designed waste wvater flow
of Baisha Avenue should be reconsidered.:
The total designed waste water amount of the two subtrunk pipelines is
Q = ( 13 1 + 369) 100 = 50 000m3/d
The amount of waste water of the six major factories in the feasibility report is:
QIndusiry = 78 200m3/d
This shows a 50%' difference . If daily sewvage takes up 16% of the total amount of waste
water, it amounts to:
Qsecvagc = 14 900m3/d
Then
QTOtI1 QlJ,,s1 + Qswage =93 1 00m3/d
The above statistics tak}es into considcration only the present condition, so the figure is
smaller for the vear of 2015 Take 1.67 for the incrcasing speed, Ql.oa will be  about:
Q rorai (present) > 93 OOOm3/d
Q-r..n (I201 5) > 1 6 000nim/d
The flowv designed in the feasibility report has twice the diffcrence from the amount to
appear in 2015. This assessimient suggests the construction designing department carefully
analyze the spatial distribution of wastc vatcr to make thc design mcet the demand in one step
in lighit of the overall plain of the city. The increasc of waste water in the futurc should be taken
into considerationi to study thic possibility of adding m ore subtrink pipclines. As Tinglhong
Road lics to thle middle sectioln of the right bank of thc Tingzicihong Strcam, the burying depth
niust be big if all the %%aste water is to bc gathcrcd; if sonic subtrunk pipcline is to be addcd
along the Tingzichonig Stream. it must have a drop ovcr thc trunk pipelinc. Therc is sonic
flexibilitv as the subtrunik pipclinc is not the designatcd routc of dischiarging water. As the
feasibility report provides no alternate plans for comparison. it cannot be said for surc that the
dcsign is not practical
(3). Analysis of the environmental impact of the two subtrunk waste water pipelincs
Tnhc purposc to build thic waste water pipclinc network is to "bring thc planied waste wvater
trunk pipeline network in Beijing District into the fullcst play by gathering industrial waste
water discharged by laroc enterprises along the Tingzichotng Strcami iniJiangnan District, so as
to gradually improvc the wvastc water gathcring system and tamne the deterioration of the
receiving wvater body the Yongjiang Rivcr".
According to the "Chart of Waste Watcr Pipeline Netwvork In Urban Areas of Nanning
Citv", the two subtrunk pipclinies will involve 9 major pollution sources. of which 4 are along
130



Tinghong Road. and 5 along Baisha Avenue. The total amount of industrial waste water
rcaches ovcr 78 200m;/d. the load of COD over 58.96t/d and that of BODs over 13.75t/d.
The two pipelines involve water bodies of the Tingzichong Stream. the Nahong Stream (a
tnbutarv of the Shuitangjiang Stream) and the Yongjiang River. The following is a discussion
of its environmental impact on each wvater bodv.
A. The impact on the Tingzichong Stream
Tnc area along the Tingzichong Stream is concentrated with industrics of Nanning City.
1991 statistics showed the waste water in this area took up about 84%/0 of the citv's total wvaste
water. Dailv sewage is relativel) little. So the major link in pollution control in this area is the
control over industrial point sources. According to the city's drainage plan, the Shajin waste
water pipeline will pass the left bank of the Tingzichong Stream. and the subtrunk pipelines in
this project lies to the right bankl of the stream. gathering industrial point sources waste vater,
This wvill greatly reduce the amount of waste water entering the Tingzichong Streamn. As there
are more major pollution sources along the right bank than along the left bank, the aptitude of
reduction wvill surpass 50%. The Tingzichong Stream is 7.55km long with a catchmcnt area of
10knm, and a gradient of 4.43/1 000. It has no diluting ability. and the guarantee ratc of the
lovvest wvater level month P=90, meaning almost zero floxv. The water discharged into the
Tingzichong Stream is basically wvaste wvater. So aftcr the completion of the trunk pipeline in
TinihOlong Road. the amount of wvater of the Tingzichong wxill bc reduced bv half, but the
pollution concentration of thic stream nvill not decrease much, retilainilig a little lowver than that
of daily sewage.
TIhc amount of water is comparatively larger in higih water period. with some diluting
abilitv. Because of the waste water interception along Tinghonig Road. tihc now of wvaste wvatcr
'vill decreasc by half. that mcans doubling the runoff pollution ratio, so water quality will have
sonIC imiprovenicrit. Accordinig to the average precipitation of JuLie o\cr the years 233.8mm,
take 0.70) as tie real ninoff figure. the amount of rnoff is about 0( 6ni'ls. thcn the amount of
wvater flow is 54 600nm-'/d. Under prcscnt load. the runoff pollution ratio can be raised from 0.5
to 1.0 aftcr the conpletion of the project of waste wvater intcrccption
Vieved from thc situationi of both high water and low water periods, thc cnvironimlenital
capacity of thc Tingzichionig Stream is very limited. It is possible to radically renovatc the
Tingzichonig Strcam only after the completion of all wvaste water interceptioni project. But the
completion of this projcct can nimct a major part of the dcmand. in fax or of the rcnovation of the
T'ingzichonig Streanm
As has been mcntionled bcfore. thc discharge from two miajor pollutcrs (Naanning Candv
Paper Mill and silk spinililig plant) takes up 87.8X/O of the COD load and 5 1 6% of the BODi
load of the Tingzichonig Strcam. Plus the inticrccption of othcr dail\ se"iagc. thc gathering rate
of BOD, should reach about 80%. So the wvaste water interceptiotn project in Ting,hong Road
equials to the functioni of a secondary waste watcr treating plant.
In a word. thc subtrunk waste wvater subtrunk pipelincs in Tinghong Road will play a
decisive role in improving thc water environment of the Tingzichoni Strcam . So the project
'I 8



should be built as soon as possible.
B. Its impact on the environment of the Shuitangjiang Stream and the Nahong Stream
The designed flowv of the waste wvater project in Baisha Avenue is 39 600m31d, accounting
for 20% of the 183 OOOm'/d, the amount of waste w%ater in the Shuitangjiang Stream in 2015
according to the plan. Previous analvsis shows the designed flow is a little too low. If it is
increased to 79 600m3/d, the ratio of waste w-ater gathered in the catchment of the
Shuitangjiang Stream can increase to 43.49%. No matter wvhat the final designed flow will be. it
should aim at the major industrial polluters and the amount of the wvaste water taken should
account for over 60% of the total of the Shuitangjiang Stream catchment.
Because there is no hydrological station on the Shuitangjiang Stream. anlogical flow was
taken after the Yongjiang River catchment according to their area ratio The Shuitangjiang
Strcam has an area of 581 1km2, Q (P=90%) = 170m '/s (the month of the lowest water level), the
designed flowv of the Suitangjiang Stream in low water period:
QlO,, (P=90%) = 1.34m3/s
Qhigh(P=50%) = 24.29m3/1s        (June)
The amount of wvaste wvater designed in normal years
Qvta  (2000) = 13.04/8.64 = I.509m3/s
Qvvaa (2015) = 18.3/8.64 = 2.1 18m3/s
Thc runoff pollution ratio of the Shuitangjiang Stream in low water peiod
a    Q10s. (P=90%) / Qw,s,k (2000) = 0.89
U I  Ql1" (P=90%) / Q"VJST (201 5) = 0.63 
Aftcr the compiction of tihc project, the amount of wastc water entering thc Shuitangjiang
Stream nwill dccrcase to;
Original design: Q',,, (2000)  (13.64-3.69) / 8.64 = 1.08
aI =1 34/1(08 = 1.24
Q,^,,a(20l5)=(l8.3-.96)/8.64=I .97
=1.34/1.69 = 0.79
Possible altcration in the design
Qvax (2000) -( 13.04-7.96) I 8.64 = 0.588
a I = 2.28
QVast,. (2015) = ( 8.3-7 96) / 8.64 = 1. 197
a= 1. 12
So it can bc scn the completion of the project w.-ill greatly changc the runoff pollution ratio
of the Shuitangjiang Strcami. Under the 200 load the original design vwill reduce thc
concelntrationi of pollitioni by l nO froni the presenit level. thle altcred desigii can reducc as Illuch
as 43%": unider the 2015 load, the figurcs arc about 9% and 23%. So the project has remark-able
effect in improving the wvatcr quality of thc Shuitaigjianlg Stream undcr lo%% water condition.
1 32



I high w'ater period: the runoff pollution ratio is
CtI Qhsil, I Qwaste (2000) = 1 6- 1 0
2 =      / Qaste (2000)16
The runoff pollution ratio wvill increase after the completion of the project:
Original: design                      = 22.45.
cc 2 = 14.36
Possible altered design               = 41.31
cc, = 20.29
It can thus be seen that the project will greatly increase the runoff pollution ratio of the
Shuitangjiang Stream in high water period, restoring its wvater quality to that of Grade V
surface water.
It can be concluded that the proiect in Baisha Avenue will bear obvious effect in improving
the quality of the water in the upper reach of Jiangnan waste water trcating plant up the
Shuitangjiang Stream.
C. Environmental impact on the Y'ongjiang River
Both waste water pipeline netvork can gather waste water and change the location where
point sources pollution enters the riv-r. The amount to be cut depends on the treating capacity
of the waste w%ater treating plant. So thc waste water project provides favorable conditions for
the water einvironment beloxv thc outlet of the Shuitangjiang Stream on the Yongjiang River.
The waste water trunk pipeline in Baisha Avenue will not reduce the pollution load at the outiet
of thc Shuiualigjiang Strcam. Thic load to be reduced depends on the treating capacity of the
wvastc %ater treating plant. Tnhc %astce %ater project in Tinghong Road, howvevcr, will play a role
in limiting and cuttinig thc polluted belt on thc Yongiang River outside the Tingzichionig Strcam
becaLtsc it changes thic location for part of non-sourcc pollution to etiter the river
Figg- 44-5 to 4-4-7 sho%% the analksis of thc possible rediuctioni of BOD5 load of major
industrial polint sources along thc Tingzichong Stream aftcr thc comlieletioni of wvaste %%ater
intcrcepting pipeiincs in Tinghlong Road
The miaginitude contours of the polluted belts at the outlet of the Tingzichong Stream will
rcduce bv alilf from the ones before the waste water intercepting projcct is built in Tinghong
Road. Thc polluatd belts will shirink niuch to be shortcr, narrowecr and with less area. This is
obviouslv good to thic cit\'s landscape The distance of the pollutc belts to the opposite bank is
also increased. rcducinlg their thrcat to Lintic Water Mill. As  the load of COD can be cut by
N0%. its polHlIted bclts will be very small. ailiost zero in vertical spread.
Besides. the amouLit of w%ater cntcring the Y'ongjiang R.ivcr fromi the Tingzichlonig Strcain
will be greatl\ redticed. thius reducing the average pollItionI Concclntrationi at thc section of the
Yongiiang Ris er at the l'Tingzichonti-Zlhupaichonig-Shuitaigjianig scgnicit . Take 170m3/s as
thc ruioff flo\\. the load of COD, and BOD5 will rcspectively cut by 39.33t/d and 10.1 It/d.
CODCr 2 68(mg/L
133I



BOD,: 0.69mg/L
The amount cut is to meet the standard of Grade III surface wvater, equivalent to
contributing 17% of the wvater environmental capacity. Therefore the wvaste vater intercepting
prolect in Tinghong Road will produce obvious environmental benefit for the segment of the
Yongjiang River from the Tingzichong Stream to the Shuitangjiang Stream.
3 . Analhsis of the impact of the renovation of the sewage system in the old part of the city
Thc purpose of the renovation of the sewage system in the old part of the city is to solve
the senous pounding caused bv the narrowness of the pipelines through adding pipelines and
desalt existing ones to improve the svstem.
The principle is to design according to the designing flow of rain wvater, and the structure
will follow the standard of waste water pipelincs. When wvaste water pipelines are added later.
they will tum to specially receive rain water.
The renovation of the sewage systcm can thus be looked upon as a process of changing
combined flowv to separate flow, and possible environmental problems will arise from this
process. Separate flow can reduce the diameter of waste water pipelines and their cost. reduce
the scale and land used bv waste wvater treating plant . To cnlarge the diameters of the sevage
system of thc old part of the city to servc as combined flow in the near future to lead into
combined pipelincs in Nanhu through threc rain water trunk pipelines, of which
Four sections of wvater discharging pipclines will cnter thc Nanhu Lake through the trunk
rain watcr pipeline in Minzu Avcnue: those in \linsheng Road. Gonghc Road. Zhongshan Road.
and Nanhuan Road.
Onc section of the pipeline in Kangle Road will cnter the Nanhu Lake through the trunk
rain watcr pipeline in Qixing Road-Jiaoou Road.
One section of the pipelinic in Baoai Road will enter the Nanhu Lake througlh the trunk rain
water pipeline in Taovuan Road.
Those not leading to the Nanhu Lake include a section in the following: one leads to the
Chaovang Strcam. onc lcads dircctlv to the Yongjiang River. and onc lcads to the Zhupaichong
Strcam
Wastc water from thosc pipelines not leading to the Nanhu Lakec will finally send the "astc
\%ater into the Yongjiang Rivcr or the wastc water trcating plant. Tlcir cnvironmcntal impact
till be reduced thoughi the gradual trcating of point sources.
As thc waste watcr -will bc lcd to thc Nanhiu throughi a numbcr of pipclines. thc scparate
flow of the renovation of thie scwage svstcii of the old part of the city vill improvc the \%atcr
qualit\ of thc Nanihu Lakc to a certain cxtcnt. lihc ability to control non-point sources throughi rain
water will dcterminc the gathcring ratio of non-point sources-pollution. It is thus recommcnded that
the designing of thcsc pipclincs bc carried out aftcr the dctcrmination of thc rain watcr project
conccrning thc Nanhu Lakc. th at is, to view it form thc anglc of tie o% crall control of non-point
sources cntcring the NanhiLu Lakc to dccidc the rationality and ef1cctivcncss of the rain %%atcr
pipclinc nctmxork in thc west sliorc of tilc Nanhliu Lake. And the concrctc designing paramictrs
should bc decided on the baisi of this so as to reducc waste and add thc environmental bcncfit and
134



feasibility of the project.
4.5 Risk analysis
4.5. / Purpose
=                           To analyze possibic accidents during the operation of thic project and thilr scope of impact
so as to providc fecdback information.for the designing.
4.5.2 Ana/i'sis on the risk of the wtater discharge and treatmzeni systems
(I) Breakl of river crossing pipelines
The pipelincs arc usually stable as they are buried under the rivcr bed. So long as the pipes
are of rational structurc, there will not be anv problem if detailed investigation of the geological
conditions wvas done bceforchand and stnrct administration imposed during the construction. The
ratc of risk is very low if every step is implemented according to the plan.
In extraordinarv conditions like natural calamities of earthquake, the pipes may break. It
mav have two levels of damage:
* Light damage: the pipe cracks and waste water seeks out
* Serious damage: the pipe breaks or bends and no waste water can be sent across the river
In the first case, there will not be much damage to the project wvithin the designicd service
life. Suppose 30% of the wastc water seeks out to pollute thc river, and onl' 70°%o is sent across
the river, to lessen the pollution to mect thc designed demanids. the trcating level of that 70% of
waste water can be raised during the low wvatcr season
In case of scrious damage. all the %%astc watcr v ll cnter thc river to cause serious pollution.
The1 righit cnd of the river crosstig pipe will be blocked b\ silt and thic left end can only havc
some diversion functioni, so the desired function i\ill not be realizcd and certain pollution will
appear. Btit thic probability of sUich occurrence is %er\ unlikely. and the rate of that in the low
water seasonl is onlv one thiird of that. That is to sa\. %\lieii guarantec ratc P = 90'0. only 1/30 of
thc river wvill bc affected. In most cases. thcrc %%ill be ceIouLghl ttmc to have thc pipe repaired or
othcr preventive nicasurcs taken. The worst will onlk increase the length and width of the
polluted belts. which will not causc catastrophic cffcct. But Lintic Water Mill will be directly
affccted. Two preventive micasures can be considered. build an alternative ne\w  atcer mill in the
upper reaches to gradually rcplacc LinitiC Water Mill. or lay thc riv'cr crossing pipelinc at a
locationi in the lower reacih to Lintic \Water Mill.
(2) Accidents of the waste wvatcr treating s\ stemIl
Failurc of thc machines or cut off of power supply .may stop the %%aste water trcating
svsteni so waste wvater is dischargcd into the river %%itliout anv treatment As the waste wvater
treating plant is located at outlet of thc ShUiztangi aain Stream in the lowver reachi of tihc city, suci
accideint will not threaten the sourcc of the citWs dirinkiniig wvatcr. It is Pumiao In the down
streamil tilat vill suffer. 13ut thic vatcr there has less strict environmental deilianid. and wvhen thc
wvater reaches Puimiliao, which has a larger environmental capacity where w\aste water has becn
135



mixed to a certain degree. the impact will not be so serious. Besides, such accidcnts last only a
short time and are easil\ treated. Risks of such accidents are of a vetrv low rate.
4.5.3 Analysis of risks during the dredging of bottom claot
Possible risks during the dredging, transportation and refilling of the bottom clay are:
a. Largc amounts of toxic gas is produced in dredging to poison construction work-ers or
inhabitants nearbv. Gas masks should be provided beforehand as a preventive measurc.
b. Bottom clay dredged may be washed back into the river by flood during storms. It is
suggested dredging be done from October to April. of the follo\\ing year to keep away from the
wet season. and bottom clay dug up should be transported away in time.
c. Bottom clay may be dropped in the urban part of the city on the routes of transportation.
So vehicles should be wvell lined and covered, or special garbage vehicles are to be used.
d. The bank encircling the piled bottom clay may be damaged by flood, storm or
earthquakc so that it is vashed into surrounding farmnland. Watcr overflow tunnels should be
considered in the designing of such encircling banks.
4.6 Countermeasures to eliminate or ease up the unfavorable impact
4 6.1 Countermeasures to hliminate the unfavorable impact during constnrction
I. Measures to prevent raised dust
(I) Enforcc administration over the construction. The pnrnciple of protection while
constmicting should be followed
(2) Encircle the construction site with braided plastic fabrics to reduic the spread of raised
dust and reducc its impact on nearby inhabitants and institutions.
(3) Store onlv earth to be back filled on the site and transport a c! earthy to be cast avay
in time Sprinkic watcr in finc %keather during thc drv season when carth is stored. loaded and
transported. so as to keep the surface wet to reducc raised dust.
(4) Closelv cover vehicles transporting construction matcrials lilkc cement. lime and
construction garbage, to prevent raised dust and dropping
(5) Shed the concrete mixer and lathcs site not far from each other it. It should be placed at
places far from inhabitants. institutions or schools. Mist spray should be used when the mixer is
in operation so as to rcduce raised dust and its impact on public hcalthi.
2. Measurcs to prevent and reduice construction noise
(I) Strictly- abidc by rulcs anid regulations conccrning constriction sites promulgated by the
city government of Nanning and rcgulations about noise. limit. Avoid using noise mak-ing
machilies at noon or during night so as to rcducc the impact on inhabitants.
(2) Try to concentrate the use as rushi wvork in optimized construction timlC of machincs
that producc loud noisc. so as to limit the scope and shionrie thc timc of their noise impact
3. Prevcntion of traffic jams
(I) Well plan and do a quick job of constructions to bc carried out in dowvntown areas to
136



heavv traffic routes. Temporary route for vehicles should be established and special personnel
assigned to direct traffic, so as to prevent traffic jams. This can also reduce added of noise
platoon.
(2) Strengthen the administration, planning, and scheduling of the construction. Arrange
good division of labor, and raisc efficiencv so as to shorten the construction period as much as
possible. Back fill the earth and restorc roads in good time so as to reduce raised suit, noise.
foui stiiells, and the scope of traffic jams.
4. Countermneasures for rcducing the unfavorable impact during the dredging of the
Chaoyang Stream
(I) Carnring out the dredging during the dry season (October to April) can cut off the
extemal source of water so as to reduce water contained in the scdimcnt and shorten the time of
drying. Tcmporarilv piled bottom clay should be transported in time so that it Nvill not be
wvashed back into the river.
(2) Dctailed calculation should be made as for the man power needed for the dredging, the
amount of daily dredging job and the number of vehicles needed so as to optimize the plan for
rapid work and timely transportation. For cxample. 100 people are to be employed for the
digging of the segment from Youai Bridge to the outlet of the Dakeng Stream from October to
April of the following y ear. If each person can dig Sni;d. thc total will reach 90,000m3.
Machincs can be used in xvider segmcnts to add another 20.000m3  30 trucks (with loading
capacity of 4t) will be enough to transport all the bottoml clay dug up if they take fivc round
trips each day.
(3) Bactericide can be spread in time to prevent the deterioration of %%ater quality and
multiplyinig of flies and mosquitoes. Bleacinilig solutiotn can be sprinkled to destroy moleculcs
that give out foul smclls and kill hamiful gemis at the same time
(4) Gas miasks containing activated carbon fiber should be provided for constructionl
workers to protect thein. Mcdical workers can be senit to the site durinig the dredging to gie-c
timel1 medical aid In case it is necded
(5) Water or cover-up material for solid waste matters (organilc higih polymcr mcmbrane)
can bc sprinkleed on the surface of the scdiment piled up to prevent raised dust
(6). Proper %%azis of piling the sediment cani reducC its impact on the environment.
Tnhc kc liink in reduiciig the environmicnital impact durinig the piling and filling of bottom
clay is to choosc proper wvays of piling. It is recomimieiinded to cncircle banks to be built around
the pile.
nic landfill site in Santang is situated on lo%%-i\ ing land surrotinded on three sides by hills.
Not imluch eartlikxork is necdcd to miect the designed filling capacity. The base of the bank .can
bc bedded with rows of fircvood. and the otitsidc of thc bank can use nylon bags filled with
carti. Its insidc can usc loose carthi from nearb% slopcs to be rolled compact. Thc slope of a hill
can be used as part of thc cicirclinig bank 400()Imi ' lJi(i0 of land wvithi 1. .m higih bank xvill be
big cnotigih to pile 200.000mii 3 of sediment Scdieilcnlt containing Iiutich hcavyn metals should be
piled In the ccitcr Seepage resistling niatcrial cant be usLd on the bottomi of the landfill to reduce
117



the seepage rate to below 10-7cm/s because the region is of sandv rock. Normal earth can be
used to seal the top of the sediment pile, on wvhich trees can be planted. In this wvav the
ecos-vstem can bc maintained and part of the investment retumed.
The above measures can prevent surface runoff and seepage into the ground and reduce
foul smells. But it must be pointed out that the construction aNill last a fairly long timc, (3 vears)
during vhich uncovered pile of sediment may cause some runoff pollution and foul smells, so
the construction should be speeded up and bottom clav be filled . mixed with some sandv clav
and compressed timelv to reduce such pollution.
5. Countermeasures to treat pollution during the construction of  waste water siphon
pipeline
Proper preparations should be made for the construction of the waste water siphon
pipeline to shorten the construction period, such as building the towers beforehand, digging the
tunnel during the low wvater season, and laying the pipeline from both banks to the middle of the
rivcr in thc same time and laying the central pipe at last. When pipes are being laid in the rivcr.
clear signs should be put up on the surface of the river and special personnel should be assigned
to direct navigation After the pipes are sunk, back filling should be done immediatelv to speed
up the progress of the construction.
4.6.2 Countermeasures to treat the impact dutring the operation of lite project
I. Raise the designied scope of Jiangnan waste watcr treating plant
Feasibilitv studies found out the completion of the Chaovang Stream projcct can lead
about 258 OOm/d of waste water (1994 data) into Jiangnan waste water treating plant to be
treated.
Waste water pipelines in Tinghong Road and Baisha Avcnuc of thc scewagc svstem of the
city can gather 78 200m;/d of wvastc water (1994 data) of the industrial region along the
Tringzichiong Strcam and send it to be trcatcd in Jiangnan waste water trcating plant through
waste water tnik pipelines in Jiangbei District.
All together Jlangnain waste water trcating plant will be rcquired to trcat a total of 336
000'/d of waste watcr. But the designed capacitv of the first plase of tilat plant is only 260
(0;'/d.. SO it is suggested to raisc dcsigned scopc of Jiangnan waste water trcating plant.
2. Measures to reducc thc unfavorable impact of thc sludge produccd by the waste water
treating plant
(I) Inorganic sand cicared from railed and acration sedimentation basin
Thc feasibility report of the project suggests that the inorganiic sand thus produccd can bc
disposed at thc garbage filling grounid of the city. Scaling and coxering can reducc or prevcnt it
fromi being dropped on its way of transportation.
(2). Mud cakes of the dehydrated sludgc
Mud cakes (containing 80% of w%-atcr) contain N, P and K can bc used as forest or non-
recreation grecn field fertilizcr if proven to be safe by concenied departments. They should be
Lised in hygiene land filling if proved harmful . and burying ground shiould be carefully chioscn.
To prevent dropping and giving out foul smclls during the transportation, wvcll closed spccial
vehicles are to be used.
13xt



3. Measures to reduce the noisc of the pumping station
The designed capacity of the Dakengkou pumping station is 6.5m3/s with a lifting height
of 7m. Shock absorbing measures should be taken to reduce the impact of noise on surrounding
inhabitants.
4. Countermeasures to treat pollution of the project of water se-wer and conduit
(I) Raise the designed flow of waste water pipelines in Hongting Road and Baisha Avenue
Feasibilitv studies sho%v that the pipes to be used in the two locations are respectively
d600-d700mm and d600-d900mm. As the point sources industrial waste water dischareed in
the industrial region along the Tingzichong Stream is of large amount. the designed flow should
be raised to meet the need.
(2) Consider the design of the rain water trunk- pipelines around the Nanhu Lakee tog-ether
wvith the cut of non-point sources, so as to produce benefit for civil engineering, environmental
protection and fold prevention.
A. Control the amount of rain water entering the Nanhu Lake in the initial stage of the first
stormn after the drv season.
B. Strengthen the treating and administration over the Nanhu lake. to restore the ecosy stem
of its water body and around its shore. Raise waste water interception. absorption and clearing
capacity.
C. If possible. change the design of the direction of the flow of rain water entering the
Nanhu Lake to lead it into the oYronijiang River. If the lake lacks water, water can be drawn
from the Yongjiangy river to repienlish it so as to prevent the eutrophication of the lake.
139



5. Alternate Plans
This assessment of the Chaoyang Stream Comprehensivc Treating Project was worked
out by the Beijing Municipal Engineenrng Designing and Research Institute on the bases of
comprehensive and careful analvsis on the scale and service range of the proposed project, the
social, economic situations of the Nanning City and conditions for the construction of the
projcct and the removal involved.
The followving altemate plans are for further and more extensive studies and comparison.
Plan I To lav waste water intercepting pipelines from the heavy-duty machine building
factory southwvards along both banks of the Chaovang Stream within the scope of the plan, and
lead its water to be emptied into the Yongjiang River at the outlet of the Chaoyang Strearn.
Waste water in the pipeline along the nrght bank will flow into the pipeline along the left bankl
after receivine waste water from the interccpting pipelines along the Erk-eng Strean, then be led
to Langdong %-.aste water treating plant through the pumping station at the outlet of the Dakeng
Strearn, and pipelines along Binjiang Road, Mingsheng Road. and Dongge Road.
Plan 2 To lay the waste water intercepting trunk pipeline to the north of Youai Bridge
within the planned scope along Beihu Road, Xitian Road. No. I and No 2 Roads to the east of
the raillway The trunk pipeline dowm Youai Bridge connecting the pumping station and the
trunk pipeiine along Donggc Road v.ill have the samc location and direction as Plan 1. Waste
water is fafnm led to bc treated in Langdong wastc vater treating plant
Plan 3 To lay thie vaste water intercepting trunk pipelinc to the north of Zhonghua Road
along Beihu Road. Anji Road, Xiuan Road, No. I and No.2 Roads to the east of the railwav.
Lead it to cross the l-lunan-Guangxi Railw-ay and then eastwvard along Zhonghua Road, collcct
it with thc trunk pipelinc of Dongge Road through thc pumping station and pipcline in Yuanhu
Road. Thc trunk pipelines to the south of Zlhongliua load in thc lower reachcs of the Chaovang
Strcanm %%ill bc of the samc locationl and dircction as Plan I Only to be led to Langdong waste
Water trcatine. plaint aftcr receiving waste wvater from thic upper rcacih of the Chaovang Strcam
at thc cross of Yuanhu Road and Dongce Road.
Plan 4 The location and direction of the trunk pipclines up thc outlets of the Dakecng
Strcam in thc lowcr reach of the Chaovang Strcam. and the location of thc pumping station at
thc outlet of thc Dakeng Strcam arc the samc as Plan 2. only waste wvatcr from thc Xixiang
Pond will be led into  the trun[k pipeline alotig the right bank- of thc Erkeng Strcam, then afler
crossing the Chaovang Stream. to bc led thirough the trunk pipeline along thc left bank of tile
Cliaovanig Strcam. lifted by the puniping station to be lcd across the Yong iang Rivcr. The trunk
waste vater pipelinc in Jiangbei Distnct will be conncctcd to Jiatignan waste water treatilg
plant throughE trnik pipelbies along \iangnani Road. Fujian Road and Tingjiang Road.
Plan S The locationi and direction of thc tnmlk pipelines up the outlet of the Dakeng tream
in the lower reach of the Chaoyang Stream. and the location of the pumping station at the outlct
of thc Dakeng Streamii are the samc as Plain 2. only the waste wvatcr is led southward to cross the
Yongjiang Rzxcr. The trunik pipeline in Jiangbci District is to be laid nsidc along the dike.
1401



through the Tingzichong Stream and Tingjiang Road to enter Jiangnan waste wvater treating
plant.
5.1 Alternate plan for the waste water intercepting system  on the Caoyang
Stream
Four alternate plans are put forwvard based on the characteristics of waste water
discharging in Nanning City and its trcatiig plan
1 Alternatc Plans for Waste Water Intercepting Project and Comparison between them
Plan 1:
Merits:
1. Waste water pipelines wilI be laid along low\-lying land so that fund can be reduced:
2. Waste wvater from both banks can be intercepted at the same time:
3. Waste vater at Daklengkou can be lifted up to the Yongjiang River by pumping for the
first stage, so the construction can be carried out in different stages.
Demerits
I. The construction of the %%astc  water intercepting sy stem must be carnred out at the samc
time with the trcating of the Chaoyang Stream;
2. The amotint of removal is large and the cost high;
3. Cost for the construction and operation of the pumping station is high.
4. Wastc water trunk pipeline along Dongge Road is ver long and the road is a busy traffic
tuink line in thc city.  %hich demanids a large invcstmcint and the  conistructioln  is verV
difficult:
- The location of the  %"astc wvater treating plant is not ideal Strict demands will be set for
wvatcr to be discharged into the Zhupaichionig Strcam.
Plan 2.
lcrits_
I .The construction of thi %vaste water trunik line and that of thc project of tihe treating of the
river bed of the Cliao' ang Strcam will be carried out indepcndentl\ or in differe nt stages:
2 The amount to be rcmoxed is comparativcly smialler and thc cost lowver.
. The pipclincs to be laid are  along  planned roads so that the amounit of removal w-ill be
reduccd and the constructionl can be  carried  out at tic samc time \xitli other miunicipal
cnginicering  iteiis to  save  time  and cost;
4 Thc trnkii linc to the upper strcanis of Youai Bridge is shorter:
'.Wastc water can  be lifted into thic Yongjiang River from DakecngkouL by pumpilg, so thc
construiction can be arrangtd by stage.
Dcmierits
I 13rancli lincs niust bc added oni the cxistinig waste \\ater interccptinig system to achieve
total interceptiol.
141



2. Roads %%ill have to be broken for the construction. and as a result, traffic will bc affected.
3. Cost for the construction and operation of the pumping station is high,
4. Waste water trunk pipeline along Dongge Road is very long and the road is a busy traffic
trunk line in the citv, xvhich demands a large investment and the construction is verv
difficult:
5. The location of the waste wvater treating plant is not ideal. Strict demands will bc set for
water to be discharged into the Zhupaichong Strcam.
Plan 3
Merits:
I. The construction of the waste water trunk line and that of the project of the treating of the
river bed of the Chaoyang Stream wVill be carried out independently or in differcnt stages;
2. The amount to be removed is comparativelv smaller and the cost lower; 3. The pipelines to
be laid are along planned roads so that  the amount of removal will bc reduced and the
construction  can be carried out at the same time With other municipal engineering items
to save time and cost:
4. The waste water trunk line in the upper reaches of the Chaoyang Stream is shorter.
Demerits
I. Branch lines must be added  on the existing wvaste water intercepting system to achieve
total interccption;
2. Roads will have to be brokcn for the construction. and as a result, traffic will be affected.
3. Two pumping stations with high lifting capacity must be built. 'vhich -will cost a lot;
4. Wastc wvater trunk pipeline along Donggc Road is very long and the road is a busy traffic
trnk linc in thic city. which  dciiands  a largc  investment and thc constnmction is verv
difficult.
Tihc location of the  waste water trcating plant is not ideal. Strict demalids will be set for
water to be discharged into thc Zhupaichionig Strcam.
6. The construction of  wastc water trnk linc in the uppcr rcaches of the Chaovang Strcan
and that alone Dongge Road must bc carricd out at thic samc timc.
Plan 4:
Merits:
I. Thc construction of thc waste water trunk linc and that of the projcct of thc trcating of thc
rivcr bed of thc Chaoyang Stream will be carricd out independently or in different stages.
2. The amount to bc removcd is comparatively smaller and the cost lowecr:
3. ThliC pipelines to bc laid arc  along  planned roads so that the amiounit of removal will be
reduccd and the construction can be  carried  out at the samc time with other mtinicipal
engiincrinig itens to save tim:e and cost.
4. The trink line to the uppcr streams of Youai Bridge is shortcr:
5. Waste water can be  lifted into the Yongjiang River from Dakenigkou by puimpinig. so the
constriction can be arranged by stage:
142



6. The lifting height of the pumping station is lower and thus cost lcss:
7. Waste water will be led to Jiangnan. This agrees with the ovcrall plan of the citv;
8. Provides conditions for gathering waste water in other districts;
9. The location of the liangnan wastc water treating plant is ideal, favorable for building the
plant in diffcrcnt stages.
Demerits
I. Brancih lines must be added on the existing waste water interccpting system to achievc
total interception;
2. Roads will have to bc broken for the construction. and as a result, traffic will be affccted.
3. It imposes as a fairly hard task and costs a lot to lay niver crossing waste pipelines
4, Thc river-crossing pipelines serve a larger area so the construction cannot be divided into
too many stages. As the sections of construction are large. more investment is necdcd all
in one time and it is fairiv difficult to carry out the construction.
;. Large scale of the pumping station wvill require much inVestment;
6. Part of the pipeline will pass throughi Jiangnan Road. a trunk road of traffic. The pipeline
is to be buried very deep in certain places and that rcquires a larger amount of rcmoval;
7. Treated wvater is finally discharged  in the lower reaches. favorable for the protection of
water source of the citv
Plan 5
(recommended plan)
Merits:
1. Tll construction of the sxastc water trunk line and that of thle project of the treating of the
river bed of thc Chaovang Stream will bc carried out iidcpcidcintlx or in different stages.
2 Tlic amount to be removed is comparatively smaller and thc cost lower;
. ilic pipelinies to be laid are along planned roads so that the amiounit of removal %%ill bc
reduccd and the construction can be carried out at the samc timic withi othcr municipal
engincering itcms to save timc and cost,
4. Thc trunlk liic to the upper strcams of Youai Bridge is shorter.
zi Waste water can be lifted imto the Yongjiang River from Dakeingkou by pumping. so the
construction can be arranged by stagc;
6 Waste water pipeline w.-ll be buried along the dike of tilc rivcr aftcr it crosses the ri\er. so
tihat thc amounit of rcmoval rcquircd is small and there '\on't be much impact on traffic.
The cost of operation and admlinistration will also bc lo%%.
7 Waste water %\ill bc led to Jiangiian. This agrees ,vith thc overall plan of the city.
8. Providcs conditions for gathering wastc water in other districts'
9 Thic  location of thc lianginan waste water treating plant is ideal. favorable for building
plant in different stages.
14.



Demerits
l. Branch lines must be added on the existing waste Nvater intercepting system to achieve
total interception:
2. Roads will have to be broken for the construction, and as a result. traffic vill be affected..
3. Cost for the construction and operation of the pumping station is high;
4. Waste  water trunk pipeline along Dongge Road is ver  lone and the road is a busv
traffic
trunk line in the cit,. which demands a largc investment and the construction is very
difficult;
5. The location of the waste water treating plant is not ideal. Strict demands will be set for
wvater to be discharged into the Zhupaichong Stream.;
6. Treated ivater is finally discharged into the lower reach of the river. favorabie for the
protection of the city's water source.
See Table 5-i-I for the comparison of the investment required. the cost of the removal
involved, and the cost for power to be used by the pumping station.
Table 5-1-1 Investment, Cost of Removal, and Cost of Power
for tihe Pumping Station of Different Plans
Planl         tnvCstmenct1 Rcqutred         Fee lbr Iketiloval           Ltilipinit Station
10%ianila               Iy'taiz                           uatn/a
11'1                      10t1U  yuantti/a             1(1' taU
plan I               11115                                                   175 5
pIlian 2             1 06(2                                                  175 5
plan      T          S-4                                                    529 5
plait 4.             I l 320                    2(Hl(                        94.5
plan 5               I 1077                     "X36                       . 95
Note * Ilic draninge area ot Plans 1. 2. and; is 14knv. thalt ol Pllanis 4 and  i is 5S ;Skn
*When the pipxltne is  to be laid alone roads or at sectiont otite ri-er vvh!; atre ready- niciided in the
city's overall ilan. no lee t'or removal is considered
Basecd on the cost-benefit analhsis. marks from  I to 5 % ere given to the diffcrcnt altcmate
plans. The onc wvith the least benefit or the most cost was givcn I point and the reversal. that is.
the one with tihe bcst betiefit or the Iast cost %%as givcn 5 points Sec Table 5-I -3 for the resuits
l 44



Table 5-1-2 Assessment Points of the Cost-benefit Analysis of the Plans
Plan                                  I          2          3        4        s
Investmient for capital constniction  4          4          5        5        5
Land requisition and removal          3          4          4        4        4
l ocationi of piplinie to be buried   4          4                   4         5
Location ol thle waste water treatin.g plant  4  4          4        5         5
IDearee ot diflicult for construction  2         2          2             3
Operation cost of the pumiiping station  S       3          2             5 5
Conveiienice for constructioni in stages  2      4          2        5         5
Elvirorniental belnfit                           3          3        5        5
rotall                                25         29         25       36        38
As far as the protection of the water body of the Yongjiang River is concerned, the key
issue of the five plans is wvhether the waste water from the drainage area of the Chaovang
Strearn and the Erkeng Streanm should be discharged in the upper reach of the Zhupaichong
Streanm or at the outlet of the Shluitangjiang Stream. In this respect. Plans 1. 2. and 3 are of one
t\pc and Plans 4 and 5 another. The demerits of Plans 1. 2, and 3 are.
First of all, if the tail water is to be discharged into the upper reach of the Zhupaichong
Stream. thie water quality of the Zhupaichong Stream nwill not meet the standard required by its
function. The following is an analyze on how% the water quality of the Zhupaichionig Siream can
be made to meet the standard required for its function.
The present functionl of the Zhupaichionig Stream  is to receivc Waste water. Its water
shiould ImlCet the standard of Grade V of surface w%ater according to the long temi plan. Bccause
tihe Langdong waste water tre-ating plant is located at about 7 OkIii up the outiet of thL
Zliupaichiotig Stream on the Yongjiang River. it v"ill bring unfavorable effcct to the realization
of its long tenn function for tilc tail water of tEie waste water treating plant to be discharged into
the Zhupaichionig Stream.
According to thc data collccted by Nanning City Enviroiinieintal Monitoring Station. main
pollutants discharged into thc Zhupaichong Stream in 1992 were those listed pl Tablc 5-1-4.
Table 5        a-1-3   ain Pollutants Discharged into the Zhupaiclion  Streanm  Unlt: inl.
l'olluitanlit          Average                  M.axiliuti             Minimu
C(o)                   I.-( 99                   199 17                 53 07
130D,)                 453(3                     60( 38                 20 34
As there is ccrtain influence from  non-potit sources in the higih water season. the
situationi of the lo\% %%atcr season was considered In calculating ho\ mucih lpollutants should be
remo\ed froml its 1992 load so that its water w%ill rcach the standard of Grade V of surface
vwater. Thie removing rate is
145



rCOD= I -  25   - 86.8;  7/0D =I -  I0   = 834
189.78                     60.38
It can bc secn that it would bc prettv hard for the water of the Zhupaichong Stream to meet
thc standard for Grade V water even with level 2 treatmcnt. And the values monitored is the
result alrcady aftcr certain degradation. In March 1992. the runoff rate w-as not P=90% bout
around 50%. That is to sav, the watcr flow will be lcss than the 1992 one--once in everv two
years. Conditions of Plans 1, 2, and 3 will not enable the water quality of the Zhupaichong
Stream to reach the standard for Grade V  water. Possible solutions include:
1. Waste water intercepted along the Zhupaichong Stream is directly discharged into the
Yongjiang River with or without treatment ( may include treated from Langdong waste water
treating plant).
2. To wash the pollution in its upper reach by drawing water from the Yongjiang River
Yongjiang    - ,----    Nanhu            *       Zhupaichong          .    Yongjiang
(Langdong)
The cost of the pipclines for the two segments is not high. but the amount of watcr is large
and the cost of operation will be high.
3. Abandon Plans 1. 2. or 3, and adopt the recommended plan to lead waste water across
the river.
4. Waste %%atcr intercepted along the Zhupaichong Stream is directly discharged into the
Yongjiang Rivcr The Zhupaicihong Stream may bc reduccd to a dry ditch during thc dry season
When water can bc dravn from the Yongjiang River for the sake of the landscape and irrigation.
and thei method discusscd in section 2 above can be used or is treatcd in the samc wav with the
Chaoyang Strcam.
Thcse solutions can 'improvc the watcr qualitv of thc Zhupaichong Strcam. But thcrc is no
advantagc comparcd withi the recommcnded plan if the vaste water from the Chaoyang Strcam
is rcceivcd.
Secondly. Tablc -- I- I shoxvs the cost of operation of the thirec alternate plans is 1 .85-5.6
timcs that of the recommended plan and there is no economic advantage either.
If vaste \\ater is dischargcd into the Yongjiang River througli thc Zhupaicliong Stream.
which is iicar the downtoown part of Nanning City. it will have apparent impact on thc landscape
of the city. especially when thc citv undergoes further developilicnt.
So none of thc alternate plans is economical as compared wvith thc plan reconmiended in
improving thc city's environiment. Plan 4 is similar to the plan recomimiended cxccpt that it
requircs thc trunk wastc water pipclinc to go through thc central part of the city aftcr crossig
the river. thtis involving a larger constnmction area and increasing the amiounit of rcmoval. It is
not as good as the rccommcndcd plan in this respect.
Thc four alternate planis are not so good as Plan 5 in the investmcnt required and the
146



degree of difficulty of the construction- According to Plan 5 the tail water finally discharged by
the waste water treating plant xvili be far from the cit-, favorable for the protection of the city's
water source, having apparent environeiental advantage over that of the altemate plans. So Plan
5 is the optional choicc.
S.2 Alternate plansfor thie treating of the water waY' of the Chaoi'ang Stream
Two alternate plans were provided by the designing institution. Sce Table 5-2-1 for
details.
Table 5-2-1 Comparison of Alternate Plans for the Treatment
of the Water Way of the Chaoyang Stream
Item                                             Plan I          Plani 2             Plan 3
(Open tununel)  (Covered tununel)    (Combinedi 
Investmilent (I0' vuan)                           152 50         21586               17439
ReImoval cost(104 yitan)                          10703          4671                6512
Lanld required (ha)                              26.13           11.36               17 99
Landscape twater surface (lia)                    I 314                              5 1;
Green field (la)                                  12.99                              6 26
Flood detention capactlv ( 104i')                65 76           38 6                62 S6
IFlood drainini capacity of the pumipnin statioii n im'si  16    27                  17
WVater supplenient=ofthe punping station (m      (149            0 42
Cost of power          Flood drainitn           | 6 91           27 22               X 29
watcr  9 .2                                3 07
upl1)I)ICi11 t:11_
Numiilber ol brieh:s to le reutltil            _                                    2
Number of sltuice: gates to be added             .                I                  2
Thc folloxing is a comparison of thc conditions required by tihe thrce plans and thcir
cinvironmental social bcnefit
1. Conditions for removal
Plan 1: A largc arca %x%ll havc to be removed but somic of the pemianicit buLidinigs canilot
be deimiolishicd and this x%-ill causc somc difficultv for the constructioni. and the deimiolishing of
sonic old bridges xxill affcct cit% traffic
Plan 2: Thc area to bc rciloved is the smallest and the impact on tmffic is also the Icast.
Plan 3: The  range of  reimioval  is  the samc withi that of Plan 2 Up Youai Bridge. but
larger
from  Youai Bridgc to Dakncilkou. BUt compared with Pllanl 2. It is less difficult for the
construction and thc iilpact on traffic is smaller.
2. Conditions for carr iing out thc constrmction in stages
1.17



Plan 1: The whole waste wvater intercepting system cannot bc constructed in stages
Plan 2: For a certain period of time no "vaste water interccpting pipcline is needed except
at Dakengkou. The construction can be carried out in stages.
Plan 3: The segment of open tunnel should be constructed at the same time wvith waste
Water intercepting pipelines and it is impossible to separate them into stages.
3. Conditions for maintenance and administration
Plan 1: Water in the tunnel must be periodically replaced and supplemented by the
pumping station, whose secondary floor and recreational facilitics should be kept clean, and this
needs much work and good management.
Plan 2 1 Maintenance is easv and simple.
Plan 3. Maintenance needed is similar to that of Plan I but the amount of wyork
required is less.
4. Environmental social benefit
Plan I Riverside parks can bc built and the natural ecosystem can be wvell maintained as
the wvhole line offers much water surfacc for landscape. That will provide a recreational place
for the people in the citv. The flood detention capacity is largc and the scale of the flood
drainage pumping station is small. The arca of land usablc is the smallest.
Plan 2: Landscape water surface is reduced and there will be sonic impact on the
ecological environment. But green field or small sports ground can be built on the covered
tunnel. The flood detcntion capacity is the smallest. and the scale of thc flood drainage pumping
station is the largcst and the arca of land usable is also the largcst.
Plan 3 A riversidc park can be built in the segment from Youai Bridge to Dakengkou. T'he
flood dctention capacity is fairly large. and comparatively speaking the scalc of the flood
drainage purimpilig station is small while the area of land usable is less.
5. Protection of thc water sourcc of the CitV
Plan I Therc will bc no pollution to thc river itscif or the Yongjiang River during the dr!
season. However. there wvill bc some pollution caused bv overflow during thc wct season.
Plan 2. Thc Yongjiang Rivc will suffcr from ccrtain dcgrees of pollution in thc wet scason
but it can be diluted in normal conditions.
Plan 3 The opCIl tunnel and the Yongjiang River will suffcr from ccrtain pollution durint
the wet season.
Comparison from the abovc aspects proves Plan 3 is the most ideal among thc threce plans
from ovcrall consideration and thcir econiomtiic and environmental aspects
148



6. Analysis on the Benefit of the Chaoyang Stream Comprehensive
Treating Project
6.1 Analysis on its social benefit
6 1. 1 Improve the city's environmental quzalitv so as to stimulate the economic development
As the capital of Guangxi Autonomous region, Nanning City is its political. economic.
scientific, educational and cultural center. But so far thcre is no good sewvage system in the city.
The existing pipeline network is shared b! rain water and waste water, usually discharged into
nearby natural water bodies-- tributaries of thic Yongjiang River such as the Chaoyang Stream.
the Erkeng Stream. the Zhupaichong Stream. and the Tingzichong Stream. and finally
discharged into the Yongjiang River itself Thcsc rivers arc scriously silted. The Chaoyang
Strcam flowing through the central part of Nanning City is a small streamii. The area around
Nanhu in the ceniter of the city. wihere major governmental departments of the Guangxi
Autonomous Regioni and Nanning City are located besides numberiess economic. financial and
commercial institutions. It is also a densely populated inhabitant quartcrs of the city There is
also a serious problem of waterlogng.
The Chaoyang Strcam coniprehictisitc treating project aimiis at renovating the Chaoyang
Stream. throughl laying rain watcr pipthines. itrceptinig and treating \aste water that now
directly flows into the Chaoyang Stream and other tributaries of the Yongl talg Ri%er. desilting
and maintainiing existing pipclinc network. raising the capacit\ of the pipelinc network to gaither
storm runoff. strengthening thc mainteniance of iiachines used in the pipeline nct\ork s%stcm.
strengtheninig its administration. Improving the sewage systerm In the old part of the citt. solving
the scrious problem of water logging. gatthcrinig w-astc water from major industnal pollutcrs
along thc Tingzicliong Stream in J1iangnani. checking thc deterioratioll of the wvater qualitt of the
Yongjiang River. and improving the cnvironnctital quality along thc rivers. The completioln of
the project will effectively solve probilms like raised dust on finc days and muddy road on wet
davs. dimiinish foul siiells of the ri%ers running thirough the city. thus Improving thc
cnvironmncital quality of thic city both of its wvater bodies and thc atmosphere.
1. 2 Proiect the wtater souirce of/he/ ctt antd improve is quahl '
'lTi existiing sewage pipelincs in Nanning City is 204km;n long, w\ith a disposal capacity of
l14)



20.055 million t/a. of which 97.78 million t/a is of domestic waste water. Most wvaste water
flows into the tributaries of the Yongjiang River and finally into the Yongjiang River itself
without anv treatment, causing serious pollution. The xwater of the tributaries is very poor.
looking black and giving out fouls smells, while the pollution of the Yongjiang River itself is
already affecting the quality of water supplied by the tapping -water plants of the citv.
There are four tap water mills in Nanning with a total water supplying capacity of'
594,OOOt/d. or 25.069 million t/a (1993), providing the city w'ith water for industrial usage and
people's daily life.
The aniount of waste water will sureIy increase along with the development of production
and population increase. If the Chaoyang Stream is not treated and let its water flow into the
Yongjiang River at the outlet of the Dakeng Stream. the quality of water drawn by Lintie Water
Mill will be seriously deteriorated and the mill would even be out of function. The cost for
water treating in other wzater mills %%ill also increase. Compared %%ith maintaining the present
water mill. it will cost far more to build a new -water mill in the upper rcach of the Yongjiang
Rivcr and then send the water to the city. Therefore, the Chaoyang Stream comprehensive
treating project is effective both economically and environmentally.
6 1.3 .Strenrthen flood resisting copacitv of the cit,-
Nanning City has been suffering from frequent and serious water logging, wvhich mav be
caused bv back flow of water from the Yongjiang Rivcr dunng the flood season. or by choked
flow bccause the tributaries cannot timclv drain the runoff wvhen thcrc arc storms. It wvill bc a
great tlireat when external and intcrnal overflowl happen at the same time.
To solve the problcm of water logging, flood prevcntinsg dlkcs w\crc begun to bc built along
the banks of the Yongliang River in 1973. Two big floods happencd in 1985 and 1986. whcn
the flood level reached 75 88m and 76.23m. Tihc dilkcs plaed an inportant role in resisting the
flood Nanning suffcred another scrious flood in 1994 and the lost wvas cstimated to reach 200
miillion y'uan.
Now therc are 281 km of drainage pipclincs in Nannine City. of which 37% arc small pipcs
with   d400mnim. Wxf S 400 x 400imm. And most of thiemn are conccntrated in the old part of
the citv. wvorking ovcr thcir scrvice timc and out of rcpair for years. So they cannot effectively
drain the -water. Watcr logging of diffcrcnt scalc will appear in the city when thcrc arc storms.
sonic times as many as 27 places arc flooded. Many of the roads now don't'havc any drainage
devicc and will turn muddv wvhen in wct weather, such part of Mingxiuxi Road. the cross of
Guchicig Road and Donggc Road. and Zhonghua Road. nic pipclincs have not becn dcsilted for
a long time because the lack of' manpoxver and finance . thltis reducilIg tileir drainage capacity.
h'lle siltilng of thc rivers also add to the inabilitv of the cit\ in flood prevcntion and resistance.
lic plaicd project of the renovation of the Chaovang Stream. thc project of' water rain
pipcline net-work. and the projcct to renovate the pipeline network in thc old part of the city. as
I 511



well as the desitling and maintenance of existing pipelines, the addition and maintenance of
machines, all form an important part of the waste water treating system of the central and
eastern part of the city of Nanning. Major system of separate flow of rain water and waste
xvater will be established in concerned areas. The dredging of the lower reaches of the
Chaoyang Stream, the enlarging of pipelines and disilting, all wvill greatly raise the city's
capacity in flood detention and regulation. So the completion of the project will greatly raise the
city's capacity of flood resisting
6.1.4 Promote the development of the citv and raise people's living standard
The construction of the Chaoyang Stream comprehensive treating project includes the
renovation of the Chaoyang Stream and the renovation of rain water and waste water
pipeline network in the old part of the city. These construction and their later managing
institutions will all undoubtedly provide many new job openings. The Chaovang Stream flows
through the central part of the city. Its treatment will bring a beautiful environment for
developing tertiary industrv, which w%ill also open up many new jobs. Not only will the local
economy develop, but more foreign investment will be lured in to bear a positive impact on the
production of the city and the enrichment of the people as well. For years and years people in
Nanning have been suffering from water logging during the rainv season. Houses in low-lying
places were flooded and furniture soaked in water. The inhabitants living in these places just
could not live a normal life. Besides suffering economic losses, they were nervous for such
occasions. Thc laving of rain watcr pipelines Will improve thc life quality of its part of
inhabitants.
6.2 Analysis oii the economic benefit of the project
6.2.1 Financial analysis of thc pro&e'ct
According to the feasibility rcport of the planned project, construction of the whoIe project
will start in 1997 and be completed in 2001, requiring a total investment of 695.07 million yuan.
Thc predictcd financial balance and cash flow of each year were calculated on the basis of a
duration of 20 years (2002-2020).
Take 7% for thc intcrest rate of loans from the World Bank, without considering the fund
and intercst collected at home, the comnmitment fee for the World Bank (total loan of the project
- expense of the loan for five years (at the rate of 10.75%) will reach 230 000 US dollars.
Financial cashi flow table reveals that the financial basic carning rate based on water
drainage projcct is 4%. The present net value of the project within thc calculating period is 2.5
million vuan. The internal carning rate is 4.18%. This means thc project is feasible financially.
'sI



But as the input of the project is mainly from governmental investment, and 10 million yuan
will have to be allotted every vear for civil engineering maintenance. the project will not assume
sole responsibilitv for its ow n profits band losses in the real sense.
If the fee charged for discharging waste vwater %%ill not be raised but remain at the present
level of 0.06 yuan/m3, the internal earning rate of the project will be 2.3%.
If the fee charged for discharging waste water wvill be raised to 0.27 yuan/m3 since 1997.
the government need not put in any fund after the project is put into operation, the project NNill
be equal.
If the fee charged for discharging waste water will not be raised to 0.40yuan/m3 since 1997,
the government need not put in any fund after the project is put into operation, the project %Vill
have an internal earning rate of 4.14%, enough for its maintenrance and to spare.
(I) Composition of the project
The project consists of (D Rain water pipeline network, which includes 13 trunk pipelines
wvith a total length of 32.5km; (D Waste water project, which includes two waste wvater
pipelines with a total length of 4.15km; 0  The project of the renovation of pipelines in the old
part of the city, which includes the renovation of 21 drainage pipelines with a total length of
10.8km and the construction of a water discharging pumping house; (  Maintenance of
pipeline network, for which 12 vehicles will havc to be bought; 0 Desitling and maintenance
of pipelines. The length of pipelin=s to be desilted is 28.3km wnith a total of 53 00Om3 of silt to
be removed; (  Adding 405 rain water inlets and 180 checking wells.
TIhe cost for the waste water intercepting trunk pipelines at both banks of the lower reach
(from Youai Bridge to Dakengkou) of the Chaovang Strcamn, of the water wvav treatment and
dredging of the lower reach (from Youai Bridgc to Dakengkou) and the middlc reach (from
No.28 High School to Youai Bridgc) of the Chaoyang Strcam, for water supplement for
landscapc. construction of the waste water lifting pumping station. the laving of rivcr crossing
pipcline and waste water trunk pipclinc nctwvork in Jiangbei, and the construction of the wvastc
wvatcr treating plant. Also included arc cxpenscs for land requisition. housc removal and othcr
preparatory vork for the project as well as odd cxpenscs beforc and during the construction of
the project.
(2) Engineering cost
Thc cost of civil cnginecring of the project was calculated according to the economic indcx
of scwagc engineering items stipulated in the Handbook of the Budget and Economic
Assessmcnt of Watcr Supply and Sewage Work-s witli rcfcrcncc to the budget of similar works
completed or under construction. Prices used for calculating the amount of materials wvhich can
be bought for ten thousand vuan were thosc provided in "Information of Construction in
Nanning" readjusted with the markct prices in Nanning in 1995-1996, plus 5% indircct fces.
Thc total investment nceded for the civil cnginecring of the projcct is about 695 million yuan.
152



Table 6-2-1 Estimation of Basic Cost of the Construction of
the Project and its allotment
Item             Investment              Yearl% Distnbution             World Bank Loan  Home Invesn1   t
_(10  yuan)  1997    1998    1999   2000    2001    10 vuan   .          10 ly% uan    %
waste water intercepting       10298     2550    2820    1490   1814    1624    5582.5   54.2   4715.5    458.
project on Chaoyang Streamn
river course treating project  13004     2327    1551    3650   273S    2738    8200.1   63.1   4803.9    36.9
on Chaovang Stream                              I                I                I
Jiangnan waste water treating    1744      0        0       0      523     1221      1605.6   92.1    138.4       7.9
plant                                           I
rain pipeline projects         12806     2377    2468    3107   3397    1457         5252      4 1     7554       59
sewage pipeline projects        827                                         8 827     290      35       537       65
pipeline t;ransforming         2597                728    1296    573                 954      37       1643      63
projects                                                           _                                             _
maintenance of equipmtetit     i 164               738     426                       1164      100       0         0
maintenance of pipeline         142       142       =                                 43       30       99        70
other                          13558     2898    3353    4815   2494                 3626      26.7    9932      73.3
toial                          57304     10294   12397   13623  11540   9450         27881    48.7    29423    51.3
Fund for this projcct comcs from  two sources:
First, loan from the World Bank, used to import equipment and matcrial. invcstment for
civil engineering, to pay foreign advisors, to pay for the expenses of conccrned pepsins going
abroad. and to pav thc interest during the construction and commnitment fee.
Seconid, charges on waste discharge collected by the Ninning City Govcrnment. fund for
maintaining  citv  construction, fee  for thc  use  of drainagc  device  and  part of the  land
development fcc, uscd  for the investment of the project (no  interest), to buy loal produced
matenals and othcr allocation equipment. ald to pay the fcc for inhabitanit resettlcment and
house rcmoval.
total (,0' 4tUan)
_______________________________________         1USS              RMF3 =USS         RMIB              Total
rundo :urcus                                     4058             33934             52541            69507
I World hank loans                              4058              33934                              33954
1 I I lard loan                                  2045             16967                              30967
1.2 Sol ltian                                    2045             16867             35574             10967
2 H Iotn inve-stment                                                                10000             35574
2.1 lumcipal maintenance and constniction fce e                                    7986              3000
2.2 Wisite water discliarte fcc                                                     15000             7986
2.3 Newdv developled land                                                           2588              15000
2.4 Support from regiioial govenmenit     -                                                           '588
153



(3) Operational cost
Operational cost refers to the expenses for the operation and maintenance of the water
pumping stations and waste w%ater purnping stations. The cost of electricity fee is calculated
according to the designed w-ater volume. Suppose the stains need to be, and the electricity for
industrial use is 0.51 Svuan/khw, the electricity fee amounts to 5.46 million yuan a year. The
budget for maintenance fee for sewage pipelines is 13 000yuan/km, as the project involves
52.8km, the total maintenance fee is 690 000yuan a year.
* Take 95% of thc total investment as the capital assets of the project, and take 1.7% of
the original value of the capital assets for capital repairs fund, it amounts to 11.23 million vuan
a year. The total operational cost is 19.13 million yuan a year.
* The total cost should also include the depreciation of fixed assistant the amortization of
all expenses. The annual depreciation and amortization come to 24.82 million yuan all together.
. Together, the above cost ad to a total of 43.95 mullion yuan a year.
(4) Prediction on the income
* Because of the characteristics of the project it is hard to determine who will be the
beneficiary. As a municipal public project, its income mainly comes from waste water
discharging fee. The present rate is only 0.06yuan/m3. It is suggested to raise it to 0. 12yuan/m'
so that the construction unit will becomc a trulv independent economic entity instead of having
to be supported by administrative allotment. The goal to be realized is to maintain the wvaste
water svstem bv levying waste wvater discharging fee.
- The amount of such fee charged will be determined by the figures recorded in all water
metcrs in the citv. 50% of the fcc collectcd will be considercd as the income of this project. It is
estimatcd that the amount in 2010 can rcach 20.65 million vuan.
e Municipal maintcnancc and construction fee and the revenuc from newly developed land
collected by the city govcrnmcnt will bc used as the key support for the projcct during its
construction, thcreforc it is also counted as the incomc of this projcct. But aftcr the project is
complctcd and put into opcration. the projcct i%ill dcpcnd solcly on the fee collccted for wvaste
water dischargc and thc 1000 vuan of city construction maintenance fee.
* It is hard for the project to maintain its financial balance during its construction and the
initial stagc xvhen it is put into operation, so the projcct necds financial support from the citv
anid rcgional governments.
(5) Plan of the repayment
. The internal part of the investment of the project is allotment from the government,
which does not need to bc rcpaid. Thc loan from the World Bank will be rcpaid through- the
depreciation of fixed assets and the amortization of othcr itcms. It is suggcsted that the
deficiency will be madc up by profits of the planned waste wvater company.
. To simplifv the calculation. 7.0% is taken as the annual rate of interest of the loan and
25 ycars--including 5 years as the gracc pcriod--as the period of thc repayment.
(6)Anal% sis ovcr its sensitiveness,
154



The large amount investment of the project exerts great influence on its financial
situation. Comparatively speaking, the vanration of maintenance fee and operational cost will
have only secondary influence. See Table 6-2-3 for the details of the financial sensitiveness of
the project.
Table 6-2-3 An alysis of the P oject's Financial Sensitiveness
Itemi          Variation (%)    Benefit      Item           variation  (%)  Bencfit
Investment    -20%            5.74           Mainteance    -20%           4.29
-10%           4.95                          -10%           4.23
forecast       4.18                          forecast       4.18
+10%           3.42                          +10%           4.12
+20%           2.70                          +20%           4.06
Used -water fee  0.24         11.85          Operation      -20%           4.96
yttan/mn       0.18           8.54                          -10%           4.57
0.12           4.32                          forecast       4.18
0.06           -2.01                         +10%           3.77
10.03          -7.75                         +20%            3.35
6.2.2 Analysis of the national cconomy of the project
Thc projcct will bring a lot of indirect benefit that can hardly be put into statistics. The
following is a rough estimation of somc of the external benefit as a resiult of thc protection of
wvater source, lowering the cost of water supplV, the increase of the pricc of land whosc
environimcnt will bc improved, flood prevcntion capability of thc project, and the project's
influcicc on the development of the city's industry.
(I) Raise the citv's flood rcsisting capacitv
* Nanning City is located in the subtropical oceanic climate zonc wherc thc rainfall is
abundant, avcraging 1 300 mm/a ovcr the years, with a maximum of 1 970.6  mm/a. As
storms arc frequent in summer, part of the city oftcn suffers from water logging. Thc dcpth of
water may rcach 0.4-O.8m. causing traffic jam besides flooding houscs.
. Data reveal tilat 27 places often suffcr from serious wvater logging in Nanning City.
which arc mostlv in the downtown part involving major strects and with a densc population
See Table 6-2-5 for the details.
* Incompictc statistics reveals that the lost caused by water logging reached 39.18 millioni
vuan/a. Sec Tablc 6-2-4 for thc concrcte figures.
155



Table 6-24 Economic Lost caused by Water Logging in Nannino Citv
No.  Item                                         Unit  Number    yuanlm2  lost (10 vuan)
I    Cleaning and disaffection of the  flooding house    m2    17500000   100  1750
2    Cleaning of pipeline                         km    250        20000    500
3    Flood drainage and emergency treatment                                  168
4    Other indirect lost E                                                   [00
total                                                         _3918
Notes: l. Water logging averages ten times a year,
2. the flooded area average [.75km2, with 25km of pipelines submerged;
3. Each time 150 persons are needed for flood drainage and emergency treatuent, w%ith 60 vehicles and
20 machines and 100 000yuan worti of materials.
Table 62-5 Major Water Lo 2ing in Nanning City
No. Location         Area  Depth    Affected      No. Location      Area  Depth  Affected
(- km2) (m)     population                    (kmt) (ni)    Population
I   Mingzhudadao     0.05   0.8      1500         15  Kangleu        0.07   0.6    700
2   Donggelu          0.05   0.6      500         16  Mingzhulu      0.26  0.5    2600
3   Tangshanlu        0.03   0.6      300         17  Mingsheniu    0.03  0.4    300
4 ionvanndonglu   0.03   0.5     300          18 Gaofenglu      0.02  0.4    200
-5  Hiiogvangxilu west 0.05   0..4    3000        19 Jinanlu         0.02  0.5    200
6   llonevangxilu cast  0.02   0.4    3000        20  Zhaovanglu    0.03  0.4    300
7   Minxiuxilu        0.05   0.4      soo         21  Shizhoulu      0.02  0 4     200
S   Mingxiuzhonglu    0.03   0.5      300         22  liuadonglu     0.03   0.4    300
9   Xioulinghlt       0 03   0 5      300         23  Zhunhualu      0.05   0.4    500
It)  B3eibuubilu     0.27   0.6       2700        24  Anningxiaoxiclu 0.07  0.8    700
HI  Jiangiianilu     0.17   0.6       1700        25  Youailtu       0.04  0.6    400
12  lianignanilu      0.17   0.6      1700        26  Guenhelu       0.02  0.4    200
13  Taovuanilu        0.03   0.6      300         27  Wuvilu         0.06  0.6    600
14  Qixinitu         0.10   0.6      1000         _  total         1.72  1        20200
Notes: I. The area and population influenced refer to those along the streets;
2. Tnis Lable does not include thc flood in the comnpounids or yards of institutions and inhabitant houses.
(2) Protcct watcr sourccs and cconomization of thc cost of watcr supplied
The existing vatcr plants in Nanning can hardly mect the watcr demand of the city. If a
ncw water mill is to bc built in thc upper rcach of thc Yongjiang Rivcr (for cxamplc at
Clienchun Villagc), the investment needed for its construction added with that of the pipelines to
send water to the city, the cost will be much higher than maintaining cxisting water mills. Lintic
Watcr Mill is locatcd in the lower rcach of the outlet of the Chaovang Stream, where thc water
156



is already polluted by the polluted belts in the Chaoyang Stream and the Erkeng Stream. The
cost of medication and treating has been growing rapidlv. If the treating cost of each ton of
vater increases by 0.1 cent/t, the 100 OOOt/d water supplied by Lintie Water Mill will need 100
yuan more. That means 36.5 million yuan/a. The development of Nanning's economy and
increase of population will produce more xwaste water, wvhich. if not gathered and treated. ill
deteriorate the water quality of water supplied by tap water mills. When the worst happens.
somc of the mills will be out of use. Suppose the cost of wvater supplied rises to 0.5yuan/m' in
the year of 2000, the present operation of existing wvater mill needs only 0.1 1vuang/m'. After
2000, the cost of added wvater supplied will be 365 x 50% x (0.50-0.15) = 5.1 1 million yuan/a.
The completion of the project will maintain and improve the quality of wvater drawn by the
water mills.
(3) Protect the wvater quality of the Yongjiang River and raise industrial output value
The environmental capacity of the Yongjiang River is limited. The goal of environmental
protection of Nanning City is to maintain the water qualitv of the upper part of the Nanning
segment of the Yongjiang River at Grade 11 and that of the lower part Grade III. To reach this
goal, the total discharge of BOD5 must be controlled to be beloxv 40,OOOt/a. But according to
the development plan of the city it is predictcd that the amount of BOD5 discharged by the year
of 2000 will rcach 40,OOOt/a. If the load of BOD, entering the Yongjiang River is not treated
and reduced, the cnvironmental goal will not be reached and the development of industry will be
restrained.
The industrial profit and tax of Nanning City was about 1.5 billion yuan in 1995. The
estimated annual growing rate of industry is 15.4% from now to the xcar of 2000. 13% in
2001-2010. and 10% aftcr 2011. without considering the restrain of the cnvironmcnt. Withiout
the proposed projcct, environmcnital restrain will sloNv the growth rate by 2%, that is. thc
growing rate xvill be 12.74% in 2001-2010 and 9.8% after 2011. The lost thus prevented by
ridding the environmental restrain on industrial growth can be accountcd as bcnefit of thc
project
(4) Improvc thic cnvironment and raise the valuc of land
nhc project can radicallv improvc the cnvironment surrounding it and raise the valuc of the
land. For examplc. the prcscnt land uscd for commcrcc and living houscs along the banks of thc
scgment of the Chaovang Stream to be renovated to Grades 1-3. ThIC basic price of such land is
listed in thc tablc.
TNI)e               G(irade: IA       Gradc I B       Grade 2          Giradc 4
Land Ior cotilllcrce  3750 V.UZ3JVIfl:    2580 *aai/ii-  1950 viyaiV/rn2  I1 20 yuaz/nV
L.and for h1wine hou.ses    H 135 Nua-tn/Hr1  1 135 juant/nz  885 vtianhil  680 vuanhw&
Supposc the grade of thic land of lOOm wide along the banks of the 4.87km scgment of the
157



Chaoyang Stream to be renovated can rise for one grade, that is. the average price of land for
commercial purposes rise by 922yuan/m2 and that for living housesr nse by 228yuan/m2, and
suppose either takes up 50%. the average price rise can be 575yuan/m2. Takle 12% for the rate
on interest for land investment, the added interest of the land %vilI be 69vuan/r& a year. This will
bring a benefit of 4 870 x 100 x 2 x 69/10 000 = 67.2 million !yuan/a. And this vill bring
benefit to the national econonm.
Dymamic analvsis on the flow of fund of the above data revels that, when social discount
rate is 12%, the net value of nation economy will rcach 29 02 million yuan, that means an
internal benefit rate of 13.15%.
6.3 Analysis on its environmental benefit
6.3. 1 Benefit for environmental protection
The Chaoyang Stream comprehensive treating project is a project that will improve the
environental ecology, bencficial to people's health. The major benefit of the project is that it
will solve the problems of foul smells, flood and water logging, from which the city has been
suffering for many years. It wvill improve and renovate the sewvage system of the city, providing
conditions for gathering and treating industrial waste water along the Tingzichong stream, so as
to improve the environmental quality of the down town areas of the city and people's living
conditions. Thc project can also alleviate the prcssure of the city's waste water on the
Yongjiang River, remove the threat to Lintic Watcr Mill from pollution of the Yongjiang River.
The amount of waste water gathered and treated by the project .,ill account for 40% of the
city's total. That will greatly reduce the pollution load of the Yongjiang River and greatly
improve its water environment.
6.3.2 Analvsis on cnvironmcntal economic cost-bencfit
(I) Analysis on the environmental economic benefit
As the projcct is a kcy cnvironmcntal protection project of Nanning City. its environmcntal
invcstment is the major part of thc total investmcnt of the projcct.
Table 6-3-1 Investment for the Drainage Engineering of Nanning City
Environinciital Item Protcction       Designing Capacitv Unit        Investmcnt (I 04 yuan)
Waste -ivatcr intcrccpting pipcline   dl 650-d2OOO l.<)6Okm           4250
River course treating                 L=6.2,km                        11064
waste wvatcr pumping station          2.7m31s                         900
Sewage pipelinc                        03200x2200inzn L=3.85kni      2348
Puniping station for waste uater treatin-g plant 4.Oin3/s             1744
In-glonglu scevcr                     d600-700mnm L.= Ikm             221
liatsadadao sewer                     d600-d90Otnm L.=3.1 5knm        606
Water scwcr and conduits              13 pipclines L=32.5km          12806
Modification of drainagc system in old urban  21 pipelines l.=10.km   2597
I)clisting pipelile                    1.=28.3km voluc=53 000m3       1158
rental                                                               33826
158



The total investment is 695.07 million yuan, of wvhich 367.94 million yuan is investment
for environmental protection, taking up 53%.
(2) Environmental impact of the project and countermeasures to be taken
a. The construction of the project wvill destroy about 164 OOOm2 of road surface along road
with a total length of 53.45km, which are conccntrated in the dow,ntown area. So that \\ill cause
much inconvenience to traffic and people's life. This should be properly arranged and its
administration strengthened.
b. The total area of road surface to be broken reaches 164 OOOm2, with a digging depth of
1-2m. That involves large quantities of earthwork. The castawav earth piled along the roads
w'ill (produce raised dust on fine days and mud on rainy days, bringing negative environrnental
impact. So the job must be done in a very civilized way and the construction sites should be
enclosed.
c. It is better to send the rain water of the first storm of the wet season to the waste water
treating plant to be treated and then discharged into the river, so as to reduce its pollution to the
Yongjiang River.
d. The waste water lifting pumping station is located in the central part of the city and so
its noise will have negative acoustic impact on the environment if not properly designed.. Noise
reduction and sound-proofing measures should be taken to reduce the negative impact to the
minimum.
c. It is suggested that the 0.2 million m3 of bottom clay from the dredging of the rive be
transported to Santang filling site for hygiene burial. not discharged in Yanziling.
f.. The waste water treating plant is located in Jiingnan District at the windward direction
of tihe city. It is suggested that wide separating green belts be built around the plant and the citv
civil construction be rationallv arranged so that not much atmospheric environmental impact
will be caused.
G. Watcr replcnislhing period should bc shortened to maintain the water quality and
landscape during seasons when the wvater of the Chaoyang Strcani is of comparatively poor
qualitv.
i59



7. Plan for Environmental Administration and Environmental
Monitoring
7.1 Setting up of environmental protection bodies
7.1.1 Aim and purpose
To implements laws and rules and regulations about environrental protection, to see to the
consistence of the envirorunental benefit, social benefit, and economic benefit of the project, to
guarantee the effectiveness of polluted water and waste water treating, and to monitor the
environmental quality of the project and its surrounding areas and its change of social economic
factors so as to provide basis for environmental administration and overall planning of the city.
7.1.2 Organizational strncture and number of staff
The department of environmental protection of the Chaoyang Stream Comprehensive
Treating Project consists of twvo parts respectively in charge of environmnental administration
and environmental monitoring. Special personnel from the Chaovang Stream Administration
and the City Construction Developing Company will be assigned to be in charge of the
environmental administration during the construction of the projcct. T'he fixed number of staff
members will be 2-3 people.
A water quality monitoring station will bc established in Jiangnan Waste Water Treating
Plant, whose number of fixed staff members being 4-5 peopic.
7. 1.3 Functions of the environmental protection bodi
1. Environmental administration
(1) To carry out laws and comply with standards of cnvironmcntal protection
(2) To establish administrative rules and givc frequent chcck up
(3) To wvork out environmcntal protcction plans and see to their implementation
(4) To lead and organize environmental monitoring and cstablish data
(5) To carry out environmcntal education and technical training so as to raise the qualitv
of the staff
(6) To cstablish rulcs and regulations on the discharge of pollutants and the operation of
cnvironmental protection facilities: to coordinate with thc municipal cnvironmental protection
bureau to answer questions raised by the public and tackIe involved problems; to check
environmental protection work and compilc statistic matcrials.
2. Environmcntal monitoring
(I) To work out monitoring plans and rules and regulations of the station
(2) To carry out monitoring over the itcms required and compile forms for reporting
statistics and write reports
I 6



(3) To take part in the investigation over environmental accidents
(4) To take part in environmental assessment
(5) To take part in the investigation and tracing of social economic factors
(6) To test, maintain, and repair instruments used for the monitoring to ensure their norrmal
scrvice.
7.2 Measures for environmental administration
7.2.1 Environmental administration duiring the construction of the project
1. Aim: To prevent or reduce pollution caused bv the construction
2. Measures for environmental adrninistration
(I) The institution that undertakes the project should take the overall responsibility for the
environmental protection during the construction and see to it that it is done in every stage and
by every department concerned;
(2) Work out unified arrangement for the countermeasures to be taken. the order of the
construction, and the fixing up of construction sites according to the requirements of
environmental protection authorities and set in this assessment;
(3) Construction teams are required to be responsible for the environmental protection and
see to that the following environmental protection plan be carried out:
A. Plan to treat construction noise
Noisc pollution during the construction is mainlv caused by constructionl machines and
vehicles. ThC standard sct in Rulxes and Regulation for Noise Pollution Prevention and
7'reatnient and Document GB12523-91 Noise Limit for Constnrction Sites Special attention
should bc paid to the construction noisc at night.
B. Plan to reduce raised dust of the bottom clay of the projects.
Largc amount of sedimcnt has to be dug up from the projects and there may be droppings
during the proccss to producc raised dust. The dredging and the transportation of thc bottom
clav should be done in a civilizcd wav, and transportation vehicies should be well covered.
7.2.2 Environnental administration after the project is put into operation
1. Aim: To cnsure thc nomial operation of the project so as to meet the cnvironmcntal
demands of the designing.
2. Measurcs for environmental administration
(I) Unified administration over cnvironmental protection
Environmcntal protcction should bc part of the overall administration ovcr the Chaoyang
Stream and urban drainagc pipelines, and attcntion should be paid to the cnvironmcnit in every
link of the administration. In this respcct it is lcd and supcrvised by the Naining Municipal
Environmcntal Protcction Bureau.
(2) Normal opcration of cnvironmcntal protcction facilities
After the projcct is put into opcration, normal operation of the pumping station and the
161



waste water treating plant should be maintained. and strict responsibility system should be
established. Operation record should be kept to see the designed requirements are met.
7.3 Environmental monitoring plan
7.3.1 Environmental monitoring during the constnrction of the project
l. Aim: To check pollution like the noise during the construction and droppings of botton
clay during the dredging and desilting and take timely measures for treatment.
2. Duration of monitoring
The whole period of the construction of the project, with the laying of waste wvater
pipelines and the transportation of the bottom clay from the Chaoyang Stream as key periods
3. Itemns to be monitored:
Items to be monitored are the following considering the concrete situation of the project:
(I) Noise: Equalized intensity of sound in dB(A)
(2) The atrnosphere: TSP
4. Monitoring points
Monitoring points during the construction should be selected in densely populated
inhabitant quarters. The number and interval should be detcrmined according to the concrete
situations.
7.3.2 Environmenial monitoring dzuring the operation of the project
1. Aim: To check- thc actual impact of the project and prevent pollution accidents, so as to
provide scientific bascs for the cnvironmcnt of the Chaovang Stream and Nanning City.
2. Monitoring duration
Tlhc kev factor to be considcred is the scasonal change in thc cffcctivcness of waste water
treating.
3. Major items to bc monitorcd and monitoring frequcncy and position
(I) Water quality of the Chaoyang Stream
Monitoring should bc carricd out at the wvatcr quality monitoring section of the rivcr. Sce
Table 7-3-I for items and monitoring frcquency.
(2) Waste water
The point to be monitored is thc outlct of the trcated watcr from the wastc watcr treating
plant. Sec Table 7-3-1 for the items to be monitored and monitoring frcquency.
Table 7-3-1 Items to Be Monitored and Monitoring Frequency
Coatcut           Location                        Items Monitored     Frequency
Water Quality of    One sectioin respectively in its upper, BOD COID coli  Onrcc a molitli
Chaoyanig Strcam    middlc and lower reaches
Waste water      Waste Water T reating Plant      BOI) COD, coli, N, P   Oncc a monti
162



7.3.3 Investmnent of the environmental monitoring plan
It is suggested that the investment of environmental monitoring plan from project is 0.30
million (RMB). which is used for management and environmental monitoring of project during
the operation. Certain amount of fund of monitoring should be arranged dunrng the operation of
project.
7.3.4 Estimation of investment on monioring instrumnte and equipnent
Tlhe institution that undertakes the project should take the overall responsibility for the
environmental monitoring to pollutants discharge during the operation according to the
requirements of national environmental management ruies. After the project is put into
operation, the waste water treatment plant should set up lab of water analysis. It is necessary
for monitoring instruments to be provided.
See table 7-3-2 for suggested monitoring instruments.
Table 7-3-2 Major Monitoring Instruments
Instruments                Unit    Amount  Investnent E    Use
Computer                   Bench   I         3000(RM13)   Data analysis
Sample collector for wvater   Benchi  2      5000(RMBi   Sample of -ater
Spcctropolarinmeter        Bench   I         3500(RMB)   Analysis for organic and inorganic
pollutanits
Refngerator                Beinch   I        5000(RM131   Preservation samples
Analysis balance( I/lOOI)    Benich   I       I500(R000 1I   Weiglht
I)rying oven               13enchl   I       3000MRI1 i Treating sample
COI) analv,er              Rench   I         20000(RN1 i Meastirino COD
Operatin.g desk of bacteria   Benci    I     25O0(RMNIA
disintfection 
Small instnimcnts                            5000(RMB3) 1
(i lass instniiicnts                         4000(RMB3)
Including itciems of infrastnmcturc like of experinment tables anid ventilation boxes, the total
investmenit for instrumenet is about 0.6 million vuani
163



8. Public Participation
Environmental problems are getting more and more serious globally along with the social
development. and people's environmental sense has reached a new height so that they have a
sense of responsibilitV for the protection of the environment. Public participation of this sort is
not only an important mark in measuring a nation's sense of the environment but also a need for
developing environmental protection and economy.
8.1 Aim and purpose
The World BankL hopes that the assessment on the environmental impact of the project
submitted to it will fullv reflect the views, suggestions, and demands of the communities and
local non-governmental organizations which will be affected by the proposed project. News
conferences, testament sessions, and expert advice soliciting meetings should be held so as to
have a good understanding about the scope and extent of the social. environmental, and
economic impact of the proposed project in order to provide a reliable, sound, and scientific
basis for granting the loan. This will make the assessment more practical and more convincing.
Investigation ivas made on the public participation of this project in preparing this assessment
as required bv the World Bank.
Public participation was invited during the process of this assessment according to the
demands of the World Bank. The following is an account of the ways, scope, and result of the
public participation.
8.2 Methods of investigation
Many methods verc used for the public participation: sessions of ficld questions and
answers verc held; qucstionnaircs wcre distributed, and experts' opinions and advice solicited.
At thc same timc radio reporters' intervicws, TV programs and newspapers w"erc also mobilized
to gathcr conccmcd opinions. suggestions, and demands for the proposed project. Materials
thus collected were sorted out and classified for analysis.
8.3 Scope of investigation
The proposcd projcct involves the whole urban arcas of the city. so the scope of the
investigation carried out included the area along the construction line. Institutions investigated
included the Municipal People's Congress, thic Municipal Pcople's Political Consultative
Conferencc, thc Municipal Govcrnment, district govcrnmcnts and institutions, district pcoplc's
congress, as well as dozens of enterprises, schools and neighborhood committees along the
construction line.
8.4 Subject of investigation
Reprcscntatives of the people's congress, members of the people's political consultativc
conference, government officials, othcr functionarics of various institutions, doctors and nurscs,
164



professors and teachers, workers. students, and ordinarv inhabitants; experts and scholars in the
fields of planning, environmental protection. construction, foreign trade and economy. and
engineerng.
8.5 Method of investigation
8.5. 1 Random sampling was held at different levels among the masses of the people who
will be directiv affected by the project
Sampling taking was taken for the investigation in the 40 or so institutions and 15
neighborhood committees along the construction line based on their professions and cultural
levels. Then questionnaires were given and wvere filled out on the spot.
8.5.2 Journalists from radio stations asked for interviews to solicit opinions and
suggestions for the proposed project.
8.5.3 More  than 30 experts and scholars in the fields of planning, environmenial
protection, water conservancy. foreign trade and economy, engineering. ecology, and
construction were invited to attend advice seeking conferences and testimony sessions for the
project. Ten experts filled out questionnaires.
8.5.4 Mass medium like newspapers and TV broadcast vere adopted to publicize the
Chaovang Stream comprehensive treating project and to solicit opinions and suggestions on the
social, environmental, and economic impact of the project.
8.6 Analysis on the results of investigation
8.6. 1 Analysis of t/c quLestionnazres
174 questionnaires were distributed and 100% of them were recovered. Of the people
investiQatcd. white collar staff took up 52%, workers 14%. general inhabitants 26%. and
students 8%: male accounted for 63% of the pcople investigated anud female 37%; Those %%ith
schooling up to the college level accounted for 39%. up to highi profcssional school level 14%o.
and up to junior high school and primary school 47%. Investigated people were from 40
institutions and enterprises, 13 neighborhood committees, and I village committee.
About 71% of the people investigated live in the area of the projects; 10% wvork in places
in the area, and 10% arc to be removed to settle eisewhere.
(I) About the awareness of the Chaovang Stream comprehensive treating project:
98% of the people investigated said that the had leamned about the project through TN'
broadcast, nerspapers or other people, and 2% had not heard about it before. The investigation
increased the project's transparency and aroused public concern over the project.
(2) About opinions of the project:
Mlasses of the community all expressed the opinion that the project would improve the
appearance and envirotinment of Nanning City and bring benefit to the people. So 100% of then
were in support of the project and hoped it would start soon.
(3 ) About the environmental impact of the project:
165



100% of the people investigated said that thev held the project would have long and
favorable impact on the environmental qualitv of the citv. The reduction of polluted wvater, solid
ivaste matters, and atmospheric pollution wvill improve people's health and benefit generations to
come. The project would have remarkable environmental and social benefit.
(4) About the project's influences on the citv's economic development:
100% of the people investigated thought the project would be in favor to the economic
development of the city. The project wvould reduce losses caused by water logging, improve the
living condition of the inhabitants and environment, thus improving the investment environrnent
the city, which would bring certain economic benefit.
(5) About the impact of the construction of the project on people's life:
30% of the people investigated said that they wouldn't mind; 56% said there would be
some impact but they could stand it: 14% said it would be unbearable, wvho wvere mainly
concerned about the noise of the construction and unfavorable impact of the construction to
people's life and traffic.
(6) About the removal required by the construction of the project:
The subjects of the investigation said that the removal vould cause much inconvenience
but thev would be willing to accept the arrangement made bv the government and do their best
to overcome difficultics. But they hoped thev wvould be compensated according to the policy and
their living conditions could be improved wvhen they would be resettled. 100% of the people to
be removed agreed to move.
(7) Suggestions and demands of the community conceming the project
a. Masses of the community showed great cnthusiasm in the public participation of the
asscssnicnt for lhc project. Thlcy held that the Chaoyang Stream comprehensive treating project
was a major event benefiting generations to comc by improving the city's cnvironncnt and
landscapc. The city government should includc the project into thcir agenda and do a good job
of it. It w%as suggested to mobilize social powers to donatc moncy and materials for the specdy
construction of the projcct to improvc the citv's environment so their citv %Vill bc a bcautify the
city.
b. It was suggested that strict laws bc worked out and implemented. and administration bc
strengthened. Illegal buildings should be demolished and their builders bc fined and punished.
Preparation should bc donc for the projcct in an activc way. It was hoped that the construction
wvould be carried out in stages according to the concrcc conditions of different segments.
c. Effective measures should be taken during the construction so as to reducc thc
unfavorable impact on peopic's lifc and traffic. Peopic to bc removed should bc well arranged.
d. It -was prcferable to usc the open tunncl method so that there would bc a clear river.
along which peoplc could rcst and hold recrcational activitics.
8. 6.2 Analysis of the interviews held by journalists
Nanning Clty Radio Station sent out journalists before the national Day to interview 33
peoplc bclonging to diffcrent institutions and organizations, including the mayor, dcputy mare,
166



deputy director of the municipal people's political consultative conference. directors of the city's
environmental protection bureau, education bureau, and construction commission, college
presidents, professors and teachers, Party officials and students and inhabitants. Their
suggestions and demands can be summed up as follows:
(I) The Chaoyang Stream is seriously polluted and causes water logging in the wet season.
directly influencing people's life along the river. It also affects the scientific research and
teaching, even enrollment rate of schools situated near the river. Many proposals have been
made by municipal and district people's congrcss for earliest possible trcating of the river.
(2) The waste water flowing from the Chaoyang Stream into the Yongjiang River greatly
affects the wvater quality of Lintie Water Mill. 100% of the concentrations of ammonia nitrogen
and dissolved oxygen have been exceeding the standard. The water quality is, the worst among
that of the four wvater plants in Nanning City.
(3) All the people interviewed wvere eager to have the river treated and they hoped the
government would be considerate of people's conditions and take radical measures to treat
pollution and water logging.
(4) Inhabitants  to  be  removed   and resettled   are   willing   to obey the
arrangement for the
sake of the whole citv. Public donation can be solicited to cover part of the expenses.
(5) It is necessary to raise people's sense of thc environment. Public medium should
propagate for civilized habit of hygicne. and the government should take lead in this respect.
Responsibility system  should be set up and those who violet it be punished. Successive
governmncnts should be determined to trcat the Chaovang Stream thoroughly through joint
persistent efforts.
8.6.3 Analysis oni vieiws of the cxper!s
(I) About the attitude to the project:
All the cxperts and scholars cxpressed teilr support for thc construction of the proposcd
project.
(2) About the urgcncy of thc project:
All the cxpcrts and scholars invcstigated thought tilc projcct was very urgent and imminent.
100% of them had a scnsc of urgency.
(3) About the project's impact on the cnviromicnt:
All the cxpcrts and scholar thoughit the project would improve the environmental quality of
the city, especially the 'vater qualitv of the Chaovang Stream and the Yongjiang River and the
wvater mills. Improvement of the city's appearance will bring rcmarkablc social and economic
bcncfit and long temi favorablc impact to thc protcction of the environment of Nanning Citv.
(4) About thc impact of the project on thc city's economic development:
All thc expcrts and scholars thought the treating of the Chaoyang Stream wvould improve
the citv's investment environment to be w\orthy of a provincial capital and an open city. Besides
its cconomic bcnefit. reduction of water logging wvould also bring indirect cconomic bcnefit, as
167



the construction would surely promote the municipal engineenrng of the city and have far
reaching influence to the city's modernization.
(5) Suggestions put fonward by the experts
a- 90% of the technical personnel and experts were against the plan of totally covered
tunnel. A wide river vith clean water flowing through the central part of the city wvould greatly
beautify the landscape of the city. The river with the green belts along it would help regulate the
micro climate and improve the environment of the city.
b. At present  laws should be worked out to strengthen the administration over the
Chaoyang Stream, clean away garbage along its banks, demolish illegal buildings and dredge
the water wav. Those who violet them should be severely punished. Flood drainage capacity of
the pumping station at the outlet of the Dakeng Stream should be raised to reduce wvater
logging.
c. The experts hoped the construction of the project would start as soon as possible and be
earned out in a speedy way in stages in accordance with the concrete situation and strive to
bring some benefit every year.
d. Enough attention should be paid to the environmental impact caused by the sludge and
noise during the construction and proper measures should be taken to reduce them. As a project
with loan from the World Bank, the people to be rcmoved should be well looked after in the
resettlement.
8.6.4 The role played by mass mediuim like radio stations and newspapers
To  publicize  the project for higher public participation and public sense of the
environment. Mayor Song Fuming instnicted that radio stations. TV stations. and newspapers
should arrange to have contcnts about the environmental protection evcry dav. As a rcsult.
Guangxi Radio Station, Nanning Radio Station. "Guangxi Daily" and "Guangxi Evening
News" gavc a number of introductions to the aim. plans, effcct. administration of the Chao-vang
Stream comprchensivc treating project.
Guangxi TV Station broadcast twvo TV documcntaries on Septembcr 14 and 18, 1994
entitled Thc Trcating of the Chaoyang Strcam Is Inevitabic. Nanning TV Station also broadcast
t-vo TV documentaries entitled Oh! Chaoyang Stream! in October that vear.
"Guangxi Daily" published an article on October 14, 1994 entitled "Environmental
Protection should Be Looked Upon as a Job Conceming Relieving People's Suffcrings", which
reported the opinions of the Inspccting Group bv the National People's Congress on
Enforcement of Environmental Laws. The newspaper again carmnd a necvs item on the
substantial contact between the inspecting team of the World Bank and Nanning municipal
authorities. The Radio and TV Information" also carried an article detailing the intervie  of
Deputy Mayor Chen Tingzheng. who is in charge of the project and Mr. Meng, Deputv
Director of the Beihai Branch of Bcijing Municipal Engineering Designing Institution on the
Chaoyang Stream comprehensive treating project, entitled The Chaoyang Stream Must Be
Cleaned Up to Show its Original Charm.
168



"China Environmental News" also carried an reportage entitled When Will the Chaoyang
Stream Become Clean?" on November 22. 1994.
All these reports gave sharp contrast betwveen the original clean Chaoyang Stream wvith
fish swimming in it and the present seriously polluted waste water ditch blocked by garbage.
giving out foul smells, whcre flies and mosquitoes multiply. The situation has aroused strong
resentment among the people, who demand imminent treatment of the river. These reports
publicized the necessity and urgency of the project and strengthened public participation.
positive to solicit people's understanding and support and favorable to the smooth carrying out
of the project's construction.
The fact that 100% of the people investigated support the project shows the citizens of
Nanning Cit) have a strong sense of the environment, taking it as their duty to protect the
environment and improve the city's appearance. The 'Municipal government and the Chaoyang
Stream Administration have received a lot of letters from the masses , which express their
support for the government's decision and demanding for the speedy treatment of the Chaoyang
Stream. Some even sent their owvn designs and suggestions for the project. A reportage carricd
in the June 3rd issue of "Nanning Evening News" tells how the teachers and pupils of No. 2
Kindergarten donated 1,142 yuan for the project, the first donation received for the project.
This proved people's understanding and support for the project.
169



9. Conclusion
9.1.Significance of the project
The main task of the Chaoyang Stream comprehensive treating project is to renovate the
nver course of the Chaoyang Stream. to build up the net work of rain water and waste water
pipelines in the urban part of the city. and to build waste treating plants for the city. The project
will be able to solve serious problems like flood and water logging by gathering 40% of the
waste water discharged by the city and solve. thus  greatlv improving the environment of the
central part of the city, alleviating the pressure of waste water from Nanning to the Yongiang
River. It wrill improve the water quality of the-Yongjiang River and protect the -water source of
the city. So, as a comprehensive environmental protection project tallving with the overall plan
of the citv, the project will bring great environmental, social, and economic benefit
9.2 Impact of the project on the environment
The environmental impact of the comprehensive treating of the Chaovang Rive will be
mostly extensive, positive and of long temi. Its negative impact, mainly during its contraction,
is of short temi and local.
9.3. Existing environmental quality
9. 3.  Environmenta/ qiali iv of szurface water
Monitoring data show Thhe watcr bodics of the Chaovang Stream, the Erkcng Strcani, the
Zhupaichong Stream, and the Shuitangjiang Stream arc all scriously polluted, major pollutants
bcing COD and BODs, followved by NFH3-N. as a whole no longer mecting the standard for
Gradc V surfacc water.
Tnhc water quality of the Yongjiang River is fairly good bcfore it cnters Nanning City,
Within the standard for Gradc Ill of surface wvater exccpt fcv items like (SS. oil and NH3-N).
Aftcr passing through thc city, affccted by the scwagc and industrial wazstc wvater discharged
into it, its water quality turns remark-ably vworsc. no longer mecting the standard for Gradc Ill
surface watcr. And the tendency of detcrioration is going on and the major pollutants arc
organic mattcrs.
9.3.2 Qzuality o atmosp-heric environment
The average daily value of SO- in Nanning City is 0.064mg/ni3, cxceeding the standard for
17()



Grade 11 of national standard of the atmosphere, that of TSP 0.201mg/m;, xvithin the standard
for Grade 11 atmosphere but exceeding the standard for cities in south China (0.20mg/m') as set
be the state, that of NOX ranges from 0.008 to 0.012mg/nim. So, major pollutants affecting the
city atmosphere are TSP and NOX.
9 3.3 Acozustic environmental quality
As for the acoustic environmental quality of Nanning. the equivalent sound level in
functional regions of Nanning City in 1994 averaged 61.7OdB(A) during day time and at night-,
exceeding the standard for Type f1 areas set in "Urban Area Environmental Noise Standard".
The actual monitored average values was 53.4dB(A). exceeding the standard by 5.4dB(A). The
noise pollution in the city has a tendency of increasing along NNith the opening up of thf:itv, the
renovation of the old part of the city, and the flourishing of the real estate market.
9..3. 4 Solid itastes
Industrial solid wastes from industry and daily life in Nanning in 1994 amounted to 806
5OOt, of wvhich industrial wvastes amounted to 558 5OOt. accounting for 62%, and daily life
garbage 248 OOOt. accounting for 37. 1%.
The rate of comprchensivc utilization of industrial solid wxaste matters has reachied 86%.
However, thoughi 100% of the city's domestic garbage was transported away, only 28 OOOt w'as
treated to bc hamiless, accounting for oniv 11.3% of the total. So daily life garbage is causing
morc and more serious pollution.
9. 3.5 Bototom clay of thle Chaoyang Stream
Asscssment of the bottonm clav with Flakanison indcx method shoxved that the hecavy mCtals
contained in it poscd as a potcntial hazard to the ccological system. The RI risk index of the
bottom clav of thc Chaovang Stream nwas 1400, of cxtremc harmfLlness
9.4 Prediction of the projects' envrionmnental impact and prevention measures
9(. 4 1/ rediction of the impact durirng the constrnction of the project
1. Prediction of the environmental impact of the renovation of thc Chaovang Strcam
during its construction
(1). Environmental impact of thc bottom clav of the Chaovang Stream
In the projcct of thc rcnovation of the Chaoyang Stream. a total amount of 0.2 million ml
of bottom clav shall bc dredgcd. Tcsting found it containcd 13.70% organic matters'. The
concentrations of mincral oil, Hg, Cr. Cu, and Zn respectively rcached I 196mg/kg, 2.33mg/kg,
1 71



212.4mg/kg. 132 346mg/kg, and I 805mg/kg, denoting serious pollution. Assessment wlith
Honkanson potential risk index method found its potential ecological risk index (RI) reached
400, being extremely harmful. Secondary pollution may occur dunrng the digging, transpiration,
and disposal of the bottom clay.
(2). Noise produced by machines used to dredge the bottom clay of the Chaovang Stream
Excavators, bulldozers, and loading machines used in the dredging xvill affect sensitive
places of living quarters and schools within lOOm of both banks of the Chaovang Stream. The
noise produced exceeds the standard by 2-5dB(A), lasting 20-30 davs.
(3). Environmental impact of the bottom clay piled temporarilv
Under normal conditions -when the w1ind speed is 2.5m/s. the concentration of the TSP
from the piled bottom clay can reach 490mg/m3 at a distance of I Om in its leeward.. exceeding
the stal*iard for Grade 11 atmospheric standard set bv the state by 1.6 times.
The bottom clay piled may leak out 20 OOOm3 of percolate, whose BODs concentration
may reach 20 OOOmg/L, giving out fouls smells of the fourth level, This is serious secondary
pollution and wvill affect the landscape of the city.
(4). Impact of house removal and inhabitant resettlement
Buildings to be removed involve an area w%ithin 30-68m along both banks from the middle
of the river. 769 households wvill be resettled, with a population of 4506. The resettlement of the
inhabitants will be arranged by thc overall plan of the citv. They are to resettle in Luwei
quarters of Xinvang Road and Zhongxiao Road quarters. The life quality and living conditions
of the inhabitants resettlcd will have much improvement. 100% of the peoplc involved in the
public participation are in support of the project. Tlhe rcmoval of the houscs will produce 65
million m3 of construction garbage. which w ill be transportcd to Santang garbage filling ground
as part of the city's garbage. With othcr administrative and controlling measures, this will not
causc much negative impact on thc arca around the construction site of the project.
2. Prediction of the cnvironnicntal impact of the project of the city's scvage system
(1). Environmental impact of raised dust during construction
Analogical investigation finds out that raised dust during construction may affcct thc area
,within 50-IOOrn in the lccvard of the construction sitc. where the conccntration of TSP can
reach 0.37-8.6mg/ni. 1.5-5 timcs that in the contrasting point in the wvindward direction..
Transportation of cartlh to be flack idled and cast awvay may affect a distance of I Om in
its Ieeward. Thc conccntration of TSP at both sides withlin 5m from the road can reach 8-
I Omg/m3, cxceeding the standard by 30 times.
(2). Environmental impact of construction noise
Construction machines arc the main noisc sources.. Without considcnng the attenuation
causcd byv houscs and trecs, thc rangc affected may reach l OOm during daytime and 300m at
iiglht.
(3).1mpact of the construction on the citv's traffic
30-50% of the road surface will be occupied for laying pipelines. which scriouslv affcct
traffic. causing traffic jams and affcct pcoplc's nornal work and lifc.
172



(4). Environrnental impact of pipeline desilting
Statistics shows that 22 pipelines with a total length of 28.4km are silted with 52 600m' of
sludge, whose foul smells can affect an range of 25m. wvhere the concentration of foul smells
may reach 15-30, exceeding the standard by 0.5-2.0 times.
9.4.2 Prediction of the impact during the operation of the project
1. Prediction on tihe environmental impact after the Chaoyang Stream trcatmcnt projcct
is put into operation
(I). Polluted belts along the banks of the segment of the Yongjiang River at the outlets of
the Chaovang Stream, the Erkeng Stream  and the Tingzichong Stream  will be relieved.
favorable to the protection of the water source of Lintie Water Mill and improvement of the
environmental quality of the Yongjiang River. The outlet of waste water dischargc is removed
dowvn to the outlet of the Shuitangjiang Stream, ridding the potential threat to polluted the water
cnvironmental quality of the central part of Nanning City by the Chaoyang Stream and the
Erkeng Stream. This will play an unreplaceable role in building Nanning into an intcrnational
garden city with its unique characteristics. The completion of the project will realize the long
cherished wvish of "drawing water from the upper reach and discharge wvaste water to the lo%%er
reach", so that the functions of the citv Nvi1l be in better coordination to produce much
environmental economic bencfit.
(2). Tlic compiction of the project wvill radically improve the water environment of the
Clhaovang Strcam. turning it from a sewage ditch into a clean ricr for landscapc. This is the
most direct manifcstation of thc cnvironmcntal benefit of the project. After the projcct is put
into operation. wvater will bc draw%n from the Yongaiag River into the Chaoyang Stream. so thc
lather's water quality xvill bc guaranteed for most years. Changing of water replcnisilnlig period
can keep the wvatcr quality of the Chaoyang Stream at a fairlv high level. As the amount of
w\atcr chanigcd is comparativcly small, and thic water quality of thc Cliaoyang Strcam is much
bcttcr than the original waste wvater, not muchi cffcct w\ill be caused to the water quality of the
Yongjianlg River. It is suggested that artificial springs and wvaterfalls be built in thc construction
of thic water supplemcnt system of the Chaoyang Stream in coordination with thc rcnovation of
the citv. so tihat thc city %vill be morc bcautiful and more oxygen can bc restorcd in thc wvatcr
body. As a rcsult. its quality can maintain a longer period to lesscn the Nvater chaniging
frequency. As the prcscnt dcsign contains no water rcplcnishmcnt to the Tingzichong Stream .
the projcct vill not havc much cffect on its wvatcr qualitv. The watcr surface of the stream
shriniks too muIch in the low \vatcr season and there won't bc any improvement on the landscape
It is suggcsted supplemcntal dcsign bc made on the wvater replenishment to the Tingzichong
Strcam and carry it out in propcr time.
(3). According to the plan of the project. waste Nvater \vill be led to thc outlet of the
Shuitangjiang Strcam throughi rivcr crossing pipelinies. This is much better environmentallk
than the alternate plans that plan to Icad waste water to the wvaste wvater treatinig plant in
17'



Langdong. To lead the tail wvater to be discharged into the Zhupaichong Stream. can prevent the
water quality of the Zhupaichong Stream from getting wvorse than the present condition and
make it easv for it to reach the standard for Grade V water in the future. To build the waste
water treating plant in Jiangnan instead of in Langdong will save much fund of waste water
transportation.
(4). After the project is put into operation, the polluted belts along the river banks in the
central part of the city will be reduced or totallv illuminated. but the polluted belts in the
Shuitangjiang Stream will grow longer, increasing local pollution intensity. But as waste water
from the citv will be discharged into the Shuitangjiang Stream, shortening the distance to the
countv seat of Pumiao, the amount of %%aste water allowed to be discharged xxill be reduced-
This is the inevitable price for cutting the pollution in the central, part of the city. The
completion of the project will reduce 10% of total BODs load, this can improve wvater qualitv at
the dow.n stream area of Pumiao. The completion of Jiangnan w%aste water treating Plant at the
outlet of the Shuitangjiang Stream will reduce 70% of total BODs load (at the load level of
vcars of normal water in the plan). It controls pollution effectivelv to down stream. This can be
'solved by raising the treating level and amount of the Jiangnan wvaste water treating plant. so as
to achieve coordinated development of the cconomy and the environmcnt.
(5). At the scale of 260 000m3/d as the capacity of the first stagc of the Jiangnan "'astc
water treating plant. the rate of BOD, cut can reach 35%, equivalcnt to reducing 91 000m3/d of
waste water. The amount of waste watcr from the citx in 1996 was 597 700ml/d. that in 2000 is
estimated to bc 682 000m3/d. In normal ycars. the amount of BOD5 entering thc Yongjiang
River thcn wvill be about the samecas present (1996). If the BOD3cutting ratc can not reach 35%.
with thc discharging point shifting castwmrd, the DO levcl of the Pumiao segmcnt will continuc
to detcrioratc. To v ie%v the issuc from the total amount of control. level one trcatmcnt of the 200
00Om3/d wvill cut 15% of the total pollution from the city. It can thus be seen, thc projcct will
have rcmarkablc effect in controlling the detcrioration of the water qualitx in the lowcr reaches
of thc Yongjiang Rivcr. It is one of the most important steps to maklc the segment of the
Yongjiang Rivcr from the Shuitangjiang Strcam to the Pumiao Rivcr reach the standard for
Grade Ill water.
2. Prediction of thc environmcntal impact of the drainagc s!stem of the citv when in
operation
The complction of the rain water pipclinc netxvork will play a decisive role in solving the
scrious wvatcr logging of the city, tallying with the demand sct in "Drainage Plan of Nanning
Citv". It also will also have positivc.cffcct on the hygicnc and landscape of the city. The
operation of the rain wvatcr pipclinc nctwork wvill not havc much impact on thc watcr quality of
thic Yongjiang River and its tributaries.
(I). Thc thrcc trunk rain water pipclincs discharginig into the Nanhu Lake arc the main
non-point input entcring the lake, playing a remarkable rolc in restoring the water quality of the
lakc. Aftcr the complction of the waste watcr interccption projcct around the Nanliu Lake. non-
point sources will control thc wvatcr qualitv of the lake. This max causc environmental problems



like eutrophication of the lake. During low wvatcr lexel period, there may be lack of water. So
the Nanhu Lake is facing dual problems of wvater replenishment and non-point sources
pollution.
(2). The completion of the waste water trunk} pipelines in Tinghong Road and Baisha
Avenue will brng waste water in Jiangnran Distnrct into effective control, making full use of the
functions of the trunk waste water pipelines in Jiangbei and the Jiangnan %vaste water treating
plant. This xwill surely diminish the polluted belts along the outlet of the Tingzichong Stream to
the Yongjiang River. Plus the function of the Jiangnan waste water treating plant, it w-ill
alleviate the deterioration of the water quality in the loxwer reaches at Pumiao.
a. The two wvaste water trunk pipelines Will cut the pollution concentrations, restoring 17O
vater environmental capacity of that segment of the river.
b. The water environmnent upper the outlet of waste wvatcr treating plant at Shuitangjianc
can be remarkably improved, reaching the standard for Grade V water in part time of the year.
(3). The renovation of sewage pipelines is actually the construction of branch rain water
pipelines. Before the completion of wastc water pipeline netwvork, it will not cause the
redistribution of point and non-point sources pollution. nor detenrorate the present discharge of
wvaste wvater. This can solve the problem of serious wvater logging because the pipelines in these
areas are too narrow.
9.4.3 Measures to eliminate negatiove impact
I. Preventive mcasurcs to be taken during the construction of thc project
(1). Strcngthcn the administration, planning and mianagcmcnit of thc constrtction. and
carrv it out by stages and sections so as to raise efficiencv and shorten construction titime. Duo
up carth should bc bank fillcd and road rcstored in timc, so as to redtucc raised dust. noise. foul
smclls and impact on the traffic of the city.
(2). Optimize the time of working, avoid the use of machines at niglht that producc strong
noise, so as to reducc the impact on peoplc's life.
(3). Establish  temporary  traffic  routes  in  down-town  arcas and busy traffic
routes, and assign peoplc to direct vehicles so as to prevent traffic jams.
(4). Carry out the drcdging of the Chaoyang Strcamii in thc dry scason. and timely transport
zvay bottom clay dug up, so as to prevent it from %%ashcd into thc river by rain. It is suggested
to usc cncircled bank for the piling and burial of bottom clay so as to diminislh its cnvironmental
impact.
2. Countermcasurcs to bc takcn during the operation of the projcct
(I ). Telc feasibility report did not study thc problenm that the threc trunk pipelines for rain
watcr to be discharged into the Nanhu Lakc will cause difficulties for the treatmcnit of the initial
rainl which bring heavy pollution into thic lakc and \\aste mooney as the tlhrec pipelines arc not
connected. It is suggested. aflcr thic determination of altemate plan, to adjust the dcsign of the
dcpth of the pipelincs in Qixin-Jiaovu Road and  Taosuan Road, so that the problem of initial
175



rain can be solved.
(2). It is suggested to redesign the flow of the waste wNater pipelines in Tinghong Road and
Baisha Avenue as the original design is too small to lead the waste wvater from major industrial
polluters into Jiangnan waste water treating plant.
(3). There should be vibration damper in the waste water pumping station at the outlet of
thc Dakeng Stream, so as to reduce the impact of noise on nearby inhabitants.
(4). All together a total amount of 336 000m3/d (1994 data) of waste water needs to be
treated by the Jiangnan waste water treating plant after the completion of the renovation of the
Chaoyang Stream and the sewage system. But the capacity of the plant is only 260 0003/d. So it
is suggested that the design of the scale of the Jiangnan waste w ater treating plant be enlarged.
3. Capacity of the Jiangnan wvaste water treating plant
Form the viewpoint of the watcr environment of the Yongjiang River, it is necessary and
urgent to make the plant be capable of level I treatment. Main reasons:
(I) Analysis of practicality shows that it is very difficult for the vater quality of the
Yongjiang River (especiallv the segment in the lower reach at Pumiao) to meet the standard for
Grade HII surface water under the designed condition (Qp.W.,=170m'/s). The water quality
index arc DO and NH3-N. According to the field monitoring carried out in 1991-1994, the flow
in low water lcvel period was 1.5 times over the designed flow, when the concentration of DO
exceeded thc standard for Grade Ill water. The actual oxygen was about 1.5 times that of
usable oxygen. This reveals that Nanning City  poses as a serious threat to the water in its
lower reaches, especially to the composition of aquatic organisms.
(2) According to the result of the "Studv on thc Plan of the Environmental Capacity and
Water Qualitv of the Yongiang River" (Nov.. 1993), the discharge of BOD; allowed from the
oLitlet of the Machao River to thc outlct of tie Shuitangjiang Stream is 378.7g/s, cquivalcnt to
222 600m'/d of waste water discharged. So the environmcntal capacity of thc Yongjiang Rivcr
is fully occupied sincc the beginning of the 90's. The actual amount discharged was twicc morc
than the allowed amount. Aftcr the completion of the projcct, waste water discharging will be
shiftcd eastwards to the Shuitangjiang Strcam, the allowed amount of discharge wvill still cut bv
about 200 000m /d. Thereforc the treating should cut BOD, by 60% in thc year when the
projcct is complcted, and 83% in normal ycar designcd (2015) to mect the demand of DO of the
watcr quality.
(3) The abovc analysis states that the design of the Jiangnan waste water trcating plant
should be able of level two trcating to mcet the dcmand of the environment. It should be able to
carrv out level I treating in the near fiturc to maintain the water quality and prcvcnt it for
furtlhcr dctcriorating. If thc wastc water is trcatcd in the level of pretrcatmcnt. the pollution load
Cult will not bc able to catch up with the incrcasc of pollution load. and the pollution will bc
worse than the prescnt as soon as the projcct is completcd.
(4) If the Baise Reservoir is to bc built within ten years. the runoff flow during the low
water pcriod can rcach Q,,. 90=300nl/s. a littlc largcr than the runoff monitored in 1991-94,
176



the discharge allowved can increase to 350 OOOm /d or so, then the wvaste wvater from the citv still
needs to be treated. If the waste water increases to 650 000m3/d, the treating rate required will
be 46%. So if the Jiangnan waste water treating plant is designed with a capacity of 520
000m3/d and level I treating, there wvon't be any waste of fund.
So the project should build a level I Nvaste water treating plant at the outlet of the
Shuitangjiang Stream in the near future. which wvill be enlarged to level 2 treating later. Such
design tallies wvith the economical development of Nanning Citv and at the same time taking into
consideration the demand for environmental protection. It is more practical than to build the
plant of level I treating in one step.
4. Addition of investment of the Jiangnan waste water treating plant
The feasibility report only altos 17.44 million yuan as the investnent for the Jiangnan
waste water treating plant. This is far from enough to make it reach level I treating. It is thus
suggested to add its investment according to the level I treating design in the feasibility report
report of the project.
5. Charge on waste wvater discharge    The improvement of the water environment of
Nanning City and the water qualitv of the Yongiiang River depend on the rational ratio of
cconomic development and investment for environmcntal treatment. The Investment of
cnvironrmental treatment needs rolling development. It is thus suggested to charge waste water
dischargc fee during the operation of the project, so that it will be able to pay the loan and
operational expense, and collect fund for the further dcvclopment of the Jiangnan waste water
treating plant and waste watcr collecting system. This will bring a benign cyclc of water
pollution control and rolling dcvclopment.
9.5 Comparisoni of plans
Aflcr analyzing and comparing the recommcndcd plan and alternate plans fomi the angics
of cconomic bencfit, environimiental bcncfit. and social benefit, it is concluded thiat the
rccommcnded plan for the comprehensive treatmcnt of the Chaovang Strcam  is the most
rational.
9.6. Anialysis of the benefit of the project
lihc Chaoyang Stream comprehensive treating project will bring great environmental
beniefit and social bcncfit bv solving the problcms of flood and watcr logging xhich havc been
vorrying the city for years and improvc the sewagc systeimi of the city, thus greatly improving
the citv's landscapc and pcopic's living conditions. Thc projcct can collect and treat ovcr 60% of
the cav's waste water, thus reducing the pressure on the polltitioni and environmental capacity of
the Yongjiang River and protccting its water quality
The procect is financially practicable as thc main fund of the construction is investment
from thc governmcit during its construction
177



9.7 Public participation
Opinions -were solicited from people from 1 neighborhood committees wvith 174
households and experts of various fields. The results showed that 100% of the investigated
people supported the construction of the project. 86% of the inhabitants said they could
understand the short impact of the construction, only 14% though it unbearable. If the removal
of the houscs and resettlement of the inhabitants are carried properly with proper policies, their
attitude will surelY change to support the project for the overall interest.
To sum up, the Chaovang Stream comprehensive treating project is an environmental
protection project that will bring remarkable environmental benefit, social benefit and economic
benefit. It tallies with the overall plan of Nanning City and is totally practical.
178



Bibliography
I. Feasibility Report of the Chaovang Stream Comprehensive Treating Project in Nanning, Oct.
1995, Beijing Municipal Engineering Designing and Research Institute
2. Outline of the Environmental Assessment on the Chaovang Stream Comprehensive Treating
Project in Nanning. Apr., 1995. Chinese Academy of Environmental Sciences
3. Report on the Work of the Government, 1993, 1994
4. Plan for Environmental Protection of Nanning City during the Ninety Five-year Plan and the
Long Term Plan for the Year of 2015, Nov., 1994, Nanning Municipal Environmental
Protection Bureau
5 Studies on the Plan of the Environmental Capacity of Water Quality of the Yongiang River.
Nov., 1993. Nanning Environmental Monitoring Station
6. Handbook for River Cross Section Calculation. Mar., 1995, Xijiang Bureau of Water
Conservancy Committee of the Ministry of Water Conservancv
7. Studies on Heavv Metals in China's Water Environment, Chen Jingshcng. etc., 1992. Chinese
Environmental Publishing House
8. Initial Design Report on the Treating of the Chaovang Stream in Naning, Feb. 1994.
0Guangxi Hydropo\er Designing Institutc
9. Statistics Yearbook of Nanning, 1994. Jul.. 1994. Nanning Municipal Designing Bureau
10. Report on tihe Plan of Flood Prevention in Nanning City. Nov.. 1994. Nanning Municipal
City Planning Institute
11. Report on Environmental Quality of Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, 1993.
Environmental Protectionl Agency of Guangxi Autonomous Regionc 12. Report on the
Ensvironment of Nanning City. 1991, Nanning Environmental Protection Bureau. Ctc.
13. Feasibility Report oln the Dredging of the Bottonm Clay of Chahai of Lake Dianci In
Kunming. a Subprojccts with Loan from thc World Banik. Mar., 1995. Chiinesc Acadcmv of
Environmental Sciences



Appendix
Document Jitouzi (1994)1441 issued by the State
Planning Commission
Reply to the Report on the Proposal of Environmental Protection
Projects in Guangxi Using Loans from the World Bank
October 10, 1994
planning Commission of Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region,
Your report Guijibao (1994) 79 and 200 has been received and studied, and hercafter is the
reply to them:
1. It is principally agreed to carry out the Guangxi environmental protection projccts using
loans from the World Bank, that is, the comprehensive treatment of the Lijiang Stream in
Guilin .and the Chaovang Stream in Nanning. The concrete plans for thcir implementation will
be determined aftcr rational comparison and testament of the studics on their feasibility.
2. The cnvironmental protection projccts in Guangxi wvill use loans of 100 million US
dollars from the World Bank wvith one billion of RMB intcmal invcstmcnt to go with it. T1he
repayment of thc loani from thc World Bank and the fund for the intcmal inivestment shall bc thc
responsibilit' of the autonomous rcgion itsclf. T1he amount of both items will bc included in the
scalc of capital construction as allottcd to the autonomous region by thc ccntral govcrnmcnt.
3. Makc a good and specdy job of the feasibility rcport of thc proposed projccts and
preparation of the conditions and fund for thcir construction. arrangcmcnt of the loan from thc
World Bank. and plans for its rcpayNment. All thesc should bc scnt for approval of this
commission.
nhc scrial number of the loani is X9400003030 17.



Document Guihuanban (1995)37, issued by the Environmental
Protection Agency of Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region
reply to the standard to be adopted for the cnvironmental assessment
on the Chaoyang Stream comprehensivc trcating projcct
July 10, 1995
Chinese Research Academv of Enxironmental Sciences.
Your lettcr dated April 4. 1995 has been received. Upon study, wve here agree to the
standard to be used for the environmental assessment for the Chaoyang Strcam comprehensive
treating project as was  proposed by the Nanning Municipal Environmental Protection
Bureau(see appendix). Please proceed with the assessment as required according to the
standard.
Appendix:
The following standards are to be used for the environmental assessment for the Chaoyang
Strcam  comprehensive treating projcct based on the enivironmcntal charactenstics of the
constnction cites and stidies by Nanning Municipal auEthoritics and departments concerned:
1. For the water quality of thc Chaovang Stream: Standard for Grade V surface water as
sct in Document GB3838-88 "Standard for Environmental Quality of Surface water" with
rcfercncc to the standard for Grade C surfacc water as set in Document GB 1294 1-91 "Water
Qualitv Standard for recrcation vatcr Bodics":
2. For the water quality of the Yongiang River: Standard for Grade IlI of surfacc vater as
set in Documniet GB3838-88 "Standard for Environmental Quality of Surface Water";
3. For xwatcr bodies of the Erkcng Stream and the Zhupaichionig Streamii Standard for
Grade V surfacc water as scEt in Documcnt GB3X38-88 "Standard for Environimiental Quality of
Surface watcr". Their water quality shiould bc appraised to be not worse than thc prescnt
situation before (including) the ycar of 2000;
4 For the bottom clav of ttic Chaomang Stream and sludgc produced by Langdong wvaste
water treating planlt. standard for acidic soil as set In Document GB4280-84" Controlling
Standard for Pollutanits Contained in Agricultural Sludge"
5. For tail water from Langdong waste water treating plant: Standard for Grade 11 as sct in
Documeilnit GB8978-88" Standard for Wastc Water to Be Discharged':
6. For noise standard set in Documcnt GB 1223-90 "Limited Value of Noisc of
Constrtuctioni Cites" and the standard for type It of mixed quarters set in Docunent GB13096-93
"Urban Environimcntal Noise Standard";
t                           7. For atmosphleric quality: Standard grade It sct in Document G13309-X2 "Standard for
Atmosplheric Environmcltal Qualitv";
8. For ground water: Standard sct in Document GB5749-85 " llygicne Standard for
I)rinking wvatcr and %xater for Dailv Life".



3
f-
4



Document Guijibao (1992)234, report to the State Planning
Commission by Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region
Rcquest for Approval on the Chaovang Stream Comprehensive Treating Project in Nanning
and Application for Including in Altemnate Items to Use Loans from the World Bank
September 14, 1992
State Planning Commission,
The Chaoyang Stream is a seasonal river and a natural waste wvater receiving river in the
central part of Nanning City receiving about 83,000m3/d of industrial waste water discharged
by over 50 entcrprises and domestic sewage discharged by 220,000 people (amounting
respcctively to 35,000m3/d and 48.000m3/d. As the quantity of wvater from its upper stream is
venv limited, and the waste water received surpasses its self-clcanilig capacity and drainage
capacity, plus the silt and castaway waste matters brought by thic rain. the river bed has been
narroxved and its bottom level raised. Large quantities of organic and inorganic mattcrs havc
accumulated on the bottom of the rivcr. As a result, the rivcr is now scriousl% polluted: it looks
black, giving out foul smiells. Thie river has becomc a place for mosqtito and fly multiplication.
Monitoring  by thc environimental protcction  institute of the city finds: The averagc
conccntrations of BOD, and COD of the river water have respectively reached I nimgIL and
227mg/L.
The Nanning City authoritics have organized pcopic to trcat thic Chaoyang Stream scvcral
timiecs but with littlc cffcct. Public appeal for the trcatment of the river has bcen growing as
peopic's scencs of the cnvironmcnt has bccn raised in rcccnt vcars. nic Municipal Govcrnmcnt
of Nanning has taken thc treatment of the Chaovang Strcam  as onlC of Its ke\ municipal
ciigiticering projects and has cntrusted the South China Designiing Institute to carr\ out initial
work for thc projcct. Its fcasibility report is nowv rcadv (sec appendix) and tw\o alternatc plans
havc bccn workcd out for comparisoni. According to the first plan. the \"asic water will be
gathercd for treatmcnt bcfore it is discharged, the rivcr bed shall be dredged and cicar water
soLirce wviIl bc opcned in tihc uppcr rcach so as to incrcase thc .nouLnt of thc water in thc
Chaovang Streamn and improvc its water quality. According to the sccond plan. most part of the
Chaovang Strcam will be turned into a cover up tunnel, and the waste water k%ill be gathered to
be discharged into the lower reach of thc Yongjiang Rivcr after treatment. Designing institutions
hold that the second plan requircs comparativcl) simpler engineering vork and less investment
and less fee for its operation. Initial cxamination finds the recommended plan is feasibic.. The



completion of the project vill radically change the internal environment of the Chao-vang Stream
drainage area, bringing remarkable social and environmental benefit.
It is estimated that the total investment needed for the project is 468.5 million yuan
(including 21 million yuan for paying for the interest during the construction of the project). Its
main engineering wsork includes: 150,000m3 of sludge to be dredged from the rnver. 380,000m3
of earthwork to be done for the treating of the river bed, 8,500m of covered tunnel to be built,
two pumping stations to be built for flood drainage and wvaste water discharge. a waste water
treating plant with the capacity of I 20,000tIa to be built. The whole construction will last four
years. As this project is of a large scale and will bnrng great social and environmental benefit, it
is planned to ask for a loan of 60 million US dollars (equivalent to 324 million yuan of RMB)
from the World Bank and Nanning City %vill see to the 144,5 million yuan of intemal investment
needed. The capital of the loan and the interest will be paid back bv polluting discharging fee
and city Maintenance fee to be levied by Nanning City authorities. .This is to request the
approval bv the State Planning Commission for the proposed project and list the loan as an
alternate item using loans from the World Bank.
Instructions from the State Planning Comnnission are sought.
Appendix: Feasibilitv Report of the Chaoyang Stream Comprehensive Treating Project (as
a substitution for the proposal of the project)



Document Guizhengban (1995)59, issued by the Office of the
People's Government of Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region
Reply to the Report of the Chaovang Stream Comprehensive Treating Project
March 1. 1995
Municipal people's government of Nanning City.
Document Nanfubao (1995)13 "Request for Approval on the Chaoyang Stream
Comprehensive Treating Project in Nanning" has been received and studied and here is the
replv:
1. The third plan is approved, that is to build covcred tunnel in the upper reach and open
tunnel in the lower reach of the river, and then waste water will be interccpted separatelv in the
upper reach and in a concentrated manner in the lower reach to be pumped at the rivcr mouth
for treatment in the waste water treating plant.
2. Please do a good job of thc preparatory work for the project according to thc approved
plan for the loan from the World Bank. Do vour best to start thc construction as soon as
possiblc.



Certificate of Entrustment of Environmental Assessment of the
Chaoyang Stream Comprehensive Treating Project in Nanning
as an Environmental Protection Item Using Loans from the
Viotu Bank
March 22, 1995
Chinese Research Academv of Environmental Sciences,
Thc Chaovang Stream comprehensive treating project in Nanning has been approved by thc
State Planning Commissions (sec Document Jitouz 1994-1441) as an item using loans from the
World Bank. The feasibilitv report of the project has been compiled by the Beijing Municipal
Engineering Designing Institute. Now we entrust vour institute to work out the environmental
assessment of the project. Concretc contents and scope of the assessmcnt will be stated in the
contract to be signed later. the assessmcnt is required to have testament and assessment bv
cxperts in the country and meet the requirement set by the World Bank. Its outline should be
completcd before April the fifth and the assessment complcted within two months after the
outlinc is approved.



