I                                                   I  ~~~~~~~~~EASUR l
JUL 3 0 1997
Loan from the world Bank                                   RECE E
Guangxi Environmental
Protection Project
Statement on
Environmental Impact Assessment of
The Rong-Sha Lakes Treatment Project in Guilin
City, Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region
Compiler: Chinese Research Academy of
Environmental Sciences
Certificate Grade: A
Certificate Number: NEPA Ap 0901
Compiling Time: July, 1997



I
a    



-       
tt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ rO * * tt r             *Ot *O494S 4re -O~9 t44 Fmf *F re * wX 4 9
atrb~~~~~~~~
w- *Zw
0j~~~~
* ~~~~~~~~  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    '-~~~L
_____                                         __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ ___URI__
- -  'I-.sJ*:,:~r:.:~   S82I.    .~ .444CO949~O a*O444
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4



I                     I                     X



Statement on Environmental Impact Assessment of The Rong-Sha
Lakes Treatment Project in Guilin City
Compiler of the assessment: Chinese Research Academy of Environmental Sciences
President: Chen Fu (professor)
Advisor of the item: Jin Xiangcan (director, professor)
Cao Hongfa    (director, professor)
Persons in charge of the item:
Xu Nanni
Main Participants and their qualification:
Name             Subject Division                      Qualification    Specialty
Jin Xiangcan     Engineering analysis                  Professor      Water environment
Cao Hongfa      eco-envirownental impact assessment    Professor      Environmental ecology
Xu Nanni         Analysis and impact on the environmental Senior professor Water environmental
impact during construction
Shu Jianmin      Recognition and screening of          Senior professor Environmental Chemistry
environmental affecting factor
Wang Zhingkuei  Atmostic environmental impact assessment  Senior engineer Atmostic environment
Fu Guo           Surface water environmental impact    Senior engineer Environmental hydraulics
assessment
Lu Weili         Environmental monitoring              Senior engineer Environmental monitoring
Xu Dongchu       Investigation and assessment os existing  Senior engineer Environmental monitoring
environmental quality
Jin Danyue      Alternative plants and environmental benefit engineer  Environmental economic
analysis
Liu Lianggui     Environmental measures during construction Engineer  Environmental engineer
Chen Zhenchen   Enviroranental noise impact assessment  Senior engineer Environmental management
Zhang Lingpo     Public participation and removal work  Senior engineer Envitonmental management
Tang Rueiling    Lake' water environmental quality impact   Senior engineer Environmental engineering
Monitoring participation:
Lv Weili   Liu Xingyao  Zhang Peiyan  Bi Mingmain  Zhou Li   He Xiaoqin
Wang Xiaojie Xu Fudi Zeng Guangying Li Wei Zhang Chaochong Lv Chunli
Mu Ling Qin Huangrong Huang Xinwei Li Chunhui Liu Shijuan Jiang Hongbin
Yao Yikai Hu Pinghui Li Ruobi Li Youling Muo Ying Huang Jian Yang Ziluo
Zhou Qucheng Li Yongbei Ning Guilin Zhao Yongsheng Huang Yidong
Tang Shiyou Liu Sanchang Chen Jing Geng Zhangdi Liu Guizhen Jiang Yongdong



IlI                                                                                                                                                                                           I                                              i                                                                                      I     1



Contents
1. Preface                                                                        I
. I Purpose of this assessment                                                 I
1.2. Basis for the compiling of EIA                                             2
1.3. Scope, standard, and schedule of the assessment and targets of enviromnental protection   3
1.4. Content and key points of the assessment                                   4
1.5 Main techniques and measures adopted in the assessment                      4
1.6 Institution and personnel of the compiling of the assessment                6
2. General Situation of the Project to Use the Loan                               8
2.1 Basic situation of the project                                              8
2.2 Technological Process                                                      10
2.3 Major pollution sources and the discharge of pollutants                    10
2A Arrangement of the construction                                             11
2.5 Major environmental protection measures                                    I 1
2.6 Financial estimates of the project                                         12
3. General Situation of the Environment of the Area Where the project Is to Be Constructed 14
3.1 General environmental situation of the area of the proposed project        14
3.2 General ecoenvironmental situation                                         18
3.3 Social economic situations                                                 19
3.4 General life quality                                                       21
3.5 Surface water environmental quality                                        21
3.6 Environmental quality of ground water (1991-94)                            29
3.7 Solid waste matters                                                        30
3.8 Atmospheric environmental quality                                          30
3.9 Acoustic environmnental quality                                            31
3.10 Monitoring over existing environmnent of the area involved in the project  32
4. Predicted Environmental Impact and Controlling Measures                       40
4.1 Recognition and screening of environmental affecting factors to be assessed  40
4.2 Analysis of enviromnental impact                                           40
4.3 Prediction on the project's environmental effect during its construction   42
4.4 Analysis of the environmental impact of building removal and inhabitants resettlement   52
4.5 Prediction on the environmental impact during the operation of the project  52
4.6 Risk analysis                                                              56
4.7 Measures and countermeasures to eliminate or relieve negative impact       57



5. Alternate plans                                                               59
5.1 Main altemate plans of the Rong-Sha lakes                                  59
5.2 Comparison between alternate plans for the Rong-Sha lakes treating project  59
5.3 Comparative analysis of the cost of the alternate plan                     60
5.4 The analysis of the alternate plan                                         61
6. Analysis on the Benefit of the Ronghu Lake and Shahu Lake  Treating Project   63
6.1 Analysis on its social benefit                                             63
6.2 Financial analysis of the project                                          63
6.3 Analysis on environmental benefit of the project                           64
7. Plan for Environmental Administration and Environmental Monitoring            66
7.1 Setting up of environmental protection management system                   66
7.2 Measures for environmental management                                      67
7.3 Environmental monitoring plan                                              68
8. Public Participation                                                          70
8.1 Aim and purpose                                                            70
8.2 Methods of investigation                                                   70
8.3 Scope of investigation                                                     70
8.4 Subject of investigation                                                   7 1
8.5 Method of investigation                                                    71
8.6 Analysis on the results of investigation                                   71
9. conclusion and proposal                                                       73
9.1 Existing environmental quality                                             73
9.2 The factor of project's environmental impact                               75
9.3 Assessment on environmental impact during its construction                 75
9.4 Assessment on environmental impact during its operation                    75
9.5 The environmental impact of building removal and inhabitants resettlement  77
9.6 Benefit of the Rong-Sha Lakes treating project                             77
9.7 Public participation                                                       77
2



EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
The City of Guilin is located in the northeast of Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous
Region, at 1 1013'--l 10°40'E and 24°39'--25°22'N, 336 km from Nanning, capital of
the autonomous region. It has a total area of 565km2, of which urban area accounts for
54krn2 and suburbs 51 Im2. Under its jurisdiction are also two counties: Yangshuo
County and Lingui County, whose areas are respectively 1,428km2 and 2,202km2. In
January of 1979 the State Council has designated Guilin City as a national key scenic
tourist city, and in February of 1982 the city was declared as a national historical
cultural city. Its unique limestone landscape, peak forests as well as solitude peaks,
karst topography and caves form "number one beautiful scene in the world'. The
Lijiang River meanders through the mountains from the north to the south. "The
reflection of the peaks on the water seems to be floating while all the mountains and
the water form a fairly land." Its natural beauty has solicited endless praise from
generations of writers and poets since ancient times. The new Guilin today has
attracted numerous tourists from home and abroad, promoting the development of the
city's tourism.
The Lake Ronghu and Lake Shahu located in center of Guilin City are named Rongsha
Lake, it received water from the Guihu Lake and discharges water into the River Lijiang.
From 1970's, The government of Guilin City was tenovate the lake and replenished water
from the Lijiang River, The channel of Lijiang is built with length 6140m, flow value
respectively 1.5m3/s and lm3/s on normal season and dry season. But because of no enough
funds, so water quality of the lake become more and more serious and the lake is eutrophic
lake.
With the support of the central government and through joint efforts of the government
and office in charge of environmental protection items using foreign loans of the Guangxi
Zhuang Autonomous Region, the project of the Ronghu lake and Shahu Lake treating project
has been entered into the list of the annual financial program of 1997 of the World Bank. The
project is now in the stage of feasibility studies. The Chinese Research Academy of
Environmental Sciences has been entrusted by the office of the government of the
autonomous region in charge of item using loans from the World Bank to compile this
outline of the project's environmental impact assessment.
1. Main content of the proposed project
(1). waste water collecting project
(2). digging sediment of the Ronghu Lake and the Shahu Lake
(3). building new pomp station with water flow Im3/s
2. Main pollution sources for the proposed project
2.1 Main pollution sources during the construction of the project



a. Dredging sediment and disposing
The dredging sediment value will be 184,000m3 and dredging transporting and
using of the sediment will be produce a certain environmental problem.
b. Construction raised dust
Raised dust is an important pollution element in construction that will affect the
atmospheric quality. The level of raised dust varies greatly depending on the season of
construction, soil type, and construction administration.
c. Construction noise
Excavating machines and other machines and transportation vehicles used will
produce certain noise to affect people's life and rest nearby.
d. Garbage
The storing, transportation, and disposal of domestic garbage and construction
garbage will have some impact on the city's enviromnent and ground water if not
handled properly
e. Foul smells produced by the garbage burial ground and waste water treating
plants included in the project will have some impact on inhabitants nearby.
2.2 Major pollution sources during the operation of the project
Noise produced by waster water plants and pump stations will have impact on the
surrounding environment
3 Existing environmental quality
3.1 Quality of water environmental
The monitored data from 1991 to 1994 and 1996 for this project show that the
present water quality of the Lijiang River is good, most index are within the standard
of Grade II surface water environment, up to the requirement of first class protected
water, that is concentrated drinking water sources and for the protection of rare fish
species. But certain items such as coli and petroleum exceeded the standard in 1991-
94; DO is a little too low. And that of NH3-N exceeded the standard of Grade II water
by a big margin. As a whole water quality of the Lijiang river is good, but the trend of
the change of water quality reveals worse from Dahe section to Jingpinshan section, it
was affected by the discharge of domestic waste water and non-point rescue.
The Taohua River, the Xiaodong River, the Ningyuan River and the Nanxi River
are not meet the standard for Grade III water, after 1994, it is deteriorating along with
the development of pollution. The index of coli and petroleum seriously exceed the
standard for Grade III water. The index of coli, petroleum, CODm,, BOD, N02-N and
NH3-N all exceeding the standard for Grade III in all tributes. The trend of the change
of water quality reveals that the water quality of the Xiaodong River and the Taohua
River has been deteriorating rapidly.
The total area of good and fairly god underground water in the surveyed area was
accounting for 90% of the total. The area of fairly poor underground water was
ii



accounting for 2.4% of the total, mainly distributed along Wucheng-Ximen Rice Flour
Mill-brewery; along No.3 Pharmaceutical Factory-Wanfutan Dairy and Yaotou area.
The exiting monitoring data show that the supplying water quality on open
cannel from the Lijiang River is lightly polluted. The items of coli, petroleum and TN
exceed the standard of Grade II surface water enviromnent, and the exceeding time
respectively 22.8, 2.8 and 2.04.
At present, The lakes of Ronghu lake, Guihu lake and Shahu lake is seriously
polluted. The major items is coli, petroleum, TP, TN, NH3-N, BOD5, DO exceed the
standard of Grade IV or V surface water environment, In particular the inlet of Lake
Guihu, the oil, TP, TN, NH3-N and coli are seriously polluted, the values respectively
36, 17.88, 12.22, 9.1 and 23. The pollution of the lakes is basically of the following
order: the Guihu Lake > the Ronghu Lake > the Shahu Lake.
T.he assessment result show that The right dike on the section of the Lijiang
River (the part of Guilin City center) is been polluted serious than the center and the
lift dikes. The water quality of Lijiang River on upstream (the Lijiang theater) is finer
than on downstream (the Proboscis Mountain).
The TSI index (using Calson method) declared that the lakes all are eutrophic
state, with TSI(Z) of 125 to 140.
The water quality of project area is polluted seriously on lakes, the water of
cannel is lightly polluted, the water of outlet of the Lake Shahu has threatened the
section of Proboscis Mountain..
3.2 Solid waste
The total amount of domestic refuse produced was 131,000t in 1993, of which
120,000t was transported away and 65,000t treated to he harmless. Industrial solid
waste in Guilin City was well handled and under good management, because the
adoption of the policy of comprehensive utilization. Impact of solid waste in Guilin is
mainly caused by domestic refuse. Because the capacity of harmless treatment is far
from enough, its pollution to water, soil and the atmosphere, and lack of transporting
capacity and transit stations is becoming more and more outstanding. Besides, there is
industrial solid waste.
3.3 Quality of atmospheric environment
The average daily concentration of S02 and NOx (in 1991-1994) was not
exceeding the standard for Grade I atmosphere and TSP not exceeding the standard
for Grade II atmosphere. But the average daily maximum concentration of SO2, NOx
and TSP was exceeding the standard for Grade I and Grade II. The concentration of
TSP was exceeding the standard for Grade II according the monitoring of the project's
area in 1996, and the maximum exceeding rate was 80%. the quality of atmnospheric
environrent was good on the area of replenishment project.
3.4 Acoustic environmental quality of the Guilin region
. . 



Traffic and daily life noise are main environmental noise sources in Guilin. The
road   equivalent noise intensity exceeded 3dB(A) for standard of "Urban
environmental noise standard" during daytime, and the length of was 44.83km taking
up more than 78% of the total length of roads. The area where the average equivalent
noise intensity exceeded 70dB(A) during daytime was 8.06%; that exceeding 6OdB(A)
39.51%; that exceeding 55dB(A) 68.95% in 1994. This was reveals that the noise
pollution was serious in Guilin City, so noise will have impact on people's life. The
traffic and local noise was not exceeded standard on the area of replenishment project
by monitoring in 1996.
4 The factor of project's environmental impact
The negative impact of the project is basically during the construction of the
project, of short term, reversible and local, while positive impact is basically during
its operation, of long term and extensive. So after the project is completed and put into
operation the major impact will be favorable, though there will be local unfavorable
impact.
1. Raised dust, foul smell and noise will have impact on the atmospheric quality
and people's life. The laying of pipelines and the construction of water drawing
tunnels, the collecting and transporting of construcion refuse will have much impact.
2 The discharging water of into lake will affect the Rong-Sha lake and the water
of out lake will affect
4.1 Assessment on environmental impact during its construction
This is a environmental treatment project involving intercepting industrial waste water,
water replenishing,. It.involves a large scale and will last a fairly long time. A number
of machines shall be used and large amounts of garbage, backfilling earth, and
construction material shall be piled for some time. So noise, foul smell, traffic jams,
secondary pollution and so on will affect the city's landscape and people's life.
1. Noise will be produced in different stages of construction. Measures should be
taken to avoid construction at night.
2. It is better to transport away sand and pollutants directly. Care should be taken
in loading to avoid droppings and prevent pollutants from touch the ground.
Construction should be carried out in a civilized way to prevent secondary pollution.
3. Transportation should have covers and construction sites should have
enclosures, and water should be sprinkled on piled earth and bottom clay dug up so as
to reduce the impact of raised dust. Management should be strengthened to shorten the
construction period.
4. Transportation needed for the construction should avoid rush hours so as to
reduce its impact on the city's traffic.
5. Management of temporarily piled construction material and sediment should be
strengthened to reduce possible secondary pollution,
iv



The above mentioned environmental impact is of short term and reversible.
Proper measures can reduce it to the minimum degree.
4.2 Assessment on environmental impact during its operation
The project's environmental impact during its operation is mainly positive,
manifested in its improvement of the water environrent of the Lijiang River and
Rong-Sha Lakes and the ecoenvironmnent of the city. This will greatly improve the
city's investment environment and promote its economic development.
1. Impact on the water environment of the Lijiang River
At present, the Lake Rong-Sha is seriously polluted and is eutrophication lake.
The items coli, oil, TP, TN, NH3-N, and BOD5 all exceed the Grade IV or V of water
quality standard, and at the outlet of the Shahu Lake, the water quality is worse than
the center and against side of the Lijiang River, The above assessment show that the
Rong-Sha lakes is affected the Lijiang River.
After intercepting waste water, the amounts of reduce load of external pollution
resource of discharge into lakes are respectively BODs for 1.2t/d, COD 2.6tld, SS
2.2tld, NH3-N 0.263t/d and TP 0.193t/d. After dredging sediment, the amounts of
reduce loads of inner pollution resource of three lakes are As 0.4t, Zn 1 .05t, Pb 4t, Hg
5kg, TN 923t and TP 272t, and reduce release amount of TP is 596.3g/d, TN 8370g/d.
The amounts of reduce pollution load of external and inner resources can be
calculated for reduce amount of discharged into the Lijiang River.
The project cut its pollutants from the city's domestic waste water, playing an
certain role in protecting and improving the water envirounent and ecoenvironment of
the Lijiang River. According monitored, the Lijiang River has been affected the
discharged water from the three lakes. Prediction point out that the discharged water
will not affect the water quality of Lijiang River, and the water quality of outlet of
Shahu Lake will be good, after operation of the project.
2. Impact on the water quality of the Rong-Sha Lakes
we used the data of Lake Dianchi to assessment on release of N and P of sediment
of three lakes. The assessment show that the inner pollutants of load of amount of
release of TP is 596.3 g/d, TN 8370gJd, this is a seriously pollution for the three lakes.
The external pollutant load of the amount of the point load, the non-point load
and fishing all cut, the amount of this pollution load are zero after the project has
completed. The reduce amount include reduce amount of point pollution and non-point
pollution loads plus the reduce amount of pollution load from river water.
With the developing of the city economy, the population and tour will increase,
and the industry will increase too, so the lakes Rong-Sha will became more and more
seriously, if the lakes were not treated and the pollution load will increase. According
the plan of the Guilin City, the amount of the waste water of the city on 2015 will be 3
times of 1994 year, and the amount of domestic waste water will be 2.4 times. This
prediction used 2.4 times of waste water discharged into the lakes.
v



The data calculated point that the COD monitored in the Rong-Sha lakes is high,
exceed Grade IV of water quality standard, if the lakes can be supplied water from the
Taohuajiang River or the cannel of the Lijiang River, the water quality will be
improved, but still need dredging sediment.
3. Impact on the city's ecoenvironment
Guilin City is a famous tourist city. The treatrnent project will improve the water
quality of the lakes, cut the inner and external pollution resource, and exchange the
lake's water, so can improve the environment of the lakes and surrounding. thus
basically solve heavy pollution areas of the city, especially the central part of the city
and protect the landscape of the city.
5 The environmental impact of building removal and inhabitants
resettlement
This project of Rong-Sha lakes treating project just involved existing lakes, parks
and roads, has no building removal and inhabitants resettlement
6 Benefit of the Lijiang River comprehensive treating project
The Rong-Sha lakes treating project is a project that will improve the environmental
ecology, beneficial to people's health. The major benefit of the project is that it will solve the
problems of eutophication and water quality serious from which the lake has been suffering
for many years. It will improve and landscape of the city, providing conditions for gathering
and treating industrial waste water along the lakes, so as to improve the environmental
quality of the down areas of the Lijiang River and the Proboscis maintain area, and people's
living conditions. The amount of waste water gathered and treated by the project will account
for ZOOOOt/d. That will greatly reduce the pollution load of the Lijiang River for BOD5
0.86t/d,  COD  1.86t'd, SS 1.58tld and TP 0.13t/d, and greatly improve its water
environment.
The water quality will be improved, eutrophication will be controlled, the surrounding
will be improve and soul smell will be put out, and the tourism price of the city will be
grown during the operation.
7 Public participation
The public participation of the project involves the whole Guilin city, so the
scope of the investigation carried out included the area along the construction of
engineering project. Institutions investigated included the People's Congress, the
members of the political Consultative Conference especially farmers, ordinary
inhibitions of the area affected by the project.
vi



The result showed that 90% of the investigated people supported the construction
of the project, 95% of the inhabitants said they could understand the short impact of
the construction of the project, if the removal of the houses and resettlement of the
inhabitants are carried properly with proper policies, they will support the project of
the prevail interest.
To sum up the Rong-Sha Lakes Treating Project of Guilin is an environmental
protection project will bring remarkable environmental benefit, social benefit and
economic benefit. The project will impact environmental and inhabitants of the
project's area during construction, but the above mentioned environmental impact is of
short term and reversible. Proper measures can reduce it to the minimum degree
acceding the EIA statement. The project's environmental impact during its operation is
mainly positive, manifested in its improvement of the water environment of the
Lijiang River and its tributaries and the ecoenvironment of the city. This will greatly
improve the city's investment environment and promote its economic development.
vii



la



1. Preface
1.1 Purpose of this assessment
The City of Guilin is located in the northeast of Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region,
at 1100 13'--110° 40'E and 24°39'-250 22'N, 336 km from Nanning, capital of the
autonomous region. It has a total area of 565km2, of which urban area accounts for 54km2
and suburbs 51 Im2. Under its jurisdiction are also two counties: Yangshuo County and
Lingui County, whose areas are respectively 1,428km2 and 2,202kM2. In January of 1979 the
State Council has designated Guilin City as a national key scenic tourist city, and in
February of 1982 the city was declared as a national historical cultural city. Its unique
limestone landscape, peak forests as well as solitude peaks, karst topography and caves form
"number one beautiful scene in the world'. The Lijiang River meanders through the
mountains from the north to the south. "The reflection of the peaks on the water seems to be
floating while all the mountains and the water form a fairly land." Its natural beauty has
solicited endless praise from generations of writers and poets since ancient times. The new
Guilin today has attracted numerous tourists from home and abroad, promoting the
development of the city's tourism. (See Fig. 1-1.)
Guilin is a cultural city with a history of over 2,000 years. It is also a city undergoing
reconstruction and further development. Because of historical reasons, the function division
of the city is not clear and the distribution of its industries is irrational. In order to protect the
scenery resources of the city, the Guilin City Government has decided to shut down and
merge some enterprises, to change the products of others and stop production of still others,
to speed up the construction of the city's infrastructure such as water supply, drainage, road
and aforestation, and to carry out comprehensive treatment of the city's waste gas, waste
water and solid waste matters. Remarkable achievements have been made in all these fields.
But because of lack of fund, the waste water treatment and the rational utilization of the
water resources of the Lijiang River are factors restraining the further development of
tourism of Guilin.
Flowing zigzag through Guilin City, the Lijiang River is the most important water
resources of the city, supplying most of the water needed for people's life and the city's
industries. Its main tributaries within the city's jurisdiction include the Taohua River, the
Xiaodongjiang River, the Nanxi River, and the Liangfeng River. The clean watered Lijiang
River with the green peaks and wonderful looking caverns and grottoes along its banks is at



the same time one of the most famous tourist attraction in China, where tourism has created
a large amount of wealth. The Lake Ronghu and Lake Shahu located in center of Guilin City
are named Rongsha Lake, it received water from the Kuihu Lake and discharges water into
the River Lijiang. From 1970's, The government of Guilin City was renovate the lake and
replenished water from the Lijiang River, The channel of Lijiang is built with length 6140m,
flow value respectively 1.5m3/s and Im3/s on normal season and dry season. But because of
no enough funds, so water quality of the lake become more and more serious and the lake is
eutrophic lake.
With the support of the central government and through joint efforts of the government
and office in charge of enviromnental protection items using foreign loans of the Guangxi
Zhuang Autonomous Region, the project of the Ronghu lake and Shahu Lake treating project
has been entered into the list of the annual financial program of 1997 of the World Bank.
The project is now in the stage of feasibility studies. The Chinese Research Academy of
Environmental Sciences has been entrusted by the office of the government of the
autonomous region in charge of item using loans from the World Bank to compile this
outline of the project's envirownental impact assessment.
The purpose of this assessment is to predict and analyze the environmental impact of
the project during its construction and operation based on the characteristics of the project
and comprehensive assessment of the environment, so as to discuss and prove its technical
feasibility and rationality in order to provide scientific basis for the decision making,
designing and environmental administration of the project
1.2. Basis for the compiling of ELIA
1.2.1 Document Guohuan (86) 003 "Procedure of the Environmental Protection of
Construction Program" by the National Environmental Protection Agency;
1.2.2 Document Huajian  (1993) 324 jointly issued bytheNation Environmental
Protection Agency (NEPA), the State Planning Commission, the Ministry of Finance, and
the Chinese People's Bank "Notification for Strengthening the Administration over the
Environmental Protection of Construction Items Using Loans from International Financial.
Organizations";
1.2.3 Document Jitouzi (1994) 441 "Reply to the Proposal by the State Planning
Commission on the Construction of the Environmental Protection Project in Guangxi by
Using Loan from the World Bank";
1.2.4  Document Huanjian  (88) 117 "Certain  Opinions on the Environmental
Administration of Construction Items";
2



1.2.5 "Water Law of the People's Republic of China", 1988;
1.2.6 "Law of Environmental Protection of the People's Republic of China", 1989;
1.2.7 "Report on the Feasibility Studies of the Project of Waste Water Treatment of
Guilin City", June 1996 by South-Central China Designing and Research Institute of
Municipal Engineering;
1.2.8 Document Huanjianjian (96) 117 "Replay to outline of EIA on the project of
comprehensive treatment of the Lijiang River in Guilin, Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous
Region" by NEPA, May, 19 1996.
1.3. Scope, standard, and schedule of the assessment and targets of
environmental protection
1.3.1 Standard of the assessment
1. Standard for water environmental assessment
For the Lijiang River: Grade nI standard set in "Document GB3838-88 Standard for
Surface Water Environmental Quality";
For its tributaries: Grade III standard of the same document;
For the canal of Lijiang and the lakes Ronghu and Shahu: Grade III standard of the
same document:
For ground water: Grade III standard set in "Document GB5749-85 Hygienic Standard
for Water for Domestic Usage and Drinking Water".
2. Standard for sediment of the lakes Ronghu and Shahu and canal of the Lijiang: acid soil
set in "Standard of Farmland Pollutants Control Using Sludge"
3. Standard for atmospheric environment: Grade II and Grade III standards set in "Document
GB3095-82 Standard for Atmospheric Environment Quality" are used respectively for
inhabitant quarters and industrial quarters.
4. Standard for noise: the standard set in "Document GB12523-90 Noise Limit for the
Border of Construction Sites" and the Grade II standard for mixed quarters set in Document
GB3096-93 Standard for Urban Environmental Noise are used.
5. Standard for waste water: the Grade I standard set in Document GB8979-88" Standard for
Comprehensive Waste water Discharge".
1.3.3 Period of time to be assessed
3



The period of time to be assessed includes the process of the construction of the project
and the period from the time when the project is put into operation to the year concerned in
the plan (2015).
1.4. Content and key points of the assessment
1.4.1 Content of the assessment
* Disposal on polluted sediment of the Lakes Ronghu and Shahu
* Impact on the environmental noise during construction
* Impact on the raised dust during construction
* Impact on landscape during construction
* Impact of the foul smell on the surrounding enviromnent
1.4.2 Key points of the assessment
- Disposal on polluted sediment of the Lakes Ronghu and Shahu
* Impact of the project on the Lijiang River and the surrounding environment of the
Lakes Ronghu and Shahu
* Impact of the project on people's life and city function during constriction
1.5 Main techniques and measures adopted in the assessment
1.5.1 Procedure of the assessment
See Fig. 1-2 for the working procedure of the assessment.
1.5.2 Method used in the assessment
Environmental assessment factors were screened according to the characteristics of the
project with advice solicited from concerned experts. The factors chosen are mainly those
bearing much impact on the water environment, atmospheric environment, and acoustic
environment because of the project.
1. Methods of assessment
Collect the monitored data of 1991-94 and assess the existing surface water, atmosphere,
noise and solid waste matters of Guilin area. Give key assessment to the construction sites
and areas involved, so as to make clear environmental problems to be taken into
consideration in the designing of the project and put forward proposals and measures to be
taken to relieve such problems.
2. Monitoring and assessment on the present state of water environment
4



The monitoring of present state of water bodies includes canal, the Lake Ronghu, the
Lake Shahu and the Lijiang River. Monitoring section of the Lijiang River are chose
upstream and downstream of the proboscis mountain, the lakes monitoring section are chose
as routing monitoring sections and canal monitoring station. total water monitoring stations
are 10.
Monitoring items include pH, COD,, BODS, NH3-N, NO,-N, Zn, Cr, HAg, petroleum,
volatile phenol, SS, CN and bacteria coli.
Monitoring items of the lake must include Chla, transparency, and color degree.
To collect data of normal monitoring of ground water, avprage value of tree time
monitoring results is used to assess pollution level of present state on ground water in the
assessed area. Assessed items include pH, total hardness, NH3-N, Cr, Cd, Hg, Zn, SS, and
bacteria coli.
3. Monitoring and assess on pollution level of sediment of the lakes
8 monitoring section is set up as the lakes Ronghu and Shahu. Depth of sampling is of
0.5m. Monitoring items include oil, water ratio, organic matter, As, Zn, Hg, Cr, Pb, TN and
TP.
4. Monitoring and assess on noise environment noise produced by construction shall affect
the people's life. 12 monitoring point are chosen according to combination of the distribution
of key noise sensitive region and setting monitoring point of network in the area around the
construction. Monitoring is carried out for four days in succession. L1o, Lso, and 19 of each
monitoring point is obtained according to monitoring results, then Leq value are calculated.
5. Monitoring and assess on raised dust of atmosphere environment
8 monitoring point are chosen according to the distribution of the area around the
construction of sewage pipeline, the point of disposing sediment and transportation route.
Monitoring is carried out for five days in succession, four times each day. Method of single
factor pollution index is adopted in the assessment of present state.
5



Certificate of Entnzsuncnt of Projeca
Filed survey and information collect on the projcct's environment    if
Environmental questions and fatories on the project to be taken
Recognition of environmental affecting factors
Outine of Environmental I wact Assent
1
Fsubmit to NEPA&n
yes
Monitoring and assessment of existing environmeintal quali           Analysi of
project
Noise         Atmospheric    Wer                          EeOZi          Natal nd soc       Expens' opinio s
Eniomn          Env=                   A       =_a           Elvct                              Detailnment
|           ~~~~Prediction and assessment on the project's e vitUim cffoa   
Statement on environmental impact assssment of subprojets
Statement on environrnental impact assessment on the project
of comprehensive tamnt of the Lijiang Rivr in Guilin
1                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1!
No                   subnmit to  NEP
Jyes
To do basis proposed environmental
chnology and measures adopted in the project
Fig. 1.2 Procedure of the Environmental Assessment of
the Lijiang River Comprehensive Treatment Project
1.6 Institution and personnel of the compiling of the assessment
1.6.1 Brief introduction to the institution
6



A comprehensive environmental scientific research academy directly under the National
Environmental Protection Agency (NEPA), the Chinese Research Academy of
Environmental Sciences boasts large scale, complete disciplines, advanced equipment, rich
technical capacity, and wide scope of research. It has now a total staff of 580, which includes
128 senior researchers. It is entrusted with the responsibility for the establishment of state
environmental standards and technical examinations, and the responsibility of technical
monitoring and administration of environmental impact assessment of construction programs
by the NEPA. The academy has so far compiled over 300 environmental impact assessment,
ranking number one in the country. The assessments involve fields of light industry, brewery,
heat supply, air port, sea port, natural gas supply, electricity, highway, petroleum, chemicals,
iron and steel, water conservatoly, food processing mining, railway, electronics, regional
development and constuction and municipal engineering.
1.6.2 Cooperation institutions
Guilin City Research Institute of Environmental Sciences
Guilin City Environmental Monitoring Station
1.6.3 Major personnel and their qualification
See the flyleaf of this report for the list of the personnel taking part in the EIA and their
qualification.
7



2. General Situation of the Project to Use the Loan
2.1 Basic situation of the project
2.1.1 Name of the project
4Guangxi Envirommental Protection Project"-the treatment project of the Ronghu Lake
and Shahu Lake in Guilin City
2.1.2 Nature and assessed category of the project
The purpose of the project of treatment of the lakes Ronghu and Shahu is to bring the
eutrophication lakes into control and make it clean and garden. The project is to intercept
waste water now directly discharged into the lakes and sent to waste water treating plant.
he water level should control by pomp station of the Taohuajiang River. Completion of the
project will improve water quality of the Lake Ronghu, Lake Shahe and the Lijiang River.
The project has positive effective, but it shall be carried out in the urban area with a fairly
long duration and large amounts of lakes sediments to be treated, the project is determined to
be of A-B category.
2.1.3 Geographic location and layout of the proposedproject
The project is from Nanzhouba on the Lijiang River to west part of the proboscis
mountain, is located the center of the Guilin City, including cannel, the Ronghu Lake and
Shahu Lake. The proposed project involves the waste water collocating project, lake water
discharging project and digging sediment project (see Fig. 2-1).
2.1.4 Main content of the proposedproject
(I). waste water collecting project
(2). digging sediment of the Ronghu Lake and the Shahu Lake
(3). building new pomp station with water flow I m3/s
2.1.5 Investment scale
The total investment of the project amounts to 19.68 million yuan (RMB), of which
50% will comprise of loan from the World Bank and the other 50% has to be raised by local
institutions.
8



Legend                                                            k    and
riv-r                  Xiananzhou 
open caunel  _      _                                            1s/
c    cannel
lake
road                                                        p
popn StaiO
sewage pipeliel Zbnue9a  pipeline
Fig 2-1 The location of the Rong-Sha Lakes Treating ]Project
9_



2.2 Technological Process
2.2.1 Construction technological process of the waste water collecting works
The waste water discharged into the Lake Ronghu and lake Shahu will be intercepted,
then collected into waste water treating plant. The waste water collecting project includes the
sewage and rain trunk of Yiwulu pipeline with length 2.9km.
DemolilW an wemWn =it _h pipd-i-n                erZ&work-     msoaion
of buiildings on te ground        igrg *lyn         lln        landup
2.2.2 Construction technologicalprocess of dredging sediment
Dredging area: the area of Lake Ronghu is 130000m2, Lake Shahu 9.5000Gm2, total area
is 225000m2.
Dredging depth: O.9m
Dredging scope: 184000m3
Lake wate           ging o        (Temporary pipel Te ns          | Disp
lemptying,     sedmentof sediment)                    porta±io fI
2.3 Major pollution sources and the discharge of pollutants
2.3.1 Exiting pollution soarces and discharge of polluarnts
1. Domestic waste water
Fig.2-2 shown the discharging inlets of domestic waste water, about 40 with 10000 tone
waste water discharging into the lakes. These waste water is main from the Lijiang Printing Plant,
the Guihu Hotel, the Ronghu Hotel and domestic waste water of units and residents surrounding
the lake.
2. Sediment of the Lake Ronghu and Lake Shahu
After many years of silting up, the lake's bottom shown up surfice water on part area during
dry season. The weeds have grown and the garbage thrown around the Lakeshore. The lake's
landscape and water quality become serious and eutrophication. The sediments of lake have
amounts nutrition and harmful elements and easy release from sediment into water after
intercepting waste water, so need dig the sediment
3. Other pollution sources
The project will produce other pollution sources during construction, for example renovate
bank of lake, and foul smell.
10



2.3.2 Major pollution sources during the construction of the project
a. Dredging sediment and disposing
The dredging sediment value will be 184,000m3 and dredging transporting and using of
the sediment will be produce a certain environmental problem.
b. Construction raised dust
Raised dust is an important pollution element in construction that will affect the
atmospheric quality. The level of raised dust varies greatly depending on the season of
construction, soil type, and construction administration.
c. Construction noise
Excavating machines and other machines and transportation vehicles used will produce
certain noise to affect people's life and rest nearby.
d. Garbage
The storing, transportation, and disposal of domestic garbage and construction garbage
will have some impact on the city's environment and ground water if not handled properly
e. Foul smnells produced by the garbage burial ground and waste water treating plants
included in the project will have some impact on inhabitants nearby.
2.3.2 Major pollution sources during the operation of the project
Noise produced by waster water plants and pump stations will have impact on the
surrounding environment
2.4 Arrangement of the construction
The project involves the urban part as well as the suburb part of Guilin City. For
the works in the urban part, careful arrangement should be made to reduce the impact
to the miniimum and the arrangement in the suburbs part can be a little loosened so as
to reduce the cost.
2.5 Major environmental protection measures
Measures to be taken for environmental protection are basically divided into two stages;
the construction and operation of the project.
1. Construction noise
On the premise that the construction period of the project is guaranteed, the use of
machines should be carefully arranged in an overall planning. Different areas should have
ii



different arrangement. In commercial quarters, construction activities should avoid rush
shopping hours, and in inhabitant quarters, construction should not be carried out at night.
2. Raised dust
Raised dust is an important pollution factor in the construction. The construction season
should be carefully chosen. Give different treatment according to the soil types and
strengthen the management of the construction. Construction sites in the central part of the
city should be enclosed.
3. Construction garbage
Administration should be combined with propagation for the disposal of construction
garbage and domestic garbage so a to raise people's sense of environmental protection. The
collecting, piling, transportation and disposal of garbage should all come under careful
planning and arrangement.
4. Traffic jams
As the transportation of construction materials and construction garbage will add to the
cityWs traffic, and the digging and piling of materials will occupy certain part of roads, traffic
jam is inevitable. So optimized transportation schedule should be arranged to avoid rush
hours.
5. water quality
The lake must reduce cast bait and inclesse discharge water frequency from pumping
station.
2.6 Financial estimates of the project
The investment of the project from China is 13.85 million yuan and the loan part from
World bank is 13.85 million yuan(RMB) too, total is 27.10 million yuan.
12



r<,. --,  X
A~~~~~~~A
-   OadtY
Mad ~  ~    ~    w
t~~~/1/
e 5ke W                  I I1e e-
itfaIi. croI,;,~
If  JA~ ./4 m... /~ueL
1/  g/  ;/.  ~~~~ proboscis
l - dL _ . mountain,  'S.-
Fig 2-2 The Location of the Sewvage Outlet Along the Rong-Sha lakes
c   13



3. General Situation of the Environment of the Area Where the
project Is to Be Constructed
3.1 General environmental situation of the area of the proposed project
3.1.1 Geographical location
The proposed project involves Guilin City, Linggui County within the citys
jurisdiction ,and Xing'an County and Lingchuan County under the jurisdiction of the Guilin
Prefecture, at 1 1005'-110006'E and 24°38'-25a23N; with a total area of 5,210 km2. If
Yangshuo County is also included, the total area is 6,628km2. See Fig. 3-1 for the scope of
the impact of the proposed project
Guilin is located along the Hunan-Guangxi corridor in the northeast of Guangxi Zhuang
Autonomous Region. It is the tmffic hub of northem Guangxi.
3.1.2. LAndscape and topography
The city of Guilin is located in the southwest of the Nanling Mountains. To its north lies
the Yuecheng Mountain, to its south the Jiaqiao Mountain, and to its east the Haiyang
Mountains. The main peaks of these mountains are all above I 500m. Its north, east, and
south are high, but its central part and southwest are low. The urban area of Guilin is located
in a karst basin, which is about 40kn long (N-S) and 20kn wide (E-W). The altitude of the
bottom of the basin is 150m, where accretion formed in various ways are distributed to form
a vast alluvial and flat plain scattcred with mounds. The Lijiang River and its tributaries the
Taohua River, the Xiaodong River, the Nanxi River, the Liangfeng River, and the Ningyuan
River flow across the urban area from the north to the south. at the sides and the central part
of the basin are widely distributed with peak clumps, peak forests, and single peaks formed
of limestone with a height of 300-600m. There are many karst caves.
The stratum of Guilin is mainly formed of carbons of the Upper Devonian Series and the
Lower Carboniferous Series, of typical karst area in China. The urban part of the City of
Guilin is at the top of the northeast break over arch of epsilon structural system, lying from
the north to the east. topographic formations include: corrosional land-form, erosion -   -
corrosion land-form, erosion land-form, and accumulation land-form, the first being the
major feature. The relative height of the over 200 stone peaks near the urban area averages
74m, with various underlying basement. Karst caves have developed within peak forests.
The lime stone in the area is thick (the total thickness is over 3,000m), pure and widely
14
JR



(                                            Canal
WanQian
I-                         ~~~~~~~~~~Qingshitan
. %*    _,   r- c   >    <   j        Reservoir  Lingch m   c
. x_ \ ~~~Wutong 79
t()>,~~M20
|.             e,>g                   ).~~~~k~mu~-
o ilech: ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    caDan
0  L.iwn.h      \A
cC~~~~~~~~~~~~ct
1 uangxi  Ihuang A        Rbianchang5 i'N n
,        )                 \  /       ~~~~~~~~~~~Putao  Xn,4g*        .'
.                rB<7                    \ ~ ~~ iUlidi.ar5  
<    .+    01a1lechi                           C  %j    jinta   Yangshuoi
,  C) oHaise     ° I,iuvhou                                         Gaoatian )
_?Ninning  yuIj,_3.A, B\'
!oQinvhou           W                _               .             gtmhc
Guangxi Zhuang Autonatnous,tRegion.-. .
Fig 3-1-2 Lacation of Guilin Citv
Is



distributed and the climate is hot and wet, plus the crises-cross the fault structure caused by
the many tectonic movements of the crust,. This caused the area to have a typical subtropics
karst landscape.
3.1.3 Surface water and ground water
The Lijiang River, the major river in Guilin area, has its source in the east slope of the
Maoer Mountain, the highest peak of the Yuecheng Mountains in north Guangxi. It
converges with the Lingqu River at the Darongjiang River,. The segment from this point to
the outlet of the Gongeheng River in Pingle Country is called the Lijiang River. Then if
flows into the Guijiang River. Its totad length is 214km, and its trunk river is i601cm long,
with 12 major tributaries: the Lingqu River, the Darongiang River, the XiaorongJiang River,
the Gantang River, the Taohua River, the Nanxi River, the Liangfeng River, the Donghe
River, the Xihe River (the Huangsha River), the Chaotian River, the Xingping River, and the
Tianjia River. Its total drainage area is 6,050kn2. The average flow of the Lijiang River
over the years is 120m3/s, 8-12 during the dry season. The maximum flow monitored is 4
640 m3/s (1976) and the minimum 3.8mI/s (1951). The average annual runoff is 4.2 billion
in3. The river bed is mainly formed of pebble, gravel, and sand stone. The average silt
content is 0.0381gm3, the smallest among the rivers in Guangxi. The Guilin segment of the
Lijiang River is shallow with many shoals. It has a strong self-purifying capacity.
The Rong-Sha lake is the biggest lake on the Guilin City with area of 130000m2, depth
1.5m. Supplying water of the lake is from ground water and precipitation. From 1981 to
1983 the water replenishment to the lake project has built. The project has a cannel from
Nanzhouba of the Lijiang River to Proboscis Mountain, with length of cannel is 6140m,
design flow is 1.5m3/s for normal year, I.Om3/s for dry year, water exchange time is 3 to 5
days (see Fig 3-2).
Ground water in Guilin includes pore water, karst water, and crevice water. Pore water
is distributed in river faces sedimentation and alluvial plains, with an area of 65km2. Ground
water is 4-7m deep, with an annual variation of 5-8m. Karst water is of covered and
uncovered types. The uncoverd is stored in karst tunnels (underground rivers). So far nine
underground rivers have been discovered, which control an area of 140km2, 3-Sm deep, with
an annual variation of 1-4m Covered karst water is stored in karst caves or karst cracks,
usually covered by 10-30m thick of clay, 5-19m deep, with an annual variation of 1-5m.
Crevice water is stored in the cracks of sand stones, mainly distributed in the mountains in
the east and the west, with an area of only 16km2.
16



Legend
river                                                    i
open cannel    -               |*
close cannel  __ _ _ _
lake                                 -       0
road _               - '
scale  1:5000  WDh
It~~~7I
lezlftt                                           om
oAX4   )'                                         o =-
Y-er-W-0 11'                          \  t--PW
>sewp h*e~~~~~~ar,  t:   
_                                                /te   ae-tfr
- ~                - :/   -       0.  '                                            - ,/ / s__
~~~ ~~~~ 
0~~~
0 
Fig 3-2  Replenshiment Project (1991-1998)
- 17



Within an area of 282.44km2, the amount of ground water naturally replenished is 151  -
681 600t/a (4.8lm3/s), that of high water period accounts for 70.7% and that of low water
period 29.3%.
Ground water there is mainly of HCO3-Ca type. The average pH value of low-
mineralized water is 6.3-8.5, with t total hardness of 200-300mg.
3.1.4 Climate
Guilin is located in the subtropics monsoon zone, with a long, hot summer and a short
winter. It has abundant precipitation, mostly concentrated in spring and summer. The
summer (when the avenge air temperature is above 221C) in Guilin lasts 145 days. It is the
hottest in July when the avenge air temperature is 283YC, the coldest in January, when the
average air temperature is 7.9C . According to statistics of thirty years the average annual air
temperature is 18.8 with the highest 233 C, the extreme being 39.4C (1953), and the
lowcst 15.7 C, the extreme being-4.9 C (1955). The aveage annual rainfall is over
1,900mm. See Fig. 3-3. for its distribution. The avenge annual relative humidity is 76%, and
the avenge annual evaporation 1,485nmu. The leading wind in the year is NNE, with an
avenge annual wind speed of 2.5m/s, the maximum being l9mIs. The annual frost-free days
number 307, and the total annual sunshine reaches 1 684Ah, with a rate of 38%.
3.2 General ecoenvironmental situation
Vegetation in Guilin area is mainly of pony-tail pine and coniferous communities. On
the scenery mountains are mainly broad-leaved mixed forests. Along the streets in the urban
area are growing sweet hibiscus, camphor, fish pelargonium, Chinese ash, privet, Chinese
scholar tree, and kiri, interplant with flowers and glass. Guilin has a total forest area of
96,941ha, accounting for 23.1% of the total area.
There are within the area over I 000 species of higher plants, including the living fossil
Cathaya argyrophylla and Chinese hemlock, and rare species like gingko. Precious animal
sinlude white-head leaf monkey, rhesus monkey, sike, tiger, Chinese pangolin, giant
salanander, yellow-bellied tragopan, crimson-bellied tragopan, and Chinese copper
pheasant.
There are over 140 species of fish in the Lijiang River, major ones include common
carp, crucian carp, and big-eyed Chinese triangular brem. 79 species of benthons have been
identified living in the Lijiang River, including 13 orders like insects, crustaceans, leeche,
and arachnids. There are 113 zooplanktons, of which 22 are of protozoa, 23 of rotifers, 39 of
IS



copepods, and 29 of cyclops. Major aquatic tracheophyta include 10 species of 8 genus such
as Vailiisneria spiialis, Hydrilla verticillata and Potanogeton malaianus, with a total biomass
of 2.54kg/m2.
3.3 Social economic situations
3.3.1 Administrative area involved in the project
Guilin City has five districts: Xiufeng, Diecai, Qixing, Xiangshan, Suburbs, and two
counties: Yangshuo and Lingui.
The Guilin.Prefecture has tow counties: Lingchuan and Xing'an.
3.3.2. Character and scope of Guilin City
Guilin is a famous city for sight seeing and. historical interest. It is well known by its
"green mountains, eiar waters, strange caves and beautiful stones". There are also a lot of
humanistic scenarios. It is planned to build the city into a beautiful, comfortable international
city with developed economy and beautiful environment by the year of 2010.
The population of Guilin reached 550 000 in 1994, of which 398,000 are not engaged in
agriculture. Besides the Han, there are also the Zhuang, the Yao, the Hui, the Miao, the Tong,
and the Yaolao, and other national minorities, altogether reaching 107 000 by the end of
1993.
3.3.3. land utilization
The total area of Guilin City is 4,1951kM2, of which medium high and low mountains
take up 1,231km2, accounting for 29.34%, that of hills 969.6km2, accounting for 23.22%,
terraces 264.87kmn2, accounting for 6.31%, plain 954.73km2, accounting for 22.66%Jo, the rest
776.67km2, accounting for 18.52%.
Actually cultivated land in 1994 was 635,200ha, of which paddy field accounts for 74%
and dry farmland accounts for 26%/e.
There are 214,000ha of forests in the drainage area of the Lijiang River, of which 35%
is for conservation of water supply and 43.6% for timber, 0.5% for special forests, 1.2% for
firewood, 8.1% for economic forests, and 16.65 of bamboo forests, The forest coverage rate
is 38.8%, above the national average. That in the upper reaches above Guilin is 51.4% and
that in the middle and lower reaches is 14.2%.
3.3.4. Production development
19



The GNP of the city in 1994 reached 5.19 billion yuan (price of that year), of which
primary industry accounted for 16.7%, secondary industry 44.4%, and tertiary industry
38.9%/e. Enterprises in the city are mostly of medium and small scale, including machine
building, electronics, rubber, light industry and textile, food processing and pharmaceutical.
Construction of the city has been speeding up, and infrstructure (road communication,
water supply and drainage, environmental protection, gas supply, living houses, and
aforestation) has had certain scale, laying a foundation for further development of the city's
construction.
3.3.5 Exing infrastructwe
The total area of constructed buildings in Guilin City reached 14.16 million M2 in 1993.
The total length of roads reached 302km with a total area of 2.82m2. The total length of
drainage pipelines reached 114km. The rate of gas popularization was 45.1%. The total
constructed area of the city was 46.5km2-
Water resources used in Guilin is mainly of surface water supplemnented by ground
water. There are now four water mills in the urban area: Dongzhen Road, Dongjiang,
Longchuanping, and Wayao, all taking water from the Lijiang River. The designed water
supply capacity is 100 000m3/d and 28 000m3/d (of which 70 OOOm3/d was completed in
December 1995), with a total of 328 OOOm3/d.
191 enterprises have their own water mills , mostly for production, of which the
supplying capacity of wells reached 125 OOOm3/d. As the water supplied by these self-owned
water mills is of poor quality, water consumed by these enterpises for daily life is still
supplied by the tap water company.
The total amount of waste water discharged in Guilin City in 1994 was 100.51 million
tons, of which industrial waste water 29.13 million tons. 56 enterprises discharge their waste
water to waste water treating plants, with a total amount of 6.03 million t/a. Three waste
water treating plants, 9 rain water and waste water pumping stations, and 146 pipeline with
a total designed capacity of 78 500m3/d and actual capacity of 63 5000m3/d have been built
in the city. The city has 126 waste water treating devices, of which 108 are in normal
operation. The amount of waste water to be treated is 27A9 million t/a, but oniy 24.46
million t/a was treated, with a rate of 89°%. The amount of industrial waste water is 20.63
million t/a with 10.61 million t/a reaching the standard after treating, the rate being 45%.
The amount of industrial waste water reused is 8.38 million t/a. The total investment in
industrial waste water treatment reaches 28.171 million yuan (up to the end of end of 1999).
20



Domestic refuse in Guilin City is now mainly collected and cleaned by pmfessional
people, then shifted from the 15 garbage transit stations to be buried or piled in the suburbs.
Its transporting uses machines and vehicles. The major way of disposal is to be treated by the
Pingshan garbage compost factory which can handle 30tld. The amount of garbage
transported in 1993 was 120 000t, of which 65 OOOt was treated to be harmless.
Guilin City now has two civil airports, which are linked many home and international
air routes. The Hunan-Guangxi Railway runs through Guilin, where a new terminate station
is being built. The completion of the new railway station will greatly facilitate transportation
and promote tourism.
3.4 General life quality
The total area of constructed urban part of the city has reached 46.5am2, with an urban
population of 550,000 (1994), of which 398,000 are non-agricultural population. People's
living standard has been raised along with the economic development. The average annual
domestic income reaches 4,142 yuan, showing an actual increase of 10.78% over the Ist
year. The average annual salary of the staff was 4,505 yuan and that of farmers 1,137 yuan.
There are now 9 parks in Guilin, the total tourists in 1994 reached 4.3 million
person * times, of which 0.6 million were from abroad. Green area of the city reached
1,515.9ha, averaging 4.9m3 per capita. The city's green space ratio reached 32.6%.
Besides beautiful natural mountains and waters, there are in Guilin many places of
historical interests, major ones including the former palace and tomb of the king, fonner city
of the ancient Jingjingjiang Prefecture, ruins of the Piye Cave, and the Eighth Route Army's
office in Guilin.
The enviromnental protection in Guilin has been strengthened. The air in the urban area
is of the standard of grade II and the water quality of the Lijiang River is of the standard of
Grade II surface water. The quality of drinking water is good.
3.5 Surface water environmental quality
3.5.1 Water environmental quality of the Lyiiang River and its tributaries (91-94)
The Lijiang River has its source in the east slope of the Maoer Mountain. It flows
through Xing'an County, Lingchuan County, urban area of Guilin City, Yangshuo County,
and Pingle County, with a total length of 214km. Its segment from Dahe to Mopanshan flows
through the major economic area of Guilin City, thus being the major source for water of
21



.
daily use and industry and agriculture. It also serves as the final receiving water body of
waste water produced in this area. Its major tributaries flowing through the urban area are the
Xiaodong River, the Taohua River, the Ningyuan River, the Nanxi River, and the Xiangsi
River.
I. Pollution of the Lijiang River
The Lijiang River is mainly supplemented by rain water. The difference of its water
level within the year can reach over Im, and that of its flow 160rn3/s to 250m3/s. During
December of the low water season (when the flow at all the sections is less than 56m3/s), the
pollution runoff ratio increases and the self purifying capacity of the river decreases. The
index of N03-N, NH3-N, and petroleum all exceed the standard. During July and August of
the normal water season, the water quality is the best. During May of the flood season, the
first storm washes large amount of city garbage and other pollutants into the rver, seriously
deteriorates the water quality of the Lijiang River. The generd water quality of the Lijiang
River is as follows:
Most index are within the standard value except that of coli and NHr-N in its upper
reaches (section above Dahe before it flows into the urban part).
The urban segment (Lushan Bridge to Jingpingshan) receives waste water from some
food processing industries and domestic sewage, and its tributaries flowing through the
urban part the Taohua River, the Xiaodong River, the Ningynan River and the Nanxi River
all flow into it. So the water body fro the section of Doujishan to that of Longmnen is a
segment seriously polluted by organism and N in the upper reaches of the Lijiang River.
The lower reaches (down the Jingpingshan Bridge) are mainly affected by industries
like power, tier making, and paper making. Besides it also receives water from the waste
water treating plants.
But the pollution down the section of Longmen is gradually reduced to reach the
standard of Grade II water at the Mopanshan.
2. Pollution of its tributaries
The Xiaodong River: mainly affected by irrigation water, waste water from food
processing industry, and domestic sewage. The water in its middle and lower reaches is
seriously polluted, looks black and gives out foul smells.
The Nanxi River: seriously polluted by industrial waste water. Coal dust has piled up at
the outlets into the Lijiang River, where the water is black and gives out very foul smells.
The Ningyuan River: mainly polluted by industrial waste of pharnacy, food processing,
and dying and printing as well as domestic sewage. Its water body is also black and smelly.
22
JI



The Taohua River: mainly affected by irrigation water, part of industrial waste water
and domestic sewage. Its lower reaches and its outlet into the Lijiang River has obvious
biological pollution and pollution of petroleum and like.
The Xiangsi River: its water body is fairly good but has been polluted recently by
township-run enterprises
8                                              10
4
2                                                                      yW
0                                  ~~~~~~~~~~1991  1992  1993  1994 yCMr
1991    1992    1993    1994 Yea                     Xiaoongjiang River
Liiang River
a                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~20
6-                                              15
4 
2                                               0==  D t
,                                                1991  1992  1993  1994
1991   192   1993   1994 Yew                           Taaw1jiang Riva
Linguan River
15    , ~~   ~        ~        ~~                 ~        ~~ 6 t  _BOD5
lo                                           ;     4                   = Nh3-N
15                                        2.
0                                          1991   1992   1993   1994Year
1991   1992   1993   1994 Y                      Xiangcijiang River
Nanxi River
Fig. 3-3 Trend of variance of pollutants in the Lijiang River and its tributaries
3. pollution sources
(I) Discharge of industrial waste water
23



The total amount of industrial waste water discharged from 1991 to 1994 reached 88.91
million tons, averaging 29.3667 million t/a, which contained 4,738t of pollutants, of which
1.094t was first class pollutants and metals.
(2) Amount of waste water received
The amount of waste water discharged into the trunk of the Lijiang River in 1991-94
reached 37.3062 million tons, averaging 9.3266 million tla.
Table 3.5.1 Water Quality of the Trunk of the Lijian  River as Monitored
_____________    (1991-1994)                                   unit: mg/L
Year            191                1992                1993               1994
Aveage| Exceeding  Avage  Exceeding  AVeae  F3ceeding  Averg   Exceding
_______   value    rate(%)    value    rate(%)    value    rate(%)    value    atc(%/*)
pH              735       0.00     738       0.00      7.54     0.00      7.83      0.0
SS              16.8      24.1      1.5      0.00      2.7       3.7      7.3       0.0
Hardness (G)    3.84      0.00     3.91      0.00      3.18      0.0      0.71      0.0
DO              6.13      38.9      5.9      40.7      6.9      18.5      6.0       54.2
COD,&           2.30      0.00      2.0      0.00      1.9       3.7       1.9      0.0
BOD,             1.44     5.60       1       1.90       1        0.0      0.9       0.0
NH3-N           0.53     44.40     0.445     31.50    0.295      18.5     0.381     31.9
N02-N           0.053     11.10    0.075     33.3     0.037      0.0      0.053     9.7
NO,-N           0.68      0.00      0.68      0.0      0.53      0.0      0.64      0.0
phenol          0.001     0.00     0.001      0.0     0.002      7.4     0.001      0.0
CN'             0.002     0.00     0.002      0.0     0.002      0.0     0.002      0.0
As              0.004     0.00     0.004     0.00     0.004      0.0     0.004      0.0
Hg             0.00005    0.00    0.0005      0.0    0.00005     0.0    0.00005     0.0
Cr'             0.002     0.00     0.002      0.0     0.002      0.0      0.002     0.0
Pb              0.02      0.00      0.02      0.0      0.01      0.0      0.01      0.0
Cd              0.002     0.00     0.002      0.0     0.001      0.0      0.00l     0.0
oil             0.40     87.00      0.08     18.5      0.69     66.7      0.21      38.9
Conductivity     7.1       -       13.52       -       10.67      -       14.37
( p slcm)                 I_I
Colon         508 x lol   90.7   720 x l10    89.0   885 x 10j   98.0  1592 x 1    96.0
bacillus(IlL).
24



Table 3.5.2 Major Pollution Index and Pollution Composition
in the Lijiang River                              unit :mgIL
year       item         Colon   petroleum    SS     COD,,    BOD,   NO2-N    NH3-N
bacillus
1991  exceeding rate(%)  90.7     87.0     24.1      0.0       5.6     11.10     44.4
pollution index(P.)    50.8  8.0      0.67     0.58      0.48     0.53      1.06
pollution rate(%)  78.6      12.4     1.0       0.9      0.7       0.8      1.6
type                >5        4        2        2            1      1        3
1992 exceeding rae(I)    89.0     18.5      0.0      0.0       1.9      33.3     31.5
pollution index(P1)    72.0  1.60     0.06     0.50      0.33     0.75      0.89
pollution rate(/)  91.5      2.0      0.1       0.6      0.4       1.0      1.1
type                >5        4        1         1        1        2         2
1993 exceeding me(%)     98.0     66.7      3.7      3.7       0.0      0.0      18.5
pollution index(P1)    88.5  13.8     0.11     0.48      0.33     0.37      0.59
pollution rate(Y)  82.5      12.9     0.1       0.4      0.3       0.3      0.5
type                >5        5        1         1        1         1        2
1994 exceeding atWe-()    96.0    38.9      0.0      0.0       0.0      9.7      31.9
pollution idex(P)    59.2    4.2      0.29     0.48      0.30     0.53      0.76
pollution raze(%)  85.9      6.1      0.42      0.7      0.4       0.8      1.1
type                >5        4            I       I      I         I        2
Table 3.5.3 Major Pollution Index and Pollution Composition
in the Xiaodong River                         unit :mg/L
year       item         Colon   petroleum    SS     CODb    BOD,   N02-N    NH3-N
bacillus  __ _      _  _     _  _     _  _
1991 exceeding te(%)     89.0     66.7      0.0      0.0       8.3      0.0      41.7
pollution mdex(P1)    127    12A      0.77     0.58      0.53     0.44      1.03
pollution rate(?)  89.0      8.7      0.5       0.4      0.4       0.3      0.7
type                >5        5        2         2        1         2        >5
1992 exceeding rate (%)    100.0    50.0    0.0      0.0       0.0      50.0     83.3
pollution index(P1)    16.0  6.4      0.04     0.47      0.50     0.90      1.45
pollution te(%)    62.1      24.8     0.2        2        2        3.3      5.6
type                >5        4        1         2        I         3       >5
1993 cxceding rate(%)    100.0    75.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      8.3       16.7
pollution index(P;)    22.9  16.8     0.03     0.33      0.25     0.90      0.89
pollution raile()  54.4      39.9     0.1       0.8      0.6       2.2      2.0
type                >5        5        1         1        1         3        3
1994 exceeding rat/(o)    100.0   50.0      0.0      33.3     33.3      33.3     91.7
pollution index(Pi)   77.4   44.8     0.50     0.88      1.75     0.53      8.91
pollution rate(*%)  57.4     33.2      0.4      0.7      1.3       0.4       6.6
type                >5       >5        2         3        4         2        >5
25



J
Table 3.5.4 Major Pollution Index and Pollution Composition
in the Teohuajiang River                    unit:mgJL
year       itan         Colon   peroleum    SS      COD,,    BOD,    NO-N    NH3-N
bacillus
991  exceedingrte(%/)    100.0    88.9      0.0       0.0      11.1      11.1      38.9
pollution index(PJ)   62.4   12.8     0.66      0.53      0.25     0.35      0.42
pollution mte(%)   79.1      16.2      0.8      0.7       0.3       0.4       0.5
t  >5        5        2         2         1         1        2
1992 exceeding mte(%)    78.0    -33.3      0.0       0.0       0.0      16.7      16.7
pollution index(P;)    34.0  5.6      0.12      0.53     0.25      0.53      0.61
pollution rate(%)  78.8      13.0      0.3      1.2       0.6       1.2       1.4
_ typc              >5        4         1        2         1        2         3
993 exceding rtc(%)    100.0      66.7      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       16.7
pollution index(Pi)   51.5   22.2     0.08      0.5      0.25      0.32      0.61
pollution rte(%)   67.3      29.0      0.1      0.7       0.3       0.4       0.8
type                >5       >5         1        2         I         1        3
1994 exceeding rate(%)    100.0   38.9      11.1      16.7     11.1      16.7      44.4
pollution index(P )    30.9  3.6      0.50      0.52      0.38     0.43      0.57
pollution rate(%)  81.4      95        1.3      1.4       1.0       1.1       1.5
type                >5        4        2         2  _               2         3
Table 3.   Major Pollution Index and PoRution Composition
in the Ningyua  River                   unit:mgAL
year       item         Colon   peroleum     SS     COD,&    BODE    N02-N    NHrN
I ____________ _ L bacillus
"991 exceeding rate(%)    100.0    100.0     0.0     16.7       0.0       0.0      0.0
potlution index(P,)    191   19.0      0.66     0.92       1.3      0.82     1.75
pollution ae(%)    88.6      8.9       0.3      0.4       0.6       0.4       0.8
tyPe                >5        5         2        3         4         3        >5
1992 exceeding rate(%)    100.A   66.7       0.0     83.3      83.3       0.0     100.0
pollufion index(P.)    238   92.6      0.40     2.0       4.5       0.28     5.86
pollution mate(%A)  69.2     26.9      0.1      0.6        1.3      0.1       1.8
type                >5        >5        2        >5       >5         1        >5
1993 exceeding ratc(%)    100.0    100.0     0.0     66.7      100.0      0.0      83.3
pollution index(P1)    202   71.0      0.12     1.25      3.5       0.23     3.14
pollution rate(%e)  71.8     25.2      0.1      0.5        1.2      6.1       1.1
type                >5        >5        1        4         >5        I        >5
1994 exceeding rate(%)    100.0    50.0     33.3      33.3     83.3       16.7    100.0
pollution index(P;)    238   16.2      0.62     1.13      1.8       0.31     2.64
pollution mtr(ly)  91.3       6.2      0.2      04        0.7       0.1       1.1
type                >5        5         2        4         5         1        >5
26
Jp



Table 3.5.6 Major Pollution Index and Pollution Composition
in the Nanxi River                 unit:mg/L
year       item         Colon   petroleum    SS     COD,,   BOD,    NO,-N    NHr-N
bacillus                                     _           _
1991  exceeding rate(%)    100.0    100.0   0.0       66.7     83.3      0.0      100.0
pollution index(P;)    238   35.2      1.02     0.96      1.92     0.21      3.54
pollution ate(%)   84.7      12.5      0.4      0.3       0.7      0.1       1.3
type                >5        >5        4        3         5        1        >5
1992 exceeding rate(%)    100.0    66.7      0.0      50.0     66.7      0.0      100.0
pollution index(P,)    238   59.4     0.22      1.45     3.75      0.29      3.83
pollution rate(Yo)  77.5     19.4      0.1      0.5       1.2      0.1       12
type                >5        >5        1        5        >5        1        >5
1993 exceeding rate(ff)    100.0    100.0    0.0      33.3     83.3      0.0      83.3
pollution index(P,)    202   53.0     0.08      1.10     3.75      0.22      3.54
pollution mte(Y.)  76.6      19.8      0.1      0.5       1.5      0.1       1.4
type                >5        >5        1        4        >5         1       >5
1994 exceeding rate(%)    100.0    66.7      0.0      66.7     100.0     16.7     100.0
pollution indyex)    238     10.2     0.46      0.82      125      0.39      2.08
pollution rwte()    94.0      4.0      0.2      0.3       0.5      0.2       0.8
>5        5        2         3        4         1        >5
Table 3.5.7 Major Pollution Index and Pollution Composition
in the Xiangsijiang River                        unit: mgIL
year       item          Colon   petroleum   SS      COD,,   BOD,   NO,-N    NHF-N
bacillus             SS     _
1991  exceeding rate(%)    100.0   66.7      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
pollution index(Pi)    2.33  6.60      0.17     0.40     0.2S      0.11      0.25
pollution rate%)    19.8     56.0      1.4       3.4      2.1       1.0      2.1
type                >5        4         I        2         1         1        1
1992 exceeding rate(%)    100.0    16.7    . 0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
pollution index(P,)    9.52  2.60      0.07     0.35      0.25     0.28      0.27
pollution rte(%)    68.0     18.6      0.5       2.5      1.8       2.0      1.9
type                >5        4         I        2         1         1        2
1993 cxceeding ratc(%)    100.0    66.7      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       16.7
pollution index(P,)    13.1  20.20     0.17     0.35      0.25     0.25      0.35
pollution rate(%)   36.4     56.2      0.5       1.0      0.7       0.7      1.0
type                >5        >5        1        2         1         1        2
1994 cxceeding rate(Y)   66.7      33.3     10.7      0.0       0.0      33.3      16.7
pollution index(Pi)    1.64   2.0      0.47     0.42      0.25     0.41      0.25
pollution ate(/%)   24.5     29.5      7.0       6.2      3.7       6.2      3.7
type                >5         4        2         2        1         2        1
27



J
4. Assessment result and its analysis
Lijiang River
The above data show that the present water quality of the Lijiang River is good, most
index are within the standard of Grade II surface water environment, up to the requirement
of fit class protected water, that is concentrated drinking water sources and for the
protection of rare fish species. But certain items such as coli and petroleum exceeded the
standard in 1991-94; DO is a little too low. And that of NHrN exceeded the standard of
Grade II water by a big margin.
Its tributaries
Field monitoring found that the water quality of Its tributaries the Taohua River, the
Xiaodong River, the Ningyuan River and the Nanxi River basically exceed the standard for
Grade Ill water, and it is deteriorating along with the development of pollution. For example,
the index of coli and petroleum exceed the standard for Glade m water in 1991-94. In
Xisodong River in 1993 only three items exceeded the standard, but it increased to 5 items in
1994. They are coli petroleum, NHrN, DO, and BOD. The values of coli, petroleum,
CODa,l BOD, NO-N and NHrN all exceeding the standard by over 33.3%.
The main pollutants in the Taohua River are coli and petroleum. The values of both
item exceeded the standard for Grade II water in 1991-94. In 1994, the standard-exceeding
ratio of DO, NHrN, CODMn, BOD, NO2-N, and SS all ineased in 1994.
More items exceeded the standard in the Ningyuan River, including coli, petroleum, DO,
CODm, BOD, NH3-N, all by a big margin. Standard exceeding ratio afker 1992 were all over
33.3%. Those of SS and N02-N increased from 0.0Yo in 1991-92 to 33.3% and 16.7%.
Item exceeding the standard in the Nanxi River in 1991-94 included coli, petroleum,
CODm, BOD, NHrN, and SS, all exceeding by over 33.3/ except that of SS.
Major pollutants in the Xiangsi River were coli and petroleum in 1991-94, all exceeding  A
the standard for Grade III water. Standard exceeding ratio of SS, NH3-N, and N02-N
increased in 1994 as compared with those in 1991.
It can thus be seen that the water of rivers in Guilin City is mainly polluted by
petroleum and organic matters. Major pollutants include coli, petroleum, NH3-N, NOrN, and
BOD. It proves that the increase of waste water discharged is the most important factor
affecting the water quality...1
Trend of the change of water qualit
Fig. 3-3 reveals that the water quality of the Lijiang River has basically remained at the
same level, with little variance in the 4 years. The water quality of the Xiangsi River didn't
28



vary much, but worse in 1994 than in 1991, yet still fairly clean. The Nanxi River and the
Ningyuan River are seriously polluted, but the situation improved a little than in 1992 and
1993. The water quality of the Xiaodong River and the Taohua River has been deteriorating
rapidly, with their pollution index values increasing, and the content of DO decreased to
2mglL. This deserves much attention.
3.6 Environmental quality of ground water (1991-94)
1 Ground water in Guilin City is of three types: karst water, pore water, and crevice water.
Karst water is the major type of ground water in Guilin City, which is widely
distributed, occupying 76.0% of the area of the basin. Pore water is main distributed in the
alluvial terraces along the banks of the Lijiang River and the front proluvial fans. The pore
water in the alluvial stratum is mainly stored in the pores of sand pebble staum, at 10-30m
thick with abundant water, forming one of the major water sources. Crvice water in
basement is mainly distributed around the Yaoshan Mountains in its northeast and Huachun
Village in its south. As its amount is small, it cannot be used as water source.
2. Chemical composition of ground water: It mainly belongs to HCO3-Ca type with a
mineralization of 100-350mg/L and the pH value of 6.5-8, total hardness 4-16.8 German
degrees, and tempeature 16-22'C..
3. Major pollutants in ground water. NO02-N. NV-N, NO3-N, MnW, T-Fe and phenol
followed by COD, Total hardness, Hg, pH, Cd and Zn.
4. Analysis on the result of the assessment
9 items exceeded the standard in 1991: pH, total hardness, COD, NHr-N, NO-N, NO3-
N, T Fe, Mn, and volatile phenol; 9 items exceeded the standard in 1992: pH, COD, NH3-N,
N02-N, NOrN, Hg, T Fe, Mn, and volatile phenol; II items exceeded the standard in 1991:
Cd and Zn; 7 items exceeded the standard in 1994: pH, total hardness, NHrN, NOrN, NO3-
N, T Fe and Mn.
The total area of good and fairly god underground water in the surveyed area was
270km2 in 1991, accounting for 901%/e of the total; 279km2 during high water season and
277km2 in low water season in 1992, respectively accounting for 93% and 92%/o of the total;
286.4km2 during high water season and 288.9km2 in low water season in 1992, respectively
accounting for 95.A% and 96.3% of the total; 292.8km2 in 1994, accounting for 97.6% of the
total. The area of fairly poor underground water in 1994 was 72km2 accounting for 2.4% of
the total, mainly distributed in: a)along Wucheng-Ximen Rice Flour Mill-brewery; b) along
No.3 Pharmaceutical Factory-Wanfutan Dairy, with a polluted area of 2km2; and c)Yaotou
area.
29



.
3.7 Solid waste matters
3. 7.) Domestic refuse produced in the city
Domestic garbage mnainly consists of organic matters, inorganic matters (broken bricks,
stove dregs, and dirt) and retrievable matters. Along with the rising of people's standard of
living and the popularization of liquefied gas, inorganic mattr s remarkably reduced while
the proportion of organic matters and retrievable matters increased in the 90's as compared
witi in the 80's.
The total amount of refuse produced was lO0,OOt in 1991, of which .43,000t was
treated to be harmless; 124,000t in 1992, of which 109,500t was btnsported away and
40,000t treated to be harmless; 131 OOOt in 1993, of which 120,000t was transported away
and 65,000t treated to be harmless.
3.7.2 Environmental polution cowed by solid wastes
Industrial solid waste in Guilin City is mainly of stove dredge and flash, plus some side
products and tailings reduced through production process. There is no radioactive dredge.
Because the adoption of the policy of comprehensive udlization, industrial waste maters in
Guilin City was well handled and under good management
Impact of solid waste in Guilin is mainly caused by domestic refuse. Because the
capacity of harnless treatment is far from enough, its pollution to water, soil, and the
atmosphere is becoming more and more outstanding. Lack of transporting capacity and
transit stations worsens the environment of living quwters of the city inhabitants. Besides,
the rapid development of small restaurants increased much garbage, which is not timely
treated and is causing many cases of foul smiells.
3. 7.3 Industrial solid wastes
Most of industrial solid waste maters is put into' comprehensive utilization, and the
remaining part-mostly tailings and flash-is stored or buried, causing certain harnness to
underground water and farm plants nearby.
3.8 Atmospheric environmental quality
3.8.1 Pollution of the xamosphere
Atmospheric pollution in Guilin City is of coal smoke tpe, mainly caused by smoke
discharged by factories, hotels, restaurants and stoves of city inhabitants. Major pollutants
30
JE



include SO2, NOx and TSP. Coal is the main energy source in Guilin, the urban areas of the
city consumed 3,998,000t of coal in 1991-94, averaging 999,5O0tWa, of which 168,800tWa was
for domestic use and 830,08Wtla for industrial use. There are 14 major coal consumers in
Guilin, like the Guilin Power Station, which on the average consumed 419,500t of coal in
1991-94, accounting for 50.5% of the total amnount of coal consumed by industries.
3.8.2 Amount of waste gas discharged by industries
Major coal consumers discharged 9,176.65 million normal m3 of industrial waste gas in
1991-94, averaging 2,294.16 million Nm3, which contained 18,917tta of SO2 4,259t/a of
smoke dust, and 3816t/a of NOx.
3.8.3 Atmospheric environmental quality
The averge daily maximum concentration of SO2 in 1991-94 was 0.221-0.447mg/Nm3,
exceeding the standard for Grade I atmosphere by 10.05-2135 times; the average daily value
was 0.024-0.085mg/Nm3. exceeding the standard for Grade I atmosphere by 0.2-3.25 times.
The aveaage daily maximum concentraion of NOx in 1991-94 was 0.054-0.129mg/Nm3,
exceeding the standard for Grade I atmosphere by 0.08-1.58 times; the avenrge daily value
was 0.015-0.024mg/Nm3, not exceeding the standard for Grade I atmosphere.
The average daily maximnum concentration of TSP in 1991-94 was 0A80-0.720mg(Nm3,
exceeding the standard for Grade II atmosphere by 1.6-2.4 times; the average daily value
was 0.146-0.480mg/Nm3, not exceeding the standard for Grade II atmosphere.
In all, in 1991-94, the average total pollution load of SO2 was the highest, accounting
for 62.93%, followed by TSP and NOx. So SO. is the most important pollutants affecting the
atmospheric environment of Guilin City. The above figures show that the average
concentrations of the three items decreased as compared with previous years. But viewed
from the coefficient of pollution load, that of TSP rose from 0.207 in 1991 to 0.392 in 1994;
that of S02 showed a tendency of decrease, dropping from 0.718 in 1991 to 0.486 in 1994.
This was the result of the increase of coal consumption, construction projects and vehicles.
3.9 Acoustic environmental quality
3.9.1 Acoustic environmental quality of Guilin City
Environmental noise sources in Guilin are from traffic, daily life, industry, construction,
and other noise, of which traffic and daily life are the main ones.
31



the total length of road where equivalent noise intensity exceeded 7OdB(A) in 1991 to
1994 was respectively 43.5kmn, 43.7kn, 47.84km, and 44.83hn, all taking up more than 78%
of the total length of roads, the highest reached 86.7%.
The area where the average equivalent noise intensity exceeded 7OdB(A) during
daytime in 1991, 1993, and 1994 respectively accounted for 15.2%, 16.49%, and 8.06%; that
exceeding 6OdB(A) respectively 45%, 52.02%, and 39.51%; that exceeding 55dB(A)
respectively 67.8%/o, 74.6%, and 68.95%.
3.9.2 Acoustic environmental quality ofthe Guilin Prefecture
Investigation over 21 tunk roads in the counties of the prefecture found 13 of them had
a flow of more than 1001h vehicle, of which the ones in Lingchuan, Lipu and from
Gongcheng Segment Factory to the bus station, where the flow was over 300/h, with the
maximum of 6541h. The noise intensity in 9 trunk roads exceeded the controlled vale by
0.19-3.3dB(A). That of the other 12 roads was within but very near the controlled value.
Though the traffic flow in most roads was not very high, the poor function of the roads, not
separatng motored and non-motored vehicles caused much confusion. Some roads don't
have pavement and where traffic is in still poorer order. This is the main factor for tffic
noise.
3.10 Monitoring over existing environment of the area involved in the project
3.10.1 Environmental qualit around the Rong-sha Lake
1. existing surface water quality
The project involves the project to replenish water for the Rong-Sha lake, the project to
draw water from the Wuzhouba of the Lijiang River, and the water pass the cannel to the
Rong-Sha lake, discharge to the Lijiang River on the point 300m far from the Proboscis
Mountain.
(1) Distribution of monitoring point
There are 16 monitoring points, 6 monitoring points on lakes, 7 points on the Lijiang
River and 3 points on the canal (see Fig. 3-4).
(2) Items monitored and analyzed
pH, SS, DO, CODm,, BOD5, CODc,. NH3-N,, TN, TP, Hg, phenol, Cr', CN, oil, Colon
bacillus, smell, Chia, Transparency and color degree.
(3) Standard for assessment
32



AM
IV~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
o    _                            _ _   _ _   _ _  _ _   _ _
3-10        i
A1  A;I T.        - '     t a 1                    33
K ZZ1;. 1   £-t.AEiS#



.
!
7~ ~~~~~ / '--
d200  L=lISOm                         CO   sl 
q M3/S      0          t/       j    /    1
/Nwi~~~~~~~~~~ /                        * .   .   
rain~~ di _seharge pipeline    *' ,    0/
Q-4~ ~ ~~~~~I                  -
*t lake                       quA      ipln
d20 Ln15OmL=50    \>                            ;7z
Tao*uajiaTig pomping ptation            t a
NoeZmunnnqu sewage pipeline
010'f L= 350m
TSP monitoring point
Noise monitorhig point
A  Wower and sediment monitoring point    /
Fig 34Monitoring Point of the Rong-Sha Lakes treating Project
- 34 -
- 1



Tbe assessment was carried out according to the standard for Grade II for the Lijiang
River and Grade III for the Lakes set in document GB3838-88 "Surface Water
Environmental Quality Standard". See table 3.10.1 for the analysis of results monitored.
Table 3.10.1 Environmental Quality of the Project to Replenish Water
to the Rong-Sha Lake as monitored
Water bodies      monitoring point            comprhensive     pollution    pollutant
pollution mdcx (P) load ratio(%)
replenishment project open cannel             0.64             2.03         lighly polluted
t3uihu Lake       inlet                       4.55              18.66       seriously polluted
center                     3.14              17.44        seriously polluted
Ronghu Lake       inlet on Shangronghu lake   3.19              17.48       seriously polluted
center on Shangrngbu lake  2.84              3.93         seriously polluted
center on Xiaronghu lake   2.34              7.91         seriously polluted
Shahe Lake        inlet                       2.22             7.81         seriously pollutd
centcr    -                2.5               8.05        seiously polluted
oudet                      2.5               7.62         sriously poluted
the Lijisng Rive    inlet of water of the lake  0.93            1.83        mediums polluted
lift of the Lijiang Theae  0.4              0.53        lightly polluted
center of the Lijiang heater    0.43         0.96        lightly poluted
right of the Lijiang Theat  0.57             1.08        lightly polluted
lift of the Proboscis Mount  0.48            1.00        lightly polluted
center of the Proboscis Mouoit   0.57        1.53        lightly polluted
right of the Proboscis Mount    0.77         2.14        mediums polluted
Table 3.10.2 TSI Index of the Ronghn Lake and Shahe lake
inlet of Lake Guihu    center of Lake Guihu inlet of Lake  center of Shangronghu lake
TSI (Chia) 50.75             57.94             60.01                 34.91
TSI (SD) 80.17               81.03             77.48                 73.40
TSI (Z)   130.92             138.96             137.49               128.31
center of Lake Ronghu inlet of Lake Shahe  center of Lake Shahe    outlet of Lake Shahe
TSI (Chia) 58.03             5820              SS.77                 58.70
TSI (SD) 70.36               67.58             66.45                 67.58
TSI (:)  128.39              125.78             122.22               126.28
The above data show that the supplying water quality on open cannel from the Lijiang
River is lightly polluted. The items of coli petroleum and TN exceed the standard of Grade
II surface water environment, and the exceeding time respectively 22.8, 2.8 and 2.04.
* At present, The lakes of Ronghu lake, Guihu lake and Shahu lake is seriously polluted.
The major items is coli, petroleum, TP, TN, NHrN, BOD,, DO exceed the standard of Grade
IV or V surface water environment, In particular the inlet of Lake Guihu, the oil, TP, TN,
35



NH3-N and coli are seriously polluted, the values respectively 36, 17.88, 12.22, 9.1 and 23.
The pollution of the lakes is basically of the following order: the Guihu Lake> the Ronghu
Lake>the Shahu Lake.
* The assessment result show that The right dike on the section of the Lijiang River(the
part of Guilin City center) is been polluted serious than the center and the lift dikes. The
water quality of Lijiang River on upstream (the Lijiang theater) is finer than on downstream
(the Proboscis Mountain).
* The TSI index (using Calson method) declared that the lakes all are eutrophic state,
with TSI(Z) of 125 to 140.
The water quality of project area is polluted seriously on lakes, the water of cannel is
lightly polluted, the water of outlet of the Lake Shahu has threatened the section of Proboscis
Mountain..
2. existing ground water quality
(1) Distribution of observing wells over ground water
There are three observation wells near the lakes, in the Laocangxiang, Xiaojinxiang and
Lijiang theater .
There are three observation well near the Chongko refuse landfill too, 2 monitoring
wells is drilling well and 1 spring in the reservoir area
(2) Items monitored and analyzed
BODs, COD, As, Pb, Cd, Hg, Cr', Cu Zn, Mn, pH, NHr-N, T-N, NO-N, and NO3-N.
(3)Monitored result and analysis
a)Monitored result
"GB5749-85 Hygienic Standard for Drinking Water" and standard for Grade II set in
"BG/T14848-93 Standard for Ground Water Quality".
The result shows that except the values of pH in the spring in the reservoir area, all the
other items were within the standard fro drinking water.
3. Existing atmospheric environment
To compare with the Grade II standard set in document GB3095-82 "Atmospheric
Environmental Standard".
36
_.                                                   .



Table 3.103 Monitoring Result of the TSP of the Atmospheric Environment
unit: mg/m3
Monitoring point                 13th  14th  ISth  16th  17th   Avemage (S days)
I Guihu Hotel                      0.04   0.07   0.39   0.35   0.5   0.27
2  Medical College                  0.04   0.10   035   0.19   0.48   0.23
3  Ronghu Hotel                     0.09   0.11   0.51   0.68   1.19   0.52
4  the procurator' office           0.15   0.27   0.48   0.56   0.89   0.47
S  Lijiang Hotel                    0.26   0.20   0.28   0.41   0.32   0.29
6  City environmental monitoring station  0.39   0.38   0.30  10.0   1.21   0.56
7  Yongsba Hotel                    0.29   0.38   0.30   0.50   1.21   0.56
8  Long-uanping road                0.19   0.30   0.55   0.59   0.89   D.S0
Table 3.10.4 Assessment Result of TSP of the Project Area
Monitoring                      range          poltu tion  index   exceeding   exceding
point                           ng/rn3    13th 14th  15th 16th 17th times      rate(%)
Guihu Hotel                     o.04-0.05 0.13 02   1.30 1.17  1.67 0.67       60
Medical College                 0.04.0.48 0.13 0.33  1.17 0.63 1.60 0.60       40
Ronghu Hotel                    0.09.1.09 .0.30 0.37 |1.70 2.27 3.97 2.97      60
the procurator' office          0.150.89 0.50 0. 1.60 I1.87 2.97  1.97         60
Lijiang Hotel                   0.16.0.90 0.63 0.53 0.97 1,.50 3.00 2.00       40
City envirmnmental monitoring sttion 0.20.0.41 087 0.67 0.93 1.37 1.07 0.37     40
Yongsha Hotel                   0.30-1.21 1.30 1.27 1.00 1.67 4.03 3.03         80
Longcuaping road               A0.190.89 0.63 1.00 1.83 1.97 2.97  1.97        60
Ci) The values of TSP at all the monitored pints in the area of the Rong-Sha lake treating
project in the urban part of Guilin City all exceeded the standard sometimes, with the
maximum time for 3.03, Maximum exceeding rate for 80Y%, the most serious being at
Yongsha Hotel. The maximum value monitored far higher than the value monitored from
routing monitoring value (1991-1994).
CD The polluted index less than o.50 is 15%, 0.5-1.00 is 30%/o and more than 1.00 is
55% on the 8 monitoring point.
4. Existing noise environment
(1). Monitoring and assessment of existing atmospheric environmental quality
a. Distribution of monitoring point
Machines used in dredging the sediment and laying pipeline and transporting vehicles
will surely produce noise to affect people's life nearby, so the construction site are chosen as
the background acoustic environment. The monitoring points are arranged by the grid point
37



method with key point at highly sensitive area and road cross. altogether 17 monitoring
points were chosen (see Fig 3-5).
b. Standard and method of assessment
The monitoring method was carried out according to document GB/T14623-93 'Urban
Area Environmental Noise Monitoring Methods and "Noise for Industrial Enterprise Noise
surveying"
The standard for Type II for urban part and Type IV for transportation set in BG3096-
93 "Urban Area Enviromental Standard" were used,. The equivalent noise level are
respectively 6OdB(A) and 70 B(A), duing day time and 50 B(A) and 55 B(A) at night time.
c. result for monitoring and analysis.
See table 3.10.5 for the results of assessment. The results show that the six points for
trffic noise monitored all exceeded the noise standard at day time and night time. The
trffic flow value are 2100-2900 /day, at 9#, 10# and I # monitoring points. The center of
Guilin City has busy traffic and noise pollution was seiously.
The environmental noise monitoring points is within standard at three points, the two
points {5# and 6#) exceeded the noise standard, with Leq respectively 66.1 and 61 dB(A) the
exceeding rte for 400%.
Table 3.10.5 The results of monitoring of the noise on the project ar
unit :dB(A)
monitoring point                           ustndard    mlsult monitored  nslt compaed
_ _ _ _ _ _  _    _   _   _               ~~~~~~~            ~    ~~~(Leq)__
I   tbe ad front of Guihu Hotel (trffic)        70          71.7             1.7
2   Guihu restuaant (environment)                60          59.0           -1.0
3   Work Store by Guihu lake (envuonment)        60         S43            -5.7
4   Right of North gae of Guihu Hotel (traffic)  70          75.4          .+5.4
5   RightofConsmuction Bureau (environment)      60          66.1           46.1
6   right wall of Logistics Dqertment (environmct)    60     61.0           +1.0
7   road cross ncar Young League committee (traffic)    70   74.8           +4.8
8   the NE wall of oil person univarsity (environment)   60  53.7           -6.3
9   road on the gate Xinhua book shopping (traffic)  70      73.7           +3.7
10  the road near Jingui Hotel (traffic)         70          74.3           +4.3
I I  road cross of Longchuanpin                  70          73.8           +3.8
38



.1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W
iBer~~~~~~~~~~Dogl wDusttsu pbng Su        -}2t  
. _ pbnt -  ~ 3.                          J .i#xia
. 2go  ' sJS *  *\'  )aX
L,mgchuanping watersupplyig Plat  }     gg
Ha          fannbnd
W" szwaw ssupplyingpht     
.          . ~~~~~~~~Ton    Wy         u  
We X   CuS  cl~~~~~~~ 1 2 
(M -tQrcenzhcn
F           Fig 3- 6Location of Water Supplying Plant, Guilin City
39



4. Predicted Environmental Impact and Controlling Measures
4.1 Recognition and screening of environmental affecting factors to be assessed
4.1.1 Puwpose
Factors affecting the environment at different stages and their degrees were studied
according to the characteristics of the project if comprehensive enviromnent treatment of the
Lijiang River and major environmental problems which might appear during the construction
and operation of the project were screened out to be used as basis for key assessment.
4.1.2 Method of screening
The matrix method was used in the assessment
4.1.3 Result of screening
The result of the screening of the factors affecting the environment during the
construction and operation of the project was listed in Table 4.1.1.
1. Major environmental problems and affecting factors
(I)Raised dust, noise, and foul smell during the construction will affect the atmospheric
quality and people's life, especially problem of sediment polluted.
(2) The discharging water of into lake will affect the Rong-Sha lake and the water of out
lake will affect
It can be seen from Table 4.1.1 that the impact during the operation of the project will
be mainly positive while its impact during the constuction will be mainly negative. Negative
impact are manifested through the impact of construction noise to the scoustic environment
and the impact of raised dust on the atmospheric environment, and the impact of
transportation vehicles on the citys traffic. As the construction sites of the laying of waste
water pipelines will in the downtown area of the city, the impact will be quite serious. The
project of replenishing water from the Lijiang River will occupy much land, causing much
impact on the vegetation, land utilization, and tourist scenarios.
4.2 Analysis of environmental impact
4.2.1 Characteristics of environmental impact
The Lijiang comprehensive treatment project has positive and negative, long term and
short term, reversible and irreversible, and local and extensive impact. See Table 4.2.1 for
40



t 4-1 "gtI i* Ft21
t ~    ~~~~    4t            St f         /a i           r s1e J   i t e"
-f "tE    _   _1  _1  _l  _1   -l 1  +1  _1  I8  _l  +   -1       -1-1 0
-1  -2  -2  -2  -2  -2            +1  -_  -I  -2  +1  -2      I-2  -18
-:-t   *    _  _1  -i  _-_1  -1  _  _   +1 -1      +1  -1    X- 
-- _                                                     -2-2-_-- __   - 2  .  _
-2  -2  -2  -        -                 _  --      -1 2                  -7
-2  -2                       +1  -2       -1  +1           -1  -7
- R*-1 -2                  --                               
-2  -4  10 -   -4           -2 - _7  _4                      4
-24             -13            -ii                 -14
Jk*4-1_
m"*s~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~i   'At$$                     4,1 i*
fStit      -2  +3  +1      _  +1         ,           -2               1 |+31
*14  +13        *3                 422~~~~~~~~+2+1
+3  +1   .+   +3   2  .          +1  _+2 |+         t2    1 |3 +24
S^*    ~+2 _    _     +2-- _    +
.K.~~                                                 1 +2t +---r +1
+t  4  +8gF2   .+F  +6  +4  +e2 +F1  +2         +3+7  _   +4 1+2 1+6
+14         ~~+13          +3                 +22
41



the result of analysis. Negative impact is basically during the construction of the project, of
short tenn, reversible and local, while positive impact is basically during its operation, of
long term and extensive. So after the project is completed and put into operation the major
impact will be favorable, though there will be local unfavorable impact.
Table 4.2.1 Analysis of the Environmental Impact of the
Rong-Sha Lake Treatment Project        _
-       ~Negative irnpact     -Positivemimpac         -
consiuct- opera- rever- irever- local wide construc- opera- ilocal wide
tion    tion   sive  sive            tion    tion
Cwudwatequality                           V            VVV            V
Surcwow_quity                       _   ___                        _/    _
Ana.here uvquvty                             V                             v
_Xq - 4     v             v - v                          v         v
Noise nviroamemt      V       V     VV
U,bmeeology                                                        %  __      V
City LWascape         V             VV                             V    V
Aquaic col1g          V                         VV 
For vege                            v           v
and_use               V_   V
Wamc supp" quality                                                 V    V
rraspotatio           VV __V                                                                  -
Soca mcn_my                                                        V    V_
Heiandt               V             v  _    v                      V 
Livbig sanda_d        V                         v_v_v
RccFeation            V             v           v            _
Aesehvic =d-ousm             V 
4.3 Prediction on the project's environmental effect during its construction
4.3. 1 prediction on the project's environmental effect during its construction of the project of
the Rong-Sha lake treating project
A the construction of the project will last a quite long timne and number of construction
machines and vehicles for transpiation will be used, plus the large quantity of polluted=
sediment, earth to be back filled and castaway as well as temporarily piled up construction
materials, problems like consuctuon noise, raise dust, foul smell, secondary pollution,
42
4.3. preictin onthepojec 's nvirnmenal efectdurig it contrucion ftherojet o



traffic blockage, and interruption of ecosystem and city landscape will have negative impact
on the environment and cause much inconvenience to people's life and the environment.
1. Analysis on the enviromnental impact of the dredging of sediment on the lake bottom
It is estimated that about 184,000m3 of sediment has be dug up during the construction
of the project, of which large quantities of pollutants will accumulate. Thus the cleaning away,
transportation and disposal of the sediment will have certain impact on the environment.
a. Physical and chemical properties of sediment and major pollutants it contained
* Organic content in sediment of the lakes
Table 4.3.1 list the organic content of the 9 samples of sediment taken from the lakes.
Table 4.3.1 Organic content in the sediment of the three lakes
No.   monitoring point                      Organic content (N)
2#    inlet of the Guihu lake               10.87
3#    center of tie Guihu Lake              12.96
4#    inletoftheShangronghulake             7.04
5#    cetr of ie Sbangoighu lake            6.68
6#    center of the Xiaronghu lake          3.25
7#    inlet of the Shahu lake               12.82
8#    center of the Shahu lake              3.41
9#    outlet of the Shahu lake              7.68
* Content of heavy metals , As and mineral oil in sediment
As the three lakes have been receiving waste water from domestic sewage and industrial
waste water, a certain quantities of heavy meter, As and mineral oil have entered the
sediment through exchange with the lake water (table 4.3.2).
43



Table 432 Content of heavy metal and oil on the sediment of the three lakes
location                     As      oil     Cr       Zn      Pb      Hg      water(/0)
inkt of the Guihu lake       27.1    2180    56.8    482.7   279.6   0.1324  4.57
centerof the Guihu Lake      25.2    3015    80.2    597.7   164.9   0.1122  5.36
Wlet of the Shangronghu lake  18.5    1161    48.3    181.1   166.9   0.3158  3.58
center of the Shangronghu lake  15.9    505   60A     283.6   199.5   0.4236  4.62
center of the Xiaroogu lake  8A    965        36.5    176.3    93.1  0.3150   1.93
inlet of the Shabu lake      31.6    1489    67.1    752.3   381.8   0.2348   3.33
center of the Sbahu lake     22.3    395      61.8    330.3   330.3   0.5044  428
outlt of ft Shahu lake       23.1    1017    47.4    256.1   126.6   0.1772   1.95
* Analysis of the potential ecological risk of heavy metoals in the sediment
1. Index of potential bannfulness to the ecosystom caused by heavy metals deposited in
the sediment
In order to give a quantitative analysis of such risk, the potential ecological risk indeX
used by the Swedish National Environmental Protection Agency and Lars Hakanson of the
Pusala water quality laboratory was used in the study.
Potential ecological risk (thereby refereed to as RI) is controlled and affected by the
following factors:
a. Concentration of heavy metals deposited in the surfice layer. he value of RI of lakes
sediment with the increase of heavy metal pollution in the surface layer,
b. Number of the kinds of heavy metals. The more kinds of heavy metals the bottom clay
contains, the higher goes the RI value.
c. Toxicity of heavy metals. Heavy metals with higher toxicity will cause higher RI
value.
d. 'he water body's sensitivity to heavy metal pollution. Water bodies more sensitive to
heavy metal pollution have higher RI value.
II. Method used for the calculation of potential harmful index (RI value).
a. The determination of the single factor of contamination (CJf),
Clr C,-,,j I Cf
Cif- pollution coefficient of a certain heavy metal
Oi,,f. - concentration of that heavy metal measured at the surface layer of the sediment
C- reference value needed for calculation
b. The degree of heavy metal contamination (Cd) is the sum of many heavy metal
coefficient:
44



n
Cd I  C;f
i = l
c. The toxic response factor, or Tr value, can be used to show the toxic degree of heavy
metals and the sensitivity of the water body to heavy metal pollution.
d. The potential ecological risk factor of a certain heavy metal, or the F, value is
determined in the following way:
Es = 7" - C'
e. The potential ecological risk index of many heavy metals in the sediment, or the RI
value is determined in this way:
By summing up the above we can get the following equation:
R1-  E f =    4 f  Clf =vf f *C;ac 'C
The determination of index used in the assessment
a. Concentmtion of heavy metals in the surface layer of sediment
The value used was the one actually measured.
b. Reference values used in the calculation
There are highest background value of earth before the industrialization were used as
the reference value for calculation.
45



Table 4.33 Maximum Background Values of Heavy Metals before Industrialization
unit: ppm
Pb            lZn             Cr             lAs             jHg
70             175            90              15             0.25
*. Heavy metals assessed
Toxic heavy metals Hg, As, Pb, Zn, and Cr were used in this assessment.
*. Toxicity coefficient of heavy metals
Heavy metals toxic coefficient provide information on heavy metal' harnfulness to
human beings and the aquatic ecosystem. The sequence is like this: water-sediment-
organism - fish-human body. The problem can be discussed from many angles. We mainly
proceed from the "principle of element abundance" and "element releasing intensity" raised
by Hakanson. That is to say, the toxicity of a certain heavy metal is related to its intensity of
release, the easier a metal releases, the more toxic it is. Processing of a series of data finds
out the order of the toxicity of the above five metals is: Hg > As > Pb >Cr > Zn. The
standard processing of their toxic efficient determines their value as respectively: Hg=40,
As=10, Pb=S, Cr-2, Zn=l.
See the following tables for the results of calculation.
Table 4.3.4 Potential Ecological Risk Factor
Pb            iZn             Icr          IAS               Hg
5                             12              10             40
*. The division between the harmfulness to ecological system of heavy metal in sediment,
eclogical risk index, and degree of contamination and the relation between ecological risk
index Ef:
E, <25-light ecological risk
25< E, <50-medium ecological risk
5o<EJ, <100-serious ecological risk
100< EJ <200-very serious ecological risk
E, >200-extremely serious ecological risk
The relation between potential ecological risk index RI and degree of contamination:
Rl<95-light ecological risk
95<RI<190-medium ecological risk
190<RI<380-serious ecological risk
RI>380-very serious ecological risk
46



J
Table 43.5 Values Calculated against the Highest
Background Values before Industrialization
Sample Location             E'
__ As    lHg       Pb       Zn        Cr
inlet of the Guihu lake    18.1      21.2     19.95     2.76      1.26     63
center ofthe Guihu Lake    16.8      18.0      11.80    3.43      1.78      115
inlet of the Shangronghu lake  12.3  50.4     11.90     1.03      1.08     77
center of the Shangronghu lake   10.6  67.6   14.25     1.62      1.34     95
center of the Xiaronghu lake  5.6    50.4     6.25      1.01      0.82     64
inlet of the Shahu lke     21.1      37.6     27.25     4.30      1.50     92
center ofthe Shahu [Ae     14.9      80.8     23.60     1.89      1.38      109
outlet of the Shahu lake   15.4      28.4     9.05      1.46      1.06     55
The following conclusion can be drawn after assessing the potential ecological risk of
heavy metals in the sediment by using Hakanson's methods: the Ef of As, Zn and Cr
contained in samples taken from the ranges 5.6-21.1, 1.01-4.3 and 0.82-1.78 respectively,
posing no potential risk, the E'f value of Pb ranges from 6.65 to 27.25, just one point posting
as medium ecological risk and Hg at all the points are medium ecological risk, with range
from 18.0 to 80.0. For the RI of all the heavy metals, the values found at the three lakes are
less than 115, so the sediment of the three lakes is light contaminated, major pollutants
being Hg, two point have medium pollutants.
2 Dredging of the water way of sediment of the Rong-Sha lakes
The purpose of dredging is to get rid of the pollutants in the sediment so as to remove
the intend pollution sources from within the water body. Consideration should be taken not
only for the feasibility and economical rationality but also for meeting environmental
demands.
The area of the lakes bed to be dredged is about 22.5m2, depth for 0.9m and the total
investment about 6.44 million yuan, and the whole work of dredging is estimated to last
three years from 1997-1999.
3 Dredging methods
Dredging will be done after the lakes water is withdrawn. pollution intercepting pipes
will be built first and external water sources cut up. Reaming water will be pumped out and
the dredging will be done after the river bed is left to be air dried for some time.
Dredging can be done all the year round. But as high temperature will intensify the
volatilization of toxic gasses and rain water will wash away the sediment piled tempomarily
to cause secondary pollution during the rainy season, it is recommended to dredge the lakes
47



bed in the dry season.
As the earthwork to be dug is not very much but the dredging site will stretch a long
distance through densely populated inhabitant quarters, the construction nit has decided to
carry out the dredging by both men and machines. Because there are center of city, if
dredging by men, the progress will be slow in this way, it will cause more disturbance to the
people living nearby as there will be more foul smell and jam traffic.
4 Analysis of the environmental impact during the dredging
(I) Analysis on noise pollution
Machines like excavators, bulldozers and transporting vehicles used in the process of
dredging will produce noises of high levels affecting surrounding enviromnent, especially
sound sensitive areas. Investigation found excavators, bulldozers and loading machines can
produce noise 95dB(A), and the engineer starting of heavy trucks can produces noise
95dB(A). The following formulas can be used to calculate the weakening of these noise
sources as the distance from them increases:
L1=L1-201gY2/yl- A L
In which: -,, y2-distance from noise source, m
Li, L2-noise level at the distance of zy, 72, dB(A)
& L-influence of buildings, trees, etc. on noise, dB(A)
Calculation finds out that for a noise source with a level of 95dB(A), the noise level can
still reach 68dB(A) at the distance of 20m from it, 62dB(A) at 40m, 58dB(A) at 60m,
57dB(A) at 80m, and 54dB(A) at 100m. According to the standard for Type I area in the
"Standard for Urban Area Enviromnental Noise Levelr, that is inhabitant, cultural and
educational quarters, noise level there should be below 55dB(A) during day time; for Type 11
area, that is inhabitant, commercial, and mixed industrial quarters, it should be below
6OdB(A). According to this, the sensitive places along the Rong-Sha lakes will be affected,
and the noise level in these places, the Guihu Hotel, Ronghu Hotel, and Dangui Hotel all
exceed the noise standard, if these place increase new noise resource, will exceed more.
(2)1mpact of temporarily piled sediment to the environment
If not transported away in time, the sediment piled along the lakes bank will produce
foul smell, form raised dust when aired dry and blown by wind, and be washed to spread by
rain water and cause secondary pollution to surrounding soil, water bodies, ground water and
the atmnosphere through soaking, seeping, leaching, and volatilization. Thus toxic substances
and causative agents will spread through the medium of water and the atmosphere.
Observation has found that the surface of sediment containing 200%e of water piled along the
bank of the lakes will become dry in a few days. With a wind of a speed of 2.5 m/s, TSP in
48
Jw



l
the raised dust from the sediment pile can affect as far as 150m in the lowered direction.
Within that range the concentration of TSP in the atmosphere may reach 490 li gfm3, about
1.6 times of the standard for Grade II of environmental atmospheric quality. Without rain,
part of the 20% of water contained in the sediment will evaporate into the atmosphere, part
will soak through the bottom of the pile to flow to low lying places to spread its pollutants.
In case 50% of the water soaks out, there will be altogether about 20,000m3 of soakage,
which will contain 800-2000 mg/L of BOD and 1600-l0,O0OmgtL of COD, forming a
serious secondary pollution source. Heavy rain or storm will wash away all the sediment
piled, thus causing more serious secondary pollution. This equals shifting the polluted
sediment to the ground surface to be disseminated to larger areas and it will be almost
impossible to "gather it up" again.
sediment piled up along the lakes bank also affects the landscape of the city if not
removed in time. Investigation found out the foul smell it gives out can reach the 4th grade,
(Intensity of foul smell can be divided into 6 grades from grade 0 to grade 5: grade 3 gives
out obvious foul smell; grade 4 gives out strong foul smell; and gade 5 is extremely foul.)
producing very unpleasant sensation. Ihe foul smell is caused by substances like ammonia,
hydrogen sulfide, volatile alcohol, and acid produced in the anaerobic decomposition of
organic matters contained in the sediment.
(3) Impact of discharge water to environment of the Lijiang River during dredging
period
Dredging will be done after the lake water is withdrawn durng dry season. the total
water value is 337,500m3, with lake area for 22500Gm2, depth l.5m. If the discharge method
is unreasonable, it will impact the Lijiang River once-off. Because the water value of the
Lijiang River is rich, so once-off impact is not influenced the water quality of the river
* Discharge from outlet of the Shahu lake
The water of Rong-Sha lakes discharge from the outlet of the Shahu lake by
gravitational flow, intercepting inflow water at inlet of Guihu lake, so no impact on the water
quality of the Lijiang River.
* Discharge water by pump
The water of Rong-Sha lakes discharge from outlet of the Shahu Lake by pumping
water, with flow value Im3/s, the pumping velocity is fit input flow, so it has no impact on
the water quality of the Lijiang River.
* Discharge water in two days
According the three lakes value, if we need to discharge water on two days, the
pumping velocity is 2-3m3/s and continue pumping on two days. The velocity maybe little
49



fast than normal during wet season, so it has no impact on the Lijiang River.
5 Environmental effect during the transportation of bottom clay
The following enviromental impact will be cause during the transportation of
sediment:
(1) Poor sealing during transportation or the sediment being too thin will cause
droppings along the transpiration route to harm the enviromnent.
(2) Vehicles transporting sediment will add to the crowdedness of traffic.
It is recommended that the following measures be taken in the transportation of
sediment
a. Use well sealed garbage vehicles or ordinary trucks lined with double weaned cloth
and covered with tarpaulin to prevent sediment from dropping out;
b. Directly load the sediment dug up into transportation vehicles during machine
operation so as to reduce its chance to touch the ground at the construction site;
c. Statistics from road traffic noise monitoing found:
Normal vehicle flow of the area is about 700-2,500/h. A total of 150 vehicle times/d
will be used to trnsport the sediment, adding about 6% thc normal traffic flow. It is
suggested that sediment trnsportation be done before and after nornal working hours of the
day and at night so as to reduce the pressure on.taffic.
6 Utilization of bottom clay as a resource for forests
(1) Feasibility
The total amount of sediment of the Rong-Sha lakes to be piled is about 184,000m3
according to the Municipal Environmental Monitoring Station of Guilin. The Administration
of the lakes holds that sediment dug up can be used as fertilizer for lawns and trees (but not
for farn fields) and for hygiene land filling.
The sediment of the lakes contains much organic mattas and many trace elements
besides the three main elements of contained in fertilizer. N, P, and K. It can be used as
fertilizer for forests to raise the soil's fertility and raise forestry production.
(2) Secondary pollution in fertilizing forests and its preventive measures
The shifting of chemical elements in soil is mainly canied by water. Washing and
elevation by rain water will move pollutants contained in the sediment through surface
runoff and seepage, the former causing surface soil pollution along its way and the latter
carries pollutants into the subsoil. Organic matters and oxidizes of Fe, Al and Mn will be
fixed in the layer 20-30cm deep through absorption and complexion. So proper amount of
sediment used as fertilizer for forests will not damage the soil or polluted ground water.
The above analysis shows that the prevention of runoff pollution through rain water
so
SO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'



- l
elevation and washing is the key link of techniques required. It should be point out that
sediment transported to the botanical garden should be used in time, otherwise it should be
pilled in a planned way, with lining below and cover above to prevent it from being washed
away to pollute surface water or producing raised dust to pollute the atmpsphere.
two preventive measures: 1. Burial -dig a hole around the tree root, fill in bottom clay used
as fertilizer, and then cover the top with a layer of earth 10-15cm deep; 2. Covering up-
cover the bottom clay used as fertilizer around the tree with plastic sheet and tug its edge
into earth to prevent the bottom clay from being elevated or washed away by rain water.
7. Sediment used for landfill and prediction its environmental impact
The sediment of the lakes can to be used for sanitary landfill on Chongko sanitary refuse
landfilL according the original plan by the feasibility report suggested. The Chongko refuse
landfill is located on south-west of Chongko village of Lingui country. The designed capacity
of Chongko refuse landfill is 5Ot/d and the duration of use will be 20 years, the total amount
of domestic refuse disposed can reach 4,562,000 t. The amount of sedinent of three lakes is
184,000t, only 3.9%/o of total amount capacity. The sediment can be used for background soil,
because its RI is light pollution.
4 3 2 Prediction and awlysis impact of the sewage pipeline project on environment
1. Prediction on the impact during construct
Drilling machines, excavation machines, loading machines and vehicles will be used in
the construction, whose noise intensity is 90-95dB(A). Calculation found out that the noise
level in inhabitant, cultural, education commercial and mixed industrial quarters will exceed
the Grade II of noise standard set in GB3096-93 "environmental noise standard for urban
area".
2. Most of the construction will adopt the method of underground pipe-jacking. After the
open slot construction, the earth can be used for ground or road leveling. As the earth to be
cast away is just local earth, its dropping during construction will cause no other pollution
except raised dust.
3. All the waste water pipeline will be laid at the sides of the existing road. There is no
necessity to block traffic along the direction of the pipelines. But the piling of refilling earth
and laying of the pipes will occupy certain part of the bicycle lane and the pavement. When a
pipeline cross a road, in most cases a hole will be dug under the base of the road instead of
opening up the road surface. But vehick with heavy load have to be prohibited to pass for a
short period. These two factors will have some impact on traffic, especially in Liwulu road
and Zhunshalu and Nanmen Bridge
Sl



.
4. Concrete pipe, and castaway earth and so on piled along the road of construction site will
affect the landscape of the city and cause some damage to the green land and trees, causing
some harm to ecological environment.
Possible enviromnental problems during the construction can be reduced by taking
proper measures such as putting up enclosures around constrution sites, avoiding
transportation in rush hours, and strengthening the management and shortening construction
period.
4.3.3 Prediction amd impact of pumping stations environment
On Rong-Sha lake trating project, a designed pumping station and supplying pipe is
located on Taohuajiang River. The pumping station is used for change water of lakes as the
lake' water quality is eutruphication and serious, for keeping water quality of lakes. The
machine and trasportation during construction of the pumping station will be produce noise,
heavy trffic, raised dust, and the constuction site is located in the center of the city, so we
suggest that it is recommended to carry out the transporton before and after normal
working hours so as to reduce the pressure on traffic, and not work at night to reduce noise
level.
43A prediction and analysis of the impact on ecological environment
The construction of the project involved a canter in the city sensitive urban part, where
several major street will be dug with a total 2.6kn. At the same time the pipeline of
construction garbag, sediment, castaway eart, and the temporary construction huts and
camps, storage sheds will all affect the city's landscape. A certain number of land and trees
will be damaged to cause damage to ecological environment
4.4 Analysis of the environmental impact of building removal and inhabitants
resettlement
This project of Rong-Sha lakes treating project just involved existing lakes, parks and
roads, has no building removal and inhabitants resentlement
4.5 Prediction on the environmental impact during the operation of the project
This assessment is to have a proper understanding of the overall environmental impact
of the project, we give a analysis from the local viewpoint and put attention on the Lijiang
River.
52



4.5.1 Prediction on the reduced loading amount
The Rong-Sha lakes brating project includes two subprojects: intercepting waste water
subproject and dredging sediment subproject. The target of the two subprojects are cut
external pollution load and reduced the inner pollution load. When the project will be reduced
the pollution load mostly during operation, and reduced the discharge load into the Lijiang
River.
(I) Predication on reduce inner pollution load
Table 4.5.1 is the amount of reduced pollution load
Table 4.5.1 Predication on reduce inner pollution load
__________  watr(%Y) As  |mnemi oil |Ar Z Pb   Hg  |TN    TP
-oe/ *of pollutantin sedimtnt    8.11    21.5  1341    57.3 382.. 217.8 0.277 5020  1480
__       _     __                 ,_               1_ _     
amount of reduced polhuion load 10't 14.9    4    246.7   10.5 70.4 40.1 0.05  _9,236.8 2723
reduced aoimutonunmtat akgn2      12   110    5   _31  18   2    j4120  1210
(2) prediction on release of N and P
If the interception waste water project has been completed, but the dredging sediment
projct have not been designed, that the Lake Rong-Sha still can be eutrophication. Because
part of most of the nutrient salt fiom various sources will settle down in the bottom of the
lake and fron the inner load of nutrient salt of the lake through a senes of physical, chemical,
and bio-chemical action. And when the environmental condition of the lake changes, the
nutrient salt in its sediment will be released into the water body again. The load of N and P is
usually high in city lakes because of long time accumulation. When these exist external
pollution sources, such internal load only exerts notable effect during certain seasons or timne.
But when the external pollution sources are totally cut off, the nutrient salt will gradually be
released and cause eutrophication of the lake. Therefore, it is of much importance to study
the behavior of the nutrient salt in lake sediment.
The release of N and P in lake sediment is of different mechanism. The release of N is
release to the degree of the oxidizing decomposition of the nutria in the sediments, while the
release of P is related to the form of its chemical precipitation. This is because these exist in
sediment diffact kinds of nitrides. Which are interchangeable under certain circumstances.
Different forms of N have different release capacity. As for S, many of the phosphates
insoluble. Release occurs only when these are favorable conditions for the solution of
phosphate perceptible.
53



Normally the releases nutrient salt first enters the interstitial water of the sediment, then
gradually diffused to the surface and to the water covering it, effecting the eutrophication of
the water body of the lake.
The amount of P release in the sediments of the lake Dianchi from July to August, 1994
is about 2.65mg/m2.d and the amount of TN is 37.2 mg/m2-d. This experiment is not done in
this assessment, so we used the data of Lake Dianchi to assessment on release of N and P
of sediment of three lakes.
The assessment show that the amount of release of TP is 596.3 g/d, TN 8370g/d, this is a
seriously pollution for the three lakes.
4.5.2 Prediction on amosnt of reduced external pollution load
(1) The amount of reduce external pollution load
After the project has completed, the amount of the point load, the non-point load and
fishing all cut, the amount of this pollution load are zero.
W.&-_= W     _dp' WA._j
The reduce amount include reduce amount of point pollution and non-point pollution
loads plus the reduce amount of pollution load from river water.
(2) Prediction on not canrying out the project
At present, the Lake Rong-Sha is seriously polluted and is eutrophication lake. Ihe
items coli, oil, TP, 'TN, NH3-N, and BOD5 all exceed the Grade IV or V of water quality
standard, and at the outlet of the Shahu Lake, the water quality is worse than the center and
against side of the Lijiang River, The above assessment show that the Rong-Sha lakes is
affected the Lijiang River.
With the developing of the city economy, the population and tour will increase, and the
industry will increase too, so the lakes Rong-Sha will became more and more seriously, if the
lakes were not treated and the pollution load will increase. According the plan of the Guilin
City, the amount of the waste water of the city on 2015 will be 3 times of 1994 year, and the
amount of domestic waste water will be 2.4 times. This prediction used 2.4 times of waste
water discharged into the lakes.
Table 4.5.2 The prediction of the total amount of city's waste water
unit: I 00OOtla
yer     Total            Industrial waste water  domestic waste waer  disdbrged into lakes
1994    S410             2913              2497             739      20000tld
2000    8441              4898             3543              1035    28000t/d
2010    13476             8362             5114              1494    41000t/d
54



2015      6721              110749             15972               11745     48000t/d
Table 4.5.3 prediction on the amount of waste water (no project)
year discharged into the Lakes  BODs   COD         SS          NH3-N       TP
1994 2000Wt/d    0.23 n3/s 0.863       1.855       1.580      0.188        0.134
2000 2800Wt/d     0.32 m3/s  1.208     2.597       2.212       0.263       0.193
2010 410OOtId    0.47 m3is  1.768      3.803       3.239       0.386       0.283
2015 4800Ot/d    0.56 m3/s _2.070     I4AS2        3.792       0.452      10332
4.S.3 prediction on the improve of water quality
The prediction used the formula COD and Chla
*COD equation
ACOD = 27.5SP ,    t>l
ACOD 2L3N,W07,       0.1 ZtS1
AODD -14DN,°'7" M.      0. I
*Chia equation
CAb  683NW'W,       t>0.1
Cha = 447P4l',      tc0.1
, is a fitor, when TNITP211, N2TP; if TNn<l 1, N,, =N1 I
According the.monitoring data, TWrTPl1l, the parameterW,, TP, t<0.1, the result of
calculated is in table 4.5A.
Table 4.5.4 Prediction on improve of the water quality of the Rong-Sha lakes
unit: mglL
eisting wate quality Taohuajiang River supplying water quality of aliting no dredging projet
TP   0.366             0.1(dry s     1ason)  0.063               0.59
COD 09.67              1.3 r.9                                  10.93
Chia          _         60.8          36.9                       414
The data calculated point that the COD monitored in the Rong-Sha lakes is high, exceed
Grade IV of water quality standard, if the lakes can be supplied water from the Taohuajiang
River or the cannel of the Lijiang River, the water quality will be improved, but still need
dredging seditnent.
(1) prediction of the discharge of lakes on the Lijiang River
After intercepting waste water, the amounts of reduce load of external pollution resource
of discharge into lakes are respectively BOD, for 1.2tId, COD 2.6t/d, SS 2.2t/d, NH3-N
55



0.263tld and TP 0.193t1d. After dredging sediment, the amounts of reduce loads of inner
pollution resource of three lakes are As 0.4t, Zn 1.05t, Pb 4t, Hg 5kg, TN 923t and TP 272t,
and reduce release amount of TP is 596.3gId, TN 8370gJd.
The amounts of reduce pollution load of external and inner resources can be calculated
for reduce amount of discharged into the Lijiang River.
(2) prediction on water quality of the Lijiang River
According monitored, the Lijiang River has been affected the discharged water from the
three lakes. Prediction point out that the discharged water will not affect the water quality of
Lijiang River, and the water quality of outlet of Shahu Lake will be good, after operation of
the project.
4.6 Risk analysis
4.6.1 Purpose
To analyze accidents during the operation of the project and their scope of impact so as
to provide feedback information for the designing.
4.6.2 Analysis of risks during dredging of sediment
Possible risks during the dredging, transportation and refilling of the sediment are:
(1) Large amount of toxic gas is produced to poison construction workers or inhabitants
nearby in dredging. Gas masks should be provided beforehand as a preventive measure.
(2) Sediment dredged may be washed back into the river by flood during storms. It is
suggested dredging be done from October to April of the following year to keep away from
the wet season, and sediment dug up should be tasported away in time.
(3) Sediment may be dropped in the urban of the city on the routes of transportation. So
vehicles should be well lined and covered, or special garbage vehicles are to be used.
(4) The bank encircling the piled sediment may be dragged by flood, storn or
earthquake so that it is washed into surrounding farmland. Water overflow tunnels should be
considered in the designing of such encircling banks.
4.6.3 Risk analysis of the replenishment water of Rong-Sha lakes
(I) Failure of the machines or cut off of power supply may stop the waste water treating
system so waste water is discharged into the river without any treatment. If accident of waste
water treating system happened, it will threat the water quality of the Taohuajiang River, and
the water quality of replenishment water. So we need maintain the old cannel of the Lijiang
River, water of supplied by the Lijiang River can flow into three lakes by gravitational flow.
56



j
(2) New pollutants during operation are discharged into the three lakes, not into
intercepting pipeline, this will affect the water quality of lakes, so new role must be
legislated, and the new pollutants will be managed.
(3) Sediment will deposit again, so need dredge on time, protection water quality of the
lakes is the main target.
4.7 Measures and countermeasures to eliminate or relieve negative impact
t. Control of noise during construction
* Effective enclosures are to be put up around construction sites so as to reduce the
noise level to within the standard set by the state.
Transportation vehicles passing through noise sensitive areas like living quarters,
hospitals, schools, and governmental offices should go at a slow speed, and the use of horns
and brakes should be limited. See to it that they don't go through living quarters at night.
* Explosion and the use of heavy-duty machines should be avoided at night.
2. Control of raised dust
* Put up effective enclosures to prevent raised dust from spreading around.
* Castaway earth should be piled away from trunk traffic lines, living quarters or
commercial quarters. Water should be sprinkled when necessary.
* Castaway earth should be directly loaded onto transportation vehicles and
transportation should be carried out before it gets dry.
* Use packed cement and do not pile them in the open.
3. Measures to relieve impact on tiaffic
* Well plan materials to be transported to avoid affecting the city's normal traffic.
* The laying of pipelines along trunk traffic lines should be quickened to reduce the
construction period. Try not to affect the traffic at places where construction is carried out,
such as to use steel plate over ditches.
4. Control of solid waste matters
* Carry out strict administration to reduce the amount of construction garbage.
* Control the irrational flow of construction garbage through periodical checking.
Construction garbage should be buried in enclosed places like low hollows in the mountains,
where earth banks should be built at its opening and earth is to be laid on top of buried
garbage to restore the ecosystem.
5. Control of damage to landscape
Green belts of trees and lawns should be planted along the open tunnels as soon as
they are completed.-
57



- Earh and stone work dug during construction should be piled at proper places, better
to be utilized.
* Attention should be paid to the harmony of trees and grass grown on second and third
grades protection slopes. Stones needed should not be taken on the spot but from quarries.
6. Measures to protect land ecosystem
Ecosystem should be restored as soon as construction on temporarily occupied land is
finished.
Education should be carried out along with administration to forbid workers to fell
trees in places other than the areas to be inundated. Fire is forbidden in forest areas.
See to it if there are precious and rare trees or flowers to be protected in the
construction sites of protection banks.
7. Health guarantee of construction workers
Daily life waste water and night soil should be sterilized to prevent the occurrence and
spread of infectious diseases. Wet land occurring in construction should be leveled to
eliminate breeding places of flies and mosquitoes. Construction at night should be avoided.
58



5. Alternate plans
These works will guarantee the conservation of the eco-system of the Lijiang River, by
conducting comprehensive analysis on the scale, service range, cost and credit repaying ability
of the assessed project. Zhongnan Municipal Works Designing Institute have proposed a
feasibility study report on the project. For the more overall and widespread considerations, the-
following altermate plans have been suggested for reference by the assessing units.
5.1 Main alternate plans of the Rong-Sha lakes
According the characteristic of the Rong-sha lakes treating project, the main alternat
plans are followed:
Plan 1: Replenishment water by the Taohuajiang River
Rain truck is built with modification of Yiwu road rain pipeline systen, and the rain is
intercepted and let it discharge into the Taohuajiang River. Sewer system along the lakes,
waste water is intercepted and let it to be Zhuongnan waste water pipeline. Dredging will be
done after the lake water is withdrawn during dry season. After above subprojects the inner
and extemal pollution resource will be cut, then replenishment water will be pumped from the
Taohuaiing station with flow Im3/s. The investment of the project is 19.69 million yuan.
Plan 2: Close cannel of replenishment water
Except the subproject of replenishment water, other subprojects are same as plan 1. The
subproject suggest modification the old cannel for close one, the replenishment water is from
the Lijiang River, the exchange water flow is 1.5m3/s on nonnal and wet season, I.Om3/s on
dry season, theory exchange period is 3 to 5 days. The investment of the project is 31.90
million yuan.
Plan 3: Open cannel of replenishment water
Except the subproject of replenishment water, other subprojects are same as plan 1. The
replenishment water subproject will be used dredged the old cannel and the exchange water is
from the Lijiang River. The exchange water method is same as plan 2.
5.2 Comparison between alternate plans for the Rong-Sha lakes treating project
Plan 1: Replenishment water by the Taohuajiang Rive
Merits:
The pumping station is located by the Lakes, so loss water amounts is reduced to least,
and the water has no received new waste water and agricultural return water on the way. The
replenishment-water quality is same as the supplying water quality. The project's investment is
59



.
less than the plan 2.
Demerits
1. The water quality of the Taohuajiang River is Grade III or high grade of the water
quality standard now, after treating plants project completed, the treated water will discharge
into the river, its water quality will be worse more, so we need study on that the supplying
water is good for improve the lakes water quality or not
2. The supplying water of by the Taohuajinag River flows through the south-west part of
Rongsha Lake to Shahu Lake, the water flow is difficult to improve the up part of the Ronghu
Lake and Guihu Lake, according to the characteristic of the lake's flow.
Plan 2: Close cannel of replenishment water
Merits:
Supplying water is carried from the upper reach of the Guilin City of the Lijiang River,
water quality is good. The replenishment cannel is closed, the measure can avoid received
waster water along the cannel, and lost the water for agnculture. The return water is discharged
into the Lijiang River, so amounts of the Lijiang River are not affected. The cover of the
cannel is good road and shopping place, so we can get new land.
Demerits
The cannel-crossing is long, the construction and management of the cannel is more
complexity. so more investment is needed all in one time and it has more affected on
environment on construction.
Plan 3: Open cannel of replenishment water (recommendation plan)
Merits:
the supplying water is received from the Lijiang River and the discharge water into the
Lijiang River, so the plan is not affected the amount of the Lijiang River, because the cannel
includes open cannel and close trunk existed, the project is easy to operate, and investment is
less.
Demerits
The plan will lost a lot of water and receive a lot of waste water along the cannel, so the
water quality and water value will be influenced, the concerted environmental propose is
difficult to obtained.
5.3 Comparative analysis of the cost of the alternate plan
See Table 5-3-1 for the comparison of the investnent required.
Table 53-1 Investment for the Different Alternate Plans  unit: lOOOOyuan
Plan                          plan I          plan 2            plan 3
dredging sediment 184000m3     64              644              644
bank built 2000m               20              20                20
60



damn maintain                                           S0                    50
dredging closed trunk  1180m                           100                   100
regulating gates 3mx3m (2)          30                  30                    30
pipeline                           879.56            2345.72                813.22
pumping staion                     397.90                           _ _
maintenince of open duannel                                                  230
total                             1968.46             3189.72               1887.22
Table S-3-2 the comparison of the engineering required.
plan I                       plan 2                            plan 3
engineering        unount engiring              amount . engineering              anount
dredging sediment   1840GM3 dredgng sedimet     18400m' drdging sedimet            1840
bank bult          2000m  bank built            2000m    bank built               2000m
reguating gae      2       reglting gate        2         rcgulating gate         2
pipeline R.Cd800    300m   pipeline RC.d8OO     300m      pipeline R.C.d800       300m
pipeline R.C.dlO00   300Gn   pipeline RC.dlOO  300m      pipeline R.CAIOO        300m
pipeline RCAd1200   200m   pipeline RC.d 1200   200m      pipeline R.C.dl200      200m
pipeline LC.d 1500   20Gm   pipeline RC.dlS00   200m      pipeline R.C.dlS00      200m
pipeline R.CA2000   65Gm   pipeline R.CA2000    65Gm      pipeline R.C.d20        6sGm
sewage R.C.d600    75Gm   sewa  RCd600          75Sm      sewage R.Cd600          75Gm
pumping station    I       dm maintain          I         dam maintain 
new cbsed truck      500Gm    open cannel maintain
dedging old closedi truck 1180m _ dredging old closed trunk
5.4 The analysis of the alternate plan
Based on the cost-benefit analysis, mas from 1 to 3 were given to the different alternate
plans. The one with the least benefit or the most cost was given I point and the reversal, that is,
the one with the best benefit or the least cost was given 3 points. See Table 5-4-1 for the
results.
Table 54-1 Assessment Points of the Cost-benefit Analysis of the Plans
Plan                                       I                 2-             3
Investment for city construction          2                  1              3
Land requisition and removal              2                  3               1
Degree of difficult for construction      2                  1              2
Opeation cost of the project               2                 2
Convenience for construction in stages    3                  3              2
Environmental benefit                     2                  3               I
61



Total                              13              13           to
As far as the protection of the water body of the lakes is concerned, the key issue of the
three plans is cut the new inner and eternal pollution resources. The dredging lakes sediment,
exchanging lake's water and intercepting pollution are all for this purpose. The difference
between the three plans is replenish place, from the Lijiang River or from the Taohuajing
River, using open cannel or using closed truck.
The practice show that close cannel plan is not good for protection the lakes. When the
-open cannel with 5000m length pass the city, the water quality is serious in the inlet of the
Guihu lake, so the water quality of the lakes can not improve. The plan 3 should be abandon.
The study show that the closed truck can avoid these problems of intercepting by agriculture,
cannel leakage and discharged by runoff, return agriculture water, industrial waste water and
ewwer water, but the cost is higher than other plans, construction line is long and more affect
people and the manage is more difficult The plan 2 can give us new land, these is important
for Guilin City, it can make new shopping center and road.
T,he plan I is recommend plan, from table 5-4-1 we can show that the plan is good than
other plans from investment required and the degree of difficulty construction, but the
environinental benefit of the plan is bad than the plan 2. Because the water quality of the
Taohuajiang River is Grade III standard at present, future the Taohujiang River will receives
treated waste water from two waste water plants, that time the water quality will bad than
today, so we suggests that the feasibility report of the project need to do study comparison
between two plans.
62



- l
6. Analysis on the Benefit of the Ronghu Lake and Shahu Lake
Treating Project
6.1 Analysis on its social benefit
6.1.1 Improve the environmental quality so as to stimulate the economic development
It is very important for protecting water environment of Guilin City as major tourist
landscape and famous historical culture. The Lake Ronghu and Lake Shahu is the landscape
lakes and located in the center of the city. The lakes is a little lake, so have few water
environmental capacity. A lot of untrated sewer discharged into the lakes, that the organic
pollution material and toxic material accumulate in the lake's sediment. The concentration of
col-i P and N is high than Grade V water standard, the lake state is eutrophication, and the
algae grown fast etc. all. The project will improve the water quality of the lkes, cut the inner
and external pollution resource, and exchange the lake's water, so can improve the
environment of the lakes and surrounding.
6.1.2 Protection of the Ljiong River and the scenery of the Proboscis mountain
The outlet of the Shahu Lake is located 300m far from the Proboscis maintain, so the
polluted water of the lake's water threatens the Proboscis maintain, the Proboscis maintain is
a famous landscape of the Guilin City. The water quality of the lakes improve is help the
environment improve of the Proboscis Maintain.
6.2 Financial analysis of the project
6.2.1 Compiling basis
1. Composition of the project
The project includes the dredging sediment subproject, bank of the lakes built subproject,
pipeline and pumping station.
2. Engineering cost
The cost of civil engineering of the project was calculated according to the economic
index of sewage engineering items stipulated in the Handbook of the Budget and Economic
Assessment of Water Supply and Sewage Works with reference to the budget of similar
works completed or under construction. Prices used for calculating the amount of materials
which can be bought for ten thousand yuan were those provided in "Information of
Construction in Guilin" readjusted with the market prices in Guilin in 1995, plus indirect
fees. The total investment needed for the civil engineering of the project is about 27.7
63



million yuan.
Table 6-2-1  Project investment calculation     unit: million yuan
Project                 RMB(from Chinese side)             Total investment
1. Engineering fee                               8.84                           19.68
2. 'Te fee for prepare engineering               1.25                           24.95
3. The fee for prepare price                     1.46                            2.92
4. The interest dunng construction               0.75                            1.49
5. other fee                                     0.55                            1.11         -
total                                          13.85                           27.70
6.2.3 Pay bank loan plan
Take 7.1% for the interest rate of loans from the World Bank, and 15.02% for the
interest rate of loans from the domestic bank, the repayment period for Loans is 10 years, but
the inteest rate is not calculated for the capital cost
(1) Analysis on repayment capacity
The sources of repayment fund possess of profit, market fee and break old fee. The
calculation of repayment load and it's interest rate reveals that the project will possess of
repayment capacity within repayment period based on repayment style of loan.
The profit is from the waste water teating fee, water fee, electricity fee and collecting
and treating fee of refuse.
6.3 Analysis on environmental benefit of the project
6.3.1 Benefitfor environmental protection
The Rong-Sha lakes treating project is a project that will improve the environmental
ecology, beneficial to people's health. The major benefit of the project is that it will solve the
problems of eutrophication and water quality serious from which the lake has been suffering
for many years. It will improve and landscape of the city, providing conditions for gathering
and treating industrial waste water along the lakes, so as to improve the environmental
quality of the down areas of the Lijiang River and the Proboscis maintain area, and people's
living conditions. The amount of waste water gathered and treated by the project will
account for 20000tld. That will greatly reduce the pollution load of the Lijiang River for
BOD5 0.86tld, COD 1.86t/d, SS I.SSt/d and TP 0.13t/d, and greatly improve its water
environment.
The water quality will be improved, eutrophication will be controlled, the surrounding
will be improve and soul smell will be put out, and the tourism price of the city will be
grown.
64
--



6.3.2 Analysis on environmental economic cost-beneft
1. Analysis on the environmental economic benefit
As the project is a key environmental protection project of Guilin City, its
environmental investment is the major part of the total investment of the project.
Table 6-3-1 Environmental Investment for the Project
Environmental Iten Proecon         Designing Capcity Unit     Investnent (I0W yuan)
Dredging sediment                         __4000mn            644
pipeline                           L-2.75an                   876.56
pumping station                   L.Om3/s                     397.90
bank built                         2000m                      20
total                                                         1 1938.46
The investment for environmentat protection, taking up 90% of total investment.
2. Environmental impact of the project and countermeasures to be taken
a. The waste water lifting pumping station is located in thc central part of the city and
so its noise will have negative acoustic impact on the environment if not properly designed..
Noise reduction and sound-proofing measures should be taken to reduce the negative impact
to the minimum.
b. Transportation vehicles passing through noise sensitive areas like living quarters,
hospitals, schools, and governmental offices should go at a slow speed, and the use of horns
and brakes should be limited. See to it that they don't go through living quarters at night.
c. The laying of pipelines along tmnk traffic lines should be quickened to reduce the
construction period. Try not to affect the traffic at places where construction is carried out,
such as to use steel plate over ditches.
65



.
7. Plan for Environmental Administration and Environmental
Monitoring
7.1 Setting up of environmental protection management system
7.1.1 purpose
To implement laws, rules and regulations about enviromental protection, to deal with
relationship properly between developing economy and protecting environment, to see to the
consistency of the environmental benefit, social benefit, and economic benefit of the project,
to handle the results of preventing measures of pollution, to monitor the environmental
quality changes for surrounding areas of the project so as to provide basis for environmental
mangeent. 
7.1:2 Organizational stnctire and nwnber ofstff
The department of environmental protection of the Ronghu Lake and Shahu Lake
Treating Project consists of two parts respectively in charge of environmental administration
and environmental monitoring. Special personnel from administration and construction unit
of the project will be assigned to be 'in charge of the environmental management,
Environmental Monitoring Stations from the Guilin municipal and should be in charge of
environmental monitoring.
7.1.3 Functions of the environmental protection body
1 Environmental management
(1) To carry out laws and comply with standards of environmental protection        -
(2) To establish administrative rules and give frequent check up
(3) To work out environmental protection plans and see to their implementation
(4) To lead and organize environmnental monitoring and file up a data
(5) To carry out enviromnental education and technical training so is to raise the quality
of the staff
(6) To establish rules and regulations on the discharge of pollutants and the operation of
environmental protection facilities;
2 Environmental monitoring
(1) To work out monitoring plans and establish rules and regulations
66
-3



J
(2) To complete monitoring task required environmental monitoring plan and compile
forms for reporting statistics and write reports
(3) To take part in the investigation over environmental accidents
(4) To take part in environmental assessment
(5) To test, maintain, and repair instruments used for the monitoring to ensure their
normal service.
7.2 Measures for environmental management
7.2.1 Environmental administration during the construction of the project
1. Aim:
To prevent or reduce pollution caused by the construction
2. Measures for enviromnental management
(1) The insfitution that undertakes the project should take the oveall responsibility for
the environmental protection during the construction and see to it that it is done in every
stage and by every department concerned;
(2) Work out unified arrangement for the countermeasures to be taken, the order of the
construction, and the fixing up of construction sites according to the requirements of
environental protection authorities and set in this assesment;
(3) Construction teams are required to be trained for the management of environmental
protection and to be responsible for the enviromnmental protection and see to that the
following environmental protection plan be carried out:
A. Plan on preventing construction noise
Noise pollution during the construction is mainly caused by construction machines and
vehicles. The standard set in "Rules and Regulation for Noise Pollution Prevention and
Treatment", and Document GB12523-91 "Noise Limit for Construction Site". Special
attention should be paid to the construction noise at night.
B. Plan on reducing raised dust
Large amount of raised dust will be produced during construction of landfill site and
transportation station of refuse. The construction should be done in a civilized way to reduce
raised dust pollution.
7.2.2 Environmental management after the project is put into operation
1. Aim:
To insure the normal operation of environmental protection facilities for the project so
as to meet the enviromnental protection demands of the designing.
67



2. Measures for environmental management
(1) Unified administration over environmental protection
Environmental protection should be a part of the overall administration over the project,
and attention should be paid to the environment protection in every link of the administration.
In this respect it is led and supervised by the Guilin Municipal Environmental Protection
Bureau.
(2) Normal operation of environmental protection facilities
After the project is put into operation, normal operation of the pumping station and the
waste water treating plant should be maintained, and strict responsibility system should be
established. Operation record should be kept to see the designed requirements are met.
73 Environmentad monitoring plan
7.3.1 Enwvronmental monitoring during the construction
1. Aim:
To check pollution of noise and raised dust during the constution and take timely
measures.
2. Duration of monitoring
The whole period of the construction of the project, with the laying of waste water
pipelines and the transportation of the sedinent from the Ronghu lake and Shahu as key
periods
3. Items to be monitored:
Items to be monitored are the following consideing the constuction of the project
(1) Noise: Equalized intensity of sound in dB(A)
(2) Atmosphere: TSP
4. Monitoring points
Monitoring points for refuse unsferring station durmg the construction should be
selected in densely populated inhabitant quarters.
7.3.2 Environmental monitoring during the operation ofthe project
1. Aim:
To check the actual impact of the project and change of the environmental quality, to
prevent pollution accidents, so as to provide scientific bases for the environment protection.
2. Monitoring duration
The key factor to be considered is the seasonal change in the effectiveness of waste
water treating.
68
Js



3. Major items to be monitored and monitoring frequency and position
(1) Water Monitoring items, frequency and position are as same as normal monitoring.
(2) The monitoring of noise and TSP for sensitive points is as same as normal
monitoring.
(3) Down stream region of the project should increase monitoring points, major items
are SS, BOD5. COD, TN, TP and colibacillus.
7.3.3 Investment of the environmental monitoringplan
It is suggested that the investment of environmental monitoring plan from project is 0.30
million (RMB), which is used for enviromnental management and environmental monitoring
of project during the operation.
69



8. Public Participation
Environmental problems are getting more and more serious global along with the social
development, and people's enviromnental sense has reached a new height so that they have a
sense of responsibility for the protection of the environment to make suggestion and request
for the project. Public participation of this sort is not only an important mark in measuring a
nation's sense of the environment but also a need for developing environmental protection
and economy.
8.1 Aim and purpose
The World Bank hopes that the assessment on the environmental impact of the project
submitted to it will fully reflect the views, suggestions, and demands of the communities and
local non-governmental organizations which will be affected by the proposed project. News
conferences, testament sessions, and expert advice soliciting meetings should be held so as
to have a good understanding about the scope and extent of the social, environmental, and
economic impact of the proposed project in order to provide a reliable, sound, and scientific
basis for ganting the Loan. This will make the assessment more practical and more
convincing.
Investigation was made on the public participation of this project in preparing this
assessment as required by the World Bank.
Public participation was invited during the process of this assessment according to the
demands of the Word Bank. The following is an account of the ways, scope, and result of the
public participation.
8.2 Methods of investigation
Many methods were used for the public participation: sessions of field questions and
answers were held; questionnaires were distributed, and experts' opinions and advice
solicited. At the same time radio reporters' interviews, TV programs and newspapers were
also mobilized to gather concerned opinions, suggestions, and demands for the proposed
project. Materials thus collected were sorted out and classified for analysis.
8.3 Scope of investigation
The scope of the investigation carried out included the area along the construction of
engineering project. Institutions investigated included the Municipal People's Congress, the
People's congress of Guilin Region, the Municipal Political Consultative Conference, the
Political consultative conference of Guilin Region, the Municipal Government, Guilin
J
70



l
Region Governments, City district and county government, as well as dozens of enterprises,
schools, hospital and neighborhood committees.
8.4 Subject of investigation
Representatives of the people's congress, members of the people's political consultative
conference, government officials, other functionaries of various institutions, doctors and
nurses, professors and teachers, workers, students, and ordinary inhabitants; experts and
scholars, in the fields of planning, environmental protection, construction, foreign trade and
economy, and engineering, and farmers, especially ordinary inhibitions, farmers of area
affected by the ProjecL
8.5 Method of investigation
8.5.1 Random sampling was held at different levels among the masses of the people
who will be directly affected by the project
8.5.2 Mass medium like newspapers and TV broadcast were adopted to publicize the
Lijiang River comprehensive treating project and to solicit opinions and suggestions on the
social, environmental, and economic impact of the project.
8.6 Analysis on the results of investigation
8.6.1 Investigating crowd ratio
- 174 questionnaires were distributed and 100%/e of them were recovered. Of the people
investigated, white collar staff took up 46%, workers 27/o, general inhabitants 16%, and
students 1 1%; male accounted for 52% of the people investigated and female 48%; Those
with schooling up to the college level accounted for 43%, up to high professional school
level 27/, and up to junior high school and primary school 27%/. Investigated people were
from 30 institutions and enterprises.
About 48% of the people investigated live in the area of the projects; 45% work in
places in the area, and 10% are to be removed to settle elsewhere.
8.6.2 Analysis on the results of investigation
1. About the awareness of the Ronghu Lake and Shahu lake treating project:
93% of the people investigated said that they had learned about the project through TV
broadcast, newspapers or other people, and 7% had not heard about it before. The
investigation increased the project's transparency and aroused public concern over the
project.
2. About opinions of the project:
71



Masses of the community all expressed the opinion that the project would improve the
appearance and water quality of Ronghu lake and Shahu Lake. So more than 98% of them
were in support of the project and hoped it would start soon.
3. About the environmental impact of the project:
More than 100% of the people investigated said that they held the project would have
long and favorable impact on the environmental quality of the Guilin.
4. About the impact of the construction of the project on people's life:
14% of the people investigated said that they wouldn't mind; 73% said there would be
some impact but they could stand it; 13% said it would be unbearable, who were mainly
concemed about the noise of the construction and unfavorable impact of the construction to
people's life and traffic.
8.6.3. Suggestions and demands of the community concerning the project
(1) Masses of the community showed great enthusiasm in the public participation of the
assessnent for he project. They held that the treating project was a major event benefiting
generations to come by improving the city's environment and landscape. The city
goveament should include the project into their agenda and do a good job of it. It was
suggested to mobilize social powers to donate money and materials for the speedy
conatnaction of the project to improve the city's environment so their city will be a beautify
the city.
b. It was suggested that strict laws be worked out and implemented, and administration
be strengthened. Illegal buildings should be demolished and their builders be fimed and
punished. Preparation should be done for the project in an active way. It was hoped that the
construction would be carried out in stages according to the concrete conditions of different
segments.
c. Effective measures should be taken during the construction so as to reduce the
unfavorable impact on people's life and traffic. People to be removed should be well
arranged.
72
3
72



9. conclusion and proposal
9.1 Existing environmental quality
1 Quality of water environmental
The monitored data from 1991 to 1994 and 1996 for this project show that the present
water quality of the Lijiang River is good, most index are within the standard of Grade II
surface water environment, up to the requirement of first class protected water, that is
concentrated drinking water sources and for the protection of rare fish species. But certain
items such as coli and petroleum exceeded the standard in 1991-94; DO is a little too low.
And that of NH3-N exceeded the standard of Grade II water by a big margin. As a whole
water quality of the Lijiang river is good, but the trend of the change of water quality reveals
worse from Dahe section to Jingpinshan section, it was affected by the discharge of domestic
waste water and non-point rescue..
The Taohua River, the Xiaodong River, the Ningyuan River and the Nanxi River are not
meet the standard for Grade III water, after 1994, it is deteriorating along with the
development of pollution. The index'of coli and petroleum seriously exceed the standard for
Grade m  water. The index of coli petroleum, CODE, BOD, NOrN and NHrN all
exceeding the standard for Grade m in all tributes. The trend of the change of water quality
reveals that the water quality of the Xiaodong River and the Taohua River has been
deteriorating rapidly.
The total area of good and fairly god underground water in the surveyed area was
accounting for 90% of the total. The area of fairly poor underground water was accounting
for 2.4% of the total, mainly distributed along Wucheng-Ximen Rice Flour Mill-brewery-,
along No3 Pharmaceutical Factory-Wanfutan Dairy and Yaotou area.
The exiting monitoring data show that the supplying water quality on open cannel from
the Lijiang River is lightly polluted. The items of coli, petroleum and TN exceed the standard
of Grade II surface water environment, and the exceeding time respectively 22.8, 2.8 and
2.04.
At present, The lakes of Ronghu lake, Guihu lake and Shahu lake is seriously polluted.
The major items is coli, petroleum, TP, TN, N143-N, BOD5, DO exceed the standard of Grade
IV or V surface water environment, In particular the inlet of Lake Guihu, the oil, TP, TN,
NH3-N and coli are seriously polluted, the values respectively 36, 17.88, 12.22, 9.1 and 23.
The pollution of the lakes is basically of the following order: the Guihu Lake > the Ronghu
Lake > the Shahu Lake.
The assessment result show that The right dike on the section of the Lijiang River (the
part of Guilin City center) is been polluted serious than the center and the lift dikes. The
water quality of Lijiang River on upstream (the Lijiang theater) is finer than on downsteam
(the Proboscis Mountain).
The TSI index (using Calson method) declared that the lakes all are eutrophic state, with
TSI(E) of 125 to 140.
73



The water quality of project area is polluted seriously on lakes, the water of cannel is
lightly polluted, the water of outlet of the Lake Shahu has threatened the section of Proboscis
Mountain..
2. Solid waste
The total amount of domestic refuse produced was 13 1,OOOt in 1993, of which 120,000t
was transported away and 65,000t treated to be harmless. Industrial solid waste in Guilin
City was well handled and under good management, because the adoption of the policy of
comprehensive utilization. Impact of solid waste in Guilin is mainly caused by domestic
refuse. Because the capacity of harmless treatment is far from enough, its pollution to water,  -
soil and the atmosphere, and lack of transporting capacity and transit stations is becoming
more and more outstanding. Besides, there is industrial solid waste.
3. Quality of atmospheric environment
The average daily concentration of SO2 and NOx (in 1991-1994) was not exceeding the
standard for Grade I atmosphere and TSP not exceeding the standard for Grade n atmosphere.
But the average daily maximum concentration of SO2, NOx and TSP was exceeding the
standard for Grade I and Grade n. The concentration of TSP was exceeding the standard for
Grade II according the monitoring of the project's area in 1996, and the maximum exceeding
rate was 80%/o. the quality of atmospheric enviromnent was good on the area of replenishment
project.
4. Acoustic environmental quality of the Guilin region
Traffic and daily life noise are main environmental noise sources in Guilin. The road
equivalent noise intensity exceeded 3dB(A) for standard of 'Urban environmental noise
standard" during daytime, and the length of was 44.83km taking up more than 780/h of the
total length of roads. The area where the average equivalent noise intensity exceeded 7OdB(A)
during daytime was 8.06%; that exceeding 6OdB(A) 39.51%; that exceeding 55dB(A)
68.95% in 1994. This was reveals that the noise pollution was serious in Guilin City, so noise
will have impact on people's life. The traffic and local noise was not exceeded standard on
the area of replenishment project by monitoring in 1996.
After assessing the potential ecological risk of heavy metals in the sediment by using
Hakanson's methods can be drawn the conclusion: the Ef of As, Zn and Cr contained in
samples taken from the ranges 5.6-21.1, 1.014.3 and 0.82-1.78 respectively, posing no
potential risk, the E'f value of Pb ranges from 6.65 to 27.25, just one point posting as medium
ecological risk and Hg at all the points are medium ecological risk, with range from 18.0 to
80.0. For the RI of all the heavy metals, the values found at the three lakes are less than 115,
so the sediment of the three lakes is light contaminated, major pollutants being Hg, two point
have medium pollutants.
74



l
92 The factor of project's environmental impact
The negative impact of the project is basically during the construction of the project, of
short term, reversible and local, while positive impact is basically during its operation, of
long term and extensive. So after the project is completed and put into operation the major
impact will be favorable, though there will be local unfavorable impact.
1. Raised dust, foul smell and noise will have impact on the atmospheric quality and
people's life. The laying of pipelines and the construction of water drawing tunnels, the
collecting and transporting of construction refuse will have much impact.
2 The discharging water of into lake will affect the Rong-Sha lake and the water of out
lake will affect
93 Assessment on environmental impact during its construction
This is a environmental treatment project involving intercepting industrial waste water,
water replenishing,. It involves a large scale and will last a fairly long time. A number of
machines shall be used and large amounts of garbage, backfilling earth, and construction
material shall be piled for some time. So noise, foul smell, trffic jams, secondary pollution
and so on will affect the city's landscape and people's life.
1. Noise will be produced in different stages of construction. Measures should be taken
to avoid construction at night.
2. It is better to transport away sand and pollutants directly. Care should be taken in
loading to avoid droppings and prevent pollutants from touch the ground. Construction should
be carried out in a civilized way to prevent secondary pollution.
3. Transportation should have covers and construction sites should have enclosures, and
water should be sprinkled on piled earth and bottom clay dug up so as to reduce the impact of
rised dust. Management should be strengthened to shorten the construction period.
4. Transportation needed for the construction should avoid rush hours so as to reduce its
impact on the city's traffic.
5. Management of temporarily piled construction material and sediment should be
strengthened to reduce possible secondary pollution,
The above mentioned environmental impact is of short tern and reversible. Proper
measures can reduce it to the minimum degree.
9.4 Assessment on environmental impact during its operation
The project's environmental impact during its operation is mainly positive, manifested in
its improvement of the water environment of the Lijiang River and Rong-Sha Lakes and the
ecoenvironment of the city. This will greatly improve the city's investment environment and
promote its economic development.
I. Impact on the water environment of the Lijiang River
75.



At present, the Lake Rong-Sha is seriously polluted and is eutrophication lake. The items
coli, oil, TP, TN, NH3-N, and BOD5 all exceed the Grade IV or V of water quality standard,
and at the outlet of the Shahu Lake, the water quality is worse than the center and against side
of the Lijiang River, The above assessment show that the Rong-Sha lakes is affected the
Lijiang River.
After intercepting waste water, the amounts of reduce load of external pollution resource
of discharge into lakes are respectively BOD, for 1.2tId, COD 2.6tId, SS 22ttd, NH3-N
0.263ttd and TP 0.193t/d. After dredging sediment, the amounts of reduce loads of inner
pollution resource of three lakes are As 0.4t, Zn 1.05t, Pb 4t, Hg 5kg, TN 923t and TP 272t,
and reduce release amount of TP is 596.3gId, TN 8370g/d.
The amounts of reduce pollution load of external and inner resources can be calculated for
reduce amount of discharged into the Lijiang River.
The project cut its pollutants from the city's domestic waste water, playing an certain
role in protecting and improving the water environment and ecoenvironment of the Lijiang
River. According monitored, the Lijiang River has been affected the discharged water from
the three lakes. Prediction point out that the discharged water wilH not affect the water quality
of Lijiang River, and the water quality of outlet of Shahu Lake will be good, after operation of
the project.
2. Impact on the water quality of the Rong-Sha Lakes
-we used the data of Lake Dianchi to assessment on release of N and P of sediment of
three lakes. The assessment show that the inner pollutants of load of amount of release of TP
is 5963 g/d, TN 8370g/d, this is a seriously pollution for the three lakes.
The external pollutant load of the amount of the point load, the non-point load and
fishing all cut, the amount of this pollution load are zero after the project has completed. The
reduce amount include reduce amount of point pollution and non-point pollution loads plus
the reduce amount of pollution load fron river water.
With the developing of the city economy, the population and tour will increase, and the
industry will increase too, so the lakes Rong-Sha will became more and more seriously, if the
lakes were not treated and the pollution load will increase. According the plan of the Guilin
City, the amount of the waste water of the city on 2015 will be 3 times of 1994 year, and the
amount of domestic waste water will be 2.4 times. This prediction used 2.4 times of waste
water discharged into the lakes.
The data calculated point that the COD monitored in the Rong-Sha lakes is high, exceed
Grade IV of water quality standard, if the lakes can be supplied water from the Taohuajiang
River or the cannel of the Lijiang River, the water quality will be improved, but still need
dredging sediment.
3. Impact on the city's ecoenvironment
Guilin City is a famous tourist city. The treatment project will improve the water quality
of the lakes, cut the inner and extemnal poDlution resource, and exchange the lake's water, so
can improve the environment of the lakes and surrounding. thus basically solve heavy
76



pollution areas of the city, especially the central part of the city and protect the landscape of
the city.
9.5 The environmental impact of building removal and inhabitants resettlement
This project of Rong-Sha lakes treating project just involved existing lakes, parks and
roads, has no building removal and inhabitants resettlement
9.6 Benefit of the Roug-Sha Lakes treating project
The Rong-Sha lakes treating project is a project that will improve the environmental
ecology, beneficial to people's health. The major benefit of the project is that it will solve the
problems of eutrophication and water quality serious from which the lake has been suffering
for many years. It will improve and landscape of the city, providing conditions for gathering
and treating industrial waste water along the lakes, so as to improve the environmental
quality of the down areas of the Lijiang River and the Proboscis maintain area, and people's
living conditions. The amount of waste water gathered and treated by the project will account
for 20000tWd. That will greatly reduce the pollution load of the Lijiang River for BODS
0.86t/d, COD 1.86tld, SS 1.58t/d and TP 0.13t/d, and greatly improve its water
environment.
The water quality will be improved, eutrophication will be controlled, the surrounding
will be improve and soul smell will be put out, and the tourism price of the city will be
grown during the operation.
9.7 Public participation
The public participation of the project involves the whole Guilin city, so the scope of the
investigation carried out includedthe area along the construction of engineering project.
Institutions investigated included the People's Congress, the members of the political
Consultative Conference especially fanners, ordinary inhibitions of the area affected by the
project.
The result showed that 90%1/ of the investigated people supported the construction of the
project, 95% of the inhabitants said they coultd understand the short impact of the
construction of the project, if the removal of the houses and resettlement of the inhabitants
are carried properly with proper policies, they will support the project of the prevail interest.
To sum up the Rong-Sha Lakes Treating Project of Guilin is an environmental protection
project will bring remarkable environmental benefit, social benefit and economic benefit. The
project will impact environmental and inhabitants of the project's area during construction,
but the above mentioned environmental impact is of short term and reversible. Proper
measures can reduce it to the minimum degree acceding the EIA statement. The project's
environmental impact during its operation is mainly positive, manifested in its improvement
77



.
of the water environment of the Lijiang River and its tributaries and the ecoenvironment of
the city. This will greatly improve the city's investment environrnent and promote its
economic development.
.71
78



,H44~ a) A
XH '   R
FH 41 *
HIam M                  .
mMA   ''v 
'44M          A -Am
mabiws         .
X     l*Ms 4I.4GU'
Z    mi$*           ;6 nD!1+
In



U ~ ~ ~     1 Ii         S1                                         !  ,     1r                 1
40.4
oAl   '               :      e  du 1d    q  #  att <(t      Alu kl## 
9                       s '~~~~~~~~~~4 i,k . Wil  AA.A _     W  t if 
t  *     N  u         ,¢.   1  +~~~~ lit. 4u(  uW# kut 
rS~~~* St   *14 ONl   W-.' .4 W.    NW  .M-h1  
Pt4*   
0.f
4Su'bH W  .9  i  4   <   to
,{ F S *' 1tQ   *\ :13 b kW      v            4,AS.'4J 
§*~ ~~       Ong   1K -|     wl   g i,.t  4e Kgiu  .8, 
S~~~~~~~ 19  It PA -MIN t" tS Di   11     il  }t 4. 
. X e % 1 fi ig Q , \S * MbW -.S-W             z*i .  Du
1X . 1h b ~~~_'                                                      4   bg\¢s 



:          ::   |    |    *  gas~~~~~~~~~~3e111: 
llf*-   t'  '   A  ~~~~~t~IW  {9
.4I4 IEt
.,, . ~~~~~~0    LI t



U-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
-ql W4 41 V  o Bl4 V >FW $
*              A@4WBThrX-g{X##XEf X
*Tw          4  114 w I
~Th'1 44i
U1W k@>i ° Wb£+ 9 (9661)
-i-tl [96611tW
TEL Wd}X1BtgNx
.~~~~~~~~~r



-i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
~ o
-- iER 4I!4 p 9 F * 41 titi b1  H    E~ty
~ -
i:§t A   VB i f * 0 Mv  t l-; t,  Ptq Po A 0, tt
-$gS+4-@D  49I- lifgH W f 014S 0I9
fIt^tk?'~~~~~~~~~~~  LeaXia O  l-   rI
-5T  (M 1199613047 §
w pno  .- -/+ *     vm
-   it       * I 
1~ r   5tt M-               E F3
1996*5+ X19 BfPA
t  4  tt s             k  Pt       TRA



wi t ,A't[1996]0474§
I4{itiE4
gStwt%@fiwSt^$i 1996IV44,45,
46,47,49749r o * , X t' Iff t JN 4
a~~~ ,,W&  T ii ft A   iR PIt
ir* " A  TtE++g  X*   t 7ff  i
_, j*ws¢ jtIt*e8:t
A(ttF~t,  IiJ L ,*i    3ti&+
t*f8 i  f K 4 A  ° p 9 9      A
- tiM"Ft%w B eS ~~~~~~~~~~~40d#t



I j
AMI
w§<OXt .                  At# 3    [19931324 4 X
Zagf, o§&j 4 FA                 g  1Z A f A
0 ~i -f    - q        f Ap
-oi* FheR 44  tv   AAl* tiT       It 0
4      M  ittf. M t     t ff  fFif,0 -f4 fg e
2t it ;) A 9 A ItIAI ;    91*-;t w-t o  -tt no o, s,
WWitli+XPl$"tEtt+X *Jitif  if1  *;12  11o



+$~~~~~~~ 4g2B R. '+a X i6b#*
L~~~~I
*I8nv :3@bI34@}*%}G
t  ° W.xW4X*Wb4B*ffiXw'~~~~~~~~~~0 t lr '  1'4i§S'
o          ***f~ ' " tgw  wif i  IW4§ t ' 8
o    '  'It9yFj'4SIk ik WL
#4**4 '6L-99L W***4-, "*,,
XI# ]}ff%@I oj                  ' 9r
° Ut      T -1 -9 T  ->v WT 



X   9t   gm rp    q 1E  + .t  S1 g? na i4 fitJ   1  a] Et  Fto    A
I 0   F*;it Jo ffi-9           DC if , 6 A zl t;  4 VA o
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f .O. s#s^4*,,0
_'C
z    ,- , 
{t ;H        1A



ft~96 3O  (L996f         J               -
iVE M3W*9-MM4   AEt[Tl   'i'%9;r-L;rTB3 38-S8
3' ,(.A)    CJ3025-93;
4 .                             Cl 18-86;
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- l
5 '                        0B12941-91
I                        GB 085749-85;
2                      ( 0BS084-92
3'                            akiX Fift)  089137-88;
4                           3 083096-93
6                            CJJ41-93 l
F  (E*"\W         F*9*;7  CJI8-86
83B338-88 { * i*§t                Z     ^ t^it t
I ' cr5**A* -F*ti7k*?M)) CJI8-86;.
2 -                        08tt gt}O14554-93.
" ((utw*kerw**Fw*)>&, C13025-93;
2-                       081 jmg;!2%t a4554-93:
3 >   tiC/it-wg                )Cfi 18-86 .
(FL)*    TEk3I
i a(  (fltAi      *T4*w)> Co's -n6
t



e1t S ~~14 
y'                                                                                                                          h ll    .
-! 1> g                                                                                                                 U,% 
i                                            'iiI                  I               .       I                                                1                      U       



