Loan from the world Baik |
Guanuxi Envirotimental                          v..
29
Protection Project                            % o  4;gg
Statement on
Environmental Impact Assessment of
Lijiang.Compreheiisive Treatment Project in Guilin
City, Guangxi Zlihiang Auitonomotus Region
Comnpilicr: Chiinese Rcscarchi Academy of
Environmewtal Sciences
Ccrtificatc Grade: A
Certificate NLlumiber: NEPA Ap 0901
Compiling Timc: April, 1997
=



E  0a-         I                     =
, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ - f                 ~        -        rt_
.,'u. &J~'~ /      -~        -' 'I--
e  ,                   s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
*                                           ..
!                       !                                 _ w ;,~~~~~~~~~~~~~-    -   ; 
0 t                   -~~~~~~~--S. '
7                    'I
rf              a                                   - -. 7  :
V   - h if ft  .E 45.
¢ m4'gT4XitS~~~~~~~~~~~rz



Statement on Environmental Impact Assessment of Lijiang River
Comprehensive Treatment Project in Guilin
Compiler of the assessment: Chinese Research Academy of Environmental Sciences
President: Chen Fu (professor)
Persons in charge of the item:
Jin Xiangcan   (director, professor)
C-ao Hongfa (director, professor)
Main Participants and their qualification:
Name             Subject Division                        Qualification    Specialty
lin Xiangca n                                            Professor       Water environment
Cao Hongfa                                               Professor       Environmental ecology
Liu Shufen       Analysis on the environmental impact    Professor       Environmental Chemistry
during construction
Li Junqi         Measures on the environmental impact   Senior professor Environmental Chemistry
during construction
Xu Nanni         Alternative plants and Nature          Senior engineer  Water environment
environmcnt
Ban Ling         Public participation and demolishing and    Senior engineer  Environmental plan
removal workl
Fu Guo           Water environmental impact assessment   Engineer        Environmcntal hydraulics
Gao Jixi         Soild wastes environmental assessment   Senior engincer  Environmental ecology
Hu Bibin         Engineering analysis recognition of    engineer         Environmcntal engineer
environment factors
Ye Chun          Measures on noise during construction  Enginecr         Environmental engineer
Xu Dongchu       Atmostic cnvironmental impact assessment  Scrior engineer  Environmental management
Zhu Fangben      Noise environmental impact assessmcnt   Senior engineer  Environmental management
Lu Wuili         Environmental monitoring                Scnior engineer  Environmental monitoring
Liao Yegui       Invistigation and assessment os exisitine  Senior engineer  Environmental monitoring
environmental quality
Li lianguo       Management and monitoring plan          Scnior engineer  Environmental engineer
Yang Xun         Investigation and asscssment of existing  Engineer      Watcr Environment
environmental quality
Pan Guangnan    Investigation and assessmcnt of cxisting  Engineer     - Environmental monitoring
cnvironmental quality
Wan Fangmei    Investigation and assessmcnt of existing  Senior enginecr  Environmcntal engineer
cnvironmental quality
Monitoring participation
Liu Xingyao Zhangfeiyan Bimingmin Zhou Li He Xiaoqin Wang Shaojic Xu Fudi Ceng Guangying
Li Wei Zhang Chaochong  Lv Chunli   Mu Ling  Tan Huanrong  Huang Xinwei Li Chunhui
Liu Shijuan Jiang Hongbin Yao Yikai Ilu Pinghui Li Ruobi Li Youling Mo Ying Huang Jiang
Yang Ziluo Zhou cheng Li Yong bei Ning Guiling Zhao Yongsheng Huang Jidong Tang Shiyou
Liu Sanchang Chcn Jing Geng Zhangdi Liu Guizhen Jiang Yongdong Huang Yueming Shi Jiangmin
Chen Wei Shu Zhongxiang Liu Yimin Zhou Hanying Sun Yilan Cheng Fcngfa Yv Fengying
Tan Jiangxiu  Zhang Guohua   Li Weneheng  Li Kangqiang  Deng Tinghui  Wang qong  E Penxu



Content
Executive summary
I. PREFACE .........................                                                I
1.1 PURPOSE OF THIS ASSESSMENT .....................................                 I
1.2  BASIS FOR TIIE  COMPILING  O01  EIA  ..................................................................................................... 3
1.3 SCOPE STANDARD AND SCtlEDULE OF THE ASSESSMENT AND TARGETS OF ENVIRONMENTAL
PROTECTION ............ .. ..-- 4
1.4 CONTENT AND KEY POINTS OF THE ASSESSSNIENT ............................ .................................... 7
1.5 MAIN TECHNIQUES AND MEASURES ADOPTED IN THE ASSESSMENT .................................................... 9
1.6 INSTITUTION AND PERSONNEL OF THE COMPILING F THE ASSESSMENT ............................................. 10
2. GENERAL SITUATION OF THE PROJECT TO USE THE LOAN .........                      I 1
2.1 BASIC SITUATION OF THE PROJECT ................................................................  I I
2.2 TECHNOLOGICAL PROCESS ................................................................ 13
2.3 MAIOR lPOLLUTION SOURCES AND THE DISCHARGE OF POLLUTANTS .............................................. 14
2.4 ARRANGEMENT OF THE CONSTRUCTION ............... ................................................. 15
2.5 MAIOR ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTON MEASURES ................................................................. 15
2.6 FINANCtAL ESTIMATES OF THE PROJECT ............... ................................................. 17
2.7 BRIEF INTRODUCTION TO ITS SUBPROJECTS ................... ............................................. 17
3. GENERAL SITUATION OF THE ENVIRONMENT OF THE AREA WHERE THE
PROJECT IS TO BE CONSTRUCTED --...........-......-.                                27
3.1 GENERAL ENVIRONMENTAL SITUATION OF TIlE AREA OF THE PROPOSED PROJECT .27
3.2 ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY OF ntE AREA AFFECTED BY THE PROPOSED PROJCT .35
3.3 MONITORING OVER EXISTING ENVIRONMENT OF THE AREA INVOLVED IN THE PROJECT .47
4. PREDICTED ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT AND CONTROLLING MEASURES.....__  60
4.1 RECOGNITION AND SCREENING OF ENVIRONMENTAL AFFECTING FACTORS TO BE ASSESSED .  60
4.2 ANALYSIS OF ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT .62
4.3 DIViSioN OF THE FUNCTIONS OF GUILIN CITY AND THE CONTROL OVER THE TOTAL AMOUNT OF
POLLUTANTS DISCHARGED INTO THE LUIANG RIVER .                                      64
4.4 PREDICTION OF THE PROJECT'S ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT DURING ITS CONSTRUCTION .71
4.5 PREDICTION ON THE IMPACT OF THE LUIANG COMPREHENSIVE TREATMENT PROJECT DURING ITS
OPERATION .80
4.6 ANALYSIS ON THE IMPACT OF OLD BUILDING DEMOUISH AND tNHABITANT REMOvAL .123
4.7 RIsK   L ANALYSIS.125
4.8 MEASURES AND COUNTERMEASURES TO ELIMINATE OR RELIEVE NEGATIVE IMPAC .128
5. ALTERNATE PLANTS-- ----.-._ __                                                  133
I



EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
The City of Guilin is located in the northeast of Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous
Region, at I 10°13'--10°40'E and 24`39'--25°22'N, 336 km from Nanning, capital of
the autonomous region. It has a total area of 565km', of which urban area accounts for
54km2 and suburbs 511 m2. Under its jurisdiction are also two counties: Yangshuo
County and Lingui County, whose areas are respectively 1,428kM2 and 2,202km2. In
January of 1979 the State Council has designated Guilin City as a national key scenic
tourist city, and in February of 1982 the city was declared as a national historical
cultural city. Its unique limestone landscape, peak forests as well as solitude peaks,
karst topography and caves form "number one beautiful scene in the world'. The
Lijiang River meanders through the mountains from the north to the south. "The
reflection of the peaks on the water seems to be floating while all the mountains and
the water form a fairly land." Its natural beauty has solicited endless praise from
generations of writers and poets since ancient times. The new Guilin today has
attracted numerous tourists from home and abroad, promoting the development of the
city's tourism.
The government of Guilin City and Guilin Region is planning to replenish with
diversing water the Lijiang River and protect it's dikes, improve domestic refuse
treating system and waste water collecting system and built waste water treating
plants. The Guilin Lijiang Environmental Comprehensive Treating Project includes
the subproject of water replenishment of the Lijiang River, the subproject of waste
water treating system in Guilin City and the subproject of domestic refuse disposing
system in Guilin City. It is an important environrnental protection project for the
Guilin City's environment and ecoenvironznent of the Lijiang River, which will
diverse water into the Lijiang River 2,666 billion M3/a, dispose refuse 500 t/d and
collect waste water 50,000 m3/d during the operation.
1. Main content and investment of the proposed project
-   See Table 2.1 for their main cruteit and scale.
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



5.1 MAIN ALTERNATE PLANTS ........................................................................................... ........ 133
5.2 ALTERNATE PLANTS FOR TH£EGUILIN ENVIRONMENTAL COMPREHENSIVE TREATING PROJECT AND
COMPARISON  BETWEEN  THEM  .................................................................................... .................... 133
6. ANALYSIS ON THE BENEFIT OF THE LIJIANG RIVER COMPREHENSIVE. ......... 143
6.1 ANALYSIS ON ITS SOCIAL BENEFIT.                                                     143
6.2 FINANCIAL ANALYSIS OF THE PROJECT.                                                  145
6.3 ANALYSIS ON NATIONAL ECONOMY OF PROJECT .....................................................,.,.,    149
6.4 ANALYSIS 6N ENVIRONMENTAL BENEFIT OF THE PROJECT ........................................... ...... 149
7. PLAN FOR ENVIRONMENTAL ADMINISTRATION AND ENVIRONMENTAL
MONITORING                                                . .............. . .... .................... .  152
7.1 SETTING UP OF ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECnON MANAGEMENT SYSTEM.                            152
7.2 MEASURES FOR ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT.                                              153
7.3 ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING PLAN .154
8. PUBLIC PARTICIPATION ._.-..                                         ... ....  - .156
8. I AIM AND PURPOSE ......................                                             156
8.2 METHODS OF INVESTIGATION.                                                           156
8.3 SCOPE OF INVESTIGATION.                                                             156
8.4 SUBJECT OF INVESTGATION.                                                            157
8.5  METHOD  OF rNVESTIGATION ...........................................................................................................  157
8.6 ANALYSIS ON THE RESULTS OF INVESTIGATION.                                           157
9. CONCLUSION AND PROPOSAL ...... ................................... ..-.--.-.-.............161
9.1 ExISTING ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY .                                                    161
9.2 THIE FACTOR OF PROJECT'S ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT .................................................................... 162
9.3 ASSESSMENT ON ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT DURING ITS CONSTRUCTION .                        162
9.4 ASSESSMENT ON ENViRONMENTAL IMPACT DURING ITS OPERATION.                            163
9.5 TilE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT OF BUILDING REMOVAL AND INHABITANTS RESETTLEMENT .         164
9.6 BENEFIT OF THE LIJIANG RIVER COMPREHENSIVE TREATING PROJECT .164
-9.7 PUBLIC PARTICIPATION ...................                                              164
2



EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
The City of Guilin is located in the northeast of Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous
Region, at I I0°l3'--1 10°40'E and 24o39'--2522'N, 336 km from Nanning, capital of
the autonomous region. It has a total area of 565km2, of which urban area accounts for
54km2 and suburbs 511 iM2. Under its jurisdiction are also two counties: Yangshuo
County and Lingui County, whose areas are respectively 1,428kM2 and 2,202km2. In
January of 197-9 the State Council has designated Guilin City as a national key scenic
tourist city, and in February of 1982 the city was declared as a national historical
cultural city. Its unique limestone landscape, peak forests as well as solitude peaks,
karst topography and caves form "number one beautiful scene in the world'. The
Lijiang River meanders through the mountains from the north to the south. "The
reflection of the peaks on the water seems to be floating while all the mountains and
the water form a fairly land." Its natural beauty has solicited endless praise from
generations of writers and poets since ancient times. The new Guilin today has
attracted numerous tourists from home and abroad, promoting the development of the
city's tourism.
Tlhe government of Guilin City and Guilin Region is planning to replenish with
diversing water the Lijiang River and protect it's dikes, improve domestic refuse
treating system and waste water collecting system and built waste water treating
plants. The Guilin Lijiang Environmental Comprehensive Treating Project includes
the subproject of water replenishment of the Lijiang River, the subproject of waste
water treating system in Guilin City and the subproject of domestic refuse disposing
system in Guilin City. It is an important environmental protection project for the
Guilin City's environment and ecoenvironment of the Lijiang River, which will
diverse water into the Lijiang River 2,666 billion m3/a, dispose refuse 500 t/d and
collect waste water 50,000 m3/d during the operation.
1. Main content and investment of the proposed project
- See Table 2.1 for their main content-and scale.



Table 1 Main Content of the Lijiang River Comprehensive Treatment Project
Subproject            Main Content of Engineering                                      Investment
I.Water              a. Water replenishment works for the Wulixia Reservoir average  165.510.000
repienishment         capacity 86.2 million m3/a. Nan canal long is 0.392 km (new), Bei  yuan
for the Lijiang River   canal long is 23.1 km and one power swtion.
b. Water diversion works at the Xiaorongjiang Rivcr average capacity
126 million m'la, dam, water diversion tunnel (7.9km) two power-
stations, and raft passage (long 178.8km. wide 4.0m)
c. Protection dikes of the Lijiang River. 44.5km
2. Domestic refuse    a. Chongkou relusc landfill SOOtId. In stagc one refuse landftll with  54.010,000
disposing system      the capacity of                                                  yuan
(a) Leakage preventing works                                     (First stage)
(b) Dams
(c) Waste water collecting and disposing system
(d) Waste gas collecting and disposing system
b. 35 refuse transit stations
3. City waste water    a. Waste water tmating project of urban areas of Guilin City (the  318,270,000
treating system       North District and Qingtan District) covering an area of 56.34km2  yuan
with a popultion of 640,000; waste water intercepting projects,
pumping stations, and waste water treating plant.
b. Waste water treating project in the Xicheng district of Guilin East
District and West District) covering an area of 21km2 with a
population of 150.000. waster water intercepting projects, waster
water treating planL
2. Main pollution sources and their discharging of pollutants for the
proposed project
2.1 Major pollution sources during the construction ofthe project
The construction of the project will last a long period of time, involves a large
range and requires a large amount of earthwork, and some of the construction sites are
located in the central part of the city. Thus it will have some unfavorable impact on
the environment, inhabitants and public traffic of the city.
a. Construction noise
Excavating machines and other machines and transportation vehicles used will
produce certain noise to affect people's life and rest nearby.
b. Construction raised dust
Raised dust is an important pollution element in construction that will affect the
atmospheric quality. The level of raised dust varies greatly depending on the season
of construction, soil type, and construction administration.
c. Garbage
The storing, transportation, and disposal of domestic garbage and construction
garbage will have some impact on the city's environrent and ground water if not
handled properly
it



d. Traffic jamns
A large amount of transportation will be needed for the construction of the
project. Laying of pipelines will destroy part of the roads. All these will affect the
city's traffic and cause traffic jams.,
2.2 Major pollution sources during the operation of the project
a. The refuse landfill will have certain impact on ground water.
b. Foul smells produced bv the garbage burial ground and waste water treating
plants included in the project wvill have some impact on inhabitants-nearby.
c. In case there is an accident in the waste water treating plant, large amount of
waste water discharged will have much impact on the water quality of the Lijiang
River and other receiving water bodies.
d. Noise produced by waste water plants and pump stations will have impact on
the surrounding environment
e. Impact caused to areas from which water will be drawn because of the
decreased environmental capacity
3 Existing environmental quality
3.1 Quality of water environmental
The monitored data from 1991 to 1994 and 1996 for this project show that the
present water quality of the Lijiang River is good, most index are within the standard
of Grade II surface water environment, up to the requirement of first class protected
water, that is concentrated drink-ing water sources and for the protection of rare fish
species. But certain items such as coli and petroleum exceeded the standard in 1991-
94; DO is a little too low. And that of NH3-N exceeded the standard of Grade II water
by a big margin. As a whole water quality of the Lijiang river is good, but the trend of
the change of water quality reveals worse from Dahe section to Jingpinshan section, it
was affected by the discharge of domestic waste water and non-point rescue.
The Taohua River, the Xiaodong River, the Ningyuan River and the Nanxi River
are not meet the standard for Grade III water, after 1994, it is deteriorating along with
the development of pollution. The index of coli and petroleum seriously exceed the
standard for Grade III water. The index of coli, petroleum, CODM,, BOD, N02-N and
NH3-N all exceeding the standard for Grade III in all tributes. The trend of the change
of water quality reveals that the water quality of the Xiaodong River and the Taohua
River has been deteriorating rapidly.
The water environmental quality of the two water drawing places is fairly good.
Assessment with the standard for Grade II water, Hg and petroleum in the
Xiaorongjiang River is lightly-polluted, that of coli polluted. The concentration of T-
iii



N in the water of the Wulixia Reservoir is somewhat fairly high while other items do
not exceed the standard for grade 11 water.
The total area of good and fairly god underground water in the surveyed area
was accounting for 90% of the total. The area of fairly poor underground water was
accounting for 2.4% of the total, mainly distributed along Wucheng-Ximen Rice
Flour Mill-brewery; along No.3 Pharmaceutical Factory-Wanfutan Dairy and Yaotou
area.
3.2 Solid waste
The total amount of domestic refuse produced was 13 1,000t in 1993, of which
120,000t was transported away and 65,000t treated to be harmless. Industrial solid
waste in Guilin City was well handled and under good management, because the
adoption of the policy of comprehensive utilization. Impact of solid waste in Guilin is
mainly caused by domestic refuse. Because the capacity of harmless treatment is far
from enough, its pollution to water, soil and the atmosphere, and lack of transporting
capacity and transit stations is becoming more and more outstanding. Besides, there is
industrial solid waste.
3.3 Quality of atmospheric environment
The average daily concentration of SO2 and NOx (in 1991-1994) was not
exceeding the standard for Grade I atmosphere and TSP not exceeding the standard
for Grade II atmosphere. But the average daily maximum concentration of SO2, NOx
and TSP was exceeding the standard for Grade I and Grade II. The concentration of
TSP was exceeding the standard for Grade II according the monitoring of the
project's area in 1996, and the maximum exceeding rate was 80%. the quality of
atmospheric environment was good on the area of replenishment project.
3.4 Acoustic environmental quality of the Guilin region
Traffic and daily life noise are main environmental noise sources in Guilin. The
road   equivalent noise intensity exceeded 3dB(A) for standard of "Urban
environmnental noise standard"-diuring daytime, and the length of was 44.83km taking
up more than 78% of the total length of roads. The area wherc.the average equivalent
noise intensity exceeded 7OdB(A) during daytime was 8.06%; that exceeding 6OdB(A)
39.51%; that exceeding 55dB(A) 68.95% in 1994. This was reveals that the noise
pollution was serious in Guilin City, so noise will have impact on people's life. The
traffic and local noise was not exceeded standard on the area of replenishment project
by monitoring in 1996.
iv



4 The factor of project's environmental impact
The negative impact of the project is basically during the construction of the
project, of short term, reversible and local, while positive impact is basically during
its operation, of long term and extensive. So after the project is completed and put
into operation the major impact will be favorable, though there will be local
unfavorable impact.
1. Raised dust and noise will have impact on the atmospheric quality and
people's life. The laying of pipelines and the construction of water drawing tunnels,
the collecting and transporting of construction refuse will have much impact.
2. Refuse landfill will have impact on ground water and inhabitants nearby.
But as a whole the project is an environmental project with remarkable benefit.
4.1 Assessment on environmental impact during its construction
This is a comprehensive environrnental treatment project involving industrial
waste water, domestic sewage, solid waste, water replenishing,. It involves a large
scale and will last a fairly long time. A numrber of machines shall be used and large
amounts of garbage, backfilling earth, and construction material shall be piled for
some time. So noise, foul smell, traffic jams, secondary pollution and so on will affect
the city's landscape and people's life.
1. Noise will be produced in different stages of construction. Measures should be
taken to avoid construction at night.
2. It is better to transport away sand and pollutants directly. Care should be taklen
in loading to avoid droppings and prevent pollutants from touch the ground.
Construction should be carried out in a civilized way to prevent secondary pollution.
3.. Transportation should have covers and construction sites should have
enclosures. and water should be sprinkled on piled earth and bottom clay dug up so as
to reduce the impact of raised dust. Management should be strengthened to shorten the
construction period.
4. Transportation needed for the construction should avoid rush hours so as to
reduce its impact on the city's traffic.
5. Management of temporarily piled construction material and bottom clay
should be strengthened to reduce possible secondary pollution,
The above mentioned environmental impact is of short term and reversible.
Proper measures can reduce it to the minimum degree.
4.2. Prediction on the environmental impact of each subproject
1. The Lijiang River water replenishing project
v



(I )Noise and vibration caused by the construction
Noise and vibration during the construction come mainly from the digging of earthwork
in the area of the dam and tunnel, the quarry, the mixing of concrete, and transportation.
Vibration is produced at the same time during drilling and the operation of screeners,
mixers, air compressors, and so on. It mainly affects the operating workers and construction
workers. Proper shock-proof measures can reduce such impact.
(2) Raised dust and atmospheric pollution
Source oCraised dust and air pollution during the construction are mainly form: a. Tail
gas discharged by vehicles and construction machines; b. Harmful substance produced by the
explosion of powder; c. Raised dust during the digging, stone processing, concrete mixing
and castaway matters transportation; and d. Smoke dust produced by the burning of coal for
the construction.
(3) Impact on the landscape
The construction sites are in the hilly regions. The existing vegetation along the banks of
the Lijiang River is fine. So care should be taken in construction to preserve natural
vegetation for rational utilization.
(4) Impact of the construction on the ecological environment
Impact of the construction on the ecoenvironment is mainly destruction of certain
vegetation. The reservoir will inundate some land, the construction of the power station, and
the digging of the tunnel and extraction of earth and stones will pernanently change the
vegetation and certain amount of forest will be felled. But the new water body is favorable to
the improvement of the ecoenviomment. Timely aforestation of temporarily occupied land
can help restore par t of the original ecosystem.
To protect the ecoenvironment of the construction area, it is necessary to work out strict
rules and regulations, to protect its natural ecosystem. Free felling of trees is not allowed and
aforestation should be strengthened to reduce the project's negative impact and form a better
environment.
(5) Impact on traffic
Construction material will be transported along trunk lies of highways, thus inevitably
_ausing some traffic jams and adding much noise. So the trunk transportation routes should
be widened and proper arrangement be made to avoid rush hours and transportation at night.
Besides, trees should be planted along the transportation routes to reduce the impact of raised
dust and harmful gases.
(6) Impact on social economic activities
Existing trunk tunnels within the construction area are important for irrigation. So the
construction should avoid irrigation season so as to reduce its impact on agricultural
production. And this is one of the reasons why the construction will last a long time.
2. Prediction on the construction of the dikes of the Lijiang River
vi



(1) Impact of construction noise
The construction of the dikes of the Lijiang River is mainly along the shoals of the river.
Its main content is stone blocks laying. Noise is mainly from the mixing of mortar. Though
the construction extends to a long line, the impact of the noise is small. And there is rarely
any building within 50m from the dikes, so it can be considered there will be no noise
sensitive areas. Only the construction workers will be affected. It is suggested the
construction not to be carried out at night.
(I) Impact on the landscape
Building of temporary roads, digging of the base and temporarily occupied land will
have certain impact on the landscape, especially because there are many scenery spots along
the Lijiang River. many construction sites are within the view of tourists (including those on
tourist boats). But such impact is temporary and most can be restored after the completion
of the construction. Special care should be taken for certain part that is hard to restore the
original landscape.
(2) Impact on the ecoenvironment
Protection of land ecosystem: Natural and artificially grown trees along the Lijiang
River are an important part of the beautiful scenes and should be protected. Certain
destruction of the vegetation is inevitable. The scope is determined by the designing and
organization of the construction. So the following two problems should bc given special
attention:
eSpecial protection plans should be made with the participation of departments in charge
of gardens and park to protect ancient tress and rare flowers and trees. Slip up in this will
cause serious result.
*Stone should not be taken from nearby mountains. Though taking stones from nearby
quarries will be economical, the impact of such practicc is serious on the landscape and
ecosvstem. So quarries shiould be strictly arranged beyond the protected area of the
ecosystem.
3. Domestic refuse disposing system
(1) Impact of thc noise on the environment
The refuse landfill at Chongkou is far away from concentrated living quarters and is
over I km away from he nearest inhabitant point separated from it by a mountain. So the noise
will not affect surrounding environment.
(2) Impact of the construction of refuse landfill on vegetation
Existing vegetation will be destroyed and part of the surrounding areas will be affected
by raised dust and will be trampled.
The site is now covered by pine forest (27ha), waste land and farmland (67ha). The fine
trees are not well grown except a few sections.
(3) Analysis on construction raised dust
vii



As the site of the refuse landfill is local in a half-closed valley, the raised dust of its
construction will not be spread out to cause much impact on surrounding areas. But at its
outlets, trees should be planted before the construction begins and encircled to reduce the
impact scope of raised dust. The impact of construction machines will largely depend on the
way of construction. Civilized construction will keep the area to be trampled to the minimum.
(4) Analysis on the impact of construction garbage
Certain amount of castaway earth and stones will be produced during the construction of
the refuse landfill in Chongkou., but as the site itself is a refuse disposal place,. So if
properly handled and not to be thrown into surrounding farmland or water bodies, no
pollution will be caused.
Garbage transit stations are in the urban part of the city, so the disposal of construction
garbage there should be handled with care according to concerned rules and regulations set
by the city govemment. If transported away in time and enclose temporarily piled
construction garbage to prevent it from being washed away. Thus pollution caused by it can
be avoided.
4. Construction of the city's waste water treatment system
(1) Prediction on the impact of waste water intercepting pipeline network laying
Drilling machines, excavation machines, loading machines and vehicles will be used in
the construction, whose noise intensity is 90-95dB(A). Jiashan High School, No. 8 High
School, Zhangmu Primary School, Medical College and its branch school, Diyaun Hotel,
Guishan Hotel, Ronghu Hotel, and the county government of Linggui, Linggui Country
Hospital, County High School will be affected more or less in the construction of waste water
intercepting system according to the standard set in "Environmental Noise Standard for
Urban Construction". The construction of the waste water pipelinc network in Nanhu District
will affect a small scope. The time of such impact will last about a month for each sensitive
spot.
As the conditions of climate, season and soil type of Guilin City is unfavorable for the
production and spread of raised dust. Possible dry and windy weather in favor of raised dust
is very limited.
Possible environmental problems during the construction can be reduced by taking
proper measures such as putting up enclosures around construction sites, avoiding
transportation in rush hours, and strengthening the management and shortening construction
period.
4.3 Assessment on environmental impact during its operation
The project's envirornental impact during its operation is mainly positive,
manifested in its improvement of the water environment of the Lijiang River and its
viii



tributaries and the ecoenvironment of the city. This will greatly improve the city's
investment environment and promote its economic development.
1. Impact on the water environment of the Lijiang River
The project including the subproject of water replenishment project for the
Lijiang River, the subproject of domestic refuse disposing system and city waste water
treating project will not only increase the water flow of the Lijiang River during low
water season, but also cut its pollutants from the city's point and non-point source,
playing an important role in protecting and improving the water environment and
ecoenvironinent of the Lijiang River. Prediction finds out that without the project the
concentration of BOD5 and CODMfl at the section of Longmen will reach respectively
13.63mg/L and 13.26mg/L in 2015. The project can reduce the figures to 7.35mg/L
and 7.10mg/L, that is CODw, will meet the standard for Grade IV water. But the
project cannot make the water quality of the Lijiang River meet the standard for Grade
II water as the waste water treating plants can only treat 60% of the total waste water
discharged in 2015. The garbage collecting system and burial ground will greatly
reduce non-point pollution source of Guilin City. This is also beneficial to the water
quality improvement of the Lijiang River. The project will also improve the surface
water and ground water of the city and its suburbs, radically changing the hygienic and
ecological situation of the city.
2. Impact on the city's ecoenvironmnent
Guilin City is a famous tourist city. The completion of the project can collect and
dispose 5OOt/d of domestic garbage and treat 1 78,500tld of waste water, thus basically
solve heavy pollution areas of the city, especially the central part of the city.
3. Impact on the atmospheric environment
Domestic resuse disposing system can be seen that the highest once or highest average
daily and annual values of thc concentrations of CH,. H2S, NH3, and SO., all below ImgiM3,
within the standard fro Grade 11 set by the state. The operation of the refuse landfill will not
have unfavorable impact on the urban part of Linggui County. As the frequency of small
wind is high but with much bottom temperature inversion in the area assessed, the scope of
the impact is within lkm. But the high humidity and high temperature will increase the
-anount of CH, discharged as the gartage buried increases. So monitoring should be carried
out within the rang of I Okm to avoid possible detriment.
Waste water treating project of the city is the foul smell produced by waste water
treating plants. But as the sludge produced is not of large quantity, its impact can be reduced
to the minimum if timely transported away. Waste water treating plants are located in the
leeward of the city, so there won't be much impact on the urban part of the city. In the
planning of the city, however, attention should be paid to avoid developing living quaners or
commercial quarters within the range of impact of waste water treating plants.
ix



4. Impact on the noise the project's surrounding areas
Refuse disposal project's route along the highway including Renming Avenue in
Linggui Town is already polluted by traffic noise, which will increase further. Transportation
of garbage only adds 126 trucks every day, averaging only 16/h. The noise added by garbage
transporting vehicles is only 0.3-0.4dB(A). So the strong noise intensity is mainly caused by
other traffic vehicles and the load added by garbage transportation vehicles is not much.
Pumping stations and waste water treating plants will produce some noise during their
operation, but as separation belts are built around them, pumping stations are half
underground, the noise impact is only limited to their borders and green belts.
5. Impact on ground water
The major issues of the proposed refuse landfill are the prevention of leakage of the
percolation leaching, the stability of concerned garbage dam and the geological engineering
stability of the site. If artificial prevention is taken to meet the standard set by the state, the
leakage of percolation leaching will be very too little to cause any meaningful pollution.
Horizontal and vertical prevention shall be combined at the refuse landfill. Considering the
actual local conditions, it is recommended to take horizontal prevention as the main measure
supplemented by vertical prevention,
6. Impact on the environment of the areas where water is drawn away
Water replenishment projects on the Xiaorongjiang River and the Wulixia Reservoir of
the Lijiang River water replenishment project involve inter drainage and intra-drainage
works. Artificial redistribution of water resources will bring water to areas where water is
not enough, but there will be some new environmental impact on the areas where water is
drawn out.
The water replenishment works on the Xiaorongjiang River will cause some negative
impact on the environment of the river's drainage area, concentrated in the segment from the
dam to the river's outlet, that is the area where water is drawn out. The impact is of long term.
Positive impact will be shown in the area where water is replenished, that is the Lijiang
River. Favorable impact will be manifested mainly in the electricity produced by the
Xiaorongjiang dam power station (2 x 55KW), and the improvement of traffic conditions.
The water body of the Xiaorongjiang Reservoir can also be used to develop aquaculture.
(I) Impact on the transportation or wood floating
The drainage area of the Xiaorongjiang River has much forest, producing bamboo,
Chinese fir and other timber. On the dam on the Xiorongjiang River a log-raft passage way
4m wide, 1 78.8m long is built. Raft can pass in normal way when there is flood once every
five years. Navigating wall is built upper the inlet of the passage way and a adjustable sluice
gate is built at the inlet to control the water level, so rafts can pass safely.
The floating speed of wood will slow down after it enters the reservoir. At certain
segment of the river, the rafts have to be helped or wait till the flow before the dam is
x



increased. This happens along the 2.5km segment from the dam down to the outlet of a
tributary. AS the added water flow is not much, sometime rafts will still met some barrier
along the segment down the point.
(2) Analysis on the potential impact on winter irrigation in the lower reaches of the
Wulixia Reservoir
After the works at the Wulixia is in operation, the water discharged in low water period
will increase, benefit to the water quality of the Lijiang River. But the amount of water
which can be consumed will be decreased.
Then according to the present principle of water drawing of the project (when the
Lijiang River needs water, water should be drawn first from the Wulixia Reservoir, and
supplemented by water drawn from the Qingshitan Reservoir). The winter irrigation of the
Wulixia Reservoir irrigated area is not taken into consideration. Even tunnels are dug and
ground water potential tackled, there still will not be enough water for winter irrigation.
5 The environmental impact of building removal and inhabitants
resettlement
The project has not an amount of building removal and inhabitants resettlement,
but need take over land 218.6 ha and 317 surplus labor power would be properly
arranged.
6 Benefit of the Lijiang River comprehensive treating project
The project will has good benefit, it's major benefit is that it will solve the
problems of pollution and dust, so as to improve the environmnental quality of the
down town area, people's living conditions and water quality of the Lijiang River.
This will improve investment environment and tourist environment.
The project requires a total investment of 557.5 million yuan (RMB) and has
-some economic benefit, the profirts-from  the waste water treating fee, water fee,
electricity fee and collecting and treating fee of refuse, and tourist fee. The project's
benefit is that this project improves the water and ecoenvironment environment of the
Lijiang River and urban ecoenvirorunent of Guilin City, so as to develop the tourist
and the Guilin economic.
xi



7 Public participation
The public participation of the project involves the whole Guilin city, including
Yangsuo county and Lingqui county, Lingchuan county and Xing'an county of Guilin
region, so the scope of the investigation carried out included the area along the
construction of engineering project. Institutions investigated included the People's
Congress, the members of the political Consultative Conference especially farmers,
ordinary inhibitions of the area affected by the project.
The result showed that 90% of the investigated people supported the construction
of the project, 95% of the inhabitants said they could understand the short impact of
the construction of the project, if the removal of the houses and resettlement of the
inhabitants are carried properly with proper policies, they will support the project of
the prevail interest.
To sum up the Lijiang River Comprehensive treating Project of Guilin is an
environmental protection project will bring remarkable environmental benefit, social
benefit and economic benefit. The project will impact environmental and inhabitants
of the project's area during construction, but the above mentioned environmental
impact is of short term and reversible. Proper measures can reduce it to the minimum
degree acceding the EIA statement. The project's environmental impact during its
operation is mainly positive, manifested in its improvement of the water environment
of the Lijiang River and its tributaries and the ecoenvironment of the city. This will
greatly improve the city's investment environment and promote its economic
development.
xii



1. Preface
1.1 Purpose of this assessment
The City of Guilin is located in the northeast of Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region,
at 1100 13'--1 100 40'E and 24o39'--25' 22'N, 336 km  from  Nanning, capital of the
autonomous region. It has a total area of 565km2, of which urban area accounts for 54km-
and suburbs 51 Im2. Under its jurisdiction are also two counties: Yangshuo County and
Lingui County. whose areas are respectively 1,428km2 and 2,202km2. In January of 1979 the
State Council has designated Guilin City as a national key scenic tourist city, and in
February of 1982 the city was declared as a national historical cultural city. Its unique
limestone landscape, peak forests as well as solitude peaks, karst topography and caves form
"number one beautiful scene in the world'. The Lijiang River meanders through the
mountains from the north to the south. "The reflection of the peaks on the water seems to be
floating while all the mountains and the water form a fairly land." Its natural beauty has
solicited endless praise from generations of writers and poets since ancient times. The new
Guilin today has attracted numerous tourists from home and abroad, promoting the
development of the city's tourism. (See Fig. 1-1.)
Guilin is a cultural city with a history of over 2,000 years. It is also a city undergoing
reconstruction and further development. Because of historical reasons, the function division
of the city is not clear and the distribution of its industries is irrational. In order to protect the
scenery resources of the city, the Guilin City Government has decided to shut down and
merge some enterprises, to change the products of others and stop production of still others,
to speed up the construction of the city's infrastructure such as water supply, drainage, road
and afforestation, and to carry out comprehensive treatment of the city's waste gas, waste
water and solid waste matters. Remarkable achievements have been made in all these fields.
But because of lack of fund, the waste water treatment and the rational utilization of the
water resources of the Lijiang River arc factors restraining the further development of
tourism of Guilin.
Flowing zigzag through Guilin City, the Lijiang River is the most important water
resources of the city, supplying most of the water needed for people's life and the city's
industries. Its main tributaries within the city's jurisdiction include the Taohua River, the
Xiaodongjiang River, the Nanxi River, and the Liangfeng River. The clean watered Lijiang
-River with the green peaks and wondertul looking caverns and grottoes along its banks is at
the same time one of the most famous tourist attraction in China, where tourism has created
a large amount of wealth.
But pollution is getting more and more serious along with the development of industry,
agriculture, and tourism and along with the increasing of urban population. Statistics shows
that 113 million tons of waste water was discharged into the Lijiang River in 1993, which
contained 106.8t of BOD5, 5,520t of COD, 1,1 14t of SS, and 48t of petroleum discharged by
90 factories. As a result, the Dongzhenlu water mill was forced to close down in January



Wanuall~~~~~~~~~~~~~na
'Ha'uansha                           X -j
)  Qingshiza
. !   N r   -    4\<#   (  Rcscrvoir  Lingchuan t  
*.- _ tWutong 7(f
MiaZ /°.r Chaoy
A             Lingui _                        x E  7
-ann   YuFng
Guang ~\i \han A                         i _   0o nou,/eR' - 
Fig. I-I  Lacation of Guilin  Cilt
Nanbiangs
Guig.11Ln    to   fCulnCt
I V                        Jnba   Yanehu



1994. The discharge of large amounts of waste water not only hinders the development of
production and tourism but also directly threatens the life of hundreds of thousands of
inhabitants of Guilin. In order to guarantee the sustained development of production and
tourism and improve people's life quality, it is an urgent task to bring into control the city's
industrial waste water and sewage and garbage of various kinds and to carry out
comprehensive treatment of the Lijiang River.
With the support of the central government and through joint efforts of the government
and office in charge of environmental protection items using foreign loans of the Guangxi
Zhuang Autonomous Region, the project of the comprehensive treatment of the Lijiang
River has been entered into the list of the annual financial program of 1997 of the World
Bank. The project is now in the stage of feasibility studies. The Chinese Research Academy
of Environmental Sciences has been entrusted by the office of the government of the
autonomous region in charge of item using loans from the World Bank to compile this
statement of the project's environmental impact assessment.
The purpose of this assessment is to predict and analyze the environmental impact of
the project during its construction and operation based on the characteristics of the project
and comprehensive assessment of the environment, so as to discuss and prove its technical
feasibility and rationality in order to provide scientific basis for the decision making,
designing and environmental administration of the project.
1.2. Basis for the compiling of EIA
1.2.1 Document Guohuan (86) 003 'Procedure of the Environmental Protection of
Construction Program" by the National Environmental Protection Agency;
1.2.2 Document Huajian (1993) 324 jointly issued by the Nation Environmental
Protection Agency (NEPA), the State Planning Commission, the Ministry of Finance, and
the Chinese People's Bank "Notification for Strengthening the Administration over the
Environmental Protection of Construction Items Using Loans from International Financial
Organizations";
1.2.3 Document Jitouzi (1994) 441 "Reply to thc Proposal by the State Planning
Commission on the Construction of the Environmental Protection Project in Guangxi by
Using Loan from the World Bank";
1.2.4  Document Huanjian  (88) 117 "Certain  Opinions  on the Environmental
Administration of Construction Items";
1.2.5 "Water Law of the People's Republic of China", 1988;
1.2.6 "Law of Environmental Protection of the People's Republic of China", 1989;
1.2.7 "Certificate of Entrustment on the Assessment of the Environmental Impact of the
Environmental Protection Project in Guilin issued by the office of loans from the World
Bank in Guangxi Autonomous Region", Jan: 1996;
3



1.2.8 "Report on the Feasibility Studies of the Project of Waste Water Treatment of
Guilin City", June 1996 by South-Central China Designing and Research Institute of
Municipal Engineering;
1.2.9 "Report on the Feasibility Studies of the Project of Waste Water Treatment of
Xibei Distract and Xicheng District of Guilin City", June 1996 by Shanghai Designing and
Research Institute of Municipal Engineering;
1.2.10 "Designing Report on the Water Replenishment Project at Lijiang River in
Guilin" by Prospecting and Designing Research Institute of Hydro-electric Engineering of
Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region June, 1996;
1.2.11 "Document of Preliminary Proof on Economy of the Water Replenishment
Project at Lijiang River in Guilin" by Prospecting and Designing Research Institute of
Hydro-electric Engineering of Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region June, 1996;
1.2.12 Designing Document on Dike Protection Project of the Lijiang River" by
Prospecting and Designing Research Institute of Hydro-electric Engineering of Guangxi
Zhuang Autonomous Region, June, 1996;
1.2.13 "Report on the Feasibility Studies of the Project of Domestic Garbage Treating
System in Guilin City" by Shanghai Designing and Research Institute of Municipal
Engineering; June 1996;
1.2.14 "Background of the Project of the Comprehensive Treatment of the Lijiang River
"by the office of the government of the autonomous region in charge of item using loans
from World Bank Jan. 1995;
1.2.15 "Plan of Environmental Comprehensive Treatment of Guilin City Planned forthe
Ninth Five-Year Plan and thc Year of 2010", Guilin Environmental Protection Bureau, Oct.,
1995
1.2.16 "Overall Planning of Guilin City",
1.2.17 Document Huanjianjian (96) 117 "Replay to outline of EIA on the project of
comprehensivc treatment of the Lijiang River in Guilin, Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous
Region" by NEPA, May, 19, 1996.
1.3. Scope, standard, and schedule of the assessment and targets of
environmental protection
1.3. 1 Scope of the assessment
-  -    The scope of the environmenll assessment of the comprehensive treatment project of
the Lijiang River involves the urban part of Guilin City, Lingui County, Xing'an County, and
Lingchuan County.
1. Scope of water environmental assessment
The segment of the Lijiang River from Guilin to Yangshuo, the Taohua River, the
Qingshitan Reservoir, the Gantang River, the Xiaorongjiang River, the Wulixia Reservoir
and rivers in its lower reaches, the Lingqu Canal, and the Darongjiang River, and other water
4



system in the urban part of Guilin City. Ground water to be assessed is mainly around the
Chongkou refuse landfill to the Chongkou Reservoir.
2. Scope of noise and atmosphere assessment
The scope of the atmospheric assessment involves a range of 5km2 around the
Chongkou refuse landfiill, an area of about 80km2 and region around the construction sites
and along the transportation routes of three projects. The assessment on noise and raised dust
mainly takes the region around the construction sites and along the transportation routes of
all projects.
3 Scope of assessment on solid waste matters
It involves regions where garbage, and solid waste matters are temporarily piled and
disposed, garbage transit stations, and along concerned transportation routes.
4 Scope of ecological assessment
The drainage areas involved in the three subprojects, such as the Wulixia Reservoir, the
Xiaorongjiang Reservoir, and their canals, the Lijiang River(from Guilin to Yangshuo), and
the ecological environment of other concerned construction sites.
1.3.2 Targets of environmental protection
The main targets of environmental protection of the proposed project are the water
quality of the Lijiang River, inhabitants living near the construction sites, the city's landscape
and ecological environment affected by the construction of the project.
1. 3.3 Standard of the assessment
1. Standard for water environmental assessment
For the Lijiang River: Grade It standard set in "Document GB3838-88 Standard for
Surface Water Environmental Quality";
For its tributaries: Grade IlI standard of the same document;
For ground water: Gradc III standard set in "Document GB5749-85 Hygienic Standard
for Water for Domestic Usage and Drinking Water".
2. Standard for atmospheric environment: Grade 11 and Grade 1II standards set in "Document
GB3095-82 Standard for Atmospheric Environment Quality" are used respectively for
inhabitant quarters and industrial quarters.
3. Standard for noise: the standard set in "Document GB12523-90 Noise Limit for the
Border of Construction Sitese and tFe Grade 11 standard for mixed quarters set in Document
GB3096-93 Standard for Urban Environmental Noise are used.
4. Standard for waste water: the Grade I standard set in Document GB8979-88" Standard for
Comprehensive Waste water Discharge".
1.3.4 Period of time to be assessed
S



The period of time to be assessed includes the process of the construction of the project and
the period from the time when the project is put into operation to the year concerned in the
plan (2015).
1.3.5 Scope of the assessment of its subprojects
I. Water replenishing project for the Lijiang River of Guilin
(a) Scope of water environmental assessment:
According to thc plan of the Lijiang water replenishing project, the scope of the
environmental -assessment involves the segment of the Lijiang River from Guilin to
Yangshuo, the Taohua River, the Qingshitan Reservoir, the Gantang River, the
Xiaorongjiang River, the Wulixia Reservoir and rivcrs in its lower reaches, the Lingqu Canal,
and the Darongjiang River;
(b) Scope of assessment on solid wastes
It involves regions where solid wastes are temporarily piled, to be transported away and
disposed, and along concerned transportation routes;
(c) Scope of noise and raised dust. assessment
They involves the construction areas of the project and along the transportation routes;
(d) Scope of assessment of its impact on landscape
It involves landscape environment of construction sites.
2. City Waste Water Treating Project in Guilin
(a) Scope of environmental takles the region along the sewage pipeline network;
(b) Water bodies now receiving waste water: the Guilin segment of the Lijiang River,
the Taohua River, the Xiaodongjiang River, the Nanxi River, the Ningyan River, Xiangsi
River and the Xiaotaiping River;
(c) Water bodies to receive waster water according to the plan: the Lijiang River, the
Taohua River, and the segment of the Xiaotaiping River SOOm upstream the waste water
discharging outlet to affected area downstream
(d) Scope of social environmental assessment: all areas involved in waster water
collecting and treating:
(e) Scopc of noise and raised dust assessment: construction sites and along the
transportation routes;
(f) Scope of assessment on solid wastes: regions where garbage and solid waste matters
are temporarily piled, to be transported away and disposed, and along concerned
transportation routes.
3. Domestic refuse disposing system
(a) Scope of surfacc water environmental assessment
From Chongkou refuse landfill to the Chongkou Reservoir and the upper reaches of the
Sitong River;
6



(b) Scope of ground water assessment:
From Chongkou refuse landfill to the Chongkou Reservoir.
(c) Scope of atmospheric assessment;
An area of about 80km2 with a range of 5km around the Chongkou landfill site.
(d) Scope of ecological and soil assessment
Regions around the garbage burial ground.
1.4. Content and key points of the assessment
The project of comprehensive treatment of the Lijiang River is a systematic project
comprising of several engineering works aimed at improving the water environment and
ecological environment of the Lijiang River. The following are key points to be assessed:
1.4.1 Content of the assessment
(1) Impact of noise, raised dust (produced in construction and transportation),
construction waste water and waste gasses on the surrounding environment, people's life and
the city's landscape during the construction of the project
(2) Impact of the water transferred out on the water resources and ecological
environment of regions water drawn out and into during its operation
(3) Impact of refuse landfill on ground water
(4) Prediction and analysis on the water quality of the Lijiang River and the
improvement of the ecoenvironment after the project is put into operation
(5) Analysis on the extent of the improvement of the landscape of Guilin City after the
project is put into operation
(6) Analysis on alternate engineering plans and present measures to be taken and to
release possible impact of the project
(7) Investigation of opinions and suggestions of the public on the project, and the work
out of environmental monitoring and administrative plans
1.4.2 Key points of the assessment
1. Environmental impact on surrounding inhabitants and the city's ecoenvironment and
landscape during its construction
2. The impact of refuse landfill disposing ground on underground water during its
operation, and the impact of water transferred out on the ecological environment of the
micro-drainage area concerned
3. Analysis and assessment over the positive benefit of the project's operation on the
environment of the Lijiang River
1.4.3 Content and key points ofthe assessment of subprojects
1. Water replenishment project for the Lijiang River
(I) Content of the assessment
7



a. Environmental impact during construction of the Xiaorongjiang River works
b. Environmental impact during operation of the Xiaorongjiang works
c. Environmental impact during construction of the Wulixia works (including impact on
historical relic-the Lingqu Canal)
d. Environmental impact during operation of the Wulixia works
Impact of noise, raised dust (produced in construction and transportation), the city's
landscape, ecological environment and historical relic during the construction of the project.
Impact of hydrologic change, water utilization in the lower reaches, flood in upstream
areas, water quality, silting and deposition of river course, landscape, ecoenvironment and
shipping.
(2) Key points oflThe assessment
a. Impact of the Xiaorongjiang works during its operation on the water adjusting of the
Qingshitan Reservoir and the function in its lower reaches
b. Impact of Wulixia works during its operation on the potential function of the water
body of the Rongjiang River
c. Impact of the subprojects during their operation on the extent of the improvement and
maintenance of the water quality of the Lijiang River
2. The city's waste water treating project
(I) Content of the assessment
a. Assessment on pollution sources and existing environment of the project area
b. Impact of noise and raised dust on the surrounding environment during
the
construction of the project
c. Impact of foul smell and sludge on the surrounding environment during the operation
of the project
d. Impact of discharge waster water on the surrounding environment in case of
accidents
e. Prediction on the cut of pollution load discharged into the Lijiang River and other
rivers after the project is put into operation
(2) Key points of the assessment
a. Prediction and analysis on the impact of waste water intercepting project on the
surrounding environment and people's life
-    b. Impact of foul smell and sludge on.ihcsurrounding environment-when the project is
in operation
c. Prediction and analysis on the positive benefit to the water environment of the Lijiang
River after the project is put into operation
3. Domestic garbage disposing system
(I) Content of the assessment
a. Impact of noise during its construction
b. Impact of raised dust during its construction
8



c. Impact on vegetation during its construction
d. Impact on surrounding water bodies of the refuse landfill during its operation
e. Impact of foul smell and methane of the refuse landfill during its operation
(2) Key points of the assessment
Key points of the assessment are the analysis of the impact of the refuse landfill on
ground water and its positive environment benefit
1.5 Main tcchniques and measures adopted in the assessment
1.5.1 Procedure of the assessment
See Fig. 1-2 for the working procedure of the assessment.
Cenificatc of Enurussment o  rjc 
Filed survey and infoffnation collect on thte project's envimxnment   i 
Environmental questions and facwries on the project to be taken
Recognition of environmental affecting factors
Outline ofEnvironmcnral Impact Asscssment
Submit to NEP~A     ~        ~
I yes
Monirng and assessment of existing environental quality         Analysis of the project
Noise         Atmospherie    Waer          Solid wast   |Ecological    Natural nd sociali Expes' opinions
Environment    Environmentionmvironment                  Environment   Envimnmcnt          Detail list
P|rdiction and assessment on time project's environmental effect
|Statement on environmental impact asscssment of subprojectsi
p..                  !Statement on environmental impact assessment on the projeat;
of comprehensive treatment of the Lijiang River in Guilin
'I
No                   submit to  NEPA
To do basis proposed environmnental
ci,,,noogy and measurcs adopted in the projecti
Fig. 1.2 Procedure of the Environmental Assessment of
the Lijiang River Comprehensive Treatment Project
9



1.5.2 Method used in the assessment
Environmental assessment factors were screened according to the characteristics of the
project with advice solicited from concemed experts. The factors chosen are mainly those
bearing much impact on the water environment, atmospheric environment, and acoustic
environment because of the project.
Collect the monitored data of 1991-94 and assess the existing surface water, atmosphere,
noise and solid waste matters of Guilin arca. Give key assessment to the construction sites
and areas involved, so as to make clear environmental problems to be taken into
consideration in the designing of the project and put forward proposals and measures to be
taken to releve such problems.
This project consists of three subprojects. Its construction sites are scattered but they are
linked when the project is in operation. So the assessment is an environmental one as well as
a comprehensive engineering one, much more extensive, complex than the assessment of a
single item. It must answer some questions of the whole drainage area. So this assessment
combines that of single project with a comprehensive assessment and combines that of
macro with micro analysis.
1.6 Institution and personnel of the compiling of the assessment
1. 6.1 Brief introduction to the institution
A comprehensive environmental scientific research academy directly under the National
Environmental Protection Agency (NEPA), the Chinese Research Academy of
Environmental Sciences boasts large scale, complete disciplines, advanced equipment, rich
technical capacity, and wide scope of research. It has now a total staff of 580, which includes
128 senior researchers. It is entrusted with the responsibility for the establishment of state
environmental standards and technical examinations, and the responsibility of technical
monitoring and administration of environmental impact assessment of construction programs
by the NEPA. The academy has so far compiled ovcr 300 environmental impact assessment,
ranking number onc in thc country. Thc assessments involve fields of light industry, brewery,
heat supply, air port, sca port, natural gas supply, electricity, highway, petroleum, chemicals,
iron and steel, water conservatory, food processing,, mining, railway, electronics, regional
development and construction and municipal engineering.
1.6.2 Cooperation institutions
Guilin City Research Institute of Environmental Scicnces
-      Guilin City Environmental Morritoring Station
Guilin Prefecture Research Institute of Environmental Sciences
Guilin Prefecture Environmental Monitoring Station
1. 6.3 Major personnel and their qualification
See the flyleaf of this report for the list of the personnel taking part in the EIA and their
qualification.
10



2. General Situation of the Project to Use the Loan
2.1 Basic situation of the project
2.1. 1 Name of the project
"Guangxi Environmental Protection Project"--the project of comprehensive treatment
of the Lijiang River in Guilin
2.1.2 Geographic location atd layout of the proposed project
The project involves the urban part of the City of Guilin, Linggui County, and two
neighboring counties: Lingchuan County and Xing'an County, the drainage areas of the
Lijiang River and the Yijiang River. See Fig. 2.1 for the geographic location of the proposed
project.
2.1.3 Main content of the proposedproject
The project includes: (D the subproject of water replenishment of the Lijiang River
(which includes two subprojects of water replenishment and protection dikes of the Lijiang
River), () the subproject of waste water treatment in Guilin City (which includes the waste
water treating plants in the urban part of the city and that in the Xicheng District Guilin City),
CD the subproject of domestic refuse disposing system in Guilin City. See Table 2.1 for their
main content and scale.
Table 2.1 Main Content of the Lijiang River Comprehensive Treatment Project
Subprojcct           Main Content of Engineering                                  Investment
I.Water             a. Water replenishment works for the Wulixia Reservoir average  165.510,000
rcplenishmcnt        capacity 86.2 million m'la, Nan canal long is 0.392 km (new). Bei  yuan
for the Lijiang River   canal long is 23.1 kin and one power station.
b. Watcr diversion works at the Xiaorongjiang River average capacity
126 million m'/a. damn, water diversion tunnel (7.9km) two power-
stations. and raft passage (long 178.8km. wide 4.0m)
c. Protection dikes of the Lijiang River. 44.5km
d. Reforestation of Wulixia Reservoir region. 8.484 hu
2. Domestic refuse    a. Chongkou rcfuse landfill SOOt/d. In stagc onc refusc landfill with  54.010,000
-disposing system    the capacity of    -                                          yuan
(a) Leakage preventing works                                 (First stage)
(b) Dams
(c) Waste water collecting and disposing system
(d) Waste gas collecting and disposing system
b. 35 refuse transit stations
II



3. City waste water   a. Waste water treating project of urban areas of Guilin Citv (the  318.270,000
treating system     North District and Qingtan District) covering an area of 56.34km:  yuan
with a population of 640,000; waste water intercepting projects,
pumping stations, and waste water treating plant.
b. Waste water treating project in the Xicheng district of Guilin East
District and West District) covering an area of 21km' with a
population of 150,000, waste water intercepting projects, waster wate
treating plant.
2.1.4 Investment scale
The total investment of the project amounts to 538 million yuan (RMB), of which 50%
will comprise of loan from the World Bank and the other 50% has to be raised by local
institutions.      -. 
2.2 Technological Process
2.2. 1 Construction technological process of the waste water intercepting works
The construction technological process is: First demolish and remove buildings on the
construction sites, then dig open ditches and lay the pipelines, backfill earth and finally
restore the landscape on the ground to the original. The following chart shows the concrete
construction technological process:
Demolishing and removal |       ditch  |      p iipe airnhwork               rcortion
of buildings on the ground 
2.2.2 Technological process of water replenishment worksfor the Liiang River
The technological process for the works of water replenishment of the Lij iang River is:
draw water from the three reservoirs and conduct the water to the Lijiang River. See the
following chart for the concrete process:
Water divened from the rcservoirs              ianals ........ tk:   Lijiang River
t                                      t
construction of reservoir building _-*  demolishing -_ ditch digging     , ground restoration
2.2.3 Technological proce< of garbage burial
Technological process of garbage burial ground starts from domestic garbage gathering,
then use garbage vehicles to transport coU..ed garbage to the burial ground to be buried.
See the following chart for the concrete technological process:
Garbage (collectionr.-s. temporary piling-, transportation (route) _landfill site -_   to plant trees
2.2.4 Technological process of waste water treating plants
First lead waste water from its intercepting network to waste water treating plants to be
treated with biological treatment of three-trough oxidation ditch. Waste water after treatment
13



will be discharged into the Lijiang River and sludge is treated in another place after
dehydration.
Interccpting waster water       i waster water treating piants  -   to river
transferring sludge '-
2.3 Major pollution sources and the discharge of pollutants
2.3.1 Major pallution sources during the construction of the project
The construction of the project will last a long period of time, involves a large range
and requires a large amount of earthwork, and some of the construction sites are located in
the central part of the city. Thus it will have some unfavorable impact on the environment,
inhabitants and public traffic of the city.
a. Construction noise
Excavating machines and other machines and transportation vehicles used will produce
certain noise to affect people's life and rest nearby.
b. Construction raised dust
Raised dust is an important pollution element in construction that will affect the
atmospheric quality. The level of raised dust varies greatly depending on the season of
construction, soil type, and construction administration.
c. Garbage
The storing, transportation, and disposal of domestic garbage and construction garbage
will have some impact on the city's environment and ground water if not handled properly
d. Traffic jams
A large amount of transportation will be needed for the construction of the project.
Laying of pipeiines will destroy part of the roads. All these will affect the city's traffic and
cause traffic jams..
2.3.2 Major pollution sources during the operation of the project
a. The refuse landfill will have certain impact on ground water.
b. Foul smells produced by the garbage burial ground and waste water treating plants
included in the project will have some impact on inhabitants nearby.
c. In case therc is an accident in the waste water treating plant, large amount of waste
water discharged will have much impact on the water quality of the Lijiang River and other
..receiving water bodies.
d. Noise produced by waster water plants and pump stations will have impact on the
surrounding environment
e. Impact is caused to areas from which water will be drawn because of the decreased
environmental capacity
14



2.4 Arrangement of the construction
The project involves the urban part as well as the suburb part of Guilin City. For
the works in the urban part, careful arrangement should be made to reduce the impact
to the minimum and the arrangement in the suburbs part can be a little loosened so as
to reduce the cost.
2.5 Major environmental protection measures
Measures to be taken for environmental protection are basically divided into two stages;
the construction and operation of the project.
2.5. 1 Major environmental prolection measures during thie construction of the project
a. Construction noise
On the premise that the construction period of the project is guaranteed, the use of
machines should be carefully arranged in an overall planning. Different areas should have
different arrangement. In commercial quarters, construction activities should avoid rush
shopping hours, and in inhabitant quarters, construction should not be carried out at night.
b Raised dust
Raised dust is an important pollution factor in the construction. The construction season
should be carefully chosen. Give different treatment according to the soil types and
strengthen the management of the construction. Construction sites in the central part of the
city should be enclosed.
c Construction garbage
Administration should be combined with propagation for the disposal of construction
garbage and domestic garbage so as to raise people's sense of environmental protection. The
collecting, piling, transportation and disposal of garbage should all come under careful
planning and arrangement.
d Traffic jams
As the transportation of construction materials and construction garbage will add to
the city's traffic, and the digging and piling of materials will occupy certain part of roads,
traffic jam is inevitable. So optimized transportation schedule should be arranged to avoid
rush hours.
---.5.2 Major measures that can be talee-ftenvironmental protection during the operation of
the project
a. Garbage burial disposal ground should be managed strictly according to designed
procedures. The device for explosion prevention, gas leading and runoff discharge should be
kept at their best forn so as to play their parts.
b. There should a separation belt around the garbage burial ground. After the burial
ground is fully filled, it is necessary to restore its original ecosystem in time. There should
be sound arresting devices around noise producing equipment like water pumps, air blowers,
and sludge dehydration equipment. A green belt should be planted around waste water
treating plants to reduce the impact of noise and foul smells on nearby inhabitants.
1s



\I                      Xinan
Tianlinkou 
Jinsh     Dai
cJuanSanjie                                                                                                  Shiken
Qingshitane                                                                                 ogi
Hepinglin 44                                                                                                                          ix      Miaohuange
R46     Rver                                                                                                                     p  J/  owerfis
°ver Lingui  /(ang
Qingshatan       in*ng4u.inCit                                                                                      Reervor angc
N~~~~~~4111    River ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~~oe
Qingshitbfl'-)( ~   ~       a   Ligu
Fig 2-2(2)  Route of Water Diversion of the Xiaorongjiang River                            Fig. 2-2(1)   Route of Water Supplement of the Southem
Trunk Canal of the Wulixai Reservoir



c. The ability to handle urgent accidents of waste water treating plants should be raised.
Routine maintenance should be strengthened to prevent and reduce such accidents
2.6 Financial estimates of the project
Table 2.2 Financial Estimates
subproject                         financial estimatcs  subprojccl                   financial estimates
water replenishment for Lijiang River 165.510.000 yuan  icity waste water treating system  318,270.000 yuan
domestic refuse disposing systcm    54.010.000 yuan  total                           538.000.000 yuan
2.7 Brief introduction to its subprojects
2.7.1 The construction of the water replenishment project and protection dikes of the Lyiang
River
1. Geographic location and layout of the project
The subproject involves Lingchuan County and Xing'an Countv of the Guilin Prefecture
and Linggui County of Guilin City, the drainage areas of the Lijiang River and the Yijiang
River (Fig. 2.2).
2. Main content and scope of the project
The Lijiang River water replenishment project consists of three parts: works to draw
water  from   the  Xiaorongjiang  River,  works  to  draw   water  from   the  Wulixia
Reservoir(includes reforestation in Wulixia Reservoir region) , and the protection dikes of
the Lijiang River. See Table 2.3 for details.
Table 2.3 Water Replenishment Project for the Lijiang River
subproject            general                           content               pcnod      investment
year       10' yuan
works to draw watcr   Xiaorongjiang:                    dam:  15m(li). 92m(L) 4          S110.70
from the Xiaorongiiang   drainagc area 164.4kmn9 avergc  runon tunnel: 7.9km(L)
Rivcr                 320x t0'm'                        power station: one near
Qingshitan Reservoir:             dam. onc near tunnel
High is 277.5m. Vmax-.Smn'is      tafl passage: 178S.m(L)
4.0m(w)
works to draw watcr from Wulixia Reservoir:             Nan    canal   (new) 2           2S56.56
the Wulixia Reservoir    drainage area 300km'           0.392km
avcrage runofT2.6lxlO -         Nan canal 23.1km    -
refeu2awn a4S4 hu in eseir oir    (reconstructon)
I fall power station
protcction dikes of the    River Iength is 16km         protection  length  is 3         5584
Lijiang River                                           44.5km
3. Production procedure
(I) Production procedure during its operation
See Fig 2.3 for the operation procedure of the Lijiang River water replenishment
project.
17



Runoff of the Qingshitan    [Runo o f the upper reaches           rWatr from the
[draiage area          |oraniianj  River                             Wulixia Reservoir 
Dam on the                        Wulixia water
Xiaorongjiang River               diversion canal
Diverted
out of the
Xiaorongiiang
Wattr diver-       Powvr        Raf                 Power
siontunnci         Station §Station
~~~~~4, O/111
The Qingshitan Reservoir                        The Xiaorongjiang          The Rongjiang
(existing)                                    River                      River
|_Power s a
I 1
|The Gantang River|        - -.    'MTe Lijiang 
0nRiver
Water system of
the Lijiang River
ThcTahua River
Fig. 2.3 Procedure of the Lijiang Water Replenishment Project
(2) Procedure of its construction
(a)Open tunnel part
Determination of the     digging        transportation     land used          ccoogical restoruato
bordcr of the farmland  _   of open   _   of castaway   b for piling          (plant lawn and trees)
and forests to be used    tunnel        eanh              castaway earh
(b) Tunnel part
fDetcnination of tht border for       dgin of_ transportation of              disposal
the inlet and out let of the tunnel     ul            cLsaway ah              t d
ecologica restorianon the inlct
and out let of the tunnel
(c) The darn, power station and pivotal works



Earthwork    Earthwork     Operation of    Operation of   Transportation  Land leveling
digging     transportatio    construction  construction    of construction   for construction
materials      materials      materials       materials
Clearing up of   Concrctc      Constuction
Construction of vater diversion tunncsthe am base    construction        of the powr
of thg dam     statioon
TTansporation TPenspor nion
of consbruction    of    biteaway
garbage          caplhtorkant
Ecigical rcestoraton
,|Disposal of castaway waste mattesl
Fi) 2.4 Construction Procedure of tfe Dam, Power  Station and Pivotal Works
(d) Protection bikes
the basc  F- Ithe dike wall   r -he wall5ufcl          - and cicaring ofthesites l
4. Major pollution source and discharge of pollutants
(I) Characteristics of the discharge of pollution source during the operation of the
project
When the project of water replenishing and protection dikes of the Lijiang River is put
into operation, its environmental capacity will increase. This mainly refers to the increase of
runoff during low water scason and its realization owes to the adjustment of the storing
capacity of the Qingshitan Reservoir and the Wulixia Reservoir, which reduce waste water
during high water season and give water to the Lijiang River during low water season. So the
increase of the environment capacity of the Lijiang River is not without some cost. When
water is drawn from the Xiaorongjiang River to the Qingshitan Reservoir, the environmental
capacity of the Xiaorongjiang River is reduced. The volume of water drawn from the
Wulixia Reservoir is increased during low water season, thus helping improve the water
..-uality of the Lijiang River, but the water-c:an be used is reduced, thus restraining the winter
irrigation needed for developing new agriculture. So this project is to readjust the time and
spatial distribution of water environment capacity to affect water quality. It is different from
other projects in changing the time and spatial distribution of pollution source. Its benefit
during the operation is to adjust water flow and the utilization of water energy is secondary.
Hydropower station does not produce new water body pollutants. So it can be concluded that
the operation of the project will not produce pollution.
(2) Pollution source and discharge of pollutants during its construction
a. The loss of sand and earth in training canal
19



12 OOOm' of earthwork will be dug for the open training canal. This will destroy
vegetation and cause the loss.of water and soil.
b. Raised dust
The digging, piling and transportation of earthwork, and the piling and use of cement
will all produce raised dust.
c. Noise
Most of the construction sites are far away from the urban part of the city or any living
quarters, so the noise producedby construction machines will be very small. But part of the
training canal may run through living quarters or small towns and so the noise will cause
some impact. - -
d. Landscape
The digging of open canal and the widening of roads may destroy some vegetation and
affect the landscape.
e. Trafftc
Construction will add to the traffic flow and bring certain impact. Most construction
sites and transportation routes are in poor condition with narrow roads and many turns. This
will add traffic jams.
f. Castaway earth
The digging of tunnel will produce much castaway earth, which, if not properly piled,
may cause negative impact on water bodies and the landscape.
g. Construction garbage
Broken stones, bricks, mortar blocks , waste wood pieces, steel ends, waste paint and
coating material will be produced during the construction. But as the amount will not be
large, these can be treated together with domestic garbage.
5. Arrangement of construction activities and measures to protect the environment
The construction of the pivotal works involves only a small scale and can be done with
general environmental protection measures. The construction of tunnels affects a large area
and problems lik-e construction noise and raised dust should be carefully managed to reduce
the impact to the minimum. After the completion of open tunnel, ecological restoration
should be done immediately, like planting trees along it, to give it landscape function.
2. 7.2 Waste water treating project in Guilin City
1. Major content of the proposed project
This subproject consists of two parts: the waste water treating works in the urban part of
Guilin City and that in Xicheng District. The first part only involves the construction of
waste water intercepting network, while the latter also includes the construction of a waste
water treating plant. See Fig2.5 for the location and layout. This subproject will construct
179.645 km of waste water intercepting pipeline. It has a waste water treating capacity of
420,000 t/d, serving an area of 83.8km2 and a population of 851,000.
20



N
Linghuan Country       L-'ngchuan
>e/~~~~ -4lC .J                     C>r/                       
Lingui Country
ichen Li=gii   _Waste 'Water Treating
+  District                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~System in Urbar Part
) ofGuilin
Waste Water',-                                                 f
Li;=gjiang      'Treating System-fi                 _                  -   
2   ~~~~~~~-. in Xicheng                                     
District, Guilin   I
0       3.0     6.
km-
Fig. 2-5 Urban Wastc Water Treating Projects in Guilin City
21



Table 2.4 General Introduction to Waste Water Treating Project
Subproj ect    waste water treating work in urban of Guilintwaste watcr treating work in Xicheng Disuict
City                                  I
Nature         collecting and treating wastc water    collecting waste water
Treating method threc-trough oxidation ditch
Capacity short   30.000 t/d waste treating piant (new), pipeline sewer pipeline long 37.382km, 4 pumping
term    long 52km                             stations
medium 90, 000 t/a waste water treating capacity,
term    25.7km pipeline
long    j 50,000 t/a waster watcr treating capacity, add 80,000 tIa and 150,000 t/a waste water
tenn    lOkm pipeline and I pumping station   treating plants sewer pipeline long 3.572km,
._________________________________   and  2  pumping  stations
lnvestm ent    235,223,200                            102.740.000
Coverin g area  35                                    81
Staff          35                                     Sl
Service range   area 2 I km'. population 150.000      area 56.34km'. population 640,000
2. Production procedure
(I) production procedure during its operation.
See the following fig. for the procedure.
F Intacepting  scwer pipeline  wase water                             to river
wasewt                    treling plant                wet
t               ; ~~~~~~sludtte
hvdrometer      dehydrated
treating sludge
(2) Construction procedure
First remove the buildings on the construction sites, then dig open tunnel, lay pipeline,
backfill, and finally restore the original surface.
Waste water trcating plants shall use biological trcatment of three-trough oxidation
ditch.
3. Major pollution source and the discharge of pollutants
( I)Characteristics of pollution source discharge during its operation
The project collects waste water in the area of its service to be treated in waste water
treating plants and then discharged into nearby water bodies. The sludge will be disposed
after dehydration. It will greatly improve the environment. But there will also be some new
--nvironmental problems.
(a) Pumping station of waste water and the equipment in waste water treating plants
will produce some noise. So sound insulation measures should be taken and trees planted
around them to reduce the impact.
(b) Foul smell produced by waste water treating plants will be a major environmental
problem. So such plants should be far away from inhabitants quarters and trees be planted
around waste water treating plants.
(c) Water discharged by waste water treating plants still contains certain pollution and
will thus have negative impact on receiving water bodies. Therefore management should be
strengthened over the water discharged to maintain the function of eceiving water bodies.
22



(d) Sludge produced by waste water treating plants contains high concentrations of
pollutants, which, if not properly handled, may cause secondary pollution.
(2) Pollution source and discharge of pollutants during its construction
a. Raised dust
The digging of roads for laying pipeline or building the waste water treating plants , the
construction of waste water treating sites will all produce raised dust. It involves part of the
city's urban part and suburbs part and along construction routes.
b. Construction noise
Construction machines all produce noise, which is of single or multi point source and
move slowly along the construction routes. The noise is determined by way of construction,
types of machines used and the amount of transportation.
c. Castaway earth
Pipeline tunnel and waste water treating plant construction sites may produce some
castaway earth, which can be used as soil for agriculture.
d. Garbage
There will be some construction garbage like broken bricks, broken road surface pieces,
concrete blocks, waste wood pieces, waste paint and coating materials. But the amount is
small and can be treated with domestic garbage.
4. Arrangement of construction activities.
As the construction involves large areas in the urban part and suburbs part of the city
and large amount of earthwork and it will also produce much noise and raised dust, the
construction activities should be carefully arranged and organized to limit the impact to the
minimum.
2.7.3 Domestic refuse disposing system of Guilin City
1. Scale of the project
Taking into consideration the characteristics of domestic garbage produccd in the city
and its trend, a new refusc landfill is to be constructed in Chongkou to the west of the city
and thc Pingshan compost plant will be enlarged.
The designed capacity of Chongkou refusc landfill is 500t/d and the duration of use will
be 20 years, of which No.1 ground can be used for 8 ycars and No.2 ground 12 years. The
total amount of domestic garbage disposed can reach 4,562,000t.
Its scrvice area includes the urban part of Guilin City and Linggui County. Scc Fig. 2.6
for its location.
2. Geographic location
The landfill is far away from the Liiang River and densely populated arcas but with
convenient transportation. Geological structure of the site is good: there is neither karst cave
nor collapse. The site is of an independent hydrogeological unit on whole some rock with a
small percolation ratio. Around it are hilly land with developing potential. So the locality is
an idcal place for garbage burial.
3. Content of the project and its invcstment
(I) Content of the project
It includes Chongkou refuse landfill, garbage transit stations and other equipment in
coordination with the landfill. The refuse landfill includes a percolation collecting and
disposing system and a gas training system.
23



N  ~~~~~~~~~,                                      -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                       i~~~~~~~~; ~~~~~Scale  1:135000
Ganu ngdu
lP~~~~ J
-~~~~~~~~~~~I
f   .   _  f  a    z                Su~~~~~~~~~~~~M    Jin   E  n       t                         G   un
Wuwng                 /    iinlin
_o                   o^llS 1/  Rservoir     /                                                               -
\. (t,   X   '  l'ianhua                      DingjianG
Xmnli                                                                                .
V)                                                                         /I \Da S K X  t  @  ,}t  he  M. Raosha./901
J   - -  \  M     X   IIC   T   adi,e ? '  /                                    K                           X
/                                                                                                                             *1G /  X  s  I
Lau(1ou  /Guyao 4l                                          LandfittPtant i                    \ R               !     W   Chaoyangzhen                    \
'I     ,/                  /~~~~~~~0a                              )          
<   Da zhouang-' @%  (Uiiu        /                         i pLin g                -      i    B  !   i
\a Gaoang 
f  -,                        ChongkouSaf~~~~~~~~LingrY'"                  Ifiqa
Lianto    )zang   r                              ilng    Lndil  lat               
Fig  2-6  Location of the Chongkou Sanitary Landfill Plant
,,~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~anfl  ln



(2) Investment of the project
The total investment for the project is 90,177,900 yuan, of which No. one landfill takes
up 54,015,200 yuan and No.two 38,507,200 yuan. No. I will be built in near future, 50% of
whose investment will be loan from the World Bank and the other half is to be collected at
home. The investment of No. 2 will all be collected at home.
4. Production procedure
The major procedure includes the collecting, piling at transit stations, transporting, and
burying of the refuse. The burial procedure includes filling, pressing, covering with earth,
gas training, collecting and disposing of percolation, and the restoration of vegetation.
Garbage will be transported from transit stations to the burial ground by dump trucks or
container like trucks. See the following fig. for its procedure.
training and using .-- gas training system ,
|Domestic|  |collecting nd |                            unit of            |tobe plant|
rcfusc  |t|ranpnn    |-       i     _     -Iinfl||akfillingl|-"| trees |
into water bodics .-ollecting and disposing of percolation
Fig. 2.7 Procedure of Garbage Disposal
S. Major pollution source and pollutants discharge
Analysis of the procedures reveals the major pollution source is the refuse landfill and
transit stations.
(I) Transit stations
According to the design, garbage transit stations will be used to temporarily store
garbage collected, which will be usually transported away on the same day and not put there
overnight. The ground of transit stations is made of cement and there will be no leaking. So
major pollutants will be raised dust and foul smeil affecting the atmosphere.
(2) Refuse landfill
Refuse landfill is the main pollution source during the whole process, which will
produce the following pollution:
a. Atmospheric pollution
During the burial of garbage, decomposed by micro-organisms under anaerobic
conditions, organic matters in the garbage will produce gascs like CH., CO,, and H2S.
There may be explosion if the concentration of CH4 reaches 5%. Foul smells can strongly
stimulate people's olfactory sensation. Flies and other insects will also breed there.
-  -    Raised dust will be produced duri.g- the unloading, filling and pressing of garbage,
especially when there is strong wind paper bits and plastic bags and sucfr like will be blown
away.
b. Refuse percolation leaching
There are three factors causing percolation leaching: water contained in refuse leaking
out when pressed, decomposed organic matters in the garbage, and the leaching of rain water
into the buried garbage. Major harmful substances contained include organic matters, SS
bacteria and heavy metals like Cu.
25



Under improper management, garbage washed into surrounding water bodies by rain
water may produce surface water pollutants, mainly of organic matters.
c. Noise
Machines will produce some noise to affect the environment.
6. Major environmental protection measures and designed goal
(I) Leaching prevention
Natural conditions are not enough to prevent leaching, and so artificial vertical leaching
prevention measures should be taken. Polluted ground water from its upper reaches will be
intercepted in the pool in front of the vertical leaching prevention curtain, so that the refuse
landfill will retnain an independent unit.
A main dam and a secondary dam will be built in the lower reach of the refuse landfill.
Curtain grout will be used for the secondary dam according to its height and condition of its
rock base. The main dam of No.1 ground will be a permeable structure of mixed earth and
stones, at whose lower part are prismatic and water drainage blanket, through which leaching
flows into the waste water adjusting pool. The main dam of No.2 ground will be of water -
proof mixed structure of earth and stones. Leaching from its will be collected by the waste
water collecting well to be led to the waste water pool. The waste water intercepting dam by
now will be deep into the curtain grout of base rock of the darn, which forms a separating
wall to again intercept leaching.
(2)The collecting and disposing of percolation leaching
a. Its collection
Flatten the bottom of the refuse landfill into certain longitudinal slope, on which
crisscross water drainage blind ditches will be laid made of spall coated with earthwork cloth
at every lOm of height difference..
Such network will lead leaching from No. 1 and No.2 landfills into the adjusting pool to
be treated later.
(b) Its treating
Percolation leaching contain complicated organic substances with strong pollution
intensity. So far there is no mature and cheap way of treating. Two methods will be used at
Chongkou refusc landfill. One is to collect it to be re-sprinkled and the other is discharged
into the city's waste water network to be treated in waste water treating plants after going
through the adjusting pool.
(3) Training and collecting of gases
Major waste gases produced are Cl. and CO2, usually accounting for 50% and 40% of
all the gases. Blind ditches collecting percolation leaching are also used to train waste gases.
_Yertical DN200 punched steel. pipes wUil bc inserted in the buried garbage and will be
connected to reach over 100cm over the final top of the burial ground so as to train waste
gases. ignitor will be fixed on top so that the CH4 will burn when its concentration reaches
certain degree so as to prevent possible explosion.
26



3. General Situation of the Environment of the Area Where the
Project Is to be Constructed
3.1 General environmental situation of the area of the proposed project
3.1. 1 Natural environment
1. Geogriphical location
The proposed project involves Guilin City, Linggui County within the city's
jurisdiction ,and Xing'an County and Lingchuan County under the jurisdiction of the Guilin
Prefecture, at 110OS0'-110°06'E and 24°38'-25'23'N; with a total area of 5,210 km:. If
Yangshuo County is also included, the total area is 6,628kmr.. See Fig. 3-1 for the scope of
the impact of the proposed project.
Guilin is located along the Hunan-Guangxi corridor in the northeast of Guangxi Zhuang
Autonomous Region. It is the traffic hub of northern Guangxi.
2. Landscape and topography
The city of Guilin is located in the southwest of the Nanling Mountains. To its north lies
the Yuecheng Mountain, to its south the Jiaqiao Mountain, and to its east the Haiyang
Mountains. The main peaks of these mountains are all above 1 500m. Its north, east, and
south are high, but its central part and southwest are low. The urban area of Guilin is located
in a karst basin, which is about 40km long (N-S) and 20km wide (E-W). The altitude of the
bottom of the basin is 1 50m, where accretion formed in various ways are distributed to forrn
a vast alluvial and flat plain scattered with mounds. The Lijiang River and its tributaries the
Taohua River, thc Xiaodong River, the Nanxi River, the Liangfeng River, and thc Ningyuan
River flow across the urban area from the north to the south. at the sides and the central part
of the basin are widely distributed with peak clumps, peak forests, and single peaks formed
of limestone with a height of 300-600m. There are many karst caves.
The Yijiang River in Lingui County is the upper reach of the Luoqing River of the
LiuJiang River system. It is separated from the Lijiang River drainage area by the Jiaqiao
Mountain.
The stratum of Guilin is mainly formed of carbons of the Upper Devonian Series and
the Lower Carboniferous Series, of typical karst area in China. The urban part of the City of
Guilin is at the top of the northeast break over arch of epsilon structural system, lying from
the north to the east. topographic formations include: corrosional land-form, erosion -
corrosion land-form, erosion land-form, and accumulation land-form, the first being the
major feature. The relative height of the over 200 stone peaks near the urban area averages
74m, with various underlying basement. Karst caves have developed within peak forests.
The lime stone in the area is thick (the total thickness is over 3,000m), pure and widely
27



E0 S O5s'o~~~~~~~~~~~~~'al&g & I4s
-~ ~~^.1 r           b%.r  ) J-X                  -    .g      I&     t 
S btit   \           >       ;    ?. i:ff t s v 1 1.  *
Fig 3-1 M  o K    T gh  G X,fin
;_ I" 1 it 9                                          ESt d0*^
. nr
Fig~ ~~~ 3-  Mp fKat oppph   uii
XI



distributed and the climate is hot and wet, plus the crises-cross the fault structure caused by
the many tectonic movements of the crust,. This caused the area to have a typical subtropics
karst landscape (Fig. 3-2).
3. Surface water and ground water
The Lijiang River, the major river in Guilin area, has its source in the east slope of the
Maoer Mountain, the highest peak of the Yuecheng Mountains in north Guangxi. It
converges with the Lingqu River at the Darongjiang River,. The segment from this point to
the outlet of the Gongcheng River in Pingle Country is called the Lijiang River. Then if
flows into the tiuijiang River. Its total length is 214km, and its trunk river is 160km long,
with 12 major tributaries: the Lingqu River, the Darongiang River, the Xiaorongjiang River,
the Gantang River, the Taohua River, the Nanxi River, the Liangfeng River, the Donghe
River, the Xihe River (the Huangsha River), the Chaotian River, the Xingping River, and the
Tianjia River. (See Fig. 3-3.) Its total drainage area is 6,050km2. The average flow of the
Lijiang River over the years is 120m'/s, 8-12 during the dry season. The maximum flow
monitored is 4 640 m31s (1976) and the minimum 3.8m3/s (I1951). The average annual runoff
is 4.2 billion m3. The river bed is mainly forined of pebble, gravel, and sand stone. The
average silt content is 0.0381g/m3, the smallest among the rivers in Guangxi. The Guilin
segment of the Lijiang River is shallow with many shoals. It has a strong self-purifying
capacity.
Ground water in Guilin includes pore water, karst water, and crevice water. Pore water
is distributed in river faces sedimentation and alluvial plains, with an area of 65km2. Ground
water is 4-7m deep, with an annual variation of 5-8m. Karst water is of covered and
uncovered types. The uncovercd is stored in karst tunnels (underground rivers). So far nine
underground rivers have been discovered, which control an area of 140km2, 3-Sm deep, with
an annual variation of l4m Covered karst water is stored in karst caves or karst cracks,
usually covered by 10-30m thick of clay, 5-19m deep, with an annual variation of l-5m.
Crevicc water is stored in thc cracks of sand stones, mainly distributed in the mountains in
the east and the west, with an area of only 16km2.
Within an area of 282.44km, the amount of ground water naturally replenished is 151
681 600t/a (4.8lm'/s), that of high wvater period accounts for 70.7% and that of low water
period 29.3%.
Ground water there is mainly of HCO3-Ca type. The av:age pH value of low-
mineralized water is 6.3-8.5, with t total hardness of 200-300mg. See Fig. 3-4 for the isobath
of ground water.
4. Climatc
Guilin is located in the subtropics monsoon zone, with a long, hot summer and a short
winter. It has abundant precipitation, mostly concentrated in spring and summer. The
summer (when the average air temperature is above 22C) in Guilin lasts 145 days. It is the
hottest in July when the average air temperature is 28.3 C, the coldest in January, when the
29



.00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
-   .
2Dahc2~~C
1~~~~~~~~~.
30
QD .7.~~~~~~~~~~~~I



ang ong o ~    SLtio
/:- 8 -t    iLinongyua     n       u iang
Fig/3-3  Isobath of Annual Ranfal g ingLi jiang Drainage
gLin aotiansa3 C~3
8 \ > ( Liangfeng N Gopingnga
S/  xWinFPJ S~~i
utong                                                   Sato
Fig 3-   Isobth ofAngfnulRifl inLjag   Dang
31~ ~ ~ ~~~0                ok



D
*a              ;: u i             anj
7 S hanlidi an  waler supplying plant                       iaoxia
A / >nB s    A-  C ; Qilciztcn ang
Lonchanin waersuFing 3 p4loantio  fWtrSpligPat  unCt
Wayao wascrsupplying phant v            X3
i        ie AS5Xo  l a~~~~~~~~~~~~~sal 
.   |  /           _aile~~~~~~~~~~~~i'nzhcn             ,
-         ~~~Fig 3-4 Location of Water Supp)lying Plant, Guiiin City
32



average air temperature is 7.9 C. According to statistics of thirty years the average annual air
temperature is 18.8 with the highest 23.31C, the extreme being 39.41C (1953), and the
lowest 15.7 C, the extreme being-4.9 C  (1955). The average annual rainfall is over
1,900mm. See Fig. 3-3. for its distribution. The average annual relative humidity is 76%, and
the average annual evaporation 1,485mm. The leading wind in the year is NNE, with an
average annual wind speed of 2.5m/s, the maximum being 19m/s. The annual frost-free days
number 307, and the total annual sunshine reaches 1 684.4h, with a rate of 38%.
3.1.2 General eoenvironmental situation
Vegetation in Guilin area is mainly of pony-tail pine and coniferous communities. On
the scenery mountains are mainly broad-leaved mixed forests. Along the streets in the urban
area are growing sweet hibiscus, camphor, fish pelargonium, Chinese ash, privet, Chinese
scholar tree, and kiri, interplant with flowers and glass. Guilin has a total forest area of
96,941 ha, accounting for 23. 1% of the total area.
There are within the area over 1 000 species of higher plants, including the living fossil
Cathaya argyrophylla and Chinese hemlock, and rare species like gingko. Precious animal
sinlude white-head leaf monkey, rhesus monkey, sike, tiger, Chinese pangolin, giant
salamander, yellow-bellied tragopan, crimson-bellied tragopan, and Chinese copper
pheasant.
There are over 140 species of fish in the Lijiang River, major ones include common
carp, crucian carp, and big-eyed Chinese triangular bream. 79 species of benthons have been
identified living in the Lijiang River, including 13 orders like insects, crustaceans, leeche,
and arachnids. There are 113 zooplanktons, of which 22 are of protozoa, 23 of rotifers, 39 of
copepods, and 29 of cyclops. Major aquatic tracheophyta include 10 species of 8 genus such
as Valliisneria spiralis, Hydrilla verticillata and Potanogeton malaianus, with a total biomass
of 2.54kg/rm2.
3.1.3 Social economic situations
1. Administrative arca involved in the project
Guilin City has five districts: Xiufeng, Diecai, Qixing, Xiangshan, Suburbs, and two
counties: Yangshuo and Lingui.    -
The Guilin Prefecture has tow counties: Lingchuan and Xingean.
2. Character and scope of Guilin City
Guilin is a famous city for sight seeing and historical interest. It is well known by its
"green mountains, clear waters, strange caves and beautiful stones". There are also a lot of
humanistic scenarios. It is planned to build the city into a beautiful, comfortable international
city with developed economy and beautiful environment by the year of 2010.
The population of Guilin reached 550 000 in 1994, of which 398,000 are not engaged in
agriculture. Besides the Han, there are also the Zhuang, the Yao, the Hui, the Miao, the Tong,
33



and the Yaolao, and other national minorities, altogether reaching 107 000 by the end of
1993.
3. land utilization
The total area of Guilin City is 4,195km2, of which medium high and low mountains
take up 1,23 1km2, accounting for 29.34%, that of hills 969.6km2, accounting for 23.22%,
terraces 264.87km2, accounting for 6.31%, plain 954.73kMm2, accounting for 22.66%, the rest
776.67km2, accounting for 18.52%.
Actually cultivated land in 1994 was 635,200ha, of which paddy field accounts for 74%
and dry farmland accounts for 26%.
There are 214,000ha of forests in the drainage area of the Lijiang River, of which 35%
is for conservation of water supply and 43.6% for timber, 0.5% for special forests, 1.2% for
firewood, 8.1% for economic forests, and 16.65 of bamboo forests, The forest coverage rate
is 38.8%, above the national average. That in the upper reaches above Guilin is 51.4% and
that in the middle and lower reaches is 14.2%.
4. Production development
The GNP of the city in 1994 reached 5.19 billion yuan (price of that year), of which primary
industry accounted for 16.7%, secondary industry 44.4%, and tertiary industry 38.9%.
Enterprises in the city are mostly of medium and small scale, including machine building,
electronics, rubber, light industry and textile, food processing and pharmaceutical.
Construction of the city has been speeding up, and infrastructure (road communication,
water supply and drainage, environmental protection, gas supply, living houses, and
aforestation) has had certain scale, laying a foundation for further development of the city's
construction.
5. Existing infrastructure
The total area of constructed buildings in Guilin City reached 14.16 million m1 in 1993.
The total length of roads rcached 302km with a total area of 2.82m'. The total length of
drainage pipelines reached 114km. The rate of gas popularization was 45.1%. The total
constructed area of the city was 46.Skm'
Water resources used in Guilin is mainly of surface water supplemented by ground
water. There are now four water mills in the urban area: Dongzhen Road, Dongjiang,
_longchuanping, and Wayao, all taking-water from the Lijiang River. The designed water
supply capacity is 100 OOOm'/d and 28 OOOm3/d (of which 70 OOOm3/d was completed in
December 1995), with a total of 328 OOOm3/d (see Fig. 3-4).
191 enterprises have their own water mills , mostly for production, of which the
supplying capacity of wells reached 125 OOOm3/d. As the water supplied by these self-owned
water mills is of poor quality, water consumed by these enterprises for daily life is still
supplied by the tap water company.
The total amount of waste water discharged in Guilin City in 1994 was I00.5I million
tons, of which industrial waste water 29.13 million tons. 56 enterprises discharge their waste
34



water to waste water treating plants, with a total amount of 6.03 million t/a. Three waste
water treating plants, 9 rain water and waste water pumping stations, and 146 pipeline with
a total designed capacity of 78 5OOm3/d and actual capacity of 63 5000m3/d have been built
in the city. The city has 126 waste water treating devices, of which 108 are in normal
operation. The amount of waste water to be treated is 27.49 million tla, but only 24.46
million t/a was treated, with a rate of 89%. The amount of industrial waste water is 20.63
million tla with 10.61 million t/a reaching the standard after treating, the rate being 45%. The
amount of industrial waste water reused is 8.38 million t/a. The total investment in industrial
waste water treatment reaches 28.171 million yuan (up to the end of end of 1999).
Domestic garbage in Guilin City is now mainly collected and cleaned by professional
people, then shifted from the 15 garbage transit stations to be buried or piled in the suburbs.
Its transporting uses machines and vehicles. The major way of disposal is to be treated by the
Pingshan garbage compost factory which can handle 30t/d. The amount of garbage
transported in 1993 was 120 OOOt, of which 65 000t was treated to be harmless.
Guilin now has two civil airports, which are linked many home and international air
routes. The Hunan-Guangxi Railway runs through Guilin, where a new terninate station is
being built. The completion of the new railway station will greatly facilitate transportation
and promote tourism.
3.1.4 General life quality
The total area of constructed urban part of the city has reached 46.5km2, with an urban
population of 550,000 (1994), of which 398,000 are non-agricultural population. People's
living standard has been raised along with the economic development. The average annual
domestic income reaches 4,142 yuan, showing an actual increase of 10.78% over the last
year. The average annual salary of the staff was 4,505 yuan and that of farmers 1,137 yuan.
There are now 9 parks in Guilin, the total tourists in 1994 reached 4.3 million
person - times, of which 0.6 million were from abroad. Green area of the city reached
1,5 15.9ha, averaging 4.9m3 per capita. The city's green space ratio reached 32.6%.
Besides beautiful natural mountains and waters, there are in Guilin many places of
historical interests, major ones including the formcr palace and tomb of the king, forner city
of the ancient Jingjingjiang Prefecture. ruins of the Piye Cave, and the Eighth Route Army's
office in Guilin.
The environmental protection in Guilin has been strengthened. The air in the urban area
is of the standard of grade 11 and the water quality of the Lijiang River is of the standard of
Grade 1I surface water. The quality of drinking water is good.
3.2 Environmental quality of the area affected by the proposed project
3.2.1 Surface water environmental quality
35



1. Water environmental quality of the Lijiang River and its tributaries (91-94)
The Lijiang River has its source in the east slope of the Maoer Mountain. It flows
through Xing'an County, Lingchuan County, urban area of Guilin City, Yangshuo County,
and Pingle County, with a total length of 214km. Its segment from Dahe to Mopanshan flows
through the major economic area of Guilin City, thus being the major source for water of
daily use and industry and agriculture. It also serves as the final receiving water body of
waste water produced in this area. Its major tributaries flowing through the urban area are the
Xiaodong River, the Taohua River, the Ningyuan River, the Nanxi River, and the Xiangsi
River.
(I) Pollution of the Lijiang River
The Lijiang River is mainly supplemented by rain water. The difference of its water
level within the year can reach over Im, and that of its flow 160m3/s to 250m3/s. During
December of the low water season (when the flow at all the sections is less than 56m'/s), the
pollution runoff ratio increases and the self purifying capacity of the river decreases. The
index of N03-N, NH3-N, and petroleum all exceed the standard. During July and August of
the norrnal water season, the water quality is the best. During May of the flood season, the
first stormn washes large amount of city garbage and other pollutants into the river, seriously
deteriorates the water quality of the Lijiang River. The general water quality of the Lijiang
River is as follows:
Most index are within the standard value except that of coli and NH3-N in its upper
reaches (section above Dahe before it flows into the urban part).
The urban segment (Lushan Bridge to Jingpingshan) receives waste water from some
food processing industries and domestic sewage, and its tributaries flowing through the
urban part the Taohua River, the Xiaodong River, the Ningyuan River and the Nanxi River
all flow into it. So the water body fro the section of Doujishan to that of Longmen is a
segment scriously polluted by organism and N in the upper reaches of the Lijiang Rivcr.
The lower reaches (down the Jingpingshan Bridge) are mainly affected by industries
like power, tier making, and paper making. Besides it also receives water from the waste
water treating plants.
But the pollution down the section of Longmen is gradually reduced to reach the
standard of Grade ll water at the Mopanshan.
(2) Pollution of its tributaries
The Xiaodong River: mainly affected by irrigation water, waste water from food
processing industry, and domestic sewage. The water in its middle and lower reaches is
seriously polluted, looks black and gives out foul smells.
The Nanxi River: seriously polluted by industrial waste water. Coal dust has piled up at
the outlets into the Lijiang River, where the water is black and gives out very foul smells.
The Ningyuan River: mainly polluted by industrial waste of pharmacy, food processing,
and dying and printing as well as domestic sewage. Its water body is also black and smelly.
36



t^1 -- F r / <.,1 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. uJ /Gim"g '<
C~~~~~~~C
;4  A         S                      D s.h )   / 7Z H  (t
Fi.-               Water.v2, Moni        li, frmJtS?t 19
-~~~~ - >>}A ng-Cx  
l~~  ~ ~~~~~ D( J                            -----a l/- ---
=/~---                                                   "aa~
g   X t  M              ~~~~~~~~~o.w
o to C, 'tst* a" , ,:¢L
E d °' ~/                '             > 
0    /,                   O 1      KMz 
/xe       \ /C
Fig.3-5 Diswbudn Srfc Water Monito    iGlln., from 1991 to 1994



The Taohua River: mainly affected by irrigation water, part of industrial waste water
and domestic sewage. Its lower reaches and its outlet into the Lijiang River has obvious
biological pollution and pollution of petroleum and like.
The Xiangsi River: its water body is fairly good but hias been polluted recently by
township-run enterprises
8                                                   10
4                                                    5---..-
2 0
1991  1992  1993  1994 ycar
1991     1992     1993     1994 year                       Xiaodongjiang River
Lijiang River
8.                                                  20
6                  .... ,v, ,,,,5t                         /1~
6       .4 '.                                        510      *
2 *-  .    - -                                       OL.
0                                                     1991  1992   1993  1994 year
1991    1992    1993    1994 year                           Taohuajiang Rivcr
Lingyuan River
15 i-. -.                                                                            -DO
10                                4~~~~~6                              *  BOD5
5 2 E , _2E_=2 | = ~~~2Nh3-N
0
1991    1992    1993    1994 Y=5
1991   1992   1993   1994 ycar
Nanxi Rivcr                                Xiangcijiang River
Fig. 3-6 Trend of variance of pollutants in the Lijiang River and its tributaries
38



2. pollution sources
(1) Discharge of industrial waste water
The total amount of industrial waste water discharged from 1991 to 1994 reached 88.91
million tons, averaging 29.3667 million t/a, which contained 4,738t of pollutants, of which
I .094t was first class pollutants and metals.
(2) Amount of waste water received
The amount of waste water discharged into the trunk of the Lijiang River in 1991-94
reached 37.3062 million tons, averaging 9.3266 million t/a.
Table 3.2.1 Water Quality of the Trunk of the Lijiang River as Monitored
(1991-1994)                                    unit: mg/L
year             1991                1992                1993                1994
Average  Exceeding  Average  Exceeding  Average  Excecding  Average  Exceeding
value    rate(%)    value    rate(%/6)    value    ratC(%/0)    value    rate(%)
pH               7.35      0.00      7.38      0.00      7.54      0.00      7.83      0.0
Ss               16.8      24.1      1.5       0.00      2.7       3.7       7.3       0.0
Hardness (G)     3.84      0.00      3.91      0.00      3.18      0.0       0.71      0.0
DO               6.13      38.9      5.9       40.7      6.9       18.5      6.0       54.2
COD,,            2.30      0.00      2.0       0.00      1.9       3.7        1.9      0.0
BOD,             1.44      5.60       1        1.90       1        0.0       0.9       0.0
NH_-N            0.53     44.40     0.445     31.50     0.295      18.5     0.381      31.9
NO,-N           0.053      11.10    0.075      33.3     0.037      0.0      0.053      9.7
N1,-N            0.68      0.00      0.68      0.0       0.53      0.0       0.64      0.0
phenol          0.001      0.00     0.001      0.0      0.002      7.4      0.001      0.0
CN'             0.002      0.00     0.002      0.0      0.002      0.0      0.002      0.0
As              0.004      0.00     0.004      0.00     0.004      0.0      0.004      0.0
Hg             0.00005     0.00    0.00005     0.0    0.00005      0.0     0.00005     0.0
Cr'        _    0.002      0.00     0.002      0.0      0.002      0.0      0.002      0.0
Pb               0.02      0.00      0.02      0.0       0.01      0.0       0.01      0.0
Cd              0.002      0.00     0.002      0.0      0.001      0.0      0.001      0.0
oil              0.40     87.00      0.08      18.5      0.69      66.7      0.21      38.9
Conductivity     7.1        -        13.52      -       10.67       .        14.37      -
( Jcn) slcm
Colon         508 x 10'   90.7   720   t to'   89.0   885 x 10   9&0    592 x 10'   96.0
bacillus(I/L)
39



Table 3.2.1 (1) Major Pollution Index and Pollution Composition
in the Trunk of the Lijiang River
year        item        Colon bacillus petrolcum    SS   | COD,,,   BOD | NO,-N    NH,-N
1991  exceeding rate(%)     90.7       87.0    24.1       0.0      5.6      HA.i0    44.4
pollution index(P,)   50.8        8.0     0.67     0.58      0.48     0.53      1.06
pollution rate(%)     78.6       12.4      1.0      0.9      0.7       0.8      1.6
type                   >5          4        2        2         I  _              3
1992 exceeding ratc(%)      89.0       18.5     0.0       0.0      1.9      33.3     31.5
pollution index(P,)   72.0        1.60    0.06     0.50      0.33     0.75      0.89
pollution rate(%)     91.5        2.0      0.1      0.6      0.4       1.0      1.1
type                   >5          4        1        1        I        2         2
1993 exceeding rate(%)      98.0       66.7     3.7       3.7      0.0      0.0      18.5
pollution index(Pi)   88.5       13.8    0.11       OA8      0.33     0.37     0.59
pollution rate(%)     82.5       12.9      0.1      0.4      0.3       0.3      0.5
type                   >5          5        1        I        I         I        2
1994 exceeding rate(%)      96.0       38.9      0.0      0.0      0.0      9.7      31.9
pollution index(P;)   59.2        4.2     0.29      0.48     0.30     0.53      0.76
pollution rate(%)     85.9        6. I    0.42      0.7      0.4       0.8      1.1
_ type                 >5          4        1 J                I ,               2
Table 3.2.1 (2) Major Pollution Index and Pollution Composition in the Xiaodong River
year        item        Colon bacillus petroleum    SS  CODM.   BOD,   N02-N    NH,-N
1991  cxceeding rate(%)     89.0       66.7      0.0      0.0      8.3      0.0      41.7
pollution index(P,)   127         12.4    0.77      0.58     0.53     0.44      1.03
pollution rate(%)     89.0        8.7      0.5      0.4      0.4       0.3      0.7
type                   >5          5        2        2         1        2       >5
1992 cxcceding ratc (%)     100.0      50.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      50.0     83.3
pollution index(P,)   16.0        6.4     0.04      0.47     0.50     0.90      1.45
pollution rate(%)     62.1        24.8     0.2       2        2        3.3      5.6
type                   >5          4        1        2         1        3       >5
-1993  exceeding rate(%)       100.0   -            0.0      0.0      0.0      8.3       16.7
pollution index(P;)   22.9        16.8    0.03      0.33     0.25     0.90      0.89
pollution ratc(%)     54.4        39.9     0.1      0.8       0.6      2.2      2.0
type                   >5          5        I        I         1        3        3
1994 cxceeding ratc(%)      100.0      50.0      0.0      33.3     33.3     33.3      91.7
pollution index(P,)   77.4        44.8     0.50     0.88      1.75     0.53     8.91
pollution rate(%)     57.4        33.2     0.4      0.7       1.3      0.4       6.6
typc                   >5         >5        2        3         4        2        >5
40



Table 3.2.1 (3) Major Pollution Index and Pollution Composition
in the Taohuajiang River
year       item         Colon bacillus pctroleum    SS    CODM,    BOD,   NO.-N    NH,-N
1991 exceeding ratc(%)     100.0       88.9      0.0     0.0       1. I    I.3    38.9
pollution index(P;)   62.4        12.8    0.66     0.53     0.25     0.35     0.42
pollution ratc(%)     79.1        16.2     0.8      0.7      0.3      0.4      0.5
type                   >5          5        2        2        3        1        2
1992 exceeding ratc(%)      78.0       33.3      0.0     0.0       0.0     16.7     16.7
pollution indcx(P.)   34.0        5.6      0.12    0.53     0.25     0.53     0.61
pollution rate(%)     78.8        13.0     0.3      1.2      0.6      1.2      1.4
type                   >5          4        3        2        I        2        3
1993 exceeding rate(%)     100.0       66.7      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      16.7
pollution index(P-)   51.5        22.2    0.08      0.5     0.25     0.32     0.61
pollution rate(%/o)   67.3        29.0     0.1      0.7      0.3      0.4      0.8
type                   >5         >5        3        2        1        3        3
1994 exceeding mtze(/%)    100.0       38.9     11.3    16.7      11.1    16.7      44.4
pollution index(P1)   30.9        3.6      0.50    0.52     0.38     0.43     0.57
pollution rate(%)     81.4        9.5      1.3      1.4      I.0      1.3      1.5
type                   >5          4        2        2        I        2        3
Table 3.2.1 (4) Major Pollution Index and Pollution Composition in the Ningyuan River
year       itemn       Colon  bacillus petroleum    SS    COD,,.   BOD,   NO,-N   NH,-N
1991  exceeding rate(%/.)  100.0        100.0    0.0    16.7       0.0      0.0      0.0
pollution index(P,)   191         19.0    0.66    0.92       1.3      0.82     1.75
pollution rate(%)     88.6         8.9      0.3     0.4      0.6      0.4      0.8
type                   >5          5         2       3        4        3       >5
1992 exceeding mtc(%)      100.0        66.7     0.0    83.3      83.3      0.0    100.0
pollution index(P,)   238         92.6     0.40     2.0      4.5      0.28     5.86
pollution mte(%)     69.2        26.9      0.1     0.6      3.3      0.1      3.8
type                   >5          >5        2      >5       >5        1       >5
-4993  exceeding ratc(Y.)     100.0  -e     .o      0.0    66.7    100.0      0.0     83.3
pollution index(P,)   202         71.0     0.12    1.25      3.5      0.23     3.14
pollution rte(%)      71.8        25.2      0.1     0.5      1.2      0.1      1.1
type                   >5          >5        1       4        >5        1      >5
1994 exceeding ratc(Ye)     100.0       50.0     33.3    33.3     83.3      16.7    100.0
pollution index(P,)   238          16.2    0.62    1.13       1.8     0.31     2.64
pollution rate(Y)     91.3         6.2      0.2     0.4      0.7      0.1      3.1
type                   >5           5        2       4        5         1      >5
41



Table 3.2.1 (5) Major Pollution Index and Pollution Composition in the Nanxi River
ycar        item        Colon bacillus petroleum    SS   COD ,,   BOD$    NO,-N    NH3,-N
1991  exceeding rate(%)     100.0      100.0     0.0      66.7      83.3     0.0      100.0
pollution index(P,)    238        35.2     1.02     0.96      1.92     0.21     3.54
pollution rate(%)     84.7        12.5      0.4      0.3      0.7       0.1      1.3
typc                   >5          >5        4        3        5         I       >5
1992 exceeding rate(%)      100.0      66.7      0.0      50.0      66.7     0.0      100.0
pollution index(Pi)    238        59.4     0.22      1.45     3.75     0.29      3.83
pollution rare(%)     77.5        19.4      0.1     .0.5       .2       0.1      1.2
typc                   >5         >5         I        5        >5        I       >5
1993 excecding rate(%)      100.0      100.0     0.0      33.3      83.3     0.0      83.3
pollution index(P;)    202        53.0     0.08      1.10     3.75     0.22     3.54
pollution rate(%)     76.6        19.8      0.1      0.5       1.5      0.1      1.4
type                   >5         >5         I        4        >5        I       >5
1994 excCCding ratc(%)      100.0      66.7      0.0      66.7     100.0    16.7    100.0
pollution index(P,)    238        10.2     0.46      0.82     1.25     0.39     2.08
pollution ratc(%/6)   94.0        4.0       0.2      0.3      0.5       0.2      0.8
type                   >5          5        2         3        4         I       >5
Table 3.2.1 (6) Major Pollution Index and Pollution Composition
in the Xiangsijiang River
year        item        Colon bacillus petroICum    SS   COD,,   SOD,| NO.-N    NH,-N
1991  cxceeding rate(%)     100.0      66.7      0.0       0.0      0.0 °9.0           0.0
pollution index(P,)   2.33        6.60     0 .1     0.40      0.25     0.11      0.25
pollution rate(%)      19.8       56.0      1.4      3.4      2.1       1.0      2.1
_ type                  >5          4        1        2         1 _            _
1992 cxcccding! ratc(%)     100.0       16.7     0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
pollution indeX(P,)   9.52        2.60     0.07      0.35     0.25     0.28      0.27
pollution ratC(%)     68.0        18.6      0.5      2.5       1.8      2.0      1.9
type                   >5          4         I        2         1        1        2
1993 exceeding ratC(O/%)    100.0       66_      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0     16.7
Pollution index(P,)    13.1      20.20     0.17      0.35     0.25     0.25      0.35
pollution raMC%)      36.4        56.2      0.5      1.0       0.7      0.7      1.0
type                   >5          >5        1        2         1        1        2
1994 exceeding rate(%)      66.7        33.3     10.7      0.0      0.0      33.3      16.7
pollution indCx(Pi)    1.64       2.0      0.47      0.42     0.25      0.41     0.25
pollution ratC(%)     24.5        29.5      7.0      6.2       3.7      6.2      3.7
tFYPc                  >5          4         2        2         I        2        1
42



(3) assessment result and its analysis
Lijiang River
The above data show that the present water quality of the Lijiang River is good, most
index are within the standard of Grade 11 surface water environment, up to the requirement
of first class protected water, that is concentrated drinking water sources and for the
protection of rare fish species. But certain items such as coli and petroleum exceeded the
standard in 1991-94; DO is a little too low. And that of NH3-N exceeded the standard of
Grade 11 water by a big margin. See Table 3.2.2.
Its tributaries
Field monitoring found that the water quality of Its tributaries the Taohua River, the
Xiaodong River, the Ningyuan River and the Nanxi River basically exceed the standard for
Grade III water, and it is deteriorating along with the development of pollution. For example,
the index of coli and petroleum exceed the standard for Grade III water in 1991-94. In
Xiaodong River in 1993 only three items exceeded the standard, but it increased to 5 items in
1994. They are coli, petroleum, NH3-N, DO, and BOD. The values of coli, petroleum,
CODM., BOD, N02-N and NH3-N all exceeding the standard by over 33.3%.
The main pollutants in the Taohua River are coli and petroleum. The values of both
item exceeded the standard for Grade 11 water in 1991-94. In 1994, the standard-exceeding
ratio of DO, NH3-N, CODMn, BOD, N02-N, and SS all increased in 1994.
More items exceeded the standard in the Ningyuan River, including coli, petroleum, DO,
CODM,, BOD, NH,-N, all by a big margin. Standard exceeding ratio after 1992 were all over
33.3%. Those of SS and N02-N increased from 0.0% in 1991-92 to 33.3% and 16.7%.
Item exceeding the standard in the Nanxi River in 1991-94 included coli, petroleum,
COD%,,, BOD, NH3-N, and SS, all exceeding by over 33.3% except that of SS.
Major pollutants in the Xiangsi River were coli and petroleum in 1991-94, all exceeding
the standard for Grade III water. Standard exceeding ratio of SS, NH3-N, and N02-N
increased in 1994 as compared with those in 1991.
It can thus be seen that the water of rivers in Guilin City is mainly polluted by
petroleum and organic matters. Major pollutants include coli, petroleum, NH3-N, N02-N, and
BOD. It proves that thc increase of waste water discharged is the most important factor
affecting the water quality..
Trend of the change of water quality
Fig. 3-5 reveals that the water quality of the Lijiang River has basically remained at the
same level, with little variance in the 4 years. The water quality of the Xiangsi River didn't
-vary much, but worse in 1994 than in 1is', yet still fairly clean. The Nanxi River and the
Ningyuan River are seriously polluted, but the situation improved a little than in 1992 and
1993. The water quality of the Xiaodong River and the Taohua River has been deteriorating
rapidly, with their pollution index values increasing, and the content of DO decreased to
2mgfL. This deserves much attention.
2. Water environmental quality of other drainage areas
Field monitoring over the water quality of the Luoqing River found the index of items
didn't exceed the standard for Grade 11 water in 1991-04, its water being fairly clean. Major
pollution index are COD,,( and BOD, followed by NH]-N, and N02-N.
43



3. Existing water environmental quality of the area of the water replenishing project
The water at the sections of Maotou of the Lijiang River and the Qingshitan Reservoir
is good. That of the Gantang River and the Lingqu River was fairly good in 1992 but good in
other years. As a whole the water quality is above fairly good within the area of the project.
Major factors affecting the water quality is the standard exceeding of NH3-N in the segment
from the Gantang River to the Lingqu River.
3.2.2 Environmental quality of ground wvater (1991-94)
(I) Ground water in Guilin City is of three types: karst water, pore water, and crevice
water.
Karst water is the major type of ground water in Guilin City, which is widely
distributed, occupying 76.0% of the area of the basin. Pore water is main distributed in the
alluvial terraces along the banks of the Lijiang River and the front proluvial fans. The pore
water in the alluvial stratum is mainly stored in the pores of sand pebble stratum, at 10-30m
thick with abundant water, forning one of the major water sources. Crevice water in
basement is mainly distributed around the Yaoshan Mountains in its northeast and Huachun
Village in its south. As its amount is small, it cannot be used as water source.
(2) Chemical composition of ground water: It mainly belongs to HCO3-Ca type with a
mineralization of 100-350mg/L and the pH value of 6.5-8, total hardness 4-16.8 Gerrnan
degrees, and temperature 1 6-22-C..
(3) Major pollutants in ground water: NO2--N. NHI+-N, NO,--N, Mn2, T-Fe and phenol,
followed by COD, Total hardness, Hg, pH, Cd and Zn.
(4) Analysis on the result of the assessment
9 items exceeded the standard in 1991: pH, total hardness, COD, NH3-N, N02-N, NO-
N, T Fe, Mn, and volatilc phenol; 9 items exceeded the standard in 1992: pH, COD, NH3-N,
NO.-N, NO,-N, Hg, T Fe, Mn, and volatile phenol; II items exceeded the standard in 1991:
Cd and Zn; 7 items excceded the standard in 1994: pH, total hardness. NH,-N, NO.-N, NO3-
N, T Fe and Mn.
The total arca of good and fairly god underground water in the surveyed area was
270km2 in 1991, accounting for 90% of the total; 279km2 during high water season and
277km2 in low water season in 1992, respectively accounting for 93% and 92% of the total;
286.4km2 during high water scason and 288.9km' in low water season in 1992, respectively
accounting for 95.4% and 96.3% of the total; 292.8krn2 in 1994, accounting for 97.6% of the
total. The area of fairly poor underground water in 1994 *was 7.2km2 accounting for 2.4% of
the total, mainly distributed in: a)along Wucheng-Ximen Rice Flour Mill-brewery; b) along
No.3 Pharmaccutical Factory-Wanfutan Dairy, with a polluted area of 2kmU; and c)Yaotou
area.
3.2.3 Solid waste matlers
1. Domestic garbage produced in the city
Domestic garbage mainly consists of organic matters, inorganic matters (broken bricks,
stove dregs, and dirt) and retrievable matters. Along with the rising of people's standard of
living and the popularization of liquefied gas, inorganic matters remarkably reduced while
44



N
viP)o              .                         1'N b  Rill n
0.-3sy    -  -              o ,x'    \  9   r.         6,.
F~~~~~~~~~-             O   G-- ._   O 
-z'
o@                             <Xa,,   ,umn-  0              / -
I~~~= o    ,/~--~ ,\\                                             -Ln~   0
o o i ---' t-e   o  ~~~~~~~Qd               \      's 
,      ,
~' \J o
0ig3-7 Dlstnbi6Gwmd Water Moni*rn Guiluk Eom 1991 to 1994
Fi&3-7 PistnibU66on of Ground Water Mm          in Guilin, fromn 1991 to 1994



the proportion of organic matters and retrievable matters increased in the 90's as compared
with in the 80's.
The total amount of refuse produced was l0O,OOOt in 1991. of which .43,000t was
treated to be harmless; 124,000t in 1992, of which 109,500t was transported away and
40.000t trcated to be lharmless; 131 OOOt in 1993, of which 120,000t was transported away
and 65,000t trcated to be harmless.
2. Environmental pollution caused by solid waste matters
Industrial solid wastc in Guilin City is mainly of stove dreg and flyash, plus some side
products arid. tailings reduced through production process. There is no radioactive dreg.
Because the adoption of the policy of comprehensive utilization, industrial waste matters in
Guilin City was well handled and under good management.
Impact of solid waste in Guilin is mainly caused by domestic refuse. Because the
capacity of harmless treatment is far from enough, its pollution to water, soil, and the
atmosphere is becoming more and more outstanding. Lack of transporting capacity and
transit stations worsens the environment of living quarters of the city inhabitants. Besides,
the rapid development of small restaurants increased much garbage, which is not timely
treated and is causing many cases of foul smells.
3. Industrial solid waste matters
Most of industrial solid waste matters is put into comprehensive utilization, and the
remaining part--mostly tailings and flyash--is stored or buried, causing certain harmness to
underground water and farm plants nearby.
3.2.4 Ainospheric environmental quality
1. Pollution of the atmosphere
Atmospheric pollution in Guilin City is of coal smoke tvpe, mainly caused by smoke
discharged by factories, hotels, restaurants and stoves of city inhabitants. Major pollutants
include SO., NOx and TSP. Coal is the main encrgy source in Guilin, the urban arcas of the
city consumcd 3,998,000t of coal in 1991-94, avcraging 999.500t/a. of which 168,800t/a was
for domestic use and 830,080t/a for industrial use. Thcre are 14 major coal consumers in
Guilin, like the Guilin Power Station, wvhich on the avcragc consumed 419,500t of coal in
1991-94, accounting for 50.5% of the total amount of coal consumed by industrics.
. Amount of waste gas discharged by industries
Major coal consumers discharged 9,176.65 million normal m3 of industrial waste gas in
1991-94, averaging 2,294.16 million Nm3, which contained 18.917t/a of SO2 4,259t/a of
smoke dust, and 3816t/a of NOx.
3. Atmospheric environmental quality
The average daily maximum concentration of SO, in 1991-94 was 0.221-0.447mgfNm',
exceeding the standard for Grade I atmosphere by 10.05-21.35 times; the avcragc daily value
was 0.024-0.085mg/Nm', exceeding the standard for Grade I atmosphere by 0.2-3.25 times.
The average daily maximum concentration of NOx in 1991-94 was 0.054-0.129mglNm3,
cxceeding the standard for Grade I atmosphere by 0.08-1.58 times; the avcrage daily value
was 0.01 5-0.024mgfNMm', not cxceeding thc standard for Grade I atmosphere.
46



The average daily maximum concentration of TSP in 1991-94 was 0.480-0.720mg/Nm3,
exceeding the standard for Grade 11 atmosphere by 1.6-2.4 times; the average daily value
was 0.146-0.480mg/Nm3, not exceeding the standard for Grade 11 atmosphere.
In all, in 1991-94, the average total pollution load of SO2 was the highlest, accounting
for 62.93%, followed by TSP and NOx. So SO. is the most important pollutants affecting the
atmospheric environment of Guilin City. The above figures show  that the average
concentrations of the three items decreased as compared with previous years. But viewed
from the coefficient of pollution load, that of TSP rose from 0.207 in 1991 to 0.392 in 1994;
that of SO, showed a tendency of decrease, dropping from 0.718 in 1991 to 0.486 in 1994.
This was the result of the increase of coal consumption, construction projects and vehicles.
3.2.5 Acoustic environmental quality
1. Acoustic environmental quality of Guilin City
Environmental noise sources in Guilin are from traffic, daily life, industry, construction,
and other noise, of which traffic and daily life are the main ones.
the total length of road where equivalent noise intensity exceeded 7OdB(A) in 1991 to
1994 was respectively 43.5km, 43.7km, 47.84km, and 44.83km, all taking up more than 78%
of the total length of roads, the highest reached 86.7%.
The area where the average equivalent noise intensity exceeded 7OdB(A) during
daytime in 1991, 1993, and 1994 respectively accounted for 15.2%, 16.49%, and 8.06%; that
exceeding 6OdB(A) respectively 45%, 52.02%, and 39.51%; that exceeding 55dB(A)
respectively 67.8%, 74.6%, and 68.95%.
2. Acoustic environmental quality of the Guilin Prefecture
Investigation over 21 trunk roads in the counties of thc prefecture found 13 of them had
a flow of more than 100/h vehicle, of which the ones in Lingchuan, Lipu and from
Gongchcng Segment Factory to the bus station, where thc flow was over 300/h, with the
maximum of 6541h. The noise intensity in 9 trunk roads exceeded the controllcd vale by
0.19-3.3dB(A). Th at of the other 12 roads was within but very ncar thc controlled value.
Tlhough the traffic flowv in most roads was not verv high, thc poor function of the roads, not
separating motored and non-motored vehicles caused much confusion. Some roads don't
have pavement and where traffic is in still poorer order. This is the main factor for traffic
noise.
3.3 Monitoring over existing environmcnt of thc area involved in the project
3.3.1 Environment at thie area of water replenishing project of fie Lijiang River
The project to replenish water for the Lijiang River involves the project to replenish
water to the Wulixia reservoir, the project to draw water from the Xiaorongjiang River, and
the dikes along the Lijiang River. See Table 3.3.1 for the analysis of result monitored.
47



N
i  1 _--%fGulin--I                            ./4"
,:A° ''''/" '
. ':' < !/>/ ~~~~~~~/._ .    Qih&mw
_  - --- ~Guli   -  w--
J.
Fig. 3-8 Distnbution ofATMoiioshcr Enviromnncsial           ons   in Guilin. from 1993 to 1994



Table 3.3.1 Environmental Quality of the Project to Replenish Water
to the Lijiang River as Monitored                               unit: mg/L
item           pH             SS           hardness       conductivity        DO           COD,,
_________  ~~~~~~~~~~~               (moL            ( m S/Cm)          ~ ~~~
range I average  range |average  molL range| average _rtnge I  average  range| averagc rncIaem
Yijiang River
Xunjiang   7.36-7.41  7.38   1.0-4 4   2.7  0.13-0.16  0.14   2.32-23.9  23.6  89-9.1   9.0   0.6-0.    0.7
Reservoir dam       I                     I
Wuhedam   7.50-7.54  7.52  0O5-8 4   44  021-0.28  0.24   51.7-56.0  538 8-S.   88   0.8-1.0   0.9
Liangiian   7.58-7.78  7.68  0.5-7.6  4.0  0.35-0.36  0.36   62.2-75.8  69 0   8.6-9.2   S.9   1.3-1.5   1.4
Xiaorongjiang River                           =_==
Laojiangko  7.62-7.76  7.69  0.5-7.0  3.8  0.1S-0.22  0.20  42.3-42.7  42  S  .3-9.5   .9   0.7-0.-S   0
Shunjiangko  7.54-7.7.0  7.62  0.5-I.S  1.2  0.18.0.18  0.1I  39 3-431   41.2  8.5-9.9   9.2   0.34.6   0.4
Heko    7.60-7.S0  7,70  0.5-0.5  0.5  0.19-0.22  0.20   44S046  46.3  9.5-9.9   9.7   0.6-0.7   0.6
item           800,                    NH,-N                      NO,-N                 NO,-N
Irange| average |        rangc       aveag     J    rannge     avengc
Yijiang River
Xunjiang    0.3-0.6    0.4      0.01240.17      0.100       0.0034.052    0.028   0.16-0.17    0.16
Reservoir dam                                  . J
Wuhedam      0.4-1.0    0.7      0.28.0.056       0.042       0.00240.005    0.004   0.2440.30   0.27
Langjian    0.4-0.8     0.6     0.11740.251      0.1S4       0.00S.000S    0.008   0.31-0.47    0.39
Xiaorongpiang River
Laojiangko    0.7-1.1   0.9      0.020-0.02S      0.024    | 0.003-0.004    0.004   0 2S4.32     0.30
Shunjiangko   0.14.8     0.4      0.01240.012      0.012      0.0030.004    0.004   0.29.0.42     0.36
Heko      0.2-1.2     0.8      0.012.0.012      0.012    | 0.0034.003    0.003   0.444047      0.46
item           phenol                As                     Oil                   Colon bacillus
range _v_ _g__      nrange   Iaverage     range                  raverge  range   I   aveng _
Yijiang River
Xunjiang   0.001d40.001d 0.001d| 0004d-0.004d 0.004d|   005-0.23d    |0.14    2300-200        13050
Reservoir dam I          I                           __I___     I_I                       I
Wuhedam   O.001d.0.001d I0.00Id 0.00.4.4004d   4d      0.08..25       0.16   23800-238001     23800
Liangiia  I0.00ld-0.001d 10j.001d 0~004410.0.  1-0*d  0 02d10.06      0.04   23800-238001     23800
Xiuorongiuiarg River
Lsojiangko   0.0Old04.001d 0.001d 0.0044d-0.004d 0.004d    002d40.05  0.04d  123800-23800      23800
Shunjiangko  0.00ld40.001d 0.001d 0004d-.0040    .004  0.02d4-0.02d | 0.02d  | 230-2300         1265
Heko   70.000.0024d.0.001 0.001d 0004d44004d  0.0044d    0.02d0.02d  0.02d J_2300-23800
49



Table 3.3.2 (1) Assessment of the Water Environmental quality
of the Xiaorongiiang River
factor                   Laojiangko                  Shun ianc                    Heko
li        poliutant       li          pollutant       II        pollutant
pH-1                0.46   |    clear          0.41          clear         0-47        clear
DO                  0.43         clear         0.36          clear          0.3        clear
COD,,,               0.2         clear          0.1          clear         0.15        clear
BOD,                 0.3         clear         0.13           cicar        0.27        clear
NH,-N               0.02         clear         0.01           clear        0.01        ciear
NO,-N            .  0.04         clcar         0.04          clear         0.03        clear
NO,-N               0.03         clear         0.04           clear        0.05        clear
phenol               0.5         cicar          0.5          clear          0.5        clear
CN-                 0.04         clear         0.04           clear        0.04        clear
As                  0.08         clear         0.08          clear         0.08        clear
Hg                    I      lightly-polluted    I       lightly-polluted    I     lightly-polluted
Cr'                 0.04         clear         0.04           clear        0.04        clear
Pb                   0.1         clear          0.1          clear          0.1        clear
Cd                   0.1         clear          0.1          clear          0.1        clear
petroleum            0.8    lightly-polluted    0.4          clear          0.4   lightly polluted
colon bacillus       2.4        polluted       0.12           clear         1.3       polluted
Organic index       0.48         clear         0.52           clear         0.4        clear
metal index         0.26         clear         0.26           clear        0.26         ciear
Table 3.3.2 (2) Assessment of Existing Water Environmental Quality
of the Project on the Wulixia Reservoir
factor                200m front dam of Wulixia Reservoir              Baitangt River
li              pollutant             Li               pollutant
pH                         0.9           lightly-polluted         0.61               ciear
DO                         0.08               clear               0.08               clear
COD,_.                     0.27               clear               0.24               clear
BOD,                       0.40               clear               0.15               clear
NH,-N                      0.10               ciear               0.03               clear
NO, - N                   0.02                clear              0.02               ciear
NO;-FN                    0.002               clear              0.002              ciear
phenol                     0.2                clear               0.2                clear
-CN-                        0.01               clear               0.01               cicar
As                         0.07               clear               0.07               clear
Hg                         0.5                clear               0.5                clear
Cr'                        0.04               clear               0.04               clear
Pb                         0.2                clear               0.4                clear
Cd                          0.5               clear               0.5                ciear
_________________          0.05               clear               0.05               clear
________________ ;1.81                       polluted             1.21              polluted
Organic indcx              0.15               clear               0.10               ciear
metal index                0.26               clear               0.30               clear
so



I



(1) The water environmental qualitv of the two water drawing places is fairly good.
Assessment with the standard for Grade II water, Hg and petroleum in the Xiaorongjiang
River is lightly-polluted, that of coli polluted. The concentration of T-N in the water of the
Wulixia Reservoir is somewhat fairly high whilc other items do not exceed the standard for
grade 11 water. So high N content is an important problem deserving attention.
Table 3.3-3 Noise as Monitored in thc Arca around the Wulixia Reservoir
- - April 24                   April 25    _                   April 26
Location    S 00  12:00 16.00  20.00  8 00  12.00  1600  20 00   8 00   12.00     1600     20 00
dam      44.5  44.0  43    44    47    44 5              3    44       44.5        5      43 5
Baitarshong 60 57.44 57.54  38 33  56 35  58 27  67 51  37.07  56.13    57.64       50 68    40 01
April 28                  April 29          Leq      noise     Pn  environmental
Location    S.00  12:00 16:00  20:0 8 S 00  12 00  16 00  20 00        sourec              quality
dam      41   42.5  43    42    42    42 5    43    42   43 4  wnd. water   0 79           _
and bird
Baitangehong 61.10 48.24 5S.69  38 78  49 10  56.35  63.09  4076   52.5   tactor,    0.95      _
____________  _.  -   - .   -   - .   - .   - .  -   ___ poulty
It can be seen that the acoustic cnvironment at the head of the Wulixia reservoir is quite
good, but other places around the reservoir have some noise pollution. Construction noise
will cause much impact on thc acoustic environment of the area. So Construction activities
should be well arranged.
Tablc 3.3A Atmospheric Environmental Quality
as Monitored around the Wulixia Reservoir (TSP)
monitoring point                               Wulixia Rescrvoir             Baijian shuanghcchong
ranze of dailv average                             0.05-0.12                       0.12-0.26
averatc (5 days)                                     0.08                             0.19
Ii                                                   0.27                             0.63
pollutant                                            clear                            clear
The atmospheric quality is very good as the concentration of SS in the area is very low.
3.3.2 Environmental quality around the Chongkou garbage burial ground
1. existing ground water
Improper burial of garbage will seriously affect ground watcr. So the protection of
ground water is the key link in the assessment there.
(I) Distribution of observing wells over ground water
There are two groups of observation wells, one in the reservoir area, where 3
monitoring points were chosen, of which 2 were ground controlled ground water, and I
51



spring in the reservoir area; the other in villages around the garbage burial ground and
drinking water wells, where 10 monitoring points were chosen. 1# well in Tangchun Village,
2# well in Shimai Village, 3# spring in the reservoir area, 4# well in Chongkou Village, 5#
well in Chitou Village, 6# well in Shawan Village, 7# well in Dayue Village, 8# well in
Sitang Village, 9# Chongkou garbage burial ground second hole in No.1 area, I 0# Chongkou
garbage burial ground tenth hole in No.2 area. (Fig. 3-1 1).
(2) Items monitored and analyzed
BOD,, COD, As, Pb, Cd, Hg, Cr', Cu Zn, Mn, pH, NH3-N, T-N, N02-N, and N03-N.
(3)Monitored result and analysis
a)Monitored result
Monitored result is listed in Table 3.3.5. 11 items were detected and 5 items undetected:
As, Pb, Cd, Hg, and Cu.
b) Standard fro assessment
"GB5749-85 Hygienic Standard for Drinking Water" and standard for Grade 1I set in
"BGIT14848-93 Standard for Ground Water Quality".
Table 3.3.5 Assessment of Ground Water of the Area of the Project
Uniit: mg/L
No.   point        iten     BOD,  COD   Zn   Mn   pH  hardness  T-N  NO2-N  NO,-N
I           I            (muolVL)              I
I # Tangchong excecding ratc   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0      0.0
exceeding times  0.0    0.0   0.0  0.0.  0.0    0.0     0.4   0.0      0.0
2#   Shimai  exceeding rate   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0     0.0   0.0      0.0
exceeding times  0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0  0.0    0.0     0.0   0.0      0.0
3#   Spring  exceeding rate   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0  100    0.0      0.0   0.0      0.0
excceding times  0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0  0.1    0.0     0.0   0.0      0.0
4#   Chunko  cxceeding ratc   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0  0.0    0.0      0.0   0.0      0.0
cxcceding timcs  0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0      0.0
SM    Citou   cxceeding rate   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0  0.0    100     100   0.0      0.0
cxceeding times  0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.1    7.4   0.0      0.0
6#   Sayuan  cxceeding rate   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0      100   0.0     0.0
-  -            exceeding times  0.0    0.0  -0.0   0.0   0.0    9.6     0.0   0.0      0.0
74   Dayuc  exceeding ratc   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0      100   0.0      0.0
exceeding times  0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0    12.3   0.0      0.0
84    Sitang  cxceeding ratc   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0     100   100      100
cxceeding timcs  0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0  0.0    0.0      100   100    100
9#     2'    execeding rate   0.0    0.0   0.0   100   0.0    0.0      =      =
_exceeding times  0.0    0.0   0.0  25.0  0.01    0.0    _
10#    10'   exceeding ratc   0.0    00   00   100   0.0    0.0
excecding times  0.0    0.0   0.0  2s.0  0.01    0.0
52



The table shows that except the values of pH in the spring in the reservoir area,
hardness in the Chitou Village well, T-N  in  Sitang Village well, Chitou Village well,
Shawan Village well, and Dayue Village well, and T-N in Sitang Village well, all the other
items were within the standard fro drinking water; except the values of Cd in points 9# and
10a, all the other items were within the standard for Grade 11 water. Acidic pH valuc at point
3# was caused by its mother rock; high hardness at point 5# was caused by rich content of Ca
and Mg in its stratum: standard exceeding T-N values at points 1#, 5#, 6#, 7#, and 8#
showed ground_water there was already polluted by chemical fertilizer and pesticide, which
deserves attention; the high content of Mn at point 9# was because the stratum there
contained asbeferrite and the content of DO in its ground water was low.
2. Existing atmospheric environment
The area of the proposed project is located in hilly lands wvith low pitch, where the
landscape is comparatively flat and open. There is in nearby areas only some villages but no
industrial pollution sources. the Guilin-Liangjiang high wav runs through to the north of the
burial ground.
To compare with the Grade tl standard set in document GB3095-82 "Atmospheric
Environmental Standard' and document GB 14554-93 "Standard for the Discharging of
Pollutants with Foul Smells", none of the values of TSP, SO2, CHl,, and H2S (Table 3.3.6).
Table 3.3.6 Assessment of the Atmospheric Environment          unit:  mg/im'
Mionitoring point      Chongko          Dayuc            Citou           Sawan
SO,   Averagc (5 days)     0.009           0.043            0.009           0.012
Ci/Si           0.06            0.28             0.06            0.08
TSP   Averagc (5 days)     0.012
CiISi           0.40
Ci1,   Avcragc (5 days)    0.015            0.01             0.02            0.03
Citsi           0.01            0 0.007          0.01            0.02
1u.S    Averagc 15 days)  0.0034           0.005            0.003           0.004
Ci/Si          0.057            0.08             0.05            0.07
Notcs: Ci -fvc day averaec conctntration of item i
Si - daily averagc conccntration of item i
3. Existing noise environment
S3



Table 3.3.7 Assessment of Local Noise Environment as Monitored
unit:  dB(A)
Linggui   residence  Guanting  rtsidence   Beijing    Beijing    Chunko  rcsidcnce  f&ihuang
road    of Liuchun  village'   of      village'   village'   villagc' of Chongko  forestry
villagc    road    Guanting    road     school     road     village
village
I                 _1#  2#  3#  4A       5#        6N        7       _g___        9#
standard      70         60        70        60        70        60        70        60         70
monitoring    71.0      57.6      71.4      56.3      72.2      63.5       72.4      51.4      66.9
M.S          +1.0       -24       +14       -3.7      +22       +3.5      +2.4       4.6       -3.I
Notes; +: exceeding the standard; -: not exceeding the standard
Table 3.3.7 Noise along the Highways as Monitored
No.          Location of monitoring point              Lcq [dB(A)l         traffic value (1/h)    noise
_ _____________________________   L,O    L,O          L.,    Lcq  a   L   M   I  S   I T  resource
I4   traffic noise of Lingui' road                71  59  51  71.0  7.9  42  21  54  117   traffic
2#   local noise of 02 residence of Liuchun village   62  53  46  57.6  5.7                     local
3#   traffic noise of road of Guantin village     73  63   54  71.4  7.4  30  27  60  117   traffic
4#   local noise of residence of Guanting village  60  52  45  56.3  5.7                        local
5#   traffic noise of road of Bijin village       73  55  43  72.2  11.0 57  27  54  138   traffic
6A   local noise near Jiangxi school of Beijin village  68  52  46  63.5  8.3   _                local
7#   traffic noise of road of Lingui village      75  59  48  72.4  10.2 39  21  108 163   traffic
8#   local noise of 54 rcsidence of Chongko village   55  48  44  51.4  4.4                     local
9a   traffic noisc of road of Fethuwng forestry   67  50  42  66.9  9.8  15  27  78  110   traffic
0D Assessment of traffic noise: Traffic noise at four points of the five points monitored
exceeded the standard. Noise pollution in the area is serious and traffic control must be
strengthened to reduce the noise.
O Assessment of local noise environment: Noise at 5 points of the 9 points monitored
s..exceeded the standard, with a standard.exceeding ratio of 55.5%. Most of the noise is traffic
noise, which causes much noise pollution.
4. Existing soil condition
The assessment on the content of heavy metals in soil adopted the method of average
value plus twice standard difference. Monitoring found the content of Cu is the area of the
projcct, the content of Cd in the farmland of Chitou Village, the content of Cr in the slopes
down the dikes and the content of As in the farmland down the slopes of the dike were of
light pollution. Other places were clean.
54



3.3.4 Monitoring and assessment on existing environment of the waste water treating project
in Guilin City
1. Monitoring and assessment of existing atmospheric environmental quality
Table 3.3.8 Monitoring and Analysis on TSP, SOQ, and NOx              unit: mg/Nm'
TSP                          SO,                  Nx        _
urban part          vest district      west district        west district
5-days    Ci/Si    5-days      CiISi    5-days    Ci/Si    5-days       Ci/Si
averagc             average             average       _   averc
is    0.26       0.87      0.19      0.63     0.010    0.067      0.040       0.40
27     0.39      1.30      0.77      2.57      0.021    0.140     0.084        0.84
3'     0.30      1.00      0.07      0.23      0.011    0.073     0.021        0.21
4'     0.25      0.83      0.17      0.57      0.031    0.207     0.046        0.46
5'     0.26      0.87      0.14      0.47      0.022    0.147     0.031        0.31
6'     0.27      0.90      0.l2      0.40      0.012    0.080     0.033        0.33
7'     0.20      0.67
B#     0.20      0.67
9'     0.41      1.37
10'    0.19      0.63 
C\ The values of TSP at all the monitored pints in the area of the waste water treating
project in the urban part of Guilin City all exceeded the standard sometimes, the most serious
being at Heishan Botanical garden and the gate of Jianyuan Hotel. All these were caused by
local production activities.
) The value of SO, monitored in the area of the waste water treating project in
Xicheng District did not exceed the standard for Grade 11 (set in document GB3095-82); the
values of TSP and NOx exceeded the standard only at point 2" in Rongshan Road. It may
have been caused by the discharge of chimney of Lushan Cement Plant to its northcast.
2. Investigation and analysis of existing surface water environmental qualitv
The following conclusions can be drawn from the result monitored over main pollutants
in 1995-96 (Table 3.3.9 and Fig. 3-9):
a_) Thc area of the waste water treating project of the urban part of Guilin City
Water at the Liujia Bridge section on the Xiaodongjiang River, sections at Doujishan,
Longmen, Mopanshan, and Zhemu on the Lijiang River all had items exceeding the standard,
therefore polluted to different degrees.
The coefficient of six items at the section of Liujia Bridge exceeded the standard:
CODM,, CODc,, DO, non-ion ammonia, petroleum, coli. This serious pollution was because
it received water discharged by the Qilidian waste water treating plant, large amount of
industrial waste water and domestic sewage.
55



The four section on the Lijiang River had common items exceeding the standard: DO,
non-ion ammonia, petroleum and coli. There are many causes for the deficiency of DO,
including biological cause and physical and chemical cause. Petroleum mainly came from
boats navigated along the river. As for coli and non-ion ammonia, the main cause was
industrial waste water and domestic sewage the river received.
Pollutant concentration of the four sections on the Lijiang River is basically of the
following order: Doujishan > Zhemu > Longmen > Mopanshan. This trend was caused by
the distance of the river's lower reaches from the city: the farther, the stronger self purifying
capacity.
() The area of the waste water treating project in Xicheng District
Standard exceeding ratio all reached 14.3% at the six sections of the flood draining
canal, up the outlet of the Xiaotaiping River, Damatang, the outlet of the Taiping River of
the Yijiang River, and down the outlet of the Yijiang River. Water at five of the six sections
(except the one up the outlet of the Taiping River) were already polluted to different degrees.
where the standard exceeding items were petroleum and coli, mainly caused by the oil
leakage of motored boats and the discharge of untreated domestic sewage and industrial
waste water.
There wasn't much variance of other items at different sections. This shows there was so
far no strong pollution sources at these sections.
2.5                      ~~~~~~~~~~4
2                                3
mIg/L 5                         mg/L 2
0                                0
Doujish Zhanm Longm Jfl5jj       Daiuang  Xiaotai  Dama  Daiping  Yijiang downof
an    u    en                   shan   pinghc  tang   heko    ko   yijiansko
waste watcr treating project              westc water treating project of
of urban part in Guiling City               west district of Guiling City
Fig. 3-9 Monitored results over the waste Water treating Project in Guilin City
56



Table 33.9 Assessment of watcr Quality at the Area of the Waste Water Treating
Project in the Urban Part of Guilin City                    unit:  mg/L
section            item       CODM, BOD,  SS         DO      non-ion     Oil      colon
ammnia              bacillus
Doujishan          exceeding ratc(%)   0    33.3    0       77.7     33.3      66.6       100
S,               058   O.80   0.22    1.37        1.05     4.80      23.8
Liujia bridge       exceeding ratel%)  100    100    0      IOD 100        100too         100
S.,              3.82   9.78   0.56    1.98      35.45    83.40     238.00
Longmen             exceeding rate(%)   0     0      0      100      33.3      44.4       100
S,               0.50   0.47   0.16    2.10      1.00      1.60      10.3
Mepanshang          exceeding rate(%)   0     0      0      100      33.3      22.2      88.9
0.43   0.33   0.13    1.36     0.55      2.80      2.14
Zhanmu              exceeding rate(%)   0     0      0      77.7     33.3      66.6       t00
Sn;              0.42   0.60   0.20    1.41       1.05     3.00      16.7
flood drainage canal  exceeding rate(%)   0   0      0       0       33.3      33.3      66.6
_   S. i __ _ ___0.53   0.70   0.44    0.41      0.75      2.20        3
up outlet of R. Xiao-  exceeding rate(%)   0  0    33.3      0         0       66.6       1.66
taipinghe           Si,               0.45   0.30   0.62    0.42     0.40    1.40          3
Damnatang           exceeding rale(%)   0     O      0       0         0       66.6       100
_________________    S.,              0.43   0.33   0.52    0.47      0.50      1.40      2.38
up outiet of R. Tai-   exeeeding rate(%)   0  0      0       0         0       33.3        0
pinghe              S.                0.47   0.33   0.43    0.46     0.55      0.80      0.23
up outiet of R. Tai-   exceeding rate(%)   0  0      0       O         0       33.3       100
pinghc (R.Y)        S,i               0.27   0.23   0.24    0.42     0.10       1.60      2.38
down outici of R.Tai- excceding rate(%)   0   0  0           0         0       33.3      33.3
pinghe (R.Y)       IS,                0.48   0.25   0.54    0.51     0;65      1.80      0.95
3. Monitoring and analysis on the acoustic environment of the area of the project
The assessment was carried out according to the standard for Gradc 1I mixcd areas set
in document GB3096-93 "Local Environmental Noise Standard in Urban Areas", that is
&9dB(A) during daytime and 50dB(Ai)atn.ight.
57



Table 3.3.10 Noise Monitored at the Area of the Waste Water Treating Project
in the Urban Part of Guilin City
No.           location of monitoring point                Leq dB(A)            trafhic    main
L10   L,    LU.   Leq   a    (I/b)   resource
l# Local noise of liashan middle school          54    45    43   49.9  4.1           local
2# traffic noise near Heishan Park               75    67    60   71.2  5.7   951  traffic
3# local noise of No.8 middle school             77    72    66   74.6  4.0   1410  traffic
4# local noise of hospital attached to Dongjian hospital  58    48    44   61.1  6.5  local
5# local noise of the gate of No.4 middlc school  66    59    55   64.6  4.8          local
6# local noise of Diyuan restaurant              64    53    49   62.8  6.1           traffic
7# local noise of Clinic at lift of Donggiang school  70    63    S8  67.3  4.8       local
8# local noise of the gate of Qixin Park         58    52    50   56.8  3.6           local
9# taffic noise the water supplying plant        76    69    63   74.8  5.4   1377  traffic
10# local noise of Guanshan Hotel                61    55    49   57.9  4.7           traffic
Il# traffic noise of lianyuan restaurant          73    67    62   71.4  4.7   1149  traftic
12# local noise of Zhangmu school                 53    47    38   49.4  5.8          local
Table 3.3.11 Noise on the Lingui village as Monitored
No.           location of monitoring point               Loq [dB(A)1          traffic   main
Lto  L,  Lq   Leq    a    (I/h)  resource
1# No.61 Rongshan Road                           74   64   57   70.5   6.4   345    traffic
2# building of 200m from traffic tumtable        55   49   46   51.7   3.4           construct
3# Clinic from Diamond Plant                     74   64   56   70.4   7.1   393    traffic
43 4 buildine of East part of trafftc tunable    54   50   47   52.1   2.8             local
5# No.120 Rongmindadao Road                      75   67   64   71.5   4.4   420    tamfic
6# building of right site of Cement Plant        69   59   52   65.9   6.8   222    trafric
71 The gate of town government department        64   56   50   63.8   5.7    _       traffic
-8#  No. 33 Huiyuan Road                            67   59   54   65.2   5.6            taffic
9# Retang saving bank of Gunshang Bank           78   64   54   76.5   8.9   219    traffilc
10# Renmin hospital                              72   65   59   69.1   5.3   366    local
11# light building of Renmin hospital             56   52   50   55.3   3.0            local
12# Xicheng Printing house                        70   61   56   63.3   5.0            tritc
I) the Area of the waste water treating project in the urban part
Of the 12 pints monitored, the equivalent noise intensity at 8 points exceeded the
standard, with a ratio of 66.7%.
58



To the right of the gate of No. 8 High School is the main traffic route of the city's urban
part, where the flow of vehicles was high. There were many pedestrians and a high flow of
vehicles in front of the gate of Dongjiang water mill. Noise at the above two points exceeded
the standard by a large margin, respectivelv rcaching 74.6dB(A) and 74.8dB(A) respectively
with a vehicle flow of 1 41 0/h and 1 377/h.
As the project is located in trunk traffic routes of the city, traffic noise forms the major
noise load pollution. Noise long trunk traffic routes all exceeded the standard sometimes.
2) The area of the waste water treating project in Xicheng District
Traffic of both vehicles and pedestrians was very busy to the right of the Ertang Savings
Department of the Industrial and Commercial Bank in Linggui Town, where noise pollution
was serious. When the flow of vehicles reached 219/h, the equivalent noise intensity could
reach 76.5dB(A). Then the equivalent noise intensity at points near No. 120 in Renming
Avenue, No. 61 in Rongshan Road, and 50m to the left of the diamond factory in Linggui
Town respectively reached 71.5dB(A), 70.5dB(A), and 70.3dB(A) when the vehicle flow
was respectively 420/h, 345/h and 393/h.
In this area traffic was also the main source of noise pollution and the intensity of noise
exceeded the standard.
59



4. Predicted Environmental Impact and Controlling Measures
4.1 Recognition and screening of environmental affecting factors to be assessed
4.1.1 Purpose
Factors affecting the environment at different stages and their degrees were studied
according to tie characteristics of the project if comprehensive environment treatment of the
Lijiang River and major cnvironmental problems which might appear during the construction
and operation of the project were screened out to be used as basis for key assessment.
4.1.2 Method ofscreening
The matrix method was used in the assessment.
4.1.3 Result of screening
The result of the screening of the factors affecting the environment during the
construction and operation of the project was listed in Table 4.2.1.
I. Major environmental problems and affecting factors
Major environmental problems caused by the project of comprehensive treatment of the
Lijiang River arc:
(I )Raised dust, noise, and foul smell during the construction will affect the atmospheric
quality and people's life. Especially problem of piling of the castaway earth and the
vegetationn destory during construction.
(2) Potential thrcat of refusc leaching to ground watcr; foul smells produced by waste
water treating plants and rcfuse landfill, impact of mud clay produced by waste water
trcating plants. and possible environmental problems in areas where water will bc drawn.
It can be seen from Table 4.2.1 that the impact during the operation of the project will
be mainly positive while its impact during the construction will be mainly negative. Negative
impact are manifested through the impact of construction noise to the acoustic environment
and the impact of raised dust on the atmospheric environment, and the impact of
transportation vehicles on the city's tramTc. As the construction sites of the laying of waste
water pipelines will in the downtown area of the city, the impact will be quitc serious. The
project of replenishing water from the Lijiang River will occupy much land, causing much
impact on the vcgetation, land utilization, and tourist scenarios.
60



Table 4.2.1 Recognition of Factors Affecting the Environment and Their Degrees
of the Construction of the Comprehensive Treating Project of the Lijiang River
Construction                                 operation
Item                 replenishing  protection   refuse  waste water replenishing protection   refuse   waste water
water project   dikes    disposal  treating  water       dikes    disposal    treating
project    project                          project
Ground watcr       -1                                                              + 1        +2
quality .                            _
Surface watcr                                                +2         + I
hydrology
Surface water     -I          -1        -I                   +3         +2         +2         +3
quality
Atmosphere         I          4        4         -2                               +2
quality     __._.
Noise          -I          -I        -1       -2
cnvironment
UTban ecology                                                 + I        + I        + I
Farrniand        -l                                       + I                   + I
ccology
City landscapc     -I                              -2         +3         +3        +2          +3
Aquatic ecology     4 I                                       + I         + I       + I         + I
Forest vegetation   -2           I         I                   + I        + I        + I
land-use         2                               I         -1         +2         +2
Industry                                                   + 1                   +3         +2
development
Agriculture                                                 + I
development
Water supply                                                 + I        + I        + I         +2
quality                                                                     _
transportation      I           I       _ I                  +2      +_   I                _-
Social economy      -          _ I                            + I         +2        4-3         +2
Health and safest   -            I                  -2         +2                    +3         +2
Living standard                                                          +3         +2          + I
Recreation                             _I                              +2         +2         + I
Culture heritage                _ I                                       + I       + I
Aesthetic and       I          I         I                   +3          +3        +1          +2
tourism
Employment        +1          +1 ++               +1         +1         +1         +1         +1
61



4.2 Analysis of environmental impact
4.2.1 Characteristics of environmenIal impact
The Lijiang comprehensive treatment project has positive and negative, long term and
short term, reversible and irreversible, and local and extensive impact. See Table 4.2.2 for
the result of analysis. Negative impact is basically during the construction of the project, of
short term, reversible and local, while positive impact is basically during its operation, of
long term and gxtensive. So after the project is completed and put into operation the major
impact will be favorable, though there will be local unfavorable impact.
Table 4.2.2 Analysis of the Environmental Impact of the
Lijiang Comprehensive Treatment Project
Negativc impact                       Positive impact
construc-  opera-  rcvr- irever- local wide  construc-  opera- local wide
tion     tion    sive    sive                 tion     tion
Ground water quality        V                -             V                       v      v
Surface water hydrology     V                               /    _                 V      V
Surface water quality                /                          v ;                V      V
Atnosphere quality                            / V          V                       V      V
Noise environment            /       V       V/ _                                            V V
_  Urban ccology               V         /                      /    _                 V      V
Farmiand ecology                                   __            _
Ciry landscape               /            _                V                       V 
Aquatic ecology                              V       /     V                       V      V
Forcst vegetation                                                                 /V      V
land use               |              V               V               __
Industry developmcnt    _                                             ____
Agriculturc developmcnt  |______
Water supply qualitv   |_ |__         /  |        |  V      V          V                        V
-transportion               V/ V              V   |                                         /
Social economy
Health and safest      |V                                                                  / V  V
Living standard        |
Rerciatin                           V                           VVV                       V
Cultur heritage         ____|_               V   |/ _V
Acsthetic and tourism       v                V              V |                            V
62



Of the three subprojects of the Lijiang comprehensive treatment project, the
construction of the Lijiang water replenishing subproject, and the construction of the city's
waste water treating system subproject will have serious environmental impact. The first one
involves a large area and will last for a fairly long time; the second involves large quantity of
earthwork and the laying of pipelines will destroy certain length of road, causing
inconvenience to people's life.
During the operation of the project, the Lijiang water replenishing subproject, waste
water treating plints and refuse landfill will have some unfavorable impact. Noise and foul
smell produced by waste water treating plants will have much impact on their surrounding
areas. The disposal of refuse may increase the city's traffic. The fouls smell and percolation
leaching of the refuse landfill will have negative impact on surrounding environment. The
water replenish project will draw water out of the city and that will have long-tern impact,
but the impact of drawing water into the city will also be of long term. On the whole, the
project will mainly have positive impact after it is put into operation.
Possible environmental impact caused by its subprojects:
1. Raised dust, noise, and solid wastes during the construction will have some impact on
the atmospheric quality and people's life. The added transportation will affect the city's
traffic. And the construction will have some impact on the landscape of the city.
2. During its operation there will be some im,pact on the functions of the water bodies
from which water is drawn out: the lower reaches of the Xiaorongjiang River, and the
Rongjiang River.
3. Secondary pollution to surface water and ground water may be caused by mud
produced by waste water treating plants, percolation leaching from the refuse landfill. Gas
produced by waste water treating plants will havc foul smell and affect thc atmosphere.
4. Water discharged by waste water treating plants will have some impact on ncarby
water bodies and finally on the Lijiang River.
5. Foul smell and noise produced by waste water treating plants will affect surrounding
environment.
4.2.2 Result of tfe recognition and screening of the factors that wvill affect tfie environment
_ Negative impact is manifested dilring. the construction of the-project, of short term,
reversible and local, while positive impact will be shown during its operation, of long term
and extensive. So after the project is completed and put into operation the major impact will
be favorable. Major environmental problems brought by the construction of the project are:
1. Raised dust and noise will have impact on the atmospheric quality and people's life.
The laying of pipelines and the construction of water drawing tunnels, the collecting and
transporting of construction refuse will have much impact.
2. Refuse landfill will have impact on ground water and inhabitants nearby.
But as a whole the project is an environmental project with remarkable benefit.
63



4.3 Division of the functions of Guilin City and the control over the total amount
of pollutants discharged into the Lijiang River
Guilin is a famous tourist city with many places of historical interests, known from its
"green mountains, clean water, strange caves and beautiful stones". Its natural landscape is
unique in China. The city government is determined to build the city into a fairly well-off
city with rational industrial structurc and energy utilization by the end of this century, and
into a prosperous, wcll-off international tourist city with beautiful environment by the year
of 2010.
4. 3.1 Overall- -lanning of Guilin City and goals of different stages
1. Major economic goals
The GNP of Guilin City reached 5.194 billion yuan in 1994. The city will realize its
second strategic goal and march towards the third goal in the next fifteen years. See Table
4.3.1 for the goals set in the ninth five years plan and that of the year 2010.
Table 4.3.1 Goals of National Economy of Guilin City
unit: i 00 million yuan
item              first stratcgic goal (I 9952000)   second strategic goal(2001-2010)
GNP                                 77.87 (12.88%)                  201 (10%)
industry income                       167 (14.5%)                  446 (10.3%)
agriculture income                    10.68 (5.2%/e)                16.6(4.5%)
town's industrv income                 92 (5.2%)                    557 (20%)
tourism incomc                         22 (15%)                     57 (10%)
averagc annual domcstic incomc      9400 vuan ( 14%/ )           29200 yuan (12%)
avcragc annual farncr incomc        2730 yuan ( 16%)             10121 yuan ( 14%)
Notcs: Q Stabic pricc of 1990   (D ()showing average annual increasing rte
2. Plan for population development
Thc total population of Guilin City wvas 12,820,000 in 1994, which 381,300 were
-urban population. The figures will btumrollcd to be 1,450,000 and 470,000 by the year
2000 and 1 620,000 and 580,000 by 2010. Tourists to the city'reaches 354,500 person - times
in 1994 with a tourism income of 832 million yuan. The figures planned for the year of 2000
are 600,000 person - times/a and 2.2 billion yuan, and for the year of 2010 1 million
person * times/a and 5.7 billion yuan.
3. Construction plan of Guilin City
The total area of Guilin City is 4,195 km2. The constructed area in 1994 was
465,000km2. Xicheng District and Lingchuan County will undergo large scale development
so as to form a new spatial layout of several centers.
64



Energy structure of Guilin City will be changed form mainly relying on coal to
comprehensive use of power and petroleum. Great efforts will be made to popularize
liquefied gas.
4.3.2 Planning offJunctions of lhe city
1. Division of environmental functions of the city
Guilin City will be divided into four types of functional areas, laying stress to the
protection of the natural landscape and places of humanity interests. Industry shall be
deveioped on the premise of protecting the living environment of the inhabitants. Industry
with high technique and clean industry will be main ones.
(I) Key protection areas refer to areas with high demand for comprehensive
environmental protection, including tourist attractions, places of historical interest and health
resorts. It covers over 50 places such as the Lijiang landscape zone, the Taohua River
tourism and holidav zone, and the Yoashan Mountain Protection zone.
(2) General protection areas refer to the living quarters and commercial quarters which
needs fairly high environmental demands. It is mainly the present downtown area of the city,
boarded by Lingchuan County to its north, Dafengshan industrial zone to its south, Qixin
Park and Chuanshan Park to its east and the planned Qingtan District to its west.
(3) Pollution control area refers to present industrial zone, which will be gradually
changed into a clean industrial zone where the construction of new pollution source will be
strictly controllcd. This is the high technology development zone of Guilin, which is located
along Sanlidian and Donghuan Road with an arca of 12.07km1.
(4) Industrial development area refers to Xicheng industrial zone and the area along the
road leading to the intemational airport and the Guilin-Louzhou highwav, where industries
of chcmicals, energy, construction material. textile. food processing, and infrastructure of
major industries will be developed. Arcording to the plan, the development there will be
rapid, of large scalc and with high land utilization intensity. The function of the land there
will be complicated. There be an overall plan to control the total amount of pollution and
pollution discharge fee will be reached.
2. Division of atmospheric function
C ) Grade I atmospheric quality_protection areas: Lijiang River and scenarios along it
(Ludi Park, Xishan Park, Tomb of Jingjiang King), urban part of the city, and high
technology development zone
0 Grade 11 atmospheric quality protection area: Xicheng industrial zone
3. Division of water environmental function
(D Trunk of the Lijiang River: follow the standard for Grade It water as set in document
GB3838-88
0) Tributarics of the Lijiang River: follow the standard for Grade IlI water
65



(D Scenery lakes and ponds: follow the standard for Grade IlIl water by the year 2000
and follow the standard for Grade II water by the year 2010
G Grade I water source protection areas: Besides reaching the standard for Grade II
water as set in document GB3838-88, it should follow the standard set in document GB5749-
85 "Hygienic Standard for Drink water"
®) Grade II water source protection areas: the trunk of the Lijiang River from the
Dahexu Town wharf in the upper reach to the Jingping Mountain Bridge, except the areas
denoted for Grade I water source protection areas, follow the standard for Grade [I water as
set in document GB3838-88
() Para water source protection areas: tributaries of the Lijiang River the Taohua River,
the Ningyuan River, the Nanxi River, and 200m up the outlet of the Xiaodongjiang River,
follow the standard for Grade III water as set in document GB3838-88
4. Division of acoustic environmental function
It is also divided into four types:
Ci) Special living quarters and quarters of inhabitants, culture and education: noise
intensity does not exceed 55dB(A) during daytime and not exceeding 45dB(A) at night. It is
divided into 9 quartcrs.
(D Mixed quarters of inhabitants, commerce and industry: noise intensity does not
exceed 6OdB(A) during daytime and not exceeding 5OdB(A) at night. It is divided into 9
quarters. It is also divided into 9 quarters.
d Industrial areas: noise intensity does not exceed 65dB(A) during daytime and not
exceeding 55dB(A) at night. It is divided into 4 quarters.
® Areas along trunk traffic routes: noise intensity does not cxceed 7OdB(A) during
daytime and not exceeding 55dB(A) at night.
4.3.3 Environmental planning goals of Guilin City, macroscopic pollutant control goal and
control areas
l. Aim
(I) The goal for the environmental protection of the ninth five-year plan: to basically
control the development trend of environmental pollution, to stabilize the environmental
-quality and to gradually choke the.destmction of the ecoenvironment, so as to meet the
demand for people's fairly well-off living and to make the construction of the environment
suit to the development, thus laying a foundation for building the city into a prosperous,
beautiful internationally known city with beautiful environment.
(2) Environmental protection goal for the year of 2010: to control envirorunental
pollution, to further improve the city's environmental quality and restore its ecoenvironment,
to harmonize the economic development with the environment, so as to turn the city into an
internationally well known city.
2. Target of control
66



See table 4.3.2 for the control over the total amount of pollutants to be discharged.
Table 4.3.2 (1) Target of Total Amount Control of Pollutants
Discharge for the Year 2000
itcm             unit       target              item              unit     target
SO,(industrv)              t         45000      COD                         t        11947
TSP(industry)              t         30000      domestic waste water      10000t     5102
waste water industrv)   10000t        6616     _           _
Table 4.3.2(2) Target of Total Amount Control of Pollutants
Discharge for the Year 2010
itcm             unit       target              item              unit     target
SO.(industry)              t         54000      COD                         t       26979
TSP(industry)              t         36000      domestic waste water      10000t     8853
waste wateT(industry)   10000t  |   14941      _
3. Controlled zones
In an area of 27.2 1km2 smoke dust was brought into control in 1994, covering 58.52% of
the city; And in an area of 17.31 km2 noise was brought down to within the standard, covering
37.23% of the city.
4. Total amount control target of pollutants to be discharged into the Lijiang River
(I) Scope and aim of control
Scope: nie Lijiang River and its tributaries, major scenic lakes and ponds
Aim: the water quality of the Lijiang River should reach the standard for Grade If
surface water set by the state; tributaries of the Lijiang River and scenic lakes and ponds will
reach the standard for Grade III water by 2000 and the standard for Grade If water by 2010.
COD was chosen as the implcmenting index, the average monthly flow for the lowest
water scason in ten years was uscd to determine the amount of COD to be discharged into the
Lijiang River and its tributaries by 2000 and 2010. The calculation didn't take into account
the water to be replenished (Table 4.3.3).
-           Table 4.3.3 Controlled A*mnut of COD to be Discharged into
the Lijiang River and its Tributaries
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  ._ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ .u nit:   tla
River            year 2000        2010                               yea 2000      2010
River                                              Rivcr 
Lijiang River         1939         1935            Nanxi River            27        21
Taohuajiang River     280          105             Liangfen River         42        34
(2) Present discharge in the controlled scope
67



Table 4.3.4 lists the amount of industrial waste water discharged into the Lijiang River,
the Taohua River and the Nanxt River.
Table 4.3.4 Industrial Waste Water Directiv Discharged into the Rivers in 1993
name of river    amount of wasic water                           item (V/a)
I1000ot/a      SS    COD   phenol   CN         oil    Crb-      S
R.Lijiane            877.15        370.84  295.9   0.003   0.010   7117   0.008   0.012
R.Taohuajiane        552.92       406.93  1335.0           0.010   14.50   0.007   0.240
R.Nanxi              226.04        36.53   164.1           0.011    5.38    0.001
The amount of domestic sewage directly discharged into the rivers: into the Lijiang
River 3021 million t/a (containing 2 495.35t/a of COD); into the Taohua River 5.27 million
t/a (containing 435.62tla of COD);into the Nanxi River I million t/a (containing 82.6t/a of
COD)
(3) The amount to be cut according to the plan of the project
The prediction of the amount of industrial waste water and COD, domestic sewage and
COD were predicted in the basis of the amount discharged in 1993. See Table 4.3.5(1) and
(2).
Table 4.3.5(1) Prediction on the Amount of Industrial
Waste Water and COD Discharged in Guilin City
year  2000             2010              2020
item
industrial         up 10%/0            7211.34           17927.69
wastc watcr   2000 and 2010 ycar plan   6616.88           14941.50          30615.85
(10000/a)         down 10%o            6068.91           12435.18
COD              up 10%'1             13014.5S         32354.68
(I/a)     2000 and 2010 year plan    11947.75          26979.06          55281.41
down I10%            10958.30          22453.54
Table 4.3.5(2) Prediction on the Amount of Domestic Sewage
and COD Discharged in Guilin City
year         2000                 2010                 2020
Item
domestic sewagc( 10000/a)      8266.74              10291.71             12757.16
COD(t/a)                6828.18              8514.29              10580.44
The control and treatment of industrial pollution sources will be the key link and the
most difficult part in the protection of thc city's water environment. According to the plan,
the treating ratio of industrial waste water should reach 80% in 1995, and 60% for key
enterprises, The figures are respectively 90% and 75% for 2000 and 100% and 80% in 2010.
68



Industrial waste water will undergo pretreatment before it is sent to waste water treating
plants to further remove its COD. The proportion of pretreated waste water will reach 60% in
2000 and 100% in 2010. To realize the goal of pollution control, the enterprises themseives
have to cut 25,280kg/d of COD in 2000 and 29,594kg/d in 2010. This will be a hard task.
4.3.4 The planfor treating wvasie gas, saste water, and solid waste matters in Guilin City and
its investment
1. Investmcnt plan
The main environmental problem in Guilin City is that of water, both in quantity and
quality. So the trcating of pollution in Guilin should grasp water as the key link in he
comprehensive treatment plan. It is the foremost important task to improve the natural
landscape of Guilin City, especially protecting the Lijiang River for the lifeline of the city, to
maintain sustainable development of the city and its overall plan for environmental control.
Measures to be taken before the year of 2000:
() The investment for the Lijiang River water replenishing construction, its dikes,
waste water treating construction, dredging of scenery lakes and ponds, and technological
process waste water treating construction will be 1-1.5 billion yuan. Scientific methods will
be adopted to treat industrial waste water and domestic sewage lest it should continue to
pollutc the Lijiang River, rationally control water resources to guarantee certain flow of the
river so as to increase its water environmental capacity.
() It is estimated that thc investment for the comprehensive treatment of the
atmospheric environment, including local centralization of heat supply to eliminated scattered
point sources of small stoves, thic expansion of gas stations to realize the change of household
fuel structure, the adoption of clean energy and the establishment of smoke control area in the
city will bc 100 million yuan.
0 Another 100 million yuan will be needed for the investment in the solid wastes
treatment project, which includes hygienic burial of garbagc, rebuilding of garbage transit
stations, and the coal dust comprehensive utilization project. Garbage produced will bc
transported and disposed on the same day it is produced. Overall management on the disposal
of harmful substances will be established.
OG  Road rebuilding, aforestation nf the city and the ecological engineering along the
Lijiang River, and comprehensive treatment for reducing the city's noise and maintain its
natural landscape will need 560 million yuan.
2. Measures to cut the total amount of pollutants in the Lijiang River
(D Rational layout and optimization of industry structure
According to the strategy of the city's overall development, its west will undergo large
scale development so as to make full use of the water system of the Liujaing River to reduce
the amount of pollutants discharged into the Lijiang River. If the amount of pollutants
discharged into the Lijiang River is cut by 1%, the amount of COD contained in industrial
69



waste water to be discharged into the Lijiang River will be 26 187kg/d in 2000 and 59
132kg/d in 2010. If industry structure is optimized and popular clean production and strictly
control industries which will cause pollution, the effect will be still better.
(D Adjustment of water flow to increase the water environmental capacity of the Lijiang
River during low water season.
The first phase of the Lijiang River water replenishing project has been completed. Take
9m3/s for the designed flow increased in the lowest water season in ten years, its water
environment capacity for COD will increase 5 514kg/d; the second phase has the designed
capacity of I Om3/s, after its completion the capacity for COD will increase II 785kg1d.
(D Construction of city waste water treating plant
here are now three waste water treating plants in the city with a total capacity of
78,50Ot/d. Another plant with a capacity of 100 OOOtId is being built. According to the plan
the proportion of waste water treated will be 40% in 2000 and 70% in 2010. Tlhat is to say,
the city's waste water treating capacity will reach i 80 000t/d in 2000 and 560 OOOt/d in 2010.
cO The control and treatment of industrial pollution source
90% of industrial waste water will be treated and 75% of the waste water discharged by
industry should meet the standard by 2000. The figures will be 100% and 80% in 2010.
Overall license system will be carried out for pollution discharge during the ninth five-year
plan to realize the cut of pollutants carried by waste water.
0 Rational choice of waste water outlets
Waste water discharging outlets and water drawing points are now alstaggered. Water
mills often have their water drawing inlets within the polluted belts, affecting water quality
and bringing much harm to people's health. So their layout should be optimized to avoid such
effect.
®O Control of non-point pollution sources of the Lijiang River and its tributaries
Items of serious pollution in the Lijiang River like NH3-N and coli have much to do
with existing non-point pollution sources. In the city it is imperil to raise the disposal ratio of
the city's garbage, to treat the water quality of the Ronghu Lake and the Shanhu Lake. In the
outskirts of the city it is necessary to strengthen the management over night soils, to reduce
the pollution caused by pesticides and chemical fertilizer, to speed up the construction of the
-dikes of the Lijiang River to prevent iess of water and soil and bank slump so as to bring non-
point sources pollution into control.
a Economy and planning of water consumption
The management of water consumption for both daily life and industry should be
strengthened to raise the ratio of water reused and reduce the amount of water consumed by
each unit. The study over the reuse of water after treating by waste water plants will be
strengthened during the ninth five-year plan so as to make full utilization of water.
3. The working out of pollutants cutting plan of the Lijiang River
d) The project to reduce the total amount of pollutants in the Lijiang River
70



The major plans for treating the environmental pollution of the city so as to realize the
goal of cutting the pollution load of the Lijiang River according to the overall plan for
environmental protection are listed in Table 2.1
large amount of fund is needed to realize the above items. As a tourist city, Guilin has
limited economic power and can't support such a project of large scale. Therefore it is
necessarv to solicit national and international financial aid. The completion of the project will
radically change the water environment of the Lijiang River to guarantee the further
sustainable development of the city of Guilin, thus bringing great environmental benefit.
4.4 Prediction of the project's environmental impact during its construction
With many subprojects, this project needs much work and involves a large scale. It's
environmental impact during its construction is an important issue, which forms an important
part of this assessment.
4.4.1 Major environmental problems of the comprehensive environmental treatment project
of the Lijiang River
1. Major environmental problems during its construction
Major environmental problems during the construction of the project mainly include:
(1) Noise and raised dust produced in the process of construction
(2) Added transportation will cause traffic jams and inconvenience to people's life
(3) The piling of construction garbage will cause some problem.
(4) The digging during the construction will destroy ecological landscape.
2. Assessment on environmcntal impact during its construction
This is a comprehensive environmental trcatment project involving industrial waste
water, domestic sewage, solid wastes, water replenishing,. It involves a large scale and will
last a fairly long time. A number of machines shall be used and large amounts of garbage,
backfilling earth, and construction material shall be piled for some time. So noise, foul smell,
traffic jams, secondary pollution and so on will affect the city's landscapc and people'S life.
(I) Noise will be produced in different stages of construction. Measures should be taken
to avoid construction at night.
(2) It is better to transport away sand and pollutants directly. Care should be taken in
loading to avoid droppings and prevent pollutants from touch the ground. Construction
should be carried out in a civilized way to prevent secondary pollution.
(3) Transportation should have covers and construction sites should have enclosures, and
water should be sprinkled on piled earth and bottom clay dug up so as to reduce the impact of
raised dust. Management should be strengthened to shorten the construction period.
(4) Transportation needed for the construction should avoid rush hours so as to reduce
its impact on the city's traffic.
71



(5) Management of temporarily piled construction material and bottom clay should be
strengthened to reduce possible secondary pollution,
The above mentioned environmental impact is of short term and reversible. Proper
measures can reduce it to the minimum degree.
4.4.2 Prediction on the environmental impact of each subproject
1. The Lijiang River water replenishing project
( I)Noise and vibration caused by the construction
Noise and vibration during the construction come mainly from the digging of earthwork
in the area of the dam and tunnel, the quarry, the mixing of concrete, and transportation.
hand air drills and rock drilling machines used will produce loud noise. A single
machine can produce noise with an intensity of 90-iOOdB(A). When several machines
working together the noise intensity can reach 105-1 lOdB(A). But drilling noise is
paroxysmal with high frequency. It is hard for noise to disseminated in base pits and
tunnels. So the affected are mainly construction workers. Its attenuation is very rapid away
from construction sites. Explosion noise is also paroxysmal, with high frequency and can be
spread to faraway places. Its intensity can reach 130-140dB(A). When ten explosions happen
in the same time, the intensity can reach 150dB(A). Explosion noise will affect a large area .
Huangpo Village of Baoning Township is only about 700m from the dam of the Xunjiang
River. Calculated with attenuation formula from point noise source:
AL = L Pr, - L Pr, =20lg -L (dB)
With a single machine in operation:
r,=lm,   r,=700m   AL=56.9 dB(A)    LPr4=105-30.9=68.IdB(A)
When several cxplosion is arranged to go off at the same time
AL = 20lg- = 36.9
r,
LPr2=140-36.9=71 .9
So it can be seen that single machine operation is still acceptable. When several
machines are operating together, the noise can not meet the standard for urban areas, that is
less than 6OdB(A) during daytime and less than 5OdB(A) at night. It is suggested not to carry
out explosion at night.
Concrete mixer is another noise source whose noise intensity can reach 90-lOOdB(A).
Stone breaker, screener, and transportation vehicles may also produce noise of more than
I OOdB(A). These all produce high frequency noise, thus will have much impact on
construction workers and the area of the construction sites.
72



Transportation of construction materials and stones and castaway matters will produce
noise of 80-9OdB(A) along the routes. But it is limited from the quarry to the dam and
disposal ground of castaway matters, so the impact involves only a small area.
Vibration is produced at the same time during drilling and the operation of screeners,
mixers, air compressors, and so on. It mainly affects the operating workers and construction
workers. Proper shock-proof measures can reduce such impact.
(2) Raised dust and atmospheric pollution
Source of raised dust and air pollution during the construction are mainly form:
a. Tail gas discharged by vehicles and construction machines
b. Harmful substance produced by the explosion of powder
c. Raised dust during the digging, stone processing, concrete mixing and castaway
matters transportation, and
d. Smoke dust produced by the buming of coal for the construction
The above impact mostly concentrates in construction sites, thus having much impact on
construction work-ers. But as the construction sites are located in subtropic monsoon zone
with abundant rain and the construction sites are widely spread, proper arrangement plus
water sprinkling and enclosure will effectively control raised dust and harmful gas from
affecting inhabitant quarters in its lower reaches.
(3) Impact on the landscape
The construction sites are in the hilly regions. The existing vegetation along the banks of
the Lijiang River is fine. So care should be taken in construction to preserve natural
vegetation for rational utilization.
Main manifestation:
a. Construction occupies much land.
b. Tic power station and tunnel digging will destroy local vegetation.
c. The extracting of stoncs and carth will destroy much vegetation and lcavc a large area
wvith naked base rocks.
d. The piling of castaway matters will affect natural landscape. Land occupied by
construction and digging near the power station will destroy some vegetation, which should
be restored immediately after the construction is finished. New naked basc rock and piled
castaway matters will cause lose of soil in storms. which will silt up riverbeds, and pollute
river water. So the piling of such matters should bc carefully planned for the sake of water
and soil reservation and the restoration of vegetable.
(4) Impact of the construction on the ecological environment
Major impact of the construction on the ecoenvironment are:
a. the reservoir will inundate certain land. the construction of the open tunnel and
construction will require certain amount of land permanently or temporarily. Such land
includes farrnland, waste land and forests. Thus certain vegetation will be destroyed and the
function of land changed.
73



b. Explosion and noise produced by the construction will have some impact on some wild
animals in the area. But they will not be harned, And No rare wildlife animals has been
found in the construction area.
The construction area has abundant rainfall, Certain places, like the Xiaorongjiang River
area, population is sparse and natural ecoenvironment is well kept, where the vegetation is
mainly forrned of monsoon pine and ciculifruticeta, with many rare and precious tree species.
A number of rare animals also live in the area.
Impact of -the construction on the ecoenvironment is mainly destruction of certain
vegetation. The reservoir will inundate some land, the construction of the power station, and
the digging of the tunnel and extraction of earth and stones will permanently change the
vegetation and certain amount of forest will be felled. But the new water body is favorable to
the improvement of the ecoenviornment. Timely aforestation of temporarily occupied land
can help restore par t of the original ecosystem.
To protect the ecoenvironment of the construction area, it is necessary to work out strict
rules and regulations, to protect its natural ecosystem. Free felling of trees is not allowed and
aforestation should be strengthened to reduce the project's negative impact and form a better
environment.
(5) Impact on traffic
Construction material will be transported along trunk lies of highways, thus inevitably
causing some traffic jams and adding much noise. So the trunk transportation routes should
be widened and proper arrangemeit be made to avoid rush hours and transportation at night.
Besides, trees should be planted a *ng the transportation routes to reduce the impact of raised
dust and harmnful gases.
(6) Impact on social economic activities
Existing trunk tunnels within the construction area arc important for irrigation. So the
construction should avoid irrigation season so as to reduce its impact on agricultural
production. And this is one of the reasons why the construction will last a long time.
2: Prediction on the construction of the dikes of the Lijiang River
(I) Impact of construction noise
The construction of the dikes of the Lijiang River is mainly along the shoals of the river.
-ts main content is stone blocks lavig.itNoise is mainly from the mixing of mortar. Though
the construction extends to a long line, the impact of the noise is small. And there is rarely
any building within SOm from the dikes, so it can be considered there will be no noise
sensitive areas. Only the construction workers will be affected. It is suggested the
construction not to be carried out at night.
(2) Impact of raised dust
Raised dust is produced in the transportation, piling and mixing of cement and happens
only when the wind speed is great. Careful storing of the cement will guarantee there will be
74



no impact on the inhabitants nearby except the construction workers and the segment of the
river where the construction is carried out.
(3) Impact on traffic
Transportation needed by the construction will add vehicle flow on existing tourist
routes. So careful arrangement should be made to avoid rush hours. Temporary roads built
connecting the main highways to construction sites will promote local; economy to a certain
degree.
(4) Impact of transportation noise
Noise produced by the transportation needed for the construction will affect some noise
sensitive points such as living quarters and primary schools along the routes. But as the work
needed for the construction is much and it won't last long. The noise is acceptable if vehicles
do not go through villages at night.
(5) Impact on the landscape
Building of temporary roads, digging of the base and temporarily occupied land will
have certain impact on the landscape, especially because there are many scenery spots along
the Lijiang River. many construction sites are within the view of tourists (including those on
tourist boats). But such impact is temporary and most can be restored after the completion
of the construction. Special care should be taken for certain part that is hard to restore the
original landscape.
(6) Impact on the ecoenvironment
a. Protection of land ecosystem: Natural and artificially grown trees along the Lijiang
River are an important part of the beautiful scenes and should be protected. Certain
destruction of the vegetation is inevitable. The scope is determined by the designing and
organization of the construction. So the following two problems should be given special
attention:
*Special protection plans should bc made with the participation of departments in charge
of gardens and park to protect ancient trcss and rarc flowers and trees. Slip up in this will
cause serious rcsult.
-Stone should not be taken from ncarby mountains. Though taking stones from nearby
quarries will be economical, the impact of such practice is serious on the landscape and
ecosystem. So quarries should be strictly arranged beyond the protected area of the
ecosystem.
b. The protection of aquatic ecosystem
As the construction of the dikes will be carried out in low water seasons and on the shore
of the river, not much impact will be produced on aquatic ecosystem in normal situations.
However, care should be take to prevent the mortar from dropping into the river.
3. Domestic refuse disposing system
(I) Prediction and analysis on the impact of noise
a. Noise produced in the construction of refuse transit stations
75



refuse transit stations will be one-storey buildings of small scale, usually at 4m high. As
most transit stations are to be built along with public toilet houses, no complicated base
construction will be needed, nor heavy machines used. So the noise produced during their
construction is tantamount to construction of one-storey houses. The equivalent noise
intensitv at the border of the construction sites is about 57-4-65.4dB(A), averaging 61 dB(A),
within the limit set by document GB12523-90 "Limited Noise Values at the Border of
Construction Sites and their Way of Measuring" during daytime, but exceeds that by about
6dB(A) at night.
b. Prediction on the noise impact of Chongkou refuse landfill
The site of the Chongkou refuse landfill is now farmland and forest. The construction of
its dams, leaching preventing curtains and waste water adjusting pools will use machines a
like excavating machines, bulldozers, and concrete mixers will produce much noise.
Calculated by obversion from single machine to intensity at the border with multi-point
superposition formula, and taking 483.8m as the radius as the burial ground.
LP = LW-20log (4 Tr r)
In which:
LP stands for the noise intensity at the predicted point
LW is the noise power stage of equipment
r stands for the distance from the point noise source
Take 130dB(A) as the noise intensity of single machine and 241.9 as the distance. If four
machines are in operation, the equivalent noise intensity at the border of the Chongkou refuse
landfill during its construction will be 64.3dB(A), meeting the demand set by the state during
daytime, but exceeding the standard by about 9dB(A) at night.
The refuse landfill at Chongkou is far away from concentrated living quarters and is
over I km away from he nearest inhabitant point separated from it by a mountain. So the noise
will not affect surrounding environment.
(2) Impact of the construction of refusc landfill on vegetation
Existing vegetation will be destroyed and part of the surrounding areas will be affected
by raised dust and will be trampled.
The site is now covcred by pine forest (27ha), waste land and farmland (67ha). The fine
trees are not well grown except a few sections. The construction unit is to give some
compensation and aforestation in surrounding waste mountains. And after the landfill was
completed, it should be restored back into pine forest or farmland.
(3) Analysis on construction raised dust
As the site of the refuse landfill is local in a half-closed valley, the raised dust of its
construction will not be spread out to cause much impact on surrounding arcas. But at its
outlets, trees should be planted before the construction begins and encircled to reduce the
impact scope of raised dust. The impact of construction machines will largely depend on the
way of construction. Civilized construction will keep the area to be trampled to the minimum.
76



a. Raised dust during the construction of transit stations
Raised dust during the construction of transit stations is mainly caused by digging, piling
and transportation of earthwork and construction material like cement and lime. Though such
raised dust is local and of short tern, considering most transit stations will be built in the
urban part of thc city, it is necessary to put up closings around construction sites so as to
reduce the impact.
b. Raised at the refuse landfill during its construction
Large amount of earth digging and transportation at Chongkou refuse landfill will
produce certain amount of raised dust. But as the soil at the site is mostly of clay and
powdered clay with contain much water and many plant roots, not much raised dust will be
produced. As the site is in the valley, raised dust will not be spread out. But the two outlets of
the transportation routed should be enclosed to reduce the impact of raised dust on passing
pedestrians and vehicles.
Guilin City is located in subtropical monsoon climate zone with an average annual
rainfall of 1,808.4mm and a relative humidity of 35.8%. The city has a high ratio of sun shine
and windy days. Such conditions are unfavorable for the production and spread of raised dust.
From the above analysis it can be seen raised dust will not cause much environmental
problem during the construction of the refuse landfill in Chongkou.
(4) Analysis on the impact of construction garbage
Certain amount of castaway earth and stones will be produced during the construction of
the refuse landfill in Chongkou., but as the site itself is a refuse disposal place,. So if
properly handled and not to be thrown into surrounding farmland or water bodies, no
pollution will be caused.
Garbage transit stations are in the urban part of the city, so the disposal of construction
garbage tiherc should be handlcd with care according to concerncd rules and rcgulations set
by the city government. If transportcd away in time and enclose temporarily piled
construction garbage to prevent it from being washed away. Thus pollution caused by it can
be avoided.
4. Construction of the citys waste water treatment systcm
(I) Prediction on the impact of waste water intercepting pipeline network laying
_   a. Impact of construction noise
Drilling machines, excavation machines, loading machines and vehicles will be used in
the construction, whose noise intensity is 90-95dB(A). Jiashan High School, No. 8 High
School, Zhangmu Primary School, Medical College and its branch school, Diyaun Hotel,
Guishan Hotel, Ronghu Hotel, and the county government of Linggui, Linggui Country
Hospital, County High School will be affected more or less in the construction of waste water
intercepting system according to the standard set in "Environmental Noise Standard for
Urban Construction". The construction of the waste water pipeline network in Nanhu District
77



will affect a small scope. T'he time of such impact will last about a month for each sensitive
spot.
b. Impact of raised dust
As the conditions of climate, season and soil type of Guilin City is unfavorable for the
production and spread of raised dust. Possible dry and windy weather in favor of raised dust
is verv limited.
Direct construction raised dust is also determined by the management, way of
construction, the piling and transportation of earthwork. As the construction is continuous
without interruption, raised dust varies along with different conditions and secondary raised
dust may be produced.
Field monitoring found the TSP concentration in the air of the construction area is fairly
low. This is because of the washing of much rainfall. However, the management of the
construction should still be carried out strictly according to the rules and regulations so as re
avoid unnecessary impact on the environment.
c. Other possible impact of the construction
Dozens of thousands of cubic earthwork will be cast away in the construction, part of
which can be used for land filling and load paving. Though some raised dust and dropping
may appear during the piling and transportation, no other impact will be caused.
The pipelines to be laid are along one side of the roads so it will not cut the road traffic.
But certain part of pavement and bike lane will be affected. When the pipelines goes across a
road, hole should be dug under rather than destroy the road surface. The laying of pipelines in
each road will last about 20 days, during which there will be some impact on the traffic.
Largc amount of construction material have to be transported. But as such transportation
is not carried out in a concentrated way, its effect on the city's traffic will not be serious.
The piling of construction material and concrete pipcs will affcct the landscape of the
citv and may partly destroy grcen fields and trcss and thus ccocnvironment of the city. But
such impact is of short term and can be reversed.
Possible environmcntal problems during the construction can bc reduced by taking
proper measurcs such as putting up enclosures around construction sites, avoiding
transportation in rush hours, and strengthening the management and shortening construction
period.
(2) Prediction and analysis on the environmental impact of the construction of waste
water treating plants.
Two waste water treating plants will be involved: the Xicheng District waste water
treating plant (at Dahuangshan) and the Nanqu District waste water trcating plant (at Balijie),
whosc designed capacity for the short term is respectively 30,000m'/d and 20,000m'/d. The
design has also considered their long term scales. The construction of the waste water treating
plants mainly includes leveling and pressing of the ground, laying of in and out pipelines,
waste water treating device and mud treating device, power supply system, monitoring
78



system, attached devices and infrastructure. The construction will use machines like earth
scrappers, mixers, excavating machines and transportation vehicles, which will all produce
certain noise and raised dust.
Noise intensity produced bv the above machines may reach 90-95dB(A). calculation
finds the noise intensity will meet the standard for daytime of first type of areas (living and
cultural and educational quarters) set by the state lOOm from the construction sites. The site
of the Dahuangshan waste water treating plant is on waste land and the Balijie waste water
treating plant is located in the economic zone being developed. There are few inhabitants
around either site and the traffic there is not crowded. So no heavy traffic or noise pollution
will be produced.
Raised dust within lOOm of construction sites will make the concentration of TSP
exceed the standard. But as there are very few inhabitants, the impact will not be serious.
(3) Prediction and analysis on the restoration of the city's landscape and ecoenvironment
The completion of the Lijiang comprehensive treatment project will greatly improve the
landscape of Guilin City, Linggui County, and Nanqu District of Lingchaun County. Most
industrial waste water and domestic sewage in the city can be collected and treated before
being discharged into water bodies, thus greatly improving the water quality of the Lijiang
River. But the construction will be carried out in the urban part of the city and part of the
suburbs. It will partially destroy the landscape. Though local and of short term, such impact
should bc paid attention to.
The project involves a large scope. Part of the construction will be carried out in
sensitive areas of the city and county towns. A number of roads will be dug one after another.
temporary camps for piling construction materials and garbage will affect the landscape of
the city, and such impact will last two to three years. Certain numbers of lawns and tress will
be affccted or destroyed, but can be restored aftcr the completion of the construction. Existing
waste water ditches will be trcated and fouls smells will be eliminated. Green ficlds will be
enlarged. So the environmental quality (including that of the atmosphere and water bodies) of
Guilin City, Linggui County and Nanqu District of Lingchuan County will be much improved
Careful plans should be worked out to relieve the project's impact on the city's landscape.
The construction should be carried out with rational dispatch; materials and castaway matters
should be orderly piled at set places; tmporary storehouses and living camps should use
standard movable houses. Devices for the daily life of construction workers should meet
ccrtain standards of hygiene.
The completion of the project will radically improve the city's landscape by restoring
and rebuilding its ecoenvironment to build the city of Guilin into a beautiful city with unique
characteristics.
79



4.5 Prediction on the impact of the Lijiang comprehensive treatment project
during its operation
The completion of he Lijiang comprehensive treatment project will bring comprehensive
environmental benefit by reducing the pollution load of the Lijiang River, improving its water
quality, increasing its water flow in the dry season, and improving the ecoenvironment along
its shores. The concentrated treating of waste water and domestic garbage will greatly
improve the 'ity's hygienic and be beneficial to people's health. Possible environmental
problems during the operation of the project include the impact of refuse landfill on
surrounding inhabitants and ground watcr. The ecoenvironment at areas with water drawn out
will suffer some impact. The discharge of water and mud by waste water treating plants and
foul smell will have some impact on surrounding environment.
4.5.1 Prediction on thle projecl's comprehensive impact on the water environment of the
Lzfiang River
I. Environmental impact assessment on the Lijiang River during the operation
In order to comprehensively compare the impact on the water of the Lijiang River in low
water seasons during nornal years by the water replenishing project, waste water treating
project and refuse landfill project. Calculation was made for the three subprojects according
to the predicted water pollution load of the year 2015.
C Existing waste water treating plants have a capacity of 178,500m'3d.
(2 Waste water treating plants to be built will increase the capacity to 270,000m3/d.
(0 New waste water treating plants and refuse landfill will be built.
In addition calculation was also made for the gourmet production waste water treating
projcct.
Tnie total amount of waste water discharged by Guilin Citv in the year of 2015 will
amount to 448 400m'/d.. Its corresponiding pollutants load is shown in Table 4.5.1.
Table 4.5.1 Pollutants Load or tile Lijiang River in 2000 and 2015 (Normal Year)
unit: t/d
y-ar       amount of wastc watcr   BOD,          COD.           NH,-N
2000           198.000m"rd         39.21          29.80          6.54
2015           448,400m-Jd         82.00          62.30          13.67
The prediction of pollutants load discharged into the Lijiang River of the three above
mentioned situations is listed in Table 4.5.2. And Table 4.5.3 shows the comparison with
the situation with 2000.
80



Table 4.5.2 Prediction of Pollutants Load Discharged into the Lijiang River
in 2015 at Different Conditions                            unit:  t/d
condition                   B BOD,                COD,,,                 NH,-N      =
up     down   total   up    down   total   up       down   tocal
Dojishan dojishan     Dojishan dojishan      Dojishan dojishan
Existing wastc watertreating capacity  49.35    3.27   52.62  37.51    4.21  41.72  8.23  3.15  11.38
of 178.500m1/d.                                  _         :         
Waste water treating-capacity will    32.62    4.94  37.56  24.80    6.37  31.17  5.32    4.66   9.98
increase to 270.000m'/d.                 _            _
New waste water treating plants and   31.94    4.26  36.20  24.29    5.86  30.15  529    4.63   9.92
refuse landfill will be built.                                   _
Table 4.5.3 Comparison of Pollutants Load of the Lijiang River in 2000 and 2015
year                     conton                          BOD,          COD,,     _   NH1-N
2000  Existing waste water treating capacity of 178.500 mnld.  7.49      7.58           3.91
2015  Existing waste water treating capacity of l78.500m/d.  52.62      41.72          11.38
2015  Waste watertrcating cpacity will increase to 270,000m'Id.  37.56  31.17           9.98
The above two tables show that the amount of waste water produced by Guilin City in
normal year of 2015 will be 2.26 times that in 2000. If new waste water treating plants are not
built, the pollution load of the Lijiang River will be greatly increased. New waste water
treating plants will increase the waste water treating capacity to 270 000m'/d, which will play
a remarkable role in reducing the pollution load discharged into the Lijiang River. But even
the two above mentioned projects are built the pollution load discharged into the Lijiang
River will still show a great rise in 2015 than in 2000. The values of BOD,, CODM. and NH3-
N will rcspcctively bc 4.83, 3.98 and 2.54 times of those in 2000.
The simulation took into consideration of the above three conditions in the calculation
with and without building the second stage of water replenish project (thc water flow of the
Dahc River in dry seasons is 30m3/s, 40m3/s and 45m3/s). The result of the calculation is
listed in Table 4.5.4.
8S



Table 4.5.4 (1) Simulated Calculation of the Water Quality of the Segment of the
Lijiang River from the Dahe Section to the Yangshuo Section in the Year of 2015 When
the Waste Water Treating Plants Have a Capacitv of 178,500m3/d               unit: ma/L
condition          station   flow(m31s)   DO    BOD, CODM,  NH,-N  non-ion ammonia
without building the second  Dahe      30.0     8.00    1.17    1.51    0.48       0.013
phase of water replcnishment Dojishan  35.6     7.48   16.90   13.49   3.03        0.082
project (Q=30m'/s)      Longmen        39.9     5.00   13.62   13.26   3.27        0.089
Mepanshan    45.9      3.94   10.70   11.53   2.62        0.071
Yangshuo      51.0     6.76    2.61   10.38   0.83        0.023
building the second phase ot' Dahe    40.0      8.00    0.87    1.14    0.36       0.010
water replenishment project Dojishan   45.6     7.68   13.21   10.54   2.38        0.064
("=40m3s)               Longmcn        49.9     6.12   11.28   10.61   2.68        0.073
Mepanshan    55.9      5 26    9.28    9.47    2.24       0.061
Yangshuo      61.0     7.15    2.95    8.68    0.88       0.024
building the second phase of Dahc      45.0     8.00    0.78    1.01    0.32       0.009
water replenishment project Dojishan   50.6     7.74    11.92   9.50    2.14       0.058
(Q-40m3/s)              Longmen        54.9     6.46   10.39   9.64    2.45        0.067
Mepanshanr   60.9      5.67    8.70    8.69    2.08       0.057
_Yangshuo     66.0      7.29    3.05    8.02    0.89       0.024
Table 4.5A(2) Simulated Calculation of the Water Quality of the Segment of the Lijiang River
from the Dahe River to the Yangshuo River in the Year of 2015 When the Waste Water
Treating  Plants Capacity Is Increased to 270,000m3/d                unit: mg/L
condition          station   flow(m3/s)   DO   BOD,  CODmu   NH1-N  non-ion ammonia
without building the sccond  Dahe      30.0     8.00   1.17    1.51     0.48        0.013
phase of water replenishment Dojishan  35.6     7.48   11.45   9.35     2.08        0.056
project (Q=30m'/s)      Longmen        39.9     5.83   10.02   10.20    2.97       0..081
Mepanshar     45.9     4.86   7.87    8.86     2.38        0.065
_Yangshuo.    51.0      7.42   1,92    7.98     0.75      .0.020
building thc sccond phase of Dahe      40.0     8.00   0.87    1.14     0.36        0.010
water replenishment project Dojishan   45.6     7.68   8.96    7.31      1.63       0.044
(Q=40m'1s)              Longmen        49.9     6.65   8.28    8.16     2.42        0.066
Mepanshan    55.9      5.88   6.81    7.28     2.02        0.055
Yangshuo      61.0     7.72   2.16    6.68     0.79        0.022
building the second phasc of Dahc      45.0     8.00   0.78    1.01     0.32        0.009
water replenishment project Dojishan   50.6     7.74   8.09    6.58      t.48       0.040
(Q-40m3/s)               Longmen       54.9     6.90   7.62    7.41      2.22       0.060
Mepanshan    60.9      6.20   6.38    6.68      1.88       0.051
Yangshuo      66.0     7.83   2.23    6.17     0.80        0.022
82



Table 4.5.4 (3) Simulated Calculation of the Water Quality of the Segment of the
Lijiang River from the Dahe River to the Yangshuo River in the Year of 2015
When the Waste Water Treating Plants Capacity Is Increased to
270,000m'/d and with a Refuse landfill Added                unit: maeL
condition         station   flow(mV/s)   DO    BOD, COD4,  NH,-N  non-ammonia
without building the second  Dahc     30.0      8.00    1.17   1.51    0.48     0.013
phase of water replenishment Dojishan  35.6     7.48   11.22   9.19    2.07     0.056
project (Q=30ml/s)      Longmcn       39.9      5.87   9.65    9.90    2.95     0.080
Mepanshan    45.9      4.92    7.59   8.61    2.37     0.064
Yangshuo      51.0     7.48    1.85   7.75    0.75     0.020
building the second phase of Dahe     40.0      8.00   0.87    1.14    0.36     0.010
water rcplenishment project Dojishan  45.6      7.68   8.79   7.18    1.63      0.044
(Q=40m3/s)              Longmen       49.9      6.67   7.99   7.92    2.41      0.065
Mepanshan     55.9     5.92    6.57    7.07    2.01    0.546
Yangshuo      61.0     7.78   2.09   6.48    0.79      0.021
building the second phase of Dahe     45.0      8.00   0.78    1.01    0.32     0.009
water replenishment project Dojishan  50.6      7.74    7.93    6.47    1.47    0.040
(Q=4Om31s)              Longmen       54.9      6.92    7.35    7.20    2.20    0.060
Mepanshan    60.9      6.23    6.15   6.49    1.87     0.051
______________________ Yangshuo       66.0     7.88    2.16   5.99    0.80      0.022
Figg. 4.1 to 4.3 show the result of the calculation of Table 4.5.4. Fig 4.1 shows the
change of water qualitv factors of the segment from Dahe to Yangshuo during low water year
of 2015 without building the second phase of the water replenishing project. It show three
differcnt situations, that is without building a new vaste water treating plant, with the
building of the waste water treating plant, and with the build of the wastc water trcating plant
and the refu-sc landfill. The waste water treating plant will rcmarkable improve the water
quality, wvhile thc refusc landfill has rclatively smaller effcct during low water scason. But the
collecting and burving of garbage will greatly improve the city's hygienic condition and non-
point pollution sourcc, especially bencficial to the water quality of the Lijiang River during
high water season. Figg. 4.2 and 4.3 show the situation when the second phase of the water
replenishing project is built to add the replenished water flow to 40m3/s and 45m3/s.
.Gomparison of Fig. 4.3 with Fig. 4.4-emeals the building of the second phasc of the water
replenishing project will greatly improve the water quality. For example, with the building of
the second phase of the water replenishing project (when the flow is 45m'/s), the
concentrations of BOD5 and CODmN  will be respectively 10.39mgfL and 9.46mgfL according
to Table 4.5.4(1). The figures will be 9.65mg/L and 9.90mgfL without building the second
phase of the water replenishing project but with the building of the new waste water treating
plant and refuse landfill according to Table 4.5.4(3). If both are not built, the figures will be
13.62mg/L and 13.26mg/L; and if both are built the figures will be 7.35mg/L and 7.20mgfL.
These figures show the building of both the new waste water treating plant and the second
83



Existing wastc watcr trcating
capacity of 178.500m'/d.
Waste watcr treating capacity
20 -                                will incrcasc to 270.000m'dAl
.      Ncw waste watcr trcatigng
plants and refusc landfill will bc built.
Grade 11 Water Quality
12                                  Sadr
0              20              40              eo               s              100
_:                                                            0n g - m
Fig 4-1(1) 2015 Year OD5 Change On Dry Season
(Q=30m'/s)
-     Existing waste water treating
eaPaeitY of 178.500mt/d.
- --- - Waste water trcating capacity
*g(mgfl)                             will incrcase to 270.000mn0d.
10                                ......... New wastc water treaitig
plants and tcfisc andfill will bc built.
.                                        GraGdc If Watcr Quality
Standard
7 __
45
0              20              40              60               so              100
- o
n    .=.  s    g 
:r ,   -                                                    C 
00~~~~~~~~~~~
Fig 4-1(2) 2015 Year DO Change On Dry Season
(>t30m31s)
84



Existing wastc watcr trcating
capacity of 1,;.500m'Jd.
Waste water trcatng capacity
tEQE(m&7)                              will incrcase io 270,000n'Od
A                                        _ - ...   New waste water trcatinig
plants and re use landfill wili be built.
3 _irade 11 Wactc Qualitv
2o
o '          -                          .0       
a        ~~~20             40              so              so              100
Vtg4-1(31 2015S Year NhSl_N Change On Dry Season
1Q=a30m'/s)
Existing wastc watcr treating
capacity of I71.500m'fd.
--- - - WAstc watcr trcating capacity
will incrc2as tn 270.00mrn'd.
20 -                                  ....... SwaSte watcr treating
plants and rftuse landrill will be built.
16 _                                         Gradc II Water Quality
12 _-S_a0
a             20 0            4               60               s               1)
r   2          a'3                                                 5  ff6cm)
Fig 4-1(4) 2015 Year COD Changt On Dry Season
(Q~=3Otn/I)
Fig. 4-1 Water Quality of the Segment Of the Lijiang Rivcr from  the
Dahe Section to Yangshui Section in 2015 year (Qa30m31s)
85



Existing waste water treating
capacitv of 178.500m1/d,
------ Waste watcr treating capacity
20 -                              will increase to 270.000m'/d.
.   New waste water reating
1f                                plants and rcfuse landfill will be built.
Grade II Water Quaiity
12 _                              Standard
D              2ti             40              so1             B0             100
::  osr   7                                                        g  ¶&skz)
Fig 4-2(1) 2015 Year BOD, Change On Dry Season
(Qu40m'/s)
Existing waste water treating
capacity of 178.500m'Id.
- - - Waste water treating capacity
will increasc to 270.000mlid
1(    -                         .....  Ncw waslc water trcating
plaots and refuse landlill will bh built.
91 _                             -  Grade II Water Qu.lity
Standard
4
O              20              40              sO             o80              100
CD        (V r                                                           F
Fig 4-2(2) 2015 Year DO Chsage On Dry Season
(Q.40m35s)
86



Existing waste waa:r treatlng
capacity of 17.500m'/d.
Waste watcr trcalnrg capacity
A (tsit                                  will inctrase to 270.OOOm'/d.
......... New waste waler trcating
plants and refuse landfill will be built.
3 _                                          Gradc 11 Water Quality
0        .    20               40              60               s0              100
0    ct  rt   3                                                      ,        (ktn)
20~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Fig 4-2(3) 2015 Yeatr NH,-N Change On Dry Season
... . Existing waste watcr treating
capaceity of I 7it.SOOm'Id.
----Waste water treating capacity
?£t(mgg)                      ~~~~~~~will inerease lo 270.OOOm'td.
r                              - ~~~~~~New wvaste water treating
plants and rcfuse landtill will be built.
lCradc 11 Water Quality
Slandard
12-
o              20              40              60               80              100
2, ,   gkni
Fig 4-2(4) 2015 Year COD Chatnge On Dry Season
(Q-4Om'Is)
Fig. 4-2 Water Quality of the Segment of the Lijiang River from the
Dahe Section to Yangsbui Section in 2015 year (Q4Om3/s)
87



_Existing wate wattr treating
capacity of 178.500m'/d.
waste water treating capacity
20 _                       will iicrecase to 2170,000m'fd
16                        ........... New waste water treating
plants and refusc landrill will be built.
12 _                       _      Grade II water Quality
~~_    __ ~ Standard
0             20             40              so              so80           100
-          
Fig 4 -3(1) 2015 Year DOD, Chsange On Dry Season
(Q-45mI/s)
ELxisting waste watcr treating
cxpacity or 178.500m/d.
g -3   W5 Yewatcr trestinge apacit      n
aPE]£(n       will increase to 270.000imnd.
10          ..... New waste water trcating
plarttsand rc6tsc iandfili willbc built.
-G   Grade It Wascr Qua0ity
e- \ _
0*     .                       2       .-.    
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0             20             *0               60              80             10
Fig 4-3(2)2015 Year DO Change On Dry Season
(0-45m'is)



Existing waste watcr treating
capacity of 17X.500m'1d.
t~(mg4)                            -  Waste water treating capacity
will incrrase to 270.000m'id.
New waste water treating
3                            I_Ls and rtfusc landfill will be built.
Gradc II Water Quality
0              20              40               so0             6               100
Fig 4-3(3) 2015 Year NH,-N Change On Dry Season
(Q=.4Smn/s)
Existing waste watcr trcating
capacity of 17.SQ00m'ld.
20-t                        --- --- - Waste water tsating capacity
will increfse ato 270.OOOml/d.
_6                               New......... Ncwwaste water treating
plants and rtfttse landfill will be built.
12 -                       .        Grade It Water Quality
0   20         40               60              60               100.
r                                                               -t --)
Fig 4-3(4) 2015 Yea r COD Chsange On Dry Sesson
(Q-4Srn'Is)
Fig. 4-3 Water Quality of the Segment of the Lijiang River from the
Dahe Section to Yangshui Section in 2015 year (Q=45m3s)
89



phase of the water replenishing project will have important effect on the improvement of the
water quality of the Lijiang River.
Calculation also reveals that even with the building of the second phase of the water
replenishing project and the new waste water treating plant and the waste water treating
capacity is increased to 270,000mY/d, it cannot meet the discharge of 448,400m'/d of waste
water designed for low water year. The calculation also finds out that the pollution factors
can not meet the standard for Grade 11 water under the three situations.
2. Impact on the city's ecoenvironment
Guilin City is a famous tourist city. The completion of the project can collect and
dispose 5OOt/d of domestic garbage and treat 178,500t/d of waste water, thus basically solve
heavy pollution areas of the city, especially the central part of the city. This will greatly
improve the city's investment environment and promote its economic development
3. the project's impact on the environment during its operation
The project's environmental impact during its operation is mainly positive, manifested in
its improvement of the water environment of the Lijiang River and its tributaries and the
ecoenvironment of the city.
The project will increase-the water flow of the Lijiang River during low water season
and cut its pollutants from the city's point and non-point source, playing an important role in
protecting and improving the water environment and ecoenvironment of the Lijiang River.
Prediction finds out that without the project the concentration of BOD5 and CODb, at the
section of Longmen will reach respectively 13.63mg/L and 13.26mg/L in 2015. The project
can reduce the figures to 7.35mg/L and 7.10mg/L, that is CODm,. will meet the standard for
Grade IV water. But the project cannot make the water quality of the Lijiang River meet the
standard for Grade 11 water as the waste water treating plants can only treat 60% of the total
waste water discharged in 2015. The garbage collecting system and burial ground will greatly
reduce non-point pollution source of Guilin City. This is also beneficial to the water quality
improvement of the Lijiang River. The project will also improve the surface water and
ground water of the city and its suburbs, radically changing the hygiene and ecological
situation of the city.
_4.5.2 Prediction and analysis of the environmental impact of its subprojects during their
operation
I Prediction and analysis of the environmental impact on the Lijiang River and its tributaries
The project will cut the waste water discharged into the Lijiang River, reducing its
pollution load and improving its water quality. The contribution of the subprojects is as
follows.
(1). Domestic sewage treating project
(D Positive impact on the water body
a. The Taohua River
90



The existing waste water treating plant at Beichong discharges their treated water into
the Taohua River, so:
*The twvo waste water treating plants can reduce the BOD5 load of the river respectively
by 84.1% in 2005 and 84.7% in 2015.
Even in low water years, its concentration of BOD, will decrease to meet the standard of
Grave Iv water in 2005, and by 2015 the concentration of BOD, will decrease from 30mg/L
to less than 10mglL (meet the standard for Grade V water).
*If the Beichong waste water treating plant will be enlarged as planned, the water of the
Taohua River marby can meet the standard for Grade III surface water both in low water
years of 2005 and 2015.
b. The Xiangsi River and Luoqing River
The waste water treating plant at Dahuangshan in Xicheng District will be built in three
phases. Its treated water will discharge into the Taohua River and then flow to the Luoqing
River. The following is the prediction of the impact on the Xiangsi River and the Luoqing
River.
*The secondary treating of waste water of the Xicheng District plant will reduce the
BOD, load of the two rivers by 85% in the years 2000, 2005, and 2015.
*Even in low water condition, the water discharged from the Xicheng waste water
treating plant after secondary treating will not make the water of the two rivers exceed the
standard for Grade III water in 2000 and 2005. Even in 2015, only 17km of the river will
exceed the standard for I[ water (but still within the standard fro Grade IV water). The use of
water into the lower reaches of the Luoqing River will not be affected.
elf only primary treating facility is built in the waste water treating plant in Xicheng
District, the concentration of BOD5 of the Xiangsi River will reduce by 5mglL in low water
year of 2000, that of the Luoqing River by 1-2mg/L, that is its load will decrease by 25%.
c. The Lijiang Rivcr
There are now four waste water treating plants in Guilin, of which the one in Beichong
discharges into the Taohua River, a tributary of the Lijiang River in the upper reach while the
other three all discharge into the lower reaches of the Lijiang River. The enlarging of the
waste water treating plants will have much effect in the protection of the Lijiang River:
-    *The concentration of BODs will-deerease respectively by 39.3% and 32.3% in 2010 and
2015 if the northern plant, the eastern plant and No.4 plant are to be enlarged and new one
built at Balijie.
eCollecting and treating the waste water of the urban part of the city to be discharged
into the lower reaches of the Lijiang River can avoid non-point pollution of the source of
drink water, ensuring the water meet the standard for Grade II surface water. and thus
ensuring safe drink water and people's health.
.Waste water produced by the city increases year by year along with the development of
the city. The water flow of the Lijiang River is small in low water season. The enlarged
91



eastern, southern and No.4 waste water plants can only treat 68% and 55% of the total
amount of waste water produced in 2010 and 2015. But the enlarging of these plants can
reduce the impact on the lower reaches of the Lijiang River, At least they can improve the
water quality at the discharging outlet into Grade V water.
elf the waste water treating plants totally treat the waste water and make their discharge
water meet the standard of discharging, and if IOm3/s of water is replenished to the Lijiang
River, the water discharged by the plants will only affect a segment respectively of lOkm and
25 km in 2010 and 2015, where the water can still meet the standard for Grade III water; if
I5m3/s of water is replenished to the Lijiang River, the affected segment will be respectively
2km and 15km in 2010 and 2015. Water in the rest part of the river will all meet the standard
for Grade II water. So targeted treating and water replenishing to the Lijiang River can
maintain the fine water quality of the Lijiang River at any time.
As the prediction was made on the basis of lower water period, the water discharged by
the waste treating plants will have much smaller impact of the Lijiang River during normal
and high water period.
Q1Negative impact on the water body of the Lijiang River etc
eIf the waste water treating plant at Xicheng District only realizes primary treatment for
its first phase of construction, a segment of 30km of the Luoqing River cannot meet the
standard for 11 water.
oAs Balijie is located at the upper reach of the Lijiang River, if the waste water treating
plant there discharges its water into the Taohua River, the quality of drink water for Guilin
City will be affectcd. If it discharges into the lower reach of the Lijiang River, drink water
source can be protected.The completion of the project can reduce the BODs load of Guilin
area by 50.2% in 2010 and 47.5% in 2015.
(2). Domestic refuse disposing system
The environmental impact of the city's domestic garbage disposing system during its
operation is mainly manifested in the improvement of the city's ecoenvironment and the
impact of the refusc landfill's percolation leaching on its surrounding environment.
Conclusion of prediction
a. The system will be able to collect SOOtId of garbage, greatly improving the city's
ecological and living environment. This can reduce the city's non-point pollution source as
well, playing an important role in improving the water quality of the Lijiang River, especially
during the first storm of the wet scason. So this project is a fine project mainly of positive
environmental benefit.
b. It is planned to build a special waste water treating plant to treat the percolation
leaching of the refuse landfill by recycling (resprinkling). the result:
O The percolation lcaching is to be discharged into the river after treating. As the
amount will be very small, there won't be much impact on the surface water: only the water at
the dam will exceed the standard for HII water.
92



T) Though diluted, the concentration of heavy metals in the river where treated percolation
leaching is discharged is still quite high, even at Chitou (2km down the discharging outlet).
Such water is not fit for irrigation. The impact is mainly concentrated at the segment upper
Chitou.
(3). The Lijiang River water replenishment project
A. The Xiaorongjiang River water diversion project
Cross drainage water diversion will be carried out for the runoff of an area of 164.4km2
in the segment of the Xiaorongjiang River up the dam, accounting for 61.1% of the total
drainage area of the Xiaorongjiang River. The project will redistribute the average water flow
of 316.95 million m3/a. The project will divert the water flow between Im3/s and 9.5m3/s into
the Qingshitan Reservoir, average amount of water diverged being 141.76 million m'/a.
(a). Impact on the hydrological situation of the lower reaches of the Xiaorongjiang River
Table 4.5.5(l) lists the average water flow of the segment of the Xiaorongijiang River
down the dam based on the data of average monthly water flow of 1958-1986.
Table 4.5.5 (1) The Average, Maximum, and Minimum Average
Water Flow of the Xiaorongjiang River down the Dam
unit: m3/s
item     month  Jun.  Scb.  Mar. Apr.  May  Jun.  Jul.  Aug.  Sep.  Oct.  Nov.  Dec.
period\
Avcrage  original  3.07  5.03  6.31  16.58 24.10 22.53  16.09  9.09  4.85  4.21  5.46  3.06
build   1.00  1.22  1.53  8.37  15.62 14.37  8.99  2.95  1.07  1.22  1.42  1.00
maximum  original  9.56  14.05 15.79 37.53 52.81 46.48 39.88 21.85 11.29 13.48 18.03  6.58
build   1.06  5.55  7.29  29.03 44.31 37.98 31.38 13.35  2.79  4.98  9.53  5.58
minimum  original  1.02  1.15  1.61  5.38  9.10  3.86  3.11  1.02  1.46  1.47  1.29  1.01
_   build   1.0    .    0    .0  1.0  1.0   1.0   1.0   2.0   1.0   1.0   1.0
The average monthly water flow in April to July of the Xiaorongjiang River at the site
of thc planned dam is 16.09-24. 1Om'/s. But that down the dam after the building of the dam
will be reduced to 8.37-15.62m3/s. The original average monthly water flow is 4.21-9.09m'/s
-from  February to March and from August to November, 3.07m'1s in January and 3.06m3/s in
December. But these figures will be reduced to I .00-2.95m3/s after the dam is built, less than
1.6m3Js for seven months every year. It can also be seen from the table that now the average
monthly water flow at the site of the planned dam is less than 1.61m3/s for 8 months in the
year. However, after the building of the dam, the water flow there will possibly be less than
Im3/s in all the 12 months of the year.
93



The impact of the water diversion project on the runoff of the area down the planned
dam is most remarkable. Table 4.5.5 (2) lists the change of the monthly water flow in normal
and low water seasons of typical hydrological year before and after the building of the dam.
After the building of the water diversion project, there will be five months of the year when
the water flow can maintain only the smallest I.Om3/s even during normal and lower water
season of typical year with abundant water, while during the whole normal and low water
seasons (8 months) of typical low water year the water flow down the dam can only maintain
its smallest water flow of l.Om3/s.
Table 4.5.5 (2) Change of Water Flow during Normal and Low
Water Seasons of Typical Hydrological Year          unit: m'/s
month  Aug.    Sep.    Oct.    Nov.    Dcc.    Jun.    Seb.   Mat.
year             _                                                     -
wet   1963 $  original   7.87    3.05     1.95    10.17    5.25    9.56    1 1.58   10.13
season           build    1.0      1.0     1.0    1.67      1.0    1.06    3.08    1.63
1982 $  original  12.87    4.91    9.54    18.03    6.58    3.90    7.27    8.11
_  build    4.37    1.0    1.04    9.53      1.0     1.0      1.0    1.0
norrnal  1958 *   original   4.49    3.69  1.93    2.87     1.20    3.74    14.05   10.26
season           build    1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0    5.55    1.76
1983 V- original  10.86    8.27    5.25    3.00    1.45    2.55    2.61    3.31
______  ___    build    2.46  1.0  1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0     1.0    1.0
dry   1975 *   originat   7.12    2.43    2.23    1.77    1.45    1.25     1.58    2.82
season           build   1.0       10 ,       0 L.0         2.0      1.0     1.0 o.0
19789    original   4.93   3.52    2.36    3.06     1.19    1.34    4.90    2.21
______             build    1.0    110       1.0     1.0      2.0     2.0      2.0    1.0
(b). Impact on the water flow and water quality of the Xiaorongjiang River
The average flow over the years at the site of the planned dam is I O.Om31s, only 5.38m3/s
will be refrained back to the lower reaches of the Xiaorongjiang River, that in low water year
is only 2.08m3/s. only account for 48.6% (4.28m3/s) of the amount before the dam is built. So
the environmental capacity of the lower reaches of the   Xiaorongjiang River will be
lowered.
A tributary flows into the Xiaorongjiang River 2.5km down the site of the planned dam
with a water flow of 0.66m3/s during low water season. The drainage of this segment (from
the site of he planned dam  to the outlet of that tributary) has an area of I IOkm2 with a
minimum    water flow  of 0.4m'/s. The operation of the water diversion project will
remarkably reduce the environmental capacity of this segment. But for the part down the
tributary, the environmental capacity is partially restored. The most amount of water
94



consumed is at the segment of the outlet of the tributary (Qianjia Village consumes 0.4m'/s of
water for irrigation). And the water flow at that segment is enough at present.
CD Impact on the environmental capacity of the river down the site of the planned dam
The prediction was made by taking January --when the water tlow is the smallest--as the
typical month in analyzing the change of environmental capacity.
data of 1958-1986 shows that the average monthiv water flow with 90% of guaranteed
rate at the site of the planned dam on the Xiaorongjiang River is 1.19m'/s. Calculation
according to the area ratio of controlled drainage finds the water flow in this segment is
0.76m'/s. The allowed background CODM,, concentration for Grade III water is 6mg/L. Tak-e
the background CODM, concentration 1.O9mg/L, the change of CODM,, load (W) before and
after the building of the dam can bc calculated as:
Before water is diverted:
W = 86.4 x (6 x (I .19 + 0.76) - 1.09 x I. 19] = 899(kg/d)
After water is diverted and I .0m'/s discharged to the lower reaches:
WV= 86.4 x [6x(I +0.76)- 1.09x 11= 818(kgld)
It can be seen that the water environmental capacity will reduce by 9.0% after water is
diverted.
(D Impact on the water quality of the Xiaorongjiang River down the site of the planned
dam during nornal water period.
After the completion of the water diversion project, water flow between i.0m'/s and
9.5m'/s will be diverted into the Qingshitan Reservoir. By taking the averagc flow in March
of 6.3 1m3/s as typical situation to calculate and analvze the change of the environmental
capacity according to the area ratio of controlled drainage , the flow of the segment can be
calculated as .4.04m3/s.
Before water is diverted:
W= 86.4 x [6 x(6.31 +4.04)- 1.09 x 6.311 =4 771(1kg/d)
After water is diverted and l.0m3/s discharged to the lower reachcs:
W = 86.4 x [6 x (I + 4.04) - 1.09 x 12 = 2 519(kg/d)
As the water flow is reduced by a large margin during normnal water period, the
reduction of water environmental capacity is more obvious, at 47.2%, and the reduction of
non-point source is about 50%. Tle.xducion of non-point source will in a way compensate
the environmental capacity of this segment of the river.
The above analysis reveals that the environmental capacity of this segment of the river
does not change much during low water period but reduces by a large margin during normal
water period.
(c) Impact on the watcr quality of the Lijiang River up Guilin
The segment from the outlet of the Xiaorongjiang River to the outlet of the Gantang
River in the upper rcach of the Lijiang River will also have water drawn away. Before water
is diverted runoff of the Xiaorongjiang River is discharged into the Lijiang River at its own
95



outlet. After water is diverted, part of its runoff will be discharged into the Lijiang River at
the outlet of the Gantang River. So the average water flow between the two outlets reduces by
4.62m'/s.
As there are not many pollution sources discharged into the Xiaorongjiang River, its
water flow only accounts for 7.5% of the water flow of the Guilin segment of the Lijiang
River before water is diverted and 3.8% after water is diverted. The pollution concentration
of this'segment will rise by only 3.7%.
In the segment of the Lijiang River where water will be diverted into from the
Xiaorongjiang River, its water quality will be improved and water environmental capacity
raised.
B. The Wulixia water diversion project
See Table 4.5.6 for the calculation of the Wulixia water diversion project.
(a) Impact on the water quality and water flow of the Lijiang River during low water
period
The average water flow of the Guilin segment of the Lijiang River is fairly rich over the
years, being 127m3/s, which is, however, unevenly distributed in the year. The average value
during low water period (September to February of the following year) is only 1 0.8m3/s.
The beachland of the Lijiang River all merge in low water season and the water flow
becomes rapid, thus the landscape along the river becomes much duller. The water quality of
the Lijiang River is good before its enters the city of Guilin. But after it flows into the city,
the concentration of coli greatly increases to 7 889/L at the Dahe section and 1 19 million/L
at the Doujishan section, an increase of nearly 150 times.
The Wulixia water replenishment project can draw 84.04 million m' of water to the
Lijiang River (75 million m' during low water period). So the water flow of the Lijiang River
is maintained to be 40 m3/s (with a guaranteed ratio of 97%) in low water season. This can
greatly improve the water quality of the Lijiang River.
(b) The Wulixia water diversion project's impact on the environment of the Shilong
River, the Linghe River and the Lijiang River
Tlhe Wulixia water diversion project draws water to the fall power station through its
southern trunk canal and the flows into the Shilong River to be emptied into the Linghe River,
-which flows into the Rongjiang River. a4tributary of the Lijiang River, with a total length of
53.5 1 km.
Water drawn by the Wulixia water diversion project to replenish the Lijiang River flows
passes the Shilong River, so the water flow of the Shilong River will have much increase,
averaging 6.7 lm'ls in high water years. So there won't be clear low water season for the
Shilong River, thus its environmental capacity increases. The existing water quality of the
Shilong River is good, only the flow is small during low water season. Water drawn from the
Wulixia Reservoir to replenish the Lijiang River will make the water quality of the Shilong
River similar to that of the Wulixia Reservoir.
96



In the same way, the water replenishment project will also increase the flow of the
Linghe River and the Rongjiang River during low water period, thus increasing their water
environmental capacity and improving their water quality.
Hydrological data shows the smallest water flow in the Longhe River is during
November to January. The flow at its outlet is calculated to be respectively 3.76m'1s,
2.5im3/s , and 3.38m;/s. After the water replenishment project is put into operation, the
figures will increase to 9.28m31s ,8.55m3/s, and 9.07m31s , respectively in crease to 2.47, 3.41
and 2.68 times pf the original figures. So it can be seen the water environmental capacity of
the Linghe River will have remarkable increase.
The average water flow at the outlet of the Linghe River in January will be increased
from 1I.1 8m3/s to 4.02m3/s with a guaranteed ratio of 90%. The water environmental capacity
of the Linghe River W (the allowed CODM. load) will have the following change.
Before water is replenished:
W = 8.64 x 1.18 x (6 - 1.16) = 493 (kg/d)
After water is replenished:
W = 8.64 x 4.02 x (6 - 1.16) = 1 681(kg/d)
In the above calculation, 6mg/L is the allowed CODM, concentration, 1.16mg/L is the
background CODM., concentration of the Linghe River, and it is supposed the CODMA
concentration of the water drawn from the Wulixia Reservoir is the same with the
background value of the Linghe River.
The result shows when the guaranteed ration is 90% in January, the water environmental
capacity of the Linghe River will rise to 3,41 times that of the original value after water is
repienished.
C. Analysis of the comprehensive impact of the whole project on the water flow of the
Lijiang River
See Fig 4.4 for the overall impact of the water diversion projects at the Wulixia
Reservoir, and thc Xiaorongjiang River.
97



Lijiang River
A                B          C              D                   E
Q.            QL         QX            QG                   QT
outlet of the   outlet of the  i outlet of the    outict of the  outlet of the
Darongiang   Linghe       Xiaorongjiang   Gantang       Taohuajiang
River       River         River          River          River
.........................
Wulixia water   Xiaorongiiang
replenishment   water replenishment
projeat       project
Fig 4-4 Overall impact of two water replenishment project
The two above said water replenishment projects will have their water flow into the
Lijiang River respectively at the outlets of the Linghe River and the Gantang River. So water
of the segment B of the Lijiang River (from the outlet of the Linghe River to the outlet of the
Xiaorongiiang River) is replenished by the Wulixia Reservoir, the water of the segment D
(from the outlet of the Gantang River to the outlet of the Taohu River) is replenished by the
Xiaorongjiang River. Water at the segment C of the Lijiang River (from the outlet of the
Xiaorongjiang River to the outlet of the Gantang River) will bc drawn to the Xiaorongiiang
River, so the flow there will be reduced at about 3.5%, but without much impact of the
Lijiang River.
Table 4.16 shows the change of water flow at the segments of the Lijiang Rive year by
year after water is replenished. QX. QD. QL. QG and QT represent the water flow at the outlets
of the Xiaorongjiang Rivcr, the Rongjiang River, the Linghe River, the Gantang River and
the Taohua River. The fourth column in Table 4.5.6 (1) stands for the water flow of that
segment of the river after water is replenished from the Wulixia Reservoir. Calculations
shows after the completion of the Wulixia water replenishment project, the flow in January
with a guaranteed ratio of 90%  will bc increased from 4.20m3/s to 7.61m3/s. Taking
1 l6mgfL as the background CODI,,, c^ucntration of the Lijiang-River, and 4mgfL as the
COD,,. concentration standard for Grade 11 water, the relative inpease of environmental load
(allowed CODm. load):
AW = 8.64 x [(7.61-4.20) (4.1 - 1.16)] = 837(kg/d)
Table 4.5.6 (2) shows the water flow change of the segment of the Lijiang River after
water is replenished from the Wulixia Reservoir and to the Xiaorongjiang River. Its fifth
column represents the difference between water replenished from the Wulixia reservoir after
drawing away at the dam of the Xiaorongjiang River, that is, the net increasc after the
completion of the above two water replenishment projects. Its average flow over the years is
98



3.4m'/s. The table shows the value is positive for 21 years out of the 26 and only negative for
five years, proving the water flow in low water period will increase in most years and
decrease in few years (when the water drawn from the Wulixia Reservoir is less than tlhe
water drawn away at the dam of the Xiaorongjiang River). Further analysis shows, four years
out of the five when the value is negative, the water flow of the Lijiang River is fairly large.
So as a whole after the realization of the two projects the water flow at the segment of the
Lijiang River will increase during low water period and thus its water environmental capacity
will increase. The only exception was in January 1965 when no water is drawn from the
Wulixia Reservoir but the Xiaorongjiang water replenishment project drew 2.4Xm'/s, the flow
of the segment of the Lijiang River was decreased from 10.25m3/s to 7.77m3/s. But such
situation can be avoided by rational adjustment over the group of reservoirs.
Table 4.5.6 (1) Change of Water Flow in the Upper Reach of the Lijiang River
before and after the Wulixia Water Replenishment Project Is in Operation
a)        C            CD          (D         (D         OD            (XD           ()
yca     Qo - Q,      flow from    QID+         year    QO - QL       flow from       D+CD
(m'/s)    Wulixia (m3/s)   (ml/s)              (mSIs)    Wulixia (m3/s)    (mlis)
1959     5.68          2.81         8.49       1972      4.82         8.00           12.82
1960     14.98         8.00        22.98       1973      31.16          0            31.16
1961      9.41         8.00         17.41      1974      10.89         8.00          18.89
1962     17.27         8.00        25.27       1975      4.20          4.23          8.43
1963      5.45         8.00         13.45      1976      3.52          2.14          5.66
1964     31.90          0          31.90       1977      6.73          8.00          14.73
1965     4.55           0           4.55       1978      15.25         8.00          23.25
1966     21.12          0          21.12       1979      6.81          3.67          10.48
1967      5.99         2.89         8.88       1980      10.81         8.00          18.81
1968     14.47         8.00        22.47       1981      8.09          8.00          16.09
1969     26.14         4.90        31.04       1982      9.30          8.00           17.3
1970     13.93         8.00        21.93       1983      13.65         5.08          18.73
1971      8.91         8.00         1691   . 984         11.94         8.00          19.94
99



Table 4.5.6 (2) Impact on the Average Flow in January at the Upper Reach of
the Lijiang River (from the outlet of the Xiaorongjiang River to the Outlet
of the Gantang River) by the Wulixia Water Replenishment Project and
the Xiaorongjiang River Water Diversion Project               unit: m'/s
CD     CD)       0)         ()       (a)      0)       CD)       CD                    C
year QD - Q   flow from   flow from    0-(i)   year  Qo - QL  flow from  flow from    0D-T
- QX    XulIxia Xiaorongiian                   - QX    Xulixia  Xiaorongjian  (m/s)
1959   11.81     2.81       2.74      0.07    1972    8.16       8.00        1.04      6.96
1960   16.85     8.00       0.14      7.86    1973    40.53       0         4.72      -4.72
1961   15.37     8.00       2.64      5.36    1974    9.13       8.00       2.01       5.99
1962   21.47     8.00       1.56      6.44    1975    6.15       4.23       0.19       2.47
1963   7.12      8.00       0.02      7.98    1976    5.57       2.14       0.25       1.89
1964   47.57      0         8.56     -8.56    1977    9.27       8.00       0.55       7.45
1965   10.25      0         2.48     -2.48    1978    19.66      8.00        1.69      6.31
1966   28.9       0         3.75     -3.75    1979    9.01       3.67       0.34       3.33
1967   10.86     2.89       1.97      0.92    1980     14.3      8.00        1.13      6.87
1968   21.47     8.00       3.27      4.73    1981    11.86      8.00        1.30      6.7
1969   36.51     4.90       5.33     -0.43    1982    15.35      8.00       2.69       5.31
1970   19.96     8.00       2.68      5.32    1983    20.04      5.08       2.90       2.18
1971   10.93     8.00       0.23      7.77    1984    16.12   8.00+1.55     6.45    1
Table 4.5.6 (3) lists the impact on the water flow at the section of the outlet of the
Taohua River after thc completion of all thc projects. It lists the watcr flow at the sections at
the outlets of diffecrent tributaries after the realization of the first and the second phases of the
water replenishment project. QG, + QX. + QD. + QL. + QT represent the approximate water
flow of the segment of the Lijiang River down the outlet of the Taohua River. The table
shows the average water flow in January with a guaranteed ratio of 90% is 1 0.49m3/s before
-.he realization of the first phase of thc  ater replenishment project, and 29.387m3/s after the
realization of the second phase of the water replenishment project. The wetative increase of
environmental load (allowed CODM,. load):
Before the reaiization of the first phase of the water replenishment project:
W = 8.64 x 10.49 x (4 - 1.16) = 257 (kg/d)
After the realization of the second phase of the water replenishment project
W    8.64 x 29.38 x (4 - 1.16)  7 209 (kg/d)
100



It can thus be seen the realization of the three projects will increase the environmental
capacity of the upper segment of the Lijiang River by 4,6351k;gd, reaching 2.8t times that of
its original figure. So the water replenishment project has clear environmental benefit.
From the angle of water study administration, the added capacity should not be included
in the total amount for distribution, but it can relieve the shock of pollution accidents to the
water quality of the Lijiang River.
Table 4.6.6 (3) Impact of thc All Water Replenishment Projects on
the Water Flow of the Segment of the Lijiang River in January
year         Qn   - Qz - Qx - Q.(m3/s)         ycar         QD - QL - QV - QG(m31S)
Before the realization After the realization of  Before the realization After the rcalization of
of the first phase of  the second phase of the  of the first phase of  the sccond phasc of the
the project       project                     the projcct        project
1959        19.82               26.36          1972        10.77              49.06
1960        38.66               60.48          1973        63.31              58.59
1961        25.55               43.50          1974        19.03              46.94
1962        29.99               43.54          l975        10.06              16.00
1963        12.01               44.14          1976        9.08               47.33
1964        75.29               66.73          1977        16.29              44.49
1965        13.98               45.54          1978        30.39              39.74
1966        49.61               45.86          1979        14.97              21.17
1967        16.49               41.06          1980        22.03              43.83
1968        34.17               43.23          1981        19.62              43.35
1969        64.64               64.21          1982        23.69              42.16
1970        29.71               58.88          1983        32.56              34.74
1971         18.0               47.24          1984        21.32              51.11
D. Analvsis of thc comprchensive impact of the all watcr replenishment projects on the
environment of the Lijiang River
(a) Contrast of water flow before and after the projects are put into operation
The water flow of the Guilin segment of the Lijiang River is fairly large, but unevenly
distributed in the year. Its runoff during March to August accounts for 80% of the year's total.
The actual lowest flow during Septembe, tu February is only 3.8m'/s (1955). Since the first
phase of the Lijiang River water replenishment project was realized in 1988, the water flow
during low water period reached 30m'/s, with a guaranteed ratio of water replenishment of
93.8%. After the rcalization of the project studied in this assessment, the water flow is
expected to reach 40-45m3/s, with a guaranteed water replenishing ratio being 97.2% if the
standard is 40m'/s, or 94% if the standard is 45m'/s.
(b) Prediction of the amount of waste water and pollutants discharged into the Lijiang
River
101



See attached subreport of this assessment for the method and factors used in the
prediction.
(D Water quality model
The following model was used in the calculation of the segment of the Lijiang River
from Dahe to Yangshuo. Factors assessed were BOD,, CODMfl, NH3-N, non-ion N and DO.
Constant flowing one-dimension model was used, and the basic formulas are:
BOD5   V          (D ) - K L
-ax        ax
ao   a    ao
CDO .      V -C-- -(D ---) - K, L-KC,             NNK(1
ax   ax    ax
DO           VW~= a (D 9 ) - Ki L - K¢C, - K'yCt + K2 (°, - °)
In which L, CN, and 0 stand for the concentrations of BOD5, NH3-N, and DO, K, and KN
stand for the rate of decay of BOD5, and NH3-N, K2 for the atmospheric oxygen restoration
coefficient, Os for the concentration of saturated DO, D for longitudinal dispersing
coefficient, and V average water flow sped at the section. The formula for COD%,, is similar
to that for BOD5, only K, was replaced by Kc.
a) Selection of water model parameter
The result of actual monitoring at different points in the water quality model according
to follow-up tracing experiments of water mass along the segment of the Lijiang River from
Qianjiaping to Yangshuo conducted by the Environmental Chemistry Institute of the Chinese
Academy of Science and environmental protection monitoring station of Guilin are listed in
Table 4.5.7. The prediction also used the data of the low water period in 1994 at Dahe,
Doujishan, Longmen, and Mopanshan for rctrogressive calculation. Then the following
valucs were chosen after comparison, in which the value of K2 changes with the water flow.
Table 4.5.7(1) Water Quality Parameter (Result of Water Mass Tracing Experiment)
unit: I/d
K,                        K.            KI
0.12-0.369                0.251-0.681                0.039-0.211
Table 4.5.7(2)Water Quality Parameters Selected for
the Guilin Segment of the Lijiang River   unit:  I/d
K,             K,            K.,
result of water mass tracing cxpcriment  0.12-0.369  0.251-0.681  0.039-0.211
seicctcd parametcrs      0.25      0.5-0.61(dry season)  0.15      0.0
Longitudinal dispersing coefficient D was calculated as:
102



D = 0.058 °
iB
in which: Q stands for the water flow, i for the longitudinal slope of the riverbed and B
for the width of the river
( Basic data from calculating the water flow, speed, etc.
The sections at Dahe and Yangshuo werc chosen respectively at the upper and lower
reaches of the Lijiang River. Water flow used was from hydrological data of 1958-1984. The
averagc flow in May and August of different years were chosen for high water and normal
water periods, and 50% was taken as the guaranteed ration. The result is listed in Table 4.5.8.
Table 4.5.8 Average Water Flow during High and Normal Water Periods
item    flow (on normal season)         flow (on wet season)
section
Guilin section                 127(m'/s)                     319(m/s)
Yangshuo section                 192(m'/s)                    605(mIls)
Tlhe water flow for the low water periods took into consideration of the situation before
the realization of the first phase of the water replenishment project (with a guaranteed ratio of
90%) and three other situations.
Table 4. 5.9 Water Flow during Low Water Period
item Bjfore the ralization of the  After the ralization of the second phase of the project
section    s         second phase of the project    P-97.2%                P=94%
Guilin section             30                     40                    45
Yangshuo section _                     _           61                     66
*P=93.S%
Flow speed was calculated on thc basis of "Report on the Watcr Resources Protection of
Guilin City" compiled by Guilin City Environmental Protection Bureau and Guilin Water
Conservancy and Power Bureau in September 1988.
-    Water temperature for the highrwaTer, normal water and low water periods were
respectively 241C, 281C, and 161C.
®Background pollutant concentration (Dahe section)
The present and predicted (for 2000 and 2015) pollutant concentration at the Dahe
section were calculated on the basis of the values during the high, normal, and low water
periods in 1994.
103



Table 4.5.10 Water Qualitv Monitored at Dahe in 1994      unit: mg/L
flow          DO          CODO,,        BOD,         NH,-N
May II             194          6.5           2.0          1.Od          0.45
May 30             171          6.9           1.6          l.Od          0.05
July 21            180          6.7           1.6          1.Od          0.06
August I           88            5.4          1.4           1.Od         0.06
December I         36            7.9          1.1           1.0d         0.52
Dccember 12        34            8.2          1.4          1.0d          0.34
@ Pollution load discharged into the Lijiang River by Guilin City after the treatment of
waste water treating plants
Four waste water treatment plants have been built in Guilin City, of which three went
into operation earlier and No.4 (with a designed capacity of 100 OOOm3/d) went into operation
in 1966.
The first three plants now have a total capacity of 28,500m3/d and it will be 178,500m3/d
in the year of 2015; the cut of the load of BOD5, CODM., and NH3-N by the three plants is
respectively 90%, 83%, and 10%, and in 2015 the NH3-N concentration in treated water from
the eastern plant and No.4 plant is 15mg/L and other values remain the same, pollution load
discharged into the Lijiang River is shown in Table 4.5.11
Table 4.5.11 Pollution Load Discharged into the Lijiang River
unit: t/d
|________ _  BOD,          COD..                NH,-N
existing                     8.20                 9.7                 2A4
2000                         11.59               14.3                 3.64
2015                        51.97                54.6                 12.44
(c) The Lijiang River water quality simulation and prediction of result
(D Result of existing condition simulation
Result shows that at present the concentration is higher during low water period than
during high water period than norrnal water period. The concentrations of BODS, CODm,
NH3-N and non-ion ammonia are higher in low water period than in normal water period and
than high water period. The level of DO cannot meet the standard for Grade II water
(6.Omg/L ) of even for Grade 11 water (5.0mg/L). Before the building of the first phase of the
water replenishment project (Q =  I 0.8m'/s)the concentrations of BODs and CODm,
sometimes exceeded the standard for Grade 11 water, but meet the standard after the first
phase of the water replenishment project was completed (respectively being 3mg/L and
4mgfL). The concentration of NHr-N are within the standard for Grade 11 water (< 0.5mg.L)
104



during high water and normal water periods, but sometimes exceeds the standard during low
water period. Before the building of the first phase of the water replenishment project, the
water in the segment from Dahe to Longmen could not even meet the standard for Grade 11
water ( L0mglL), but water qualitv is much improved after the building of the first and second
phases of the water replenishment project, but still cannot meet the standard for Grade 11
water. The concentration of non-ion ammonia widely exceed the standard for Grade 11 water
(0.02mgIL). See Table 4.5.4(1).
(I Predicted result for normal year when the project is completed (2000) and 2015
The total amount of pollution load of the Lijiang River will reach 198 600m3/s when the
project is completed (2000), 1.51 times that of 1994. Even with the completion of No.4 plant
and its attached projects, the pollution load discharged into the Lijiang River will still
increase than the present level. See Table 4.5.4 (2) for the result of calculation for the value
of the year when the project is completed (2000). Pollutant concentrations will increase
without realizing the second phase of the water replenishment project, but the concentrations
of DO, BOD, and CODM, are still within the standard for Grade 11 water, but that of NH3-N
and non-ion ammonia will often exceed the standard.
The amount of waste water from Guilin city in the planned normal year of 2015 will
reach 458,1 10m3/d, respectively 316,700m'1and 223,700m'/d higher than in 1994 and 2000.
The result of the water quality of the Lijiang River during low water period with or without
the second phase of the water replenishment project in the condition that no additional waste
water treating plant is built is shown in Table 4.5.4(3). It can be seen that without additional
waste water treating plant, the index of the water quality of the Lijiang River will seriously
exceed the standard in both conditions.
In the normal ycar of completion the water quality of the Lijiang River will not have
much change because No. 4 plant and its attached projects will be put into operation. But the
water quality of the Lijiang River will clcarly detcriorate between 2000 and 2015. Thc effect
of the second phasc of the water replenishment project is limited so the intensity of water
treating must be strengthened.
2. Prediction on the atmospheric environment of the Lijiang River comprehensive treatment
project
During its operation, the Lijiang..River comprehensive treatment project will not have
much negative impact on the atmospheric cnvironment. But improper handling of the refuse
landfill and waste water treating plants may cause secondary pollution, especially foul smells.
(I) Main wind direction and speed of the area assessed
The average annual wind speed of the area assessed was 27m1s (1995), prevailing wind
directions are NE and NNE. The north wind, frequent in winter, is stronger than the south
wind, while in spring and autumn the wind direction is not stable as they are alternating
periods of monsoon. The frequency of NE and NNE wind accounts for about 28-30%, and the
windless days account for less than 40%.
105



The distribution of wind speed frequency in Guilin City and Guilin Prefecture is closely
connected with its topography. The planned Chongkou refuse landfill is about I km to the
southwest of the city of Guilin, and the waste water treating plants of the urban part of Guilin
are iocated in the south and west of the city. Under prevailing wind, harmnful gases will not
affect the urban part of the city. The eastern waste water treating plant will have some impact
on the atmosphere of Guilin City, but the impact of foul smell is of a small range. As there
are more windless days or days with small wind in Guilin, the impact of foul smell is only
local.       -
(2) Assessment of atmospheric environment of the subprojects
A. Refuse landfill
The discharge of harrnful gasses from the refuse landfill is random, of non-point source.
Concerned studies of garbage at home found out the proportion of gases produced by
domestic garbage is: NH3 : ClH. = 38.64: 1904.0,. The content of CH, is about 54-69% of all
the gasses. The capacity of garbage is 1.66m3/t, the ratio of the volume of garbage and the
gasses produced is 1: 1.375. So the pollution source of the Chongkou refuse landfill can be
calculated as lists in the following table.
Table 4.5.12 Pollution Source at Chongkou Refuse Landfill
sources      |   SO,(mg/s)   I  NH,(mgls)   |  CH,Omg/s)   |   H,S(mg/s)
dischargc of hamnful gasses  38.89        947.34        4755.56          24.51
The area assessed of the burial ground's impact on the atmospheric environment is a
range with a radius of 5km. The calculation mesh pints are 21 x 21, with a distance of 500m
for each grid.
The assessment considers the discharge of S02, H2S, NH3, and CH4, including their once
concentrations, averagc daily and annual concentrations
In order to find out the refuse landfill's impact on inhabitants living ncarby, the
assessment takles type D as the main atmospheric stability of the area, followed by Type E.
Either during windy and windless conditions types D and E arc the most unstable condition.
The calculation of once concentration in this assessment took 2.5m/s as the wind speed of the
NE wind at type D stability.
See Table 4.5.13 for the parameters.
Table 4.5.13 Average Daily Climate Conditions for Calculation
wind direction wind speed (mis) stability type |  wind direction   wind speed (m/s)   stability type
NE           2.5          D             NNE            3.0             B
C           0.0          D              C              0.0            D
Fig. 4.4 shows the distribution of the average daily concentration in typical climate
conditions. It can be seen that the high value of the discharge of CH., H2S, NH3, and S02, all
106



C114 Rijun Ctnsx=I25.94ug/m:3  Cint-20                                        1I2S Rijun Cna%=64.QSE-1ttl;/m3 Cint=IO
-1 -   -  -   -  -  - :3  Z  1      2  34  5  87        59   Jr)    -to -9   -87 .9  5-4321                2     3    50           
80  *2rT                             =7-1                               s    10 
0                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
2 
4                                                                       4
10                                                                      0                                                                            01
-l          7  0-  -   3      -1                                     -j     464  7 9l  -tol   8-  4-   4-   2  10123            6A7aat
-4                                                                     -     -4
-0             --0    - 0 
4                                                                -o     -4
-10 -0   It-7 -0-6 -4-3 -2 -I0   12    3la.709                     0               -100- -7 -4 -5-4 -3-2 - 0a3t2 34                 A  7598Iita
Fig4-4(3) CNH, Dsily Average Concentration                                       Fig 44(4) S LS Daily Average Concentration
Cmax=25.g p/m 3Cmax-103.73 E-1Igtn'
9                                                   0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0



o0  *  *   4^  °   *>          14F   -  °   -   N   4  -  5. 5f  s  -  e  o
o  r_  1  1   1  1  I   r  X  1-  r   r-*                                             ;ra -ra                  I I  I                     I       I -I ;   ,  ,I,      ,'O-"W**     
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _
e    e  s  @  **  @  8  "    "   w   ^  ^o                       --                      - 
;  e  *  s         v-s                                                                               *j       (N       e                   o       ^      *  
* -                                                                                                          IS -     _                                   
o                                                                                    -                                                                                                     o   t   J      ' ,   



CH4 o=Z.-5/s Cint=20 D iax=136.52ug/m3                                     H2S u=2.mim/s Citx=t() D bMx=70.4E-Iug/m3
-LO-  -0 -7 -6 -s -4 -  -2 -1 a  I      3 4 6  a7 Oa 9 la                  -IO-e -C -7 --6-4-7-2-l0   1             3 4 * 6   a 7  a
to                                                                £8       to                                  &                    
10                                                             _O    10   0
4                                                                4 
33                                                                         3
z                                               8         2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
-l                                                                -4       -4
-2      -z
-:                                                                -  -4'
-10        l/I I I                                              -10      -tO l                                                   I   f
-o-e -8 -7 -6 -6 4 -2 -2 -I 0   I e 8       4  s  f  7  a 0 to             -o-9 -e -' -e -o  t -3 -2 -I o  1  2  3 47 6      * -7  
Fig4-6(3) Cil, Once Concentration                                         Fig4-6(4) H.S Once Concentration
Cmax=27.96j.glm'                                                          Cmax=I 12.4 E-1pg/m3
NI13 u=2.5=/-J  Cint.   D 64ax=Z7.DGug/m3                                sn2 u=2.Sm/s Ctu=20 D Hax=zlt_459-Iug/m3
10-  -e -7 -o -s  4 -3 -2-I 0 1 2  34  8  0  7  09 0o -0    -2 -I o                                           9 2   4  6  e 7 a   C,
10
1I FT--rT7--T--ST--T--                                                   o
I
3
-2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-4
-2                                              -2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
.3  /        J                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-7
-                              --                                           -3
Fi76,            H    nc   ocnrto                                              Fg462  O    nc/ocnrto
.0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0



appear in the range of within 500m in the leeward. Their average daily maximum values are
respectively 0.13mg/rn', 0.006mg/m', 0.025mg/m', and O.Olmg/m', much lower than the
standard set by the state.
Result of calculated average annual concentration
Fig 4.5 is the magnitude contour for the average annual distribution of the refuse landfill.
It can be seen the high values of discharge re all around the burial ground, within 500m of its
leeward. The highest average annual value of CH, and SO2 is respectively 0.010mg/m' and
affecting range is-in I km, all below the standard set by the state.
It can be seen that the highest once or highest average daily and annual values of the
concentrations of CH,, H,S, NH3, and SO, all below I mg/m', within the standard fro Grade II
set by the state. The operation of the refuse landfill will not have unfavorable impact on the
urban part of Linggui County. As the frequency of small wind is high but with much bottom
temperature inversion in the area assessed, the scope of the impact is within lkm. But the
high humidity and high temperature will increase the amount of Cl-4 discharged as the
garbage buried increases. So monitoring should be carried out within the rang of 1Okm to
avoid possible detriment.
B. Waste water treating project of the city
Unfavorable atmospheric impact of the project is the foul smell produced by waste water
treating plants. But as the sludge produced is not of large quantity, its impact can be reduced
to the minimum if timely transported away. Waste water treating plants are located in the
leeward of the city, so there won't be much impact on the urban part of the city. In the
planning of the city, however, attention should be paid to avoid developing living quarters or
commercial quarters within the range of impact of waste water treating plants.
3. Prediction on the noise of the Lijiang comprehensive treatment project on its surrounding
areas
Noise produced by the project is mainly produced by garbage transporting vehicles,
pumping stations and waste water treating plants.
(I) Refuse disposal projcct
A. The operation of refuse transit stations do not use heavy machines, so the noise is
mainly from transportation vehicles. Suppose each station serves 20,000 people, the amount
-of garbage to be transported amounts4e-4Gh/d. 10 small trucks with the capacity of 2t will be
used to collect garbage and a 8-ton truck used for the transportation for three times a day. The
average operation time for vehicles at each station will be 1.08h. Te intensity of the noise
produced by vehicles is 7OdB(A) and the background noise intensity when there is no
vehicles in operation is 50dB(A). Calculation through equivalent formula finds the value to
be 58.83dB(A) during daytime, exceeding the standard for type I area set in Document
GB3096-93 "Environmental Noise Standard for Urban Areas" by 3.8dB(A). This means light
noise pollution. There is no impact as the transit stations do not work at night.
B. Prediction of noise pollution of Chongkou refuse landfill during its operation
110



Noise produced at Chongkou refuse landfill is mainly from transportation vehicles, and
machines like bulldozers. The maximum noise is when one transportation vehicle and one
burial machine are working at the same time. It can reach 63.3dB(A).
As the refuse landfill is far from and separated with mountains from any living quarters
and there is no noise sensitive buildings near it, the noise produced will not have any impact
on the city.
C. Noise impact along the route of garbage transportation
The refuse landfill is located in Chongkou Village, 20 km from the urban area of the city
of Guilin. It is predicted that SOOt/d of garbage needs to be treated and 63/d vehicles will be
used to run along the Guilin-Liangjiangkuo high way, passing the county seat of Linggui
County, Liuchun Village, Guanting Village and Beijing Village.
As the condition of the highway won't improve in the near future but the vehicle flow
will increase. Suppose vehicles needed for garbage transportation is 126/d and the natural
increase of traffic is 10% every year (the average national figure).
Taking into consideration the data of noise monitored by Guilin Environmental
Protection and Monitoring Station during April 8 - 10, 1996, the noise along the route
predicted is listed in Table 4.5.14
Table 4.5.14 (1) Prediction of Noise along the Renming Avenue of Linggui Town
No.              Location of monitoring point           Lcq dB(A)      vehicle flow (I/h)
3     Clinic ncar Diamond Plant in Linggui Villagc        71.5              396
5     120 Renming Avenue linggui village                 72.6               478
10    Lingui Village People Hospetal                      70.3              419
Table 4.5.14 (2) Prediction of Noise along the Guilin -Liangiiangkou Highway
No.             Location of monitoring point          Lcq dB(A)       vehiclc now (Ith)
I    ncar the road of Liuchun Village                  72.9                145
2     No. 02 of Liuchun Villace                         59.1
3     near the road of Guanting Village                 73.3                145
4     near the road of Guanting Village                 57.8 
5     near the he road of Beijing Villagc               73.9                168
6     Jiangxi Primary School of Beijing Village         65.0
7     near the road of Chongko Village                  74.0               201
8     No. 54 of Chongko Village                         52.9
It can bc seen the noise along Renming Avenue in Linggui Town is already of medium
noise pollution. The transportation of garbage will add about 1.2dB(A) . So the noise
Illl



intensity of the whole avenue exceeds the standard for type 4 (along trunk transportation
routes) areas set by the state, with the section about No. 120 the most serious.
Villages along the Guilin-Liangjiangkou highway arc affectced by transportation noise to
different degrees, only a little section near the east No.54 of Chongkou Village is within the
standard and the Jiangxi Primary School in Beijing Village is the most serious. at 65.OdB(A).
The section in Liuchun Village, Guanting Village, and Beijing Village all exceed the standard
set by the state. The transportation of garbage add about 1.7-1 .9dB(A) along the highway and
I,SdB(A) in the-villages. Only in Chongkou Village the noise intensity is within the standard.
Studies found out:
OD The whole route along the highway including Renming Avenue in Linggui Town is
already polluted by traffic noise, which will increase further. Transportation of garbage only
adds 126 trucks every day, averaging only 16/h. The noise added by garbage transporting
vehicles is only 0.3-0.4dB(A). So the strong noise intensity is mainly caused by other trafftc
vehicles and the load added by garbage transportation vehicles is not much.
() The operation of refuse transit stations will cause medium noise pollution to their
surrounding environment.
(D The operation of the refuse landfill won't have any noise impact on inhabitants living
near it.
(2) Waste water treating project of the city
Pumping stations and waste water treating plants will produce some noise during their
operation, but as separation belts are built around them, pumping stations arc half
underground, the noise impact is only limited to their borders and green belts.
4. Prediction on the project's environmental impact on ground water
The main impact of the Lijiang River water replenishment project lies in the raising of
ground water level because of leakage along the water replenishing route, and possible
pollution by garbage percolation leaching to ground water.
(I) Refuse disposal system
A Hydrological and geological conditions of the ground water at the site of the refuse
landfill
The site of the planned refuse landfill is located in a small inclining hilly basin
-surrounded by mountains on three sides. ield survey found out the main strata of the ground
and its surrounding areas consist of Lower Carboniferous Series rocky shale - mud shale,
marl (most of the areas surveyed) and Upper Devonian Series Liujiang siliceous (shale) rock,
sandy shale - mud shale (west of the site). The property of the rocks varies and hard and soft
rocks alternate. The stratum of rocks decline top NWW with a dip angle of 30-600. Emerged
rocks are very much weathered, with an all strong weathering thickness of 6.8m, distributed
in layers and lens.
On the base rock of its surrounding areas is a layer (1 -6.7m) of remnant of Quaternary
System accretion. Its rock is mainly of silty clay, clay with a little rudite and silty sandy clay.
112



'~~1                   -        (SO
6) (C~~i 1
4~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~71
7(   116S       -                              
I O.I~j~T:1~6)  6  Z4   6             ZA14                           (
17    11           - .4    , 9LI65 (/   \
ZK3-                              I    11>.6IAI4,~-i4CooQ  
scale 1:10000   1                                    )  ..-*Z ~  ZKI \w                             4 N 0
Fi.6-7Mp f lyr-ge6olog  in I        h   rc fIhngoReue  adf



It gets thicker from the edge (1.0-2.0m) to bealock (6.0-8.0m) to the center (5.0-10.Om),
nearly lOm thick at the main dam and waste water intercepting dam of No. and No. 2
grounds.
The layer of clay and all strong weathered top have very low permeability, and can
prevent vertical permeation of percolation leaching of the garbage. The underlying all strong
weathered base rock is the main stratum containing water (with uneven watery (poor-
medium), and its bulk water is distributed in lens and stripes in the weathered cracks between
black shale and - lime, being weathered crevice water. Field survey found its thickens can
reach 7.5m, in gradual change with weak weathered rock underneath. See Fig. 4.6
a. Controlled by its upper relic slope, the ground water there is of some pressure bearing.
Influenced by the topography, properties of the rock, and diaclase, the ground water at
the site from an independent hydrological unit, mainly supplied by precipitation, its runoff
flowing to the center from the edge in a radial way, most of which is discharged to the outlets
to its south (main dam and waste water adjusting pools of No.1 and No.2 grounds) after
collecting together. It then flow to the southeast along the development direction of the
valleys to Chitou Village and Shawan Village at its lower reaches. Investigation found some
subtle relation between ground water and river water and Chitou Village is located at the let
bank in the lower reaches down 2.5km and Shawan Village to the right bank down 50Om.
People in both villages use ground water as their major water source.
b. The average radius osmotic coefficient of the water containing stratum in strongly
weathered base rock K     14.5m/d, longitudinal diffusion coefficient DL = 0.3075m31d,
average lineal flow sped of ground water K1 = 2.46mld, longitudinal divergence a x
0.125m, effective pore-solids ratio = 34.7%. But, affected by rock characteristics, plant roots
and contraction, the osmotic coefficient of clay above it varies greatly, at 0.001 7-0.3mId,
avcraging K =0.OOSm/d.
Studies by Guangxi Environmental Geological Monitoring station found no unfavorable
local fault or tension fracture nearby. a S-N fault passes its west but it is pressed nature and
stable, showing no signs of resurrection. In}luenced by rock propertics and weathering, the
shallow stratum of the site and its surrounding areas have developed bcdding voids,
weathering cracks, and solution cracks, which are mostly in discontinuous lens distribution.
The complexity and variation of the rock's physical properties and mechanics transfusion are
the main characteristics of the engineering geological conditions of the site.
B. Characteristics of ground water and existing pollution
Ground water in the shallow stratum of he site and its surrounding areas is mostly of
pore water, weathering water, and crevice water. Its chemical composition is affected by
precipitation, the characteristics of the rocks through which surface runoff passes, and
artificial interference in different degrees.
114



The chemical composition of the ground water in the site is closely related with the
distribution of different rocks: from the west to the east are of clasolite,, clasolite interspersed
with impure carbonate rock. the coexistence of the two, and pure carbonate rocks. So the
chemical composition of ground water follows this rule: from HCO3-  Cl-Ca2, transiting to
HCO3 *ClSO,:Ca- *Mg2* to HCO3-Ca. See Table 4.5.15 for the change of the total hardness
and total soluble solids.
Table 4.5.15 Major Cleniical Fcatures of Ground Watcr Surveved
location               chemical composition    hardness  total soiuble   pH
(CaCO,) mg/L solids mgJL
ClasoliteofShimai rcservoir-No.I landfill - H1CO,-CI-Ca"     10.5-20.5   21.0-32.5  5.6-5.15
west part of Chitou reservoir       HCO1-Cr-SO,-Ca'-Mg _
Lower conceniration of impure abonatc    I ICO,-Ca"          93.1-112.1    107.2-   7.28-7.81
rock of No. I landfill-No. 2 landfill                                      127.35
Higher concentration of impure abonate    HCO,-Ca"          212.7-213.7  227.8-242.3 7.23-7.50
rock of Jiangxi Village - Chongko Village  ___
Pure concentmtion cabonate rock of  HCO3-Ca'               312.28-469.49 405.2-617.9 7.00-7.20
Kuantian -Chitao-yuannian and Sawuan _______
Limestone of suthen-cast of landfill. Chitao HCO,-Ca3
and Sawan
The crevice water and weathering crevicc watcr in the base rocks of the site of No. I and
No.2 landfill are of slightly confined water in relatively closed state with weak activity. Its
pH value is 7.62, BOD5 = 0.83mg/L, DO = 4.27mg/L, SO, = 0.57mg/L, and temperaturc 19.5
'C.
Influenced by fragment of mother rock, thc chemical composition of the pore watcr in
the slope elurium varies greatlv, and quite differcnt from that of crevice water and weathering
crevice water.(See Table 4.5.16.)
115



Table 4.5.16 Chemical Properties of Ground Water in Shallow Stratum of the Site
unit: mg/L
type            pH  soluble hardness  Fe    Mn    S-   DO   BOD, water chemical type
___________        ~~~solids    I_                                     _ __ __I_   _
slopc    range  5.6-  21.9-   10.5-  0.05-  <0.02-       5.50-          HCO,-Cl:-Ca or
elurium          6.2   32.5   20.5   0.18   0.03           6.91         HCO,-SO,-Ca-Mg
averag        27.2   15.5   0.15   0.025  0.32          0.10
weathering  range  7.0-   10.7-  93 1-  0.14-  <0.02- 0.00-  0.25-  0.23-    HCO3-Ca
crevice          8.3  43.08   359.8   0.34   0.28  0.57   3.40   1.07
averg   7.5  300.0  252.2   0.20   0.12
Investigation found out that. influenced by rock chancteristics and weathering degree, the index of Fe
and Mn in the pore water in the slope elurium and strong weathering crevice water exceed the
standard in some cases. Influenced by artificial impact, the concentration of coli (<90AL) and
the 'three N' (0,054-0.072 1 mg/L) are fairly high, but the concentration of other trace elements
are within the standard for drinking water. Investigation found out that the content of coli and
the 'three N" of the ground water in the living quarters of Chitou, Shawan, Dayue, and Sitang
seriously exceeds the standard. That is to say part of the ground water in shallow strata is
already polluted to a ccrtain degree.
(3) Estimation of the amount, concentration of pcrcolation leaching and intensity of
pollution sources
QDThc calculation of the amount of percolation lcaching
Percolation leaching is the direct pollution source of the burial ground during its
operation and a certain pcriod after it is scaled. It amount is deternined by the type of
garbage, the proportion of its organic and inorganic matters, its water content, natural
precipitation, evaporation condition, and runoff on the slopes around the sitc. It is also
related with the size of the ground and ways of filling and pressing. Among them the size of
the ground and precipitation are the most important. The calculation of the amount of
-percolation leaching in this assessmenr.-
Q= F[P(I- R)- E-S]
I
In which: Q - amount of percolation lcaching m3/d;
F - effective water collecting area of the burial ground 24.3 x 1 04km2;
P - precipitation 1 890mm;
R - surface runoff coefficient;
E - evaporation I 390.3mm
S - critical saturate water absorbing rate S   0
116



The average amount of percolation leaching is calculated to be Q = 330.0m3/d.
(Q Estimation of pollutant concentration in percolation leaching
The chemical composition and concentration of garbage percolation leaching vary
greatly and are determined by the composition of garbage, way of burial and time of seal. As
there is no data of actual survey of domestic garbage in Guilin City, the assessment takes
general situation at home and abroad. The estimated water quality of garbage percolation
leaching is shown in Table 4.5.17.
Table 4.5.17 Composition and Concentration of General
Domestic Refuse Percolation leaching
itcm    rcfuse percolation standard for  item     refuse percolation    standard for
leaching     drainagc                      kcaching      dmainagc water
water
BOD,(mg/L)      7.74         6.5-8.5      Hg(ppm)          0.032           <0.00 I
COD,,(mg/L)   1500-12000       _          Cd(ppm)          0.017            <0.0 I
SS(mg/L)    3000-20000         _         Cr(ppm)          0.0O            <0.05
Fe(ppm)        600           -           Pb(ppm)          0.21             0.1
Mn(ppm)        12.4         <0.3          colon         4 x 10'-         <13 S'
___________ _____________ _  ________ bacillus(IlL)  4.3  0 Ilo'
Mn(ppm)        1.87         <0.1       color degrce     gry-blank          <15
Cu(ppm)        0.19     | <Q              smell         foul smell     no bad smell
Zn(pprn)       0.S5         <0.1      seeable material    yes              no
As(ppm)-      0.407         0.04      cloud  degree      opaquc            <5
(O Calculation of pollutant sourcc intensity
Field survey find thcre are soil with weak water permeability like powdery clay, clay,
and muco-sands in the surface stratum of the site, with a permeation coefficient of 0.00017-
0.035m1d(powdery clay), 0. 120-0.3m/d (powdery clay and muco-sands), averaging K = 5.8 x
1053cm/s, much larger than the standard for refuse landfill lKo = 107cm/s. So artificial
percolation prevention treatment should be taken to the site.
If the amount of percolation leaching is substituted into above formula, then Q,
4,860.0m31d > 333.0m'3d.
This means all the percolation leaching will go into the water containing strata if no
prevention measures are taken.
If Ko = 10cm/d artificial percolation prevention roof is used, the amount of percolation
leaching Q2:
117



Q2 = KF- = 840m Id
L
Q2- the value (m3/d) of percolation leaching passing through the covering fragment
slope stratum of the Quaternary period to the underlying strong weathered base rock.
L H and L respectively stand for head fall in the fragment slope stratum and its
corresponding vertical direct way. Assuming A H = 2.Om and L = Sm. Calculation found out
the amount of percolation leaching going into the water containing crevice stratum of the
base rock is very-small.
Table 4.5.18 Composition of Pollutants
composizion  I COD I BOD, I Fe I Mn I Cu I Zn I As I Hg I Cd    Cr | Pb
inensity(mgMd-ml) 1103,700 t 61.8601 04290 0.0646 | 00066 | 0.0294 | 00141 |0.000 ll|0.000588t 0.00278 000726
note: M- Q2 ,CL.
®  Prediction on the environmental impact of ground water
The coordinate base pint goes up to the crossing point of the main garbage dam and
relative aquiclude of the base rock. The positive direction of longitudinal diffusion
coordinate is the same with the direction of the flow of ground water. Assuming lagging
factor R = 1.0 to calculate the concentration at targets of protection at I 00m to 300m can get
the concentrations of the predicted time. The best maximum diffusion transport time t = 40
years. See Table 4.30 for the results of the calculation.
Table 4.5.19 (1) Maximum Concentrations of Percolation Leaching
at Different Distances of Diffusion Transport     unit: mgtL
COD          BOD, ._Fe                    Mn            Cu            Zn
4.20577e'1l    2.10790c8'    I.74390c"   2.62602c'    2.68293c"     1. 19S12c'
-3.92972c0l    I .96486c  ___
Ag            Hg            Cd            Cr            Pb
5.73170c4""s    4.51220ed   2.3934e7'    I.12195e"'a'    2.95 122c
Except COD and BOD5, which can be degraded, other components in the percolation
leaching within transport distance (<3000m) remain at their maximum values, but lower than
the limited values for drinking water.
Except mechanical diffusion in the process of transport, COD and BOD, will be
degraded. So their concentrations show a tendency of decreasing along with distance: being
4.7055e°02mgIL (COD) and 2.10279°2 mglL(BOD,) at 100m to 3.92972w mg1L(COD) and
1.9648e°° mg/L(BOD5). Of course COD and BOD, also have similar delayed effect like
other components.
118



Calculation found out that the concentrations of different components diffused to
different points with ground water were fairly low ( as compared with the standard for
drinking water), not causing any meaningful pollution to ground water and all incline to be
zero in ten years after the sealing of the burial ground. The above calculation didn't take into
account the mixing and rcaction with ground water from other sources. It these are taken into
consideration, the degrading of the components will be quicker.
(D Major conclusion and suggestions
a. The majDr. issues of the proposed refuse landfill are the prevention of leakage of the
percolation leaching, the stability of concerned garbage dam and the geological engineering
stability of the site.
b. All the percolation leaching will go into the water containing stratum the underlying
base rock if no prevention measures are taken, causing serious pollution of ground water
source in its low reaches. If artificial prevention is taken to meet the standard set by the state,
the leakage of percolation leaching will be very too little to cause any meaningful pollution.
c. Horizontal and vertical prevention shall be combined at the refuse landfill.
Considering the actual local conditions, it is recommended to take horizontal prevention as
the main measure supplemented by vertical prevention, that is enough clay is to be laid in the
site and fully pressed to reach a definite thickness according to the standard for refuse
landfills. Vertical leakage prevention curtain is to be built down the dam to prevent sideward
leakage, especially that to its lower reaches. This will stabilize the capacity as well as
preventing leakage.
d. The impact of the refuse landfill on ground water is very much determined by the
geological conditions of the site. This will be given detailed account in the designing of the
project. Field survey found out the geological condition of the site is good. But as the rise
and fall of aquiclude of the two shoulders of the dams is large, holes of larger density should
drilled the determine the depth and height of the digging of the dam base as well as
parameters like the depth, hole-to-hole distance, and pressure. It is recommended that the
digging of dam base up to the top of its middic section and the maximum depth of I.Om
beneath the water separating roof.
* The main dam of No.2 landfill is located at the outlet of a hilly valley, where water
permeability is found to be high and Qat-S4ed for the project. So parameters like the digging
depth and grout should be determined after comprehensively considering all the factors. It is
suggested to increase the thickness of horizontal prevention layer so a to reduce the
generating of percolation leaching.
2. The Lijiang River water replenishment project
(x Impact on the ground water along water transport routes
the whole route of water transport will be treated with concrete to prevent leakage so as
to raise the utility coefficient of the tunnels. So the level of ground along the route will
become lower than before when no treatment was taken.
119



( Change of ground water level around the reservoir
The mountains are steep and there is abundant rainfall in the drainage area of the water
replenishment project. The rate of runoff generating in the fan river net is high. 70% of
precipitation will turn into surface runoff and ground runoff. Ground runoff is mainly of base
rock crevice water, accounting for 13% of the runoff of the rivers.
The total storing capacity of the reservoir in front of the secondary dam  of the
Xiaorongjiang River is 1.13 million m'. The capacity between its normal water level and
dead water level-is 0.38 million m3. The water level is raised by 15.Om in front of the ,am
after the dam on the Xiaorongiiang River was built. Both the flow of base rock crevice water
and karst water were increased. The reservoir are in stripes. Leakage through stratified karst
and cracks and net cracks will raise the ground level of the area around the reservoir.
The cuivert from the Xiaorongjiang river to the Dongjiang River is 7.52km long, all
below the level of the ground water. Ground water level will be lowered during the
construction of the culvert because of temporary leakage of the wall of the culvert. But as the
culvert will have lined layer, no remarkable impact will be caused during the operation of the
project.
5. Prediction on the environment of the areas where water is drawn away
Water replenishment projects on the Xiaorongjiang River and the Wulixia Reservoir of
the Lijiang River water replenishment project involve inter drainage and intra-drainage
works. Artificial redistribution of water resources will bring water to areas where water is
not enough, but there will be some new environmcntal impact on the areas where water is
drawn out.
After water is drawn through the Xiaorongjiang River works, the runoff of the river
down the dam on the river will have remarkable decrease, causing some impact on the
industrial and agricultural production, people's life and ecosystem along the 20km segment
form the dam to the outlet of the rivcr. It will also have some impact on local natural
landscape, but not much.
The water level in the Xiaorongjiang Rescrvoir will bc raised to form a larger water
environment. But as the reservoir is small in area, not much impact will be caused on its
-surrounding hydrological, geological-Gor-limatic conditions.
The water replenishment works on the Xiaorongjiang River will cause some negative
impact on the environment of the river's drainage area, concentrated in the segment from the
dam to the river's outlet, that is the area where water is drawn out. The impact is of long term.
Positive impact will be shown in the area where water is replenished, that is the Lijiang
River. Favorable impact will be manifested mainly in the electricity produced by the
Xiaorongjiang dam power station (2 x 55KW), and the improvement of traffic conditions.
The water body of the Xiaorongjiang Reservoir can also be used to develop aquaculture.
(I) Impact on the transportation of wood floating
120



The drainage area of the Xiaorongjiang River has much forest, producing bamboo,
Chinese Fir and other timber. On the dam on the Xiorongjiang River a log-raft passage way
4m wide, 178.8m long is built. Raft can pass in normal way when there is flood once every
five years. Navigating wvall is built upper the inlet of the passage wav and a adjustable sluice
gate is built at the inlet to control the water level, so rafts can pass safely.
The floating speed of wood will slow down after it enters the reservoir. At certain
segment of the river, thc rafts have to be helped or wait till the flow before the dam is
increased. This -happens along the 2.5km segment from the dam down to the outlet of a
tributary. AS the added water flow is not much, sometime rafts will still met some barrier
along the segment down the point.
This issue needs further study and measures should be taken to solve it, such as (I)
Change the way water is drawn out from the Xiaorongjiang River and increase the back flow
(e.g. 2.Om'/s; (2) Increase the backflow during the lumber production season, or at least
during time when the river's runoff is small. The adjustment capacity of the area of the
reservoir before the dam can be used to achieve this purpose (in about 3-4 days); (3)
Renovate the riverbed of the 2.5km segment down the dam so that there won't be any
obstacle for rafts to pass when the low water flow is 0.6m3/s, or at least when the water flow
is l.Om3/s.
(2) Analysis on the potential impact on winter irrigation in the lower reaches of the
Wulixia Reservoir
After the works at the Wulixia is in operation, the water discharged in low water period
will increase, benefit to the water quality of the Lijiang River. But the amount of water
which can be consumed will be decrcased.
At present the winter crop in the paddy fields in Guidin area is Chincse milk velch
(used as green fcrtilizcr), which does not need any irrigation. neither are fruit gardens in
winter. Only 270ha out of the 6716ha irrigatcd farmland needs winter irrigation, accounting
for 4% of the total. In all about 0.65 m' will be needed, lcss than 1% of the 75 million m3 of
water replenished to the Lijiang River. It is suggested that this amount of water be increased
in low water period. So the Wulixia works will not have much impact on winter irrigation.
For other areas of crop, the 0.5m3/s water flow of the river during low water period can be
-used to develop winter irrigation.
If new types of agriculture is to be developed, for example if all the paddy fields
(1940ha) are to have winter irrigation (at 600m3/ha for four months), 4.65 million m' of
water will be added. This amount can convert into a water flow of 0.44m3/s (in 4 months), all
concentrated in low water period. Then according to the present principle of water drawing
of the project (when the Lijiang River needs water, water should be drawn first from the
Wulixia Reservoir, and supplemented by water drawn from the Qingshitan Reservoir). The
winter irrigation of the Wulixia Reservoir irrigated area is not taken into consideration. Even
121



tunnels are dug and ground water potential tackled, there still will not be enough water for
winter irrigation.
(3) Power generation
The project includes two power stations-one behind the Wulixia dam and a hydraulic
drop one at Shiken), with installed capacitv of respectively 5,000KW and 2 x 1,000KW. The
first will generate 20.15 million KW/a (4.98KW/a) in low water period and the latter 3.30
million KW/a (mainly during low water period).
Power generated in low water period have more economic and environmental benefit
than during normal water period. Low water period in Guilin is mainly in winter, when watcr
is replenished to the Lijiang River and power production increased. This will reduce the
environment pollution otherwise caused by the increase of coal-burning power stations. So
its power generation in winter has remarkable environmental benefit.
6. Impact on ground water along the Lijiang River
The Lijiang River is the largest river in this area, functioning as discharge way for
ground water. Only during peak flood period when water in the Lijiang River will be
replenished to ground water, usually for only a few days.
There are many karst caves and fully developed karst in Guilin area. So ground water
here is of large flow and fast flowing speed, Turbulent flows are common at many places. So
there are frequent circulation mixing and alternating between water bodies.
Artificial activities also form some small interfered circulation, which add to natural
large circulations to form new features. But so far the impact on ground water in Guilin area
is fairly small. Ground water here is still of climatic type, highly closely related with
precipitation. The curvc of dynamic karst water movement is of a sharp lean shape. That of
natural crcvice water is comparatively round in 2-3 days after rainfall.
According to the "prediction on Guilin's Ground Water Resources and Environmental
Geological Issues in the Ycar 2000" (by the Geology and Mineral Bureau of Guangxi
Zhaung Autonomous Rcgion, June 1987), the main supplement of ground water in the Guilin
Basin is atmospheric precipitation, accounting for 83%, followed by water from the tunnels
of the Qingshitan Reservoir (the 7 months from March to July).
-      ~   -    After the realization of the first-phase-of the Lijiang River water replenishment project,
the tunnels will be changed. Though the Qingshitan Reservoir will give cwr to the Lijiang
River during low water period, the proportion of its water supplement to ground water will
also decrease. According to 1987 data, the amount of water transported through the tunnels
was 99.7 million m3/a, the amount of water supplemented 360m'fa, and the utilization
coefficient of the tunnel system was 0,64. After the realization of the project, assuming 90
million'/a of water is transported, the tunnel utilization coefficient will be 0.87, the amount
of water lost, or replenished to ground water will be 18 million ml/a. As ground water back
122



flows to the Lijiang River during low water period, it can be considered that this 18 million
m'/a of water will flow back to the Lijiang River.
4.6 Anaivsis on the impact of old building demolish and inhabitant removal
The Lijiang River comprehensive treating project in Guilin dose not involve large scale
inhabitant removal or old building demolish. However, as the increase of the reservoir's
capacity will inundate some land in its upper reaches, a limited number of inhabitants shall
have to be rearranged for new jobs and some land requested. Besides, some tunnels will
occupy some farmland. The extending of existing waste water treating plant and the building
of a new one, and refuse landfill will require some land. The burial of waste water pipelines
will have to demolish some buildings along the roads, mostly those built against rules and
regulations. But there won't be much impact on the inhabitants of the area involved by the
project.
4.6.1 Land to be inundated by the water diversion projecl on the Xiaorongjiang River and
land to be occupied by construction
The Xiaorongjiang River reaches has a population of 8,000, (of whom 2,000 live down
the dam) and involves over 66.7ha of farmiand. As the average per capita fannland down the
dam is less than 0.03ha, agriculture there is not developed, and most people are engaged in
the felling and transportation of timber and bamboo and sideline occupations.
When the Xiaorongjiang River water diversion project stores water, O.8ha of paddy
field, 552 growing bamboo, 1.13ha of miscellaneous forest, and 1,500m of high-tension line
in Youan Village of Xin'an County will be submerged. No inhabitants need to be resettled.
The construction will temporarily occupy 3.9ha of land, of which 0.2ha is paddy ficid, 0.6ha
dry farmnland, and 3.Oha wasteland.
Jobs will be given to surplus laborers whose 'land is rcquested as small scale rcservoirs
will be built down the dam.
4.6.2 Analysis on the impact of land requestedfor the refuse treating system in Guilin
The refuse landfill will be located in Chongkou township, occupying a total area of
48.4ha of land, including 6.7ha of farrnland, 26.7ha of underdeveloped pine forest, and some
wasteland. No inhabitants will be involved.
It is estimated that fund needed for compensation and land requisition for the first phase
of the construction will be 2.4 million yuan, and that of the second phase another 2.4 million
yuan. This includes the fee needed for the aforestation around the garbage burial ground and
restoration of farmiand and pine forest for the protection of the environment.
4.6 3 Analysis of the impact for the land requestedfor the city's waste water treating system
123



The building of new waste water treating plant and expand of the old one need to
require some land, while the laying of waste water pipelines only temporarily occupies some
roads, which are to be restored later. See Tables 4.6.1 and 4.6.2 for compensation involved.
Table 4.6.1 Compensation for Land Requested for Waste Water Treating Plants
item                        land rcquested     land used           fund nceded
Xibciqi waste water treating plant   12ha       uncultivated       3750.O00yuan
Table 4.6.2 Fee Needed for Land Requisition in Urban Areas of Guilin
item                       pumping    pipeline  land requisition to removc  to repair
station    (km)    fec           building fee   road fcc
Beiqi waste water treating plant   2   18.22   850.000 yuan  8,700,000 yuan 3,000,000 yuan
Qintanqi waste watcr treating plant 1  14.62   450.000 yuan  5,400,000 yuan 1.200.000 yuan
total                      3           32.84    1.300,000 yuan 14,100.000    4.500.000 yuan
Xicheng District situates within regions in development or to be developed, therefore,
not many people, or existing buildings or roads will be involved. The construction of waste
water treating plants and laying of waste water pipelines will bear little impact on the
environment. Only a little compensation is needed for the little land to be requested.
However, trees should be planted around the waste water treating plants after their
construction so as to reduce their impact on inhabitants nearby.
Though no new waste water treating plant is to be built in the urban areas of Guilin City,
the renovation of thc old city will have to demolished some existing roads and the pumping
station to be built shall occupy somc land. As the land to be requested is not much and
houses demolished can bc rcbuilt ncarby, there won't be much impact on people's life.
Pumping stations will be built half underground and trees planted around them, so not much
noise pollution will be caused even after the pumping stations go into operation.
The above studies show that the Lijiang River comprehensive treating project will not
bear much impact on pcopic's living in the construction area. The compensation fund needed
Tor the five projects totals 17.15 mtlli`onyuan, of which 4.10 million yuan for the water
diversion project, 4.8 million yuan for the refuse deposing system, and 8.25 million yuan for
the waste water treating system. Altogether 66.2ha of land shall be requested, including
4.9ha temporarily occupied. The water diversion project shall requisite 5.8ha of land, of
which Iha is paddy field, liha forest, and the rest 3.8ha will be temporarily occupied; The
refuse disposing system will requisite 48.4ha of land, of which 6.7ha is paddy field, 26.7ha
dry farmland, and 15.Oha wasteland; The waste water treating system will requisite 12ha of
land, of which is wasteland. The whole project needs to rearrange 95 people for their
employment but no resettlement is needed. These people will be arTanged to work in small
124



scale processing industry, economic crop growing, forestry and fishery.
So it can be seen no large scale inhabitant resettlement is needed. Only 66.2ha of land is
to be requested and 95 people rearranged for their work. As a matter of fact, the people
involved will have a higher standard of living as a result.
4.7 Risk analysis
4. 7. 1 Purpose
To analyze accidents during the operation of the project and their scope of impact so as
to provide feedback informnation for the designing.
The major aim of the Lijiang comprehensive treatment project including the Lijiang
replenishing water subproject, domestic refuse deposing and waste water treating project is
to improve water quality of the Lijiang river during low water seasons, at the same time,
raising water used by irrigation, transpiration, city's supply water and tour, major risk
happen in the operation.
(I) The waste water spill caused by pipe breaks, jam or, damage to pollute river and
underground water.
(2) Explosion accident of pipe: CH, gas produced by organic sedimentation effect
induces explosion as combustible substances discharged into pipelines.
(3) Accidents of the waste water treating plant: failure of the machines or cut off of
power supply may stop the waste water treating system so waste water is discharged into the
river without any treatment.
(4) Explosion of refuse landfill induces leaching increase to pollute underground
water.
(5) Dam accident of the drawing-off water project induces social risk and
environmental risk of ecological resources.
4.7.2 Risk analysis of tie waste water treating system
1. Pipe blockage, crack and explosion
The pipelines are usually not blockaded, crack and explosion. The accident is mainly
come from design which is not rational, or in large amount of solid -wastes and combustible
organic substances are discharged into pipe, the it should strengthen management to waste
watcr pipelines.
2. Accident of waste water treating system
Failure of the machines or cut off of power supply may stop the waste water treating
system so waste water is discharged into the river without any treatment. If accident of waste
water treating system happened, it will threat safety of drink water source, but the accident
frequency is lower and time is short, and easy to be repaired, and so It should be solved for
the accident on time to reduce impact.
125



4.7.3 Risk analysis of domestic refuse disposing system
I Possible fire and it's treatment
The fire hidden trouble is mainly come from gas combustion of refuse landfill. The first,
refuse landfill gas should be controlled and discharged, and time monitoring CH,
concentration, if necessary, combustion chamber is installed at the top of drawing-off gas
pipe to be combust.
The major measures of preventive fire: (1) Fire-fighting equipment is provided; (2)
Fire-fighting knowledge training for staffs of the refuse landfill; (3) The rules and
regulations are developed; (4) The inhibiting fire area and the preventing fire area are
remarked within refuse landfill; (5) Selecting fire-fighting plants are used as aforestation.
2 Leaching liquor increase and it's treatment
The formation of leaching liquor has mainly three: (1) Rain water permeates the refuse
stack; (2) water in the refuse contained is pried out; (3) water produced by organic substance
decomposing; (4) impact of rain water is largest among these. The capacity of adjustable
pool does not meet needs if the most rain water is happened.
The major preventive measures: (I) To ensure rain water and leaching liquor are
deviled; (2) capacity of rain water discharging out is strengthed; (3) To build collecting and
monitoring system of leaching liquor; (4) aforestation.
3. Preventing perneation layer crack possibility and it's treatment
Selecting sitc is not suitable or construction doesn't meet technical needs which is
mainly cause of preventing permeation layer crack. It is very important to ensure
construction of preventing perrneation laycr to meet needs of technical standard.
Once preventing permeation layer cracks arc happened, the crack location should bc
investigated, which measures should be taken.
4. Possibility of leaching liquor accidcnt discharging and it's impact analysis.
It is usually to discharge Icaching liquor after treating. In the case of lcaching liquor is
discharged without treating, it will pollute river.
The measures should be taken follows: (I) strengthening managcment to avoid man-
madc accident happen; (2) To check treated equipment and treated results, the cause should
-be found and resolved if it appears to bc-abnormal phenomena.  --
4.7.4 Risk analysis of the Lijiang river drawing water and processing bank project
1. Risk analysis during constriction
The construction explosion area should be strictly managed to avoid accidentally injure
of person.
2. Risk analysis during operation
(I) Dispatching risk of the Qingshitan reservoir
Once peak level is ever water level of dam top, the dam will be breached because of the
126



Qinshitan reservoir is earth dam, especially increasing water amount from the Xiaorongjiang
river, the dispatching risk will be increased.
The dam breaching of the Qingshitan reservoir
If dispatch is not suitable or dispatch plan is not strictly implemented, long-term
operation of the reservoir is above water level of wam line, thc dam of the reservoir will the
breached to cause a large of economic loss. The dam breaching induced by management
problem is 4% of all dam creating accidents.
* Insufficient of replenish water flow of the Lijiang river
If dispatch is conservative, the water used is over during high water season, which
makes replenishing water amount not reach needs of design during low water season.
The scientific management of the reservoir is first to resolve problems above. The
reform of earth dam of the reservoir is also to reduce dispatching risk, of the reservoir,
ensuring safety of the reservoir.
. (2) Risk of dispatching control of the replenishing water project and it's loan
repayment.
If management is not suitable, the predicted replenishing water aim is possible not
reached, it doesn't meet the need of water environment, landscape and transportation of the
Lijiang river, at the same time, the loan repayment has some trouble. The project
construction is only first step, the management of project operation is most important.
(3) Risk of project quality
For example of Wulixia drawing-off water project, if quality of preventing permeation
project is not reached to be needs of design, the replenishing water amount of the reservoir is
also not reached to be needs of design, 40mJ/s of the Lijiang river during low water scason is
also not reached.
3. Environmental risk analysis of the Qingshitan reservoir
The environment risk produced by flood over standard water level or unsuitable
dispatch is made simple quantitative assessment as follows.
Assessment model:
In which: ZO,
i-C
R=P - C
P-Accident frequency of no wish
8 -i accident probability of all
C-impact degree ( over standard times of pollutant concentration)
R-Risk impact ratio ( 10' is accepted to human for risk of one time exposure of
pollutant )
The design standard of preventing flood for the reservoir is once of 20 years, () '=0.00 I
is considered as once of 1000 years for accident; Another, 0 2-0.04 is taken as accident ratio
for no geed management; 15m'/s of replenishing water amount is considered during low
127



water season, over standard times of pollutant concentration is considered according to
diluted capacity.
P=e ,  0 ,=4 X  05
40 - 45
c =      = 2.67- 3
15
R=PC=1.07-1.2 x lO >10l
The calculated reset of R shows that environmental risk may be ignored, but 40-45 m'/s
flow of water amount of the Lijiang river should be reached, and water quality is reached to
be needs of water quality aim, increasing new waste water treating plant should be
considered bearer 2015 year, otherwise environmental risk is not ignored.
4.8 Measures and countcrmcasures to eliminate or relieve negative impact
4.8. 1 Major environmental couniermeasures during construction
1. Control of noise during construction
Effective enclosures are to be put up around construction sites so as to reduce the
noise level to within the standard set by the state.
* Transportation vehicles passing through noise sensitive areas like living quarters,
hospitals, schools, and governmental offices should go at a slow speed, and the use of horns
and brakes should be limited. See to it that they don't go through living quarters at night.
- Explosion and the use of heavy-duty machines should be avoided at night.
2. Control of raised dust
Put up effective enclosures to prevent raised dust from spreading around.
Castaway earth should be piled away from trunk traffic lines, living quarters or
commercial quarters. Water should be sprinkled when necessary.
Castawav earth should be directly loaded onto transportation vehicles and
transportation should be carried out before it gets dry.
Use packed cement and do not pile them in the open.
3. Measures to relieve impact on traffic
Well plan materials to be transported to avoid affecting the city's norrnal traffic.
The laving of pipelines along trunk traffic lines should be quickened to reduce the
construction period. Try not to affect the trafftc at places where construction is carried out,
such as to use steel plate over ditches.
As the highways along the Xiaorongjiang River are narrow, there will be certain
impact on traffic there. After the water replenishing project on the Xiaorongjiang River is
completed, timber floating on the river will be affected and this should be compensated
through road transportation. Therefore, it is suggested that the highway along the
Xiaorongjiang River be upgraded, widened and their bends reduced.
4. Control of construction waste water
t2a



Tail water from stone material washing should be cleaned in desalts before it is
released. Attention should be paid to reduce the amount of fine sand flowing into the river in
the construction of veirs, Septic-tanks should be built where construction workers
concentrate, and daily life waste water should be treated and sterilized.
As the waste water from Guilin Weiquan Food Company ltd. will still be released into
the sewage system of the city and the waste water treating plant at Qilidian can treat only
part of the waste water while most of it is released into the Xiaodongjiang River, polluting
its water quality The following measures should be taken to reduce this pollution:
(I) Shorten the construction period so that waste water treating system will start working
earlier.
(2) Raise the extraction rate of yeast to be stabilized at 70% so as to reduce the release of
COD.
(3) Production should be limited during low water season and construction period. Buy
middle materials from other places as their production produce large amount of pollutants.
5. Control of solid waste matters
Carry out strict administration to reduce the amount of construction garbage.
Control the irrational flow of construction garbage through periodical checking.
Construction garbage should be buried in enclosed places like low hollows in the mountains,
where earth banks should be built at its opening and earth is to be laid on top of buried
garbage to restore the ecosystem.
6. Control of damage to landscape
* Green belts of trees and lawns should be planted along the open tunnels as soon as
they are completed.
* Earth and stone work dug during construction should bc piled at proper places, bener
to be utilized.
* Attention should bc paid to the harmnony of trees and grass grown on second and third
grades protection slopes. Stoncs needed should not be taken on the spot but from quarries.
7. Measures to protect land ecosystem
* Ecosystem should be restored as soon as construction on temporarily occupied land is
finished.
_ -  Education should be carried oultalong with administration to forbid workers to fell
trees in places other than the areas to be inundated. Fire is forbidden in forest areas.
* See to it if there are precious and rare trees or flowers to be protected in the
construction sites of protection banks.
8. Health guarantee of construction workers
Daily life waste water and night soil should be sterilized to prevent the occurrence and
spread of infectious diseases. Wet land occurring in construction should be leveled to
eliminate breeding places of flies and mosquitoes. Construction at night should be avoided.
129



4.8.2 Environmental countermeasures to be taken during the operation of the project
1. Water replenish and bank protection of the Lijiang River
(I) Measures to control the water quality of the Yijiang River
Runoff of the Yijiang River will be reduced during the dry season to ensure the use of
water in the Lijiang River and thus its environmental capacity will be reduced. To prevent
the 'Yijiang River from deteriorating and to ensure its functions during the dry season, some
small reservoirs of small annual water readjusting capacity should be built so as to increase
its flow. The discharge of pollutants into it should be strictly controlled, and special attention
should be paid to the increase of population.
(2) Measures to ensure the water quality of the Xiaorongiiang River
As the flow of the Xiaorongjiang River during the low water season will be decreased
to about l .Om31s with very limited environmental capacity, it is recommended that:
* The development of water consuming industries be limited and green farming
advocated.
* During years when the water level at the Qingshitan Reservoir is high or when there is
water crisis in the lower reaches of the Xiaorongjiang River, tunnels can be closed during the
low water season and let water from the Xiaorongjiang River flow into the Lijiang River.
= For the medium and long tern future, the flow from the Xiaorongjiang River is to be
increased to 2.0m3/s, so that the environmental capacity during normal period can be twice
that during the low water season.
Consideration be given to the possibility of readjustment period for weeks or days
during the low water season so as to reduce the occurrence when the flow in its lower
reaches is less than I.Orm3/s.
(3) Measures to ensurc the water quality of the Lijiang River and the Taohuajiang River
Second level treating of all the city's waste water be carried out at appropriate time and
the technology of nitrogen removing be adopted.
*  lThe adjusting of water at the Qingshitan Reservoir should give priority to electricity
generation, and the quota of power is set according to water capacity so as to reduce
unnecessary lost.
Water should be diverted from the Taohuajiang River to the Ningyuan River during
ttte low water season so as to ensurelhriminimum landscape requirement and increase the
latter's self-cleaning capacity.
2. Disposal of domestic refuse
(1) Measures to prevent atmospheric pollution
* The top of buried garbage should be timely covered with earth. It is recommended that
hafmful gasses be led to the ground for monitoring and burnt when necessary. Closed
buildings should not be built near the burial ground to avoid explosion or fire by methane.
It is forbidden to build living houses near the burial ground.
It is recommended that height of the gas conduction pipes be raised according to
130



analysis on the pollution, climate conditions and topography of the site so as to speed up the
dissemination and dilution of pollution gases.
(2) Measures and suggestions to treat surface waste water
- Strict measures are to be taken to ensure the liquid filtrate from buried garbage be
treated to be within the first grade standard set in the Comprehensive Waste Water Discharge
Standard before it is discharged.
Catchment of water from the upper reaches should make a detour around the burial
ground so as to reduce the production of filtrate liquid.
Drinking water for people living down the burial ground should be further appraised
to ensure it to be within the standard of drinking water.
(3) Measures and suggestions to treat ground water pollution
Build a solid stop dam while measures are taken to prevent vertical and horizontal
filtration. The earth covers in its middle and on its top should be up to required standard.
Plants on top should be restored as soon as possible so as to reduce washing and loss of soil.
The increase of evaporation will reduce the amount of liquid filtrate.
The collection of filtrate liquid from the bottom of the burial ground should be
carefully designed and constructed to ensure that filtrate liquid is collected to be discharged
to treating tanks. In this way its impact on ground water will be greatly reduced.
C Care should be taken before the water in the lower reaches of the burial ground is used
after the burial ground is in use. Water quality should be checked before using it.
(4) Measures to treat soil pollution
Closely covered vehicles should be used to transport garbage so as to prevent ragged
paper and raised dust being blown on the transpiration route and near the inlet of the burial
ground. Buried garbage should be covered daily. Trees and grass should be planted around
the burial ground.
Matters with heavy metals likec waste batterics and fluorescent lights and printed
matters should better be picked out to prevent the soil from being polluted by heavy metals.
(5) Countermeasures against pollution during the collection and transportation of garbage
Administration should be strengthened to ensure proper procedures be carried out
during garbage collecting and dumping so as to reduce raised dust and improve the working
conditions of workers.
3. Waste water treating system of the city
Preventive measures to treat the negative impact of sludge produced -- two types of solid
waste matter -- by waste water treating plants.
Inorganic sand shall be cleaned through railings and aeration desilters.
As has been suggested by the feasibility report, the sand thus cleaned is to be
transported to the city's garbage burial ground to be buried. Closed or covered vehicles are
recommcnded to prevent the sand from dropping.
Mud cakes after dehydration
131



Mud cakes (containing 80% of water) contain N, P, and Na and can be used as fertilizer
if checked to be harmless by appropriate institutions. Covered or enclosed vehicles are to be
used for their transportation so as to prevent dropping and reduce the impact of foul smells.
If not fit for fertilizer, they should be burnt or buried. But the burial ground should be
carefully chosen.
(2) Measurcs to reduce the impact of noise during the operation of pumping stations and
waste water treating plants
* Green belts should be planted around pumping stations and waste water treating plants
to reduce their noise impact on the outside.
* Sound proof measures should be taken, such as building sound proof rooms, and
installing sound proof covers or silencers.
* Preventive measures for operational workers should be taken, such as wearing ear
plugs.
(3) Measures to eliminate or reduce the negative impact of vater from waste water
treating plants
Though treated, water discharged by waste water treating plants is still somewhat
polluted. For example, water from the east, the south and No.4 waste water treating plants in
Guilin City have produced dozens-of-miles-long polluted belts in the Lijiang River,
making this part of the water worse then Grade 11 surface water. Water discharged by the
Xicheng waste water treating plant during 2010 to 2015 will turn the water in the
Luoqingjiang Rivcr exceed the standard for Grade Ill water. And the water discharged by the
waste water treating plant at Balijie in Linchuan County will reduce the water quality of
12km of the Taohuajiang River to worse than Grade III water. So the following measures are
recommended to reduce such negative impact.
* Carrv out dcepened treating of waste watcr at the wastc watcr trcating plants in the
urban arcas of Guilin City so as to reduce the concentration of organic mattcrs in the water
discharged. Water be replenished during the low water scason. Thus the water near the
discharging outlets will be within the standard of Grade II water so as to maintain the water
quality of the Lijiang River as a source of drinking water and tourist attraction.
Establish a pool of 5.6 million m' in the low-lying place at the convergence of the
-Xiaotaiping River and the Xiangsi River for secondary treatment of the water from the
Xicheng waste water treating plant so as to reduce the negative impact on the Luoqingjiang
River. In this way the concentration of organic matters in the water will be further reduced so
that the water near the discharging outlet will be within the standard for III water.
* To reduce the impact on the Taohuajiang River, the level of treating at Balijie waste
water treating plant of Linchuan County can be raised, or waste water from Balijie directly
goes to the waste water treating plant in the east suburbs to be treated and discharged into the
lower reaches of the Lijiang River.
132



5. Alternate plans
The project of comprehensive treatment for the Lijiang River in Guilin citv includes
water replenishment and protection dikes of the Lijiang river. Do domestic refuse disposing
system and city waste water treating systcm. Thcse works will guarantee the conservation of
the eco-system of the Lijiang River. By conducting comprehensive analysis on the scale,
service range, cost and credit repaying ability of the assessed project, China Municipal
Works Desigring  Institute and  Shanghai Municipal Works Designing  Institute  have
proposed a feasibility study report on the project. For tile more overall and widespread
considerations, the following altemate plans have been suggested for reference by the
assessing units.
5.1 Main Alternate plans
The main alternate plans are listed in Table 5- 1.
Table 5-1 Alternate plans for the Lijiang River comprehensivc Treatment Project
Project                      altemate plan
The water replenishment project Plan I Water repicnishmcnt plan
for Lijiang River            Plan 2  Water supplementine routine plan
The domestic rczuse disposing Plan I Sanimty land fill.
system                       Plan 2  Sanitary incineration.
Plan 3 1 ligh-temperature compost.
The city wastewatcr treatmcnt Plan I Wastewater from Qintan District enters Mantoushan Pump Station.
system                       Plan 2  Wastewater from Qintan District cnters Qintan Pump Station.
Plan 3  Wastewater from the North District is carried to the cast of the city.
Plan 4  Wastewatcr is on-site treated.
Plan S  Xiaotaiping south wastewater treatment plant.
Plan 6  xiaotaiping nonh wastcwater trcatmcnt plant.
The  protcction  dikes ol the Plan I  lrotection dikcs of the Lijiang Rivcr will be implemented.
Lijiang Rivcr                Plan 2  Protcction dikes of the Lijiang Rivcr is not implemcnted.
5.2 Alternate plans for the Guilin environmental comprehensive treating project
and comparison betwen them
5.2.1 Alternate Planfor the water replenishment project ofatie Lijiang River
I. Comparison of alternate plans for water replenishment project
(I) The Xiaorongjiang River unit
Plan 1: The Xiaorongjiang River plan is not implemented.
Plan 2: The Xiaorongjiang Rivcr plan will be implemented.
Plan 3: The diversion tunnel is rebuilt to a pressure-bearing type and a hydroelectric
power station is established.
133



Table 5-2 Comparative anaivsis of Alternate plans for the Xiao Rongjiang River unit.
Plan      Advantage                                         Disadvantage
Plan I    1. The original hydrologic condition of the river will not 1. Watcr supplementation for the Lijiang
be damaged.                                       River during dry seasons is impossible.
2. No impact will bc produced to the original aquatic 2. It is not possible to control the water flow
ecosystem.                                        of the Lijiang River.
3. The original water transportation system will not be
influenced.
4. The original seasonal characteristics of the water
envirofirent capacity will not be changed.
5. The hydrocicstric power gencration potential may be
utilized.
Plan 2    1. It is available to utilize the water of the Xiaorongiiang 1. The hydrologic regime of the lower reach
River for controling the Lijiang River.           of the river will be changed.
2. It is available to utilizc its own hydroelectric station and 2. Thc original seasonal features of the water
the Qingshitan Hydroelectric Station for elcctricity cnvironment capacity will be changed.
generation.                                       3. The utilization of the hydrocnergy of the
3. The ability for controling the water flow of Qingshitan lowe; reach of the river will be limited.
may be incrcased.                                 4. The control of water flow is weak.
Plan 3    1. It is available to utilize the water of the Small 1. The hydrologic regime of the lower reach
Rongjiang River to control the Lijiang River.     areas of the river will be changed.
2. It is possible to use its own hydroelectric station and 2. The original seasonal fcatures of the watcr
Qingshitan Hydroclectric Station for lectricity generation. cnvironmcnt capacity will be changed.
3. The water supply will be incrcased with the help of the 3. The utilization of the hydrocnergy of the
QingshiLan Rcscrvoir.                             lower reach will be limited.
4. The hydreciectricity generation will be doubied.
15. Stronger loan-repaying ability by comparison to Plan 2.
From the point of view of environmental protection, the environmental benefit of Plan
3 is better than that of Plan 2.
(2) The Wulixia unit
Plan 1: The water supplementation work. for Wulixia is not implemented.
Plan 2: The water supplementation work for Wulixia will be implemented.
Table 5-3 Comparative analysis of Alternate plans for the Wulixia unit
Plan   Advantagc                                     Disadvantage
-lan I  1. Investment-saving.                         1. The Wulixia Reservoir may not be fully utilized.
2. No  impact will bc caused on the water 2. It does not help to redo  the water losses of
environment capacity of the lower reach.      irrigation of the Wulixia Reservoir.
3. The hydroencrgy may not bc utilized fully for
hydrocltricity gcnrcation.
Plan 2  1. The Wulixia Reservoir may bc fully utilized to 1. Rclatively high invcstment is required.
supplement watcr for the Lijiang Rivcr during dry 2. It will cause impact on the water environment
scasons.                                      capacity of the Xiangjiang Rivcr.
2. The water losscs of the Wulixia ifrigation canal
may bc reduced and the control of the Wulixia
Reservoir becomes flexible.
3 The hydroelectricity gencration will be increased.
134



(3) Lijiang River unit
Plan 1: Bank protection work for the Lijiang River is not implemented.
Water losses and soil erosion along the Lijiang River is serious. The water way
requires dredging every year.
Plan 2: Bank protection work for the Lijiang River will be implemented.
It will help to protect the shorelines and the water quality of the river. However, the
investment for this purpose is so high that it is difficult to repay the credit.
2. Comparison of the comprehensive alternate plans for the water replenishment project
(I) Comparison and selection of plans
8 comprehensive alternate plans for water supplementation are listed in Table 5-5.
Among which the cost-benefit is expressed by the water diversion price. Here the benefit
from hydroelectricity generation and irrigation is not considered.
Plan 2, 3 and 4 reflect the cost-benefit of the single project. The optimized order for the
single project is: the Wulixia > the Xiaorongjiang River > the Yijiang River.
Table 5-4 Comparative analysis of the comprehensive alternate plans
for water replenishment
the   Diversion  from Diversion  from Diversion  from Investment  Watcr diversion  Water    price
plan  the Yijiang River the      the    Wulixia (10000    yuan              (yuan/m)
Xiaorongiiang  rescrvoir    RMB)
R iver__                       _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _
0             0                 ___ _
2                                4             2644           6280          0.42
3                  4                           6480           6470          1.00
4    v                                         3000           3000          1.00
5                  4             4             9124           12750         0.71
6                  4                             9480         9470           1.00
7    4                            4             5640          9280          0.61
8                  4                           1 v  12124     15750         0.77
Among the combinational plans, Plan 5 and 8 are the best, in which the water price is
less than 0.8 yuan/m', and the water supplementation will reach more than 100 million m'.
The objective for water supplementation in the Lijiang River is 40-45 m3/s. The
Wulixia River arc the priority target for water supplementation.
It is shown from the comparison of the alternate plans that the Xiaorongjiang and the
Wulixia projects should be listed in theriority works. It is suggested that the Shikeng
Hydroclectric Station be put into construction prior to the canal seepage control and a
hydroelectric station be built to fully utilize the hydroenergy from the Xiaorongjiang
diversion work.
3. Altemate plans for Water Supplementation Routine
Plan 1: The existing plan.
Plan 2: Part of the Qingshitan supplementation will be distributed to the Ningyuan
River so that the Taohua River is supplemented partly from the Qingshitan Riservoir, under
the constant total water supplementation,. In addition, a diversion instailtion is established at
the up outlet of the Xiaodongjiang River so that part of the diversion from Wulixia and
135



Qingshitan goes to the river. It is suggested that the distribution of the water diversion is
shown in Figure 5- 1.
Qingshiman west can I                    10
:  ahuaa Rivcr \
Th Xiaodongjiang
-       TNingyuan           River
5-7       30/
40
Fig. 5-1 Water Distribution During Dry Seasons (mn/s)
Plan 2 has the following advantages over Plan 1:
1. Under the total water supplementation target (40 m/s) for the Lijiang River, the
water environmental quality of the Taohua River, the Ningyuan River and the Xiaodongjiang
River may be improved.
2. Water supplementation of the Taohua River from the west canal of the Qingshitan
Reservoir will help greatly to improve the water quality of the River during dry seasons.
3. Water supplementation of the Ningyuan River through the west canal will
considerably improve the water quality of the River.
4. The Xiaodongjiang River passes through the Qixingyan Park, wherc the current
water quality is bad. It is possible to supplement the Xiaodongjiang River, which will help to
improve the water quality of the lower reacher of the river and conscrve the landscapc.
The disadvantages of Plan 2 arc as follows:
I. Seepage control is needed for the west canal of the Qingshitan Reservoir, which will
increase the project's cost. In the meantime, the maintenance and management of the canal
will be made more difficult.
2. Diversion dam is needed for water supplementation of the Xiaodongjiang River,
which will increase the investment of.the-project.
It is obvious that Plan 2 is better than Plan 1. Plan 2 will help to impgve the water
quality of the tributaries of the Lijiang River. Therefore, Plan 2 is recommended.
5.2.2 Alternate plans for city wastewater treating project
1. Alternate plans for the assessed units
(1) Wastewater treating project for the northwestern part of the city.
A. Wastewater treating plant
Plan 1: The Xiaotaiping Piver south wastewater treatment plant.
Plan 2: The Xiaotaiping River nouth wastewater treatment plant
136



B. Pipeline plan
Plan 3: Long term planned wastewater pipeline estabtishment
Plan 4: Pipeline construction in two phases.
C. wastewater treatment plant
Plan 5: A2/O plan.
Plan 6: Oxidation ditch.
Table 5-5   Comparison of wastewater trcatment plans for
the northwestern part of the cit
iProjcct   Plan   Advantagc                                 Disadvantagc
Location of Plan I Additional pump station is not needed. The Large  and  deep  pipe  sizc    and  high
plant             wastewater treatment plant causes littlc impact investment is needed. The conStruction and
on the Development Zone and the urban area operation management is difficult because it is
it is located on the down part of wind and located far from the urban area.
river.
Plan 2 Small and shallow pipe size and low A 0.374 m3/s pump station is needed. It will
investment is required. The construction and lead to environmental impact on the
operation management is easy. The operation Development Zone.
cost is lower than that of Plan 1.
Pipeline    Plan 3 Small amount of pipelines and low investment It is difficult for the Development Zone to
is needed, which makes the conswction easier. extend because of the large land use.
Plan 4 Pipe network construction in two phases will Large anount of pipe and high investment is
increase the flexibility for the future growth required.
and little losses in pipe use will be caused.
Wastewater IPlan 5 Compared with Plan 6. less area is required for Daily sewage sludge generation is larger that
Treatment         the construction of the wastewater treatment of Plan 6. Project cost and operation cost are
Plant             plant and the treatment rcsults will be bettcr,  also higher than that of Plan 6. Technicians
with higher proficiency are needed for the
management of the plant.
Plan 6 Daily sewage sludge genera-tion. project cost More land is needed for the construction of the
and operation cost arc lower than that of Plan plant.
5. The plant is casicr to managc.
The recommended plan (Plan 2) is to establish a wastewater trcatment plant in the
north of the Xiaotaiping District. For the pipeline establishment, Plan 4 is optimal, and the
optimized waste water treatment process is the plan of oxidation ditch.
-      (2) Plans for the Sewage Collection-System  for the Qintan District.
Plan 1: Sewage from Qintan District enters the Mantoushan Pump Station.
Table 5-6   Comparison of the wastewater collection system in Qintan District
Advantage                           Disadvantage
Plan I  Energy saving in pumping sewage.     Additional sewage pipelines are needed to be built.
Plan 2   No additional pipelincs are necdcd.  T'he total lcngth of prcssure pipe is morc than that of Plan 1. The
energy consumption during the operation period is larger than
that of Plan 1.
137



Plan 2 is that the sewage from Qintan District is carried to Qintan Sewage Pump
Station, and then enter Mantoushan Pump Station and finally is treated in the No.4
Wastewater Treatment Plant, and the treated water is discharged into the Lijiang River.
(3) Wastewater Collection System in the North Plant
Plan 1: Wastewater from the North Plant is carried to East.
Plan 2: Wastewater is on-site treated.
Table 5-7 Comparison of Plans for North Plant Wastewater Collection
Advantage                                 Disadvantage
Plan I  Treated water is dischargcd into the imgation canal
and finally joins the Lijiang Rivcr.The investment is
less than that of Plan 2. which helps improve thc
wastewatcr collection system of the East District.
Plan 2   The construction of pipcline system of the East The trcated wastewater is discharged into the Lijiang
District may be maintained and improved.   River. which causes impact on the drinking water
area and the investment is higher than that of Plan
I.
The suggested plan is to carry the wastewater in the North District to East, that is, the
sewage is carried to the Guojiang Pump Station and then pass along the Xiaodongjiang River
and finally enter the East Wastewater,Treatment Plant. treated water is carried to irrigation
canal and then is discharged into the Lijiang River. The capacity of this main pipeline system
will reach 92,000 m3/d in 2015.
2. Comparison of the alternate plans for city wastewater treating project
(I) Comparison of the plans
Table 5-8 shows the predicted wastewater amount in Guilin city and the treatment
capacity of the recommended plans.
Table 5-8 The predicted wastewater amount and the recommended plans
Project             Period    Wastewater      Period    Suggested plan    Invcstment
(I 0000 ttd)              (10000 td)        (10000 vuan RMB)
Northwcst District  2000     7.3              Ist       3                 10219
Wastewater Treating   2010    14             2nd        6                 17646
Plant               2015     20
Qintan District Sewage 2000  6.68             2000      6                 10661
Collecting System   2010      10.40           2015      11.4
2015     12.42
North District Sewage  2000  2.92             2000      2.65              6260
Collecting System   2010     4.40             2015      6.5
2015     6.72_
Based on the comparison between the alternate plans for wastewater pipeline system,
wastewater trmatment plant location and the wastewater treatment process, the following
conclusions may be reached:
(I) The recommended plans for wastewater pipeline network system for the urban area
and the Xicheng District of Guilin city is feasible and may be implemented.
(2) The plan for the Xicheng District Wastewater Treatment Plant location is
138



appropriate and feasible.
(3) It is appropriate to adopt oxidation ditch process for urban wastewater treatment.
However, the prediction results of water environment impact show that during the period
from 2010 to 2015 the water quality of the Luoqing River can not meet the Class III water
quality standard due to the discharges from the Xicheng District of Guilin city. Tiherefore, it
is recommended that by 2010 Dama pond is built as a treatment pond to reduce the pollution
of the Luoqing River by the sewage discharge from the Xicheng District of Guilin city
S.2.3 Aliernate plans for Municipal Solid Wastes Disposal in Guilin citr-
i. Comparison of the plans
(1) Alternate plans
Plan 1: Sanitary landfill (original plan)
Sanitary landfill is to pile up the solid wastes in a relatively closed system to avoid
their impact on the environment. This treatment method has the advantages such as low cost,
large treatment capacity, simple technical equipment, energy recycling (methane). In
addition, sanitary landfill is also the final treatment of compost and incineration.
Plan 2: Compost (alternate plan 1)
Compost is a process to degrade the organic part of the solid wastes with the help of
the activities of microorganisms. The organic substances become stable residues after a high
temperature process. When the organic content is more than 35%, the minimization of
municipal solid wastes is made possible.
Plan 3: Incineration (altemate plan 2)
lncineTation is to burn the combustible constituents in the solid wastes and fully
oxidize them when the heat value of the wastes is relatively high.
(2) Comparison of the plans
Table 5-9 shows the characteristics, environmental impacts, benefits, investment and
costs of the plans.
Table 5-9  Coi'uparison of tthC solid wastes disposal plans
Item                                    Disposal Mcthods
Sanitary landfill           Sanitarv incineration  Compost
Reliabilitv   Tcchnical rcliablc        Technical reliablc    Tcchnical rcliabic
Safcty     Safe, prcvent cxplosion and firc  Safc             Safe
Location    Difficul. geographic conditions. May bc built ncar the Simpic, it is desirabic to build the
watcr environmcnt should bc urban arca.           compost site far from  the denscly
considercd   carefully.   The                     populatcd arca, suggcsted smcll impact
distancc from the urban area is                  radius is in 200 mctcrs, transportation
preferably more than 15 km.                       distance 10- I 5'km.
Arca       Largt                        Small                 Medium
Applicability No                        Heat valuc is morc than The content of degra-dable organic sub-
4.000 KJk-g.         stances is morc than 40%.
Final      No                           The residucs (accounting The uncompostable part (accounting for
disposal                               for 15%  of the soli 20%  of the wastes) need subsequent
wastes) nced disposal.   disposal.
Products    The methanc may bc utilized for Heat or clectricity may be May be used in farming.
electricity generation.     utilized.
139



Table 5-9 Comparison of the solid wastes disposal plans
Item                                      Disposal Methods
Recycling     Great                       Great                Little
Resource      Land resource               Reyvcled substances    Manure
Surface water  It need be taken to prevent the No              Lirtle
contamination.
Groundwater   Scepage control measurcs may No                   Little
contamination  be  taken  to  prevent  the
contamination.
Ambient   air Tht- air pollution  may  be May bc controlled.   Slight
pollution     controlled.
Soil         In the landfill site.        No                   The hazardous subs-tances necd to be
contamination                                                  controlled.
Management   Fair                         High                 High
level                                                                                            _
*lnvestment per I                         8-10                 2-3 or more
unit
"Disposal cost II                         3-4                  1.5
* The investment and cost of landfill is considered as 1.
The resuits in Table 5-9 shows that the three disposal methods have same advantages
and disadvantages. Among the three methods, landfill the only effective method because the
residues from the incineration and compost process still need sent to landfill. Therefore, the
recommended plan is to combine the Chongkou Landfill with Pingshan Compost Site.
2. Alternate plans for the sanitary landfill
(I) Alternate plans
There are two leakagecontrol methods: natural leakagecontrol and artificial
leakagecontrol. The former requires that the leakagerate be less than 107 cm/s. And the
Chongkou Landfill can not meet this requirement and need artificial leakagecontrol
measures. There are two artificial leakagecontrol methods: horizontal leakagecontrol and
vertical leakagecontrol (Table 5-10).
3. Comparison of plans
Table 5-10 Comparison of plans for landfill leakage control
Plan           Advantage                               Disadvantage
Plan I Vertical  1. Small amount of labor is needed.    1. It requires good hydrological and geogra-
leakage   2. Low construction cost.             phical conditions.
control                                          2. The lcakagecontrol effect is not good.
3. It is not a commonly used method.
4. It is not a recommended method.
Plan 2 Horizontal 1. Good  Icakagccontrol effect may  be 1. Large amnount of labor is needed.
leakage   obtained.                              2. Rclatively high constru- ction cost.
control   2. Such control method is commonly used in 3. The clay is difficult to obtain.
China.
3. Little difficulty in cons-truction.
_____1 4. It is a recommended method.
140



Table 5-11 Comparison of leachate control plans
Plan                         Advantage                        Disadvantage
Plan 3 Combination   of  pipe 1. Simpic facilitics arc needcd.  1. Large environmental risk.
respray with waste water 2. Low invcstmcnt.            2. High operation cost.
transportation                                         3. Part of the  leachate  remains
untreated.
4. The process is not ripe enough.
Plan 4 Combination  of vchicic 1. Simple facilities arc necded.
resprav and transpor-tation 2. Low invcstment.
Plan 5 Oxidation ditch       1. The Ieachatc may be thoroughly 1. lligh invcszment.
treated.                        2. Large amount of arca is needed.
2. Littic environmental pollution.
3. Low operation cost.
4. The process is rclatively ripe.
4. Selection and analysis for the plans for sanitary landfill of municipal solid wastes in
Guilin
It is shown from Table 5-1 I that the original plan and the substitutional plan have their
own advantages. The main advantage of the original plan is low construction cost, and its
main disadvantage is that the leakagecontrol effect is difficult to ensure. The main advantage
of the substitutional plan is good leakagecontrol effect, but its major disadvantage is high
construction cost because the clay is unavailable. According to the exploration results
provided by Guilin Geographical and environmental Monitoring Center, the clay is available
near the landfill site. Therefore, the construction cost may be reduced.
Theoretically the originally proposed vertical leakagecontrol plan is feasible, however,
by now  no reliable examples may  be obtained. Tlis method is still not on the list of
recommended method for solid wastes landfill by the competent department in China, the
main reason is that the reliability of this method has not bc demonstrated. As for the
Chongkou Landfill, the residents of the villages around the landfill rely on the groundwater
as drinking water, and if leakageoccurs, the loss will be great. Therefore, this method of
disposal is not appropriate from the point of view of social economic and environmental
benefits.
Thus, the horizontal leakagecontrol is more feasible than vertical leakagecontrol
method.
Table 5-1 I shows that the difference between Plan 3 and Plan 4 is not significant. The
difference consists in respray techniques. In contrast, the investment of Plan 3 is relatively
high, but the operation cost is low, aniElan S is more reliable with-less environmental risk.
Plan I and 2 aims at evaporating the untreated leachate. However, in Guilin, the evaporation
is more than the precipitation. It is impossible to treat the leachate in such a way. Moreover,
it is not feasible that the untreated leachate is carried to the wastewater treatment plant for
subsequent disposal because: Firstly, the transportation cost is high; secondly, the treatment
capacity of the plant is limited, and the leachate needs dilution prior to treatment; thirdly, the
comprehensive cost is high. Plan 3 adopts the on-site treatment of pollutants, which causes
no impact on the environment. Therefore, compared with Plan I and 2, Plan 3 have better
environmental benefit (Table 5-12).
141



Table 5-12 Economic and environmental benefits of the leachate disposal plans
Plan   Investment(10,000 yuan RMB)      Operation Cost       Environmcntal       Social Benefi
Pl_n 3  71                              HigPoorModteBeneft
Plan 3  71                              High                 Poor                Moderate
Plan 4  66                              High                 Poor                Modermtc
Plan 5  90                              Low                  Good                Good
142



6. Analysis on the Benefit of the Lijiang River Comprehensive
Treating Project
6.1 Analysis on its social benefit
6.1.1 Improve tfe environmental quality so as to stimulate the tourism development
The tourist amounts are increasing yearly, city's pollution level is also increased along
with city's construction, development of agriculture and industry. At present, water quality
of the Lijiang River is National Standard 11 basically, but major tributries including the
Xiaodong River, the Taohua River, the Nanxi River and the Ningyuan River were obviously
polluted, so that Guilin municipal government has decided to construct waste water treating
system in the urban area and west district of Guilin region and refuse disposing system,
restore river bank of the Lijiang River, divert the water of the Yijiang River and the
Rongjiang River to the Lijiang River etc. included the Lijiang River Comprehensive Treating
Project. It will effectively control pollution of Guilin municipal and the Lijiang River as well
as tributries of the Lijiang river, improve environmental quality of Guilin City and Region,
in favour of protection of major tour landscapc of points along the Lijiang river.
It is very important for protecting water environment of Guilin City as majQr tourist
landscape and famous historical culture. The project is not only improving water quality of
the Lijiang rivcr and it's tributrics but also flow of the Lijiang River will be 40m'/s during
dry season. which is in favour of development of tourist in the Guilin City and Region.
6.1.2 Imnprove the civ 's appearance and it 's environmental qualitv
Everybody knows that the collection and treatment of waste waster and domestic refuse
are base for the construction of municipal works. The construction of the proposed project
will collect and treat citv's waste water for city's area, which doesn't make waste water to be
..ischarged into the Lijiang river ew-difectly. The discharge of waste water will be in
according with national standard after treating. The construction of the proposed project will
also collect and treat domestic refuse, the all transferred station of refuse will be reformned
into clean closed refuse car.
The domestic refuse is treated by landfill instead of simple dumping. The completion of
the project will obviously improve city's appearance and it's environmental quality.
6.1.3 Rational disposition of water resource, raise used efficiency of resource
143



The wayer flow of the Lijiang River is only lOm'/s (P=90%) during dry season under
the natural condition, the water flow will be increased to 40-45 m'/s after the completion of
the project. The purpose of the project will store water during wet season, then used in the
dry season, the completion of project will effectively allocate water flow and raise use
efficiency of water resource, such as the completion of project will be used water capability
increased of the Xiaoronjiang River during wet season. Which can be used to increase
electricity generated by Huangmei hydraulic power station, the water flow deposited by the
Qingshitan reservoir can be used to increase electricity generated by replenishing water flow
of the Lijiang river during dry season. The water resource of the Xiaorongshui River
during wet season can be used to supplement water flow for the Lijiang River during dry
season, 14.2 million kw.h of generated electricity can be increased in a year, which is very
import to develop economy of the Guilin.
6.1.4 Stimulate economnic development. increase chance of getting ajob
The completion of the project will effectively stimulate development of tertiary industry,
improve communication and traffic, and supply electricity condition, which will bring to
increase the chance of getting a job.
The completion of the project will improve investment environment including city's
environment and water quality of the Lijiang River, absorb a large number funds and
simulate development of agriculture and industry. Which provide chance of many new jobs
for the Guilin municipal and the Linggui county.
6.1.5 Improve lifc quality
The pcrsonal average GNP, income and consume ctc are not affected during
construction of the project. The impact of people's living quality during construction of the
project is unfavorable short term and reversible. The impact of people's living quality during
operation of the project is long term and favoreble.
The water quality of the Lijiang8Riv=-and it's tributries will be renewed cleanly water,
and reduce inferior impact of psychological, feeling and disseminative opportunity of disease
to the tourists and the inhabitants after the completion of the project. The Lijiang River and
it's dikes will become ideal place for tourist, tak-ing a rest and recreation for the people after
the completion of the project. The completion of the project is not only raising the people's
matter and cultur level but also improving inhabitant environment and benefiting people's
life so that the completion of the project will raise life quality of the inhabitants.
144



6.1.6 Strengthen resisting capasity of the waves lashed a/ river bank ofLijiang River
The completion of the protection dikes project of the Lijiang River will make the
original river bank damaged by the waves lashed from the large tourist's ship to be restored
and protected. The beautiful natural landscapes for the mountain and water of the Guilin are
not oniv no damaged but also enable the transportation of thc tourist's ship in the Lijiang
River during four seasions a year. The section of protection dik-es at the city's area may
strengthen flood controlling capacity of the city.
6.2 Financial analysis of thc project
6.2.1 Compiling basis
(1) "The Calculation Quota of Building Project of Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous
Region" (1990)
(2) "Guilin Municipal Build Material cost In forTnation"(Nov. 5 1995)
(3) "Building-up project Cost Quota" (1991)
(4) "The Handbook for Rough Calculation and Economic Assessment of Supply water
and Discharging Water Project" (1993)
(5) "Guidance of World Bank Loan Business"
(6) "Project Designing Cost Standard" (1992)
6.2.2 Investment Calculation andfund source
'The Guilin Lijiang rivcr environmental comprehensive treating project" requircs a
total investment of 557.5 million yuan (RMB), among others "thc water replenishment
project for the Lijiang River" requiring a total investment of 109.7 million yuan "the
protection dik}es project of the Lijiang Rivcr" requiring a total 55.8 million yuan, "the city
waste water trcating system" rcquiring a total investment of 337.9 million yuan, "thc
domestic refuse disposting system" requiring a total investment of 54 million yuan (see table
6-1)
Table 6-1  Project investment calculation          unit: million yuan
Project                    Static state  Others       Total investment
I. The watcr replenishmcnt projcct for the Lijiang    86.507  23.136         109.67
River
2. The protection dikes projcct of the Lijiang Rivcr  40.991  14.859         55.84
3. The citv wastc watcr treating system of Guilin  348.66    97.89           337.96
4. The domestic refusc disposying systcm of Guilin                           54.015
Total                                        _                       |       557.49
145



The loans from the World Bank and domestic bank are used. see table 6-2 for the using
plan of investment.
Table 6-2  The fund source and using plan of investment    unit: million vuan
Project              Total    Capital  Loan from    Loan from    First Second  Third
investment   cost    World   Domcstic Bank  year   year    year
Bank
1. The Water replenishment project   109.67  32.9    54.00        22.77
for the Lijiang River
2. The city waste water trcating  337.96    46.34    164.97       126.65    87.99  126.73  123.24
system                                         _
3. The city's refuse treating project    54.02  S.102  27.01      18.91
4.Thc protection dikes of the     5584      1675      2792        1117
Lijiang River                                                                         .
6.2.3 Pay bank loan plan
Take 7.1% for the interest rate of loans from the World Bank, and 15.02% for the
interest rate of loans from the domestic bank, the repayment period for Loans is 10 years, but
the intcrest rate is not calculated for the capital cost.
(I) Analysis on repayment capacity
The sources of repayment fund possess of profit, market fee and break old fee. The
calculation of repayment load and it's interest rate reveals that the project will possess of
repayment capacity within repayment period based on repayment style of loan.
The profit is from the waste water treating fee, water fee, electricitv fce and collecting
and treating fee of refusc.
(2) Sensitivity analysis
See table 6-3 for the sensitivity analysis of the project
Table 6-3   Analysis on sensitive elements of the Project
Ptoject                                     Element                    Range
the city waste water trcating project        Investmcnt and fee for discharging waste water   -10-10%
the water replcnishment projcct for the Lijiang  Investment and fee for ciectricity and water used  -20-20%
River
The protection dikes project of the Lijiang River   No
The domestic refuse disposting system        Investment and fee for refuse               -20-20%
146



(3) Income of project operating period
The calculated period of operating input is 20 years including construction period of 3
year. The repayment load will be started after 5 years, and will be ended in the 15 years.
The major income the domestic refuse disposting system is from the refuse discharging
fee. If the refuse discharging fee is not made, which will be not favorable to city's sanitation
construction. It is suggested that the fee charged for discharging refuse is 69.94 yuan/t. If the
fee charged of 69.44 yuan/t for discharging refuse the refuse, treating amounts of 5OOt/day
are calculated, the fee charged for discharging refuse will reach 12.764 million yuan/year.
Tlhe population of the city district (not including suburb district) in 1995 is 0.5 million. The
refuse amounts produced and the population for the Guiling municipal district can be
calculated based on the ninth-five plan and 2010 year planing of the Guilin municipal
environmental comprehensive treating. The refuse treating amounts in the near future are
159,000t/year, the forward refuse treating amounts are 181,000t.
The major income of the Guilin city waste water treating project is from the fee charged
for discharging waste water. It is suggested that the fee charged for discharging waste water
should be raised, if the fee charged for discharging waste water is raised to 0.65yuanlm3 for
the Guilin urban area, 1.50 yuan/m3 for western district of Guilin city since 1997, the
govemment needs not put in any fund after the project is put into operation, the project will
reach brcakeve.
If the fee charged for discharging waste water based on above suggestion, and the
operation capacity of waste water treaty plant reaching design level after 1997, so that 60.38
million yuan/year for Guilin urban area, 16.43 million yuan/year for Western District of the
fee charged for discharging waste water will be reached. The project will rcach financial
balance basically after 2018.
The major income of the Guilin supplement water project is from electric fee and
benefit from increasing supplement water amount, The comparing several plan as follows.
(1) The project of overall plan
The project includes 2 supplement-wr project, total investment is 109 million yuan,
total electricity is 17.5 million kw.h, total supplement water is 173.57 million m) (calculating
section), 136.4 million m3 (Guilin section). See table 6-4 for assessment result of each plan.
Table 6-4 Assessment result of the overall plan (45m31s)
Calculating section                  Guilin section
20f% capital  30%/e capital 12% Discount 20% capital  30% capital 12% Discount
water price (yuanmn3)    0.284   0.223       0.19         0.3         0.2        0.242
IRR(°/%)        17.33      13.30                    7.9        13.96
NPV            9553       3085                    9272        3314
147



(2) Project of Qingshitan Reservoir and Xiao Rongjiang River
The investment cost is 71.959 million yuan, electricity is 14.20 million kw.h,
supplement water is 86.22 million m3 (calculating section) and 73.30 million (Guilin section).
See table 6-5 for assessment result.
Table 6-5 Assessment result of project (45 m'ls)
Plan          Calculating section                    Guilin section
20% capital  30% capital 12% Discount 20%/ capital  30% capital 12% Discount
water price (yuan/m')    0.19      0.4        0.125        0.22         0.17       0.146
IRR(%/o)         17.7        13.49                   17.33        13.89
NPV            2895         3724                    2763         923
(3)Wulixi project
T-he investment cost is 26.403 million yuan, electricity of power station is 3.30 million
kw/h, supplement water is 87.35 million (calculating section), and 63.10 million m' (Guilin
section) See table 6-6 for assessment result.
Table 6-6 Assessment results of project (45m3/s)
Calculating section                    Guilin section
Indcx             | 200/ capital  30% capital 12% Discount 20%/ capital  30% capital 12% Discount
water pricc (yuan/mn3)    0.06     0.05       0.0435       0.084       0.065       0.061
IRR(%)          16.97        14.06                   17.17        13.13
NPV             738         297       =     _        768          161
(4) Explication
Analysis on economic assessment of the projcct is based on principle on gaving priority
of the supplement water for small reservoir, and water regulation for large reservoir, which
are used to calculate effective supplement water amount for each project, and compare
investment for each project. The reservoir capacity of Wulixia project is first. The reservoir
capacity of Qingshitan Reservoir and Xiaorongjing project is the largest. Therefore, the
difference between water price of effective supplyment water of the Xulixia project and
Xiaorongjiang plus Qingshitan project is not representative for difference of economy.
Analysis on plan comparison: for only considering capital cost as 20% is used to calculate
water price of section.
148



Table 6-7 prediction on water price of calculating section
Flow    Water pricc for Xiao Rongjiang pius Qing Shitan  Water pricc for Xu Lixi
45m'1s                 0.19yuanlm'                        0.06 yuanrm'
40m'/s                 0.26 yuan/m'                       0.056 yuan/m'
Analysis on water price based on financial posibility knows that first selection is
Xulixia channel water project, second is Xiaorongjiang project.
6.3 Analysis on national economy of project
(I) The Guilin city waste water treating system is a project of protecting environment
and favorable people. Indirect economic benefit produced from the project is great, direct
-economic benefit produced from the project is mainly included at the protecting present
supply water source, saving supply water cost for new increasing, improving environmental
quality, raising land value etc.
ne fee charged for discharging waste water will be raised, accumulated profits of 20
years for waste water treating plant during the operating are separately 278.083 million yuan
for the Guilin urban waste water treating plant and 49.76 million yuan for the Guilin west
district wvaste water treating plant. The profit rates of financial affairs are separately 9.71%,
and 5.90%. There for, construction of the project process with economic benefit.
(2) Tle water flow of the Lijiang River During dry season is only lO.Om'/s (P-90%)
under natural condition, 30 m3/s was raised after the first period supplement water project.
40-45 m3/s of water flow will be reached after completion of the proposed project. The
purpose of project is to accumulate water during wet season which may be used at the dry
season, the water flow can be adjusted effectively after completion of the project, water
resource is used greatly, such as water flow of Xiaorongjiang River during wet season can be
used to increase furish power for the Huangmei hydranlic power station, deposited water at
the Qingshitan Reservoir during dry season is used to supply water for Lijiang River, at the
same time, the Qingshitan hydraulic power station furishes power. The water flow of Xiao
Rongjiang river during wet season can be adjusted to supply water for Lijiang river during
dry season, at the same time, 14.2 million kw.hlyear of power is increased, which is used to
develop economy for the Guilin, the economic benefit produced should be increased to be
several times to more than ten times of it's self for power station.
6.4 Analysis on environmental benefit of the project
6.4.1 Benefitfor environmental protection
149



I
I
The Guilin domestic refuse disposing system may solve environmental problems caused
by the refuse. The refuse treating project will improve environmental quality, which is also     5
favorable to improve water environment of the Lijiang river. At present, a large amount of
refuse is brushed and washed by surface runoff into the Lijiang river. The refuse will be
given a thorough cleaning and treating after the completion of the project, the Lijiang river
pollution caused by the refuse is solved. Beside, it will prevent the breeding of flies and
mosquitoes, and will control damaging rate of mousses after the completion of the project,
and greatly improve its environment, beneficial to people's health.
The Guilin city waste water treating project is a project that will reduce pressure of the  R
waste water to the water environmental capacity of the Lijiang river, improve its water
quality, beneficial to protecting drinking water quality for the Guilin.
The major environmental benefit of the project for the supplementing water and
protecting river bank of the Lijiang river is as fallows:
(I) Water environmental quality benefit
The water flow of 10-15 m'/s during dry season will be in creased after thc completion
of the project, which means increasing water flow  of 33.3%  and reducing pollutant               S
concentration of 33.3% for the Lijiang river. Beside, the water quality of thc Gantang river
and it's lower reaches located through routes of the supplementing water will be improved         5
greatly.
Tle water environmental capacity of the lower reachcs of thc Xiaorongjiang River and
the Xunjiang river will be a littie reduced, but it's scope and degree will be small.
(2) Atmosphere environmental benefit
Air pollutants are not discharged During operation of the project, newly-increased four
hydroelectric power stations will reduce and replace fire power electrifying station of same
-    scale so that the project is favorable to controtAirpollution.
Thc water flow of 3Om3/s will be increased to 40 m3/s for the project, the water flow of
10 m3Is is newly-increascd, newly-increased water flow can be thought to increasing benefit
of secondary sewage treatment plant of 50000tId.
(3) Other benefit
The hydroelectric power may replace fire power eletrifing, reduce coal amounts used,
also reduce environmental problems produetd by coal transportation, solid waste treating
etc. 
The construction of protecting river bank of Lijiang River is a project that will
strengthen river bank preventing lashed capacity, improve environmental landscape during
dry season.
ISO



6.4.2 Analysis on environmental economic cost-benefit
The Guilin Lijiang River comprehensive treating project is a environmental protection
project, so that investment of environmental protection wvill reach 20%-66% of the project
investment.
Table 6-8  Investment for thc Lijiang River Comprehensive Treatina Project
,___________________________________ .____________          U nit  m illion     yuan
Project                   Investment of  Total investment of    % of total
Environmental     the project     investment
protection
the watcr replenishment project for the Lijiang                 165.51          - 20%
River                                    I
The domestic refuse disposting system          28.169           54.015           52%
The city waste water treating project          236.53           337.96           69%
The major direct economic benefit produced by thc project is come from economic
benefit for using water source and sludge utilization. The city's sewage aftcr through
collecting and treating can be used to irrigate land, so that reduce pressure of land using
water to river and reservoir. The sewage produced by sewage treatment plant can be used as
organic fertilizer for trces and flowers.
The indirect economic bencfit produced by environmental protection investmcnt is
great. The first, water ecological environment, the down towvn area ecological cnvironmental
and investment environment arc improved. The second, the water pollution of the Lijiang
River can be reduced, beneficial to preppie's health.
151



7. Plan for Environmental Administration and Environmental
Monitoring
7.1 Setting up of environmental protection management system
7.1.1 purpose
To impletntnt laws, rules and regulations about environmental protection, to deal with
relationship properly between developing economy and protecting environment, to see to the
consistency of the environmental benefit, social benefit, and economic benefit of the project,
to handle the results of preventing measures of pollution, to monitor the environmental
quality changes for surrounding areas of the project so as to provide basis for environmental
management.
The administration will be in charge of environmental management of the project
separately as follows:
7.1.2 Organizational structure and number of staff
The department of environmental protection of the Guilin Lijiang River Comprehensive
Treating Project consists of two parts respectively in charge of environmental administration
and environmental monitoring. Special personnel from administration and construction unit
of the project will be assigned to be in charge of the environmental management,
Environmental Monitoring Stations from the Guilin municipal and area of the Guilin region
should be in charge of environmental monitoring.
The administration units will be in charge of environmental management of the project
separately as follows:
(I) The construction unit of project is in charge of environmental monitoring and
measures of environmental protection during construction
(2) The environmental monitoring station located in the proposed project is in charge of
environmental quality monitoring and collecting the views and demands of the communities.
_ (3) The project office is in chargecnf overall checking for environmental protection
measures, quarantee the operation of environmental protection facilities.
The responsible institution of project and EPA of Guilin will be in charge of
environmental management of project during operation.
7.1.3 Function of environmental protection body
I Environmental management
(I) To carry out laws and comply with standards of environmental protection
(2) To establish administrative rules and give frequent check up
152



(3) To work out environmental protection plans and see to their implementation
(4) To lead and organize environmental monitoring and file up a data
(5) To carry out environmental education and technical training so as to raise the quality
of the staff
(6) To establish rules and regulations on the discharge of pollutants and the operation of
environmental protection facilitics,
(7) To takc the responsibility for daily work of environmental protection, and  to
coordinate with the environmental protection unit around the area to answer questions raised
by the public and tackle involved problems;
(8) To take part in emergency disposal of emergence incident..
2 Environmental monitoring
(I) To work out monitoring plans and establish rules and regulations
(2) To complete monitoring task required environmental monitoring plan and compile
forms for reporting statistics and write reports
(3) To take part in the investigation over environmental accidents
(4) To tak-e part in environmental assessment
(5) To test, maintain, and repair instruments used for the monitoring to ensure their
normnal service.
7.2 Measurcs for environmental management
7.2. ) Environmental administration diring ftie construction of lie project
1. Aim:
To prevent or reduce pollution caused by the construction
2. Measurcs for cnvironmcntal management
(I) Thc institution that undertakes the project should take the overall responsibility for
the environmental protcction during thte construction and see to it that it is donc in every
stage and by every department concerned;
(2) Work out unified arrangemcnt for thic countermeasures to be taken. the order of the
construction, and the fixing up of construction sites according to the requirements of
environmental protection authorities and set in this assessment;
(3) Construction tcams are required to be trained for the management of environmental
protection and to be responsible for the environmental protection and see to that the
following environmental protection plan be carried out:
A. Plan on control destroying vegetation
The construction area should be lined, and destroying vegetation around construction
site should be strictly prohibited.
B. Plan on preventing construction noise
153



Noise pollution during the construction is mainly caused by construction machines and
vehicles. The standard set in "Rules and Regulation for Noise Pollution Prevention and
Treatment", and Document GB12523-91 "Noise Limit for Construction Site". Special
attention should be paid to the construction noise at night.
C. Plan on reducing raised dust
Large amount of raised dust will be produced during construction of landfill site and
transportation station of refuse. The construction should be done in a civilized way to reduce
raised dust pollution.
7.2.2 Environmental management ofier the project is put into operation
1. Aim:
To insure the normal operation of environmental protection facilities for the project so
as to meet the environmental protection demands of the designing.
2. Measures for environmental management
(I) Unified administration over environmental protection
Environmental protection should be a part of the overall administration over the project,
and attention should be paid to the environment protection in every link of the administration.
In this respect it is led and supervised by the Guilin Municipal Environmental Protection
Bureau.
(2) Nonnal operation of environmental protection facilities
After the project is put into operation, normal operation of the waste water treating
plant, drainage water system and landfill facilities should be maintained, and strict
responsibility system should be established. The operation record should be kept to see the
designed requirements are met.
7.3 Environmental monitoring plan
7.3.1 Environmental moniloring during tfze construction
1. Aim:
To check pollution of noise and raised dust during the construction and take timely
measures.
2. Duration of monitoring
The whole period of the construction of the project is included, especially during
construction of refuse transferring station and refuse landfill.
3. Items to be monitored:
Items to be monitored are the following considering the construction of the project
(I) Noise: Equalized intensity of sound in dB(A)
(2) Atmosphere: TSP
4. Monitoring points
154



Monitoring points for refuse transferring station during the construction should be
selected in densely populated inhabitant quarters.
7.3.2 Environmental monitoring during the operation of tJtc project
1. Aim:
To check the actual impact of the project and change of the environmental qualitv, to
prevent pollution accidents, so as to provide scientific bases for the environment protection.
3. Major items-to be monitored and monitoring frequency and position
(I) Water Monitoring items, frequency and position are as same as normal monitoring.
(2) The monitoring of noise and TSP for sensitive points is as same as normal
monitoring.
(3) Down stream region of the project should increase monitoring points, major items
are SS, BOD5 COD, TN, TP and colibacillus.
(4) For ground water of down stream region and monitoring well of refuse landfill site
monitoring items are as same as nornal monitoring. Once a season.
(5) There are three monitoring points in the down stream region of refuse transferring
station. major items: Hg, Pb, As, Cd etc.. Once a season.
3. Monitoring instrument
Table 7-1 Major monitoring instruments
No.  lnstrumcnrs                 Unit    Amount   No   Instuumcnts               Unit     Amount
I     Computcr                  Bench   2          7    High-pressurc Liquid    Bcnch    I
_________________________             Chromatograph
2     Samplc collector for air   Bench   I         8    Toxic gas anali.cr      Bench    I
3     Infrarcd Spccuopotomctcr    Bcnch   l        9    Metcorological          Bench    I
__ _________________________                      paramcter survey metcr
4     Sampiccolkcctor lor water    Bench   I       10   SO.. NOx. CO and TSP  Bcnch    I
analvzcr                        for each
5     Analysis balance           Bcnch   I         II   Noise survcv mctcr      Bcnch    I
6     BOD and COD analyzcr       Bench   1         12   Small instruments and
for each       Glass instruments
7.3.3 Investment of tlie environmental monitoring plan
It is suggested that the investment of environmental monitoring plan from project is 2
million (RMB), which is used for environmental management and environmental monitoring
of project during the operation.
155



8. Public Participation
Environmental problems are getting more and more serious global along with the social
development, and people's environmental sense has reached a new height so that they have a
sense of responsibility for the protection of the environment to make suggestion and request
for the project. Public participation of this sort is not only an important mark in measuring a
nation's sense of the environment but also a need for developing environmental protection
and economy.
8.1 Aim and purpose
The World Bank hopes that the assessment on the environmental impact of the project
submitted to it will fully reflect the views, suggestions, and demands of the communities and
local non-governmental organizations which will be affected by the proposed project. News
conferences, testament sessions, and expert advice soliciting meetings should be held so as
to have a good understanding about the scope and extent of the social, environmental, and
economic impact of the proposed project in order to provide a reliable, sound, and scientific
basis for granting the Loan. This will make the assessment more practical and more
convincing.
Investigation was made on the public participation of this project in preparing this
assessment as required by the World Bank.
Public participation was invited during the process of this assessment according to the
demands of the Word Bank. The following is an account of the ways, scope, and result of the
public participation.
8.2 Methods of investigation
Many methods were used for the public participation: sessions of field questions and
answers were held; questionnaires were distributed, and experts' opinions and advice
solicited. At the same time radio reporters' interviews, TV programs and newspapers were
also mobilized to gather concerned opinions, suggestions, and demands for the proposed
project. Materials thus collected were sorted out and classified for analysis.
8.3 Scope of investigation
The proposed project involves the whole city, Yangsuo county, and Lingqui county of
Guilin municipal, Lingchuan county and Xing'an county of Guilin region, so the scope of the
investigation carried out included the area along the construction of engineering project.
Institutions investigated included the Municipal People's Congress, the People's congress of
156



Guilin Region, the Municipal Political Consultative Conference, the Political consultative
conference of Guilin Region, the Municipal Government, Guilin Region Governments, City
district and county govemment, as well as dozens of enterprises, schools, hospital and
neighborhood committees.
8.4 Subject of investigation
Representatives of the people's congress, members of the people's political consultative
conference, government officials, other functionaries of various institutions, doctors and
nurses, professors and teachers, workers, students, and ordinary inhabitants; experts and
scholars, in the fields of planning, environmental protection, construction, foreign trade and
economy, and engineering, and farmners, especially ordinary inhibitions, farmers of area
affected by the Project.
-8.5 Method of investigation
8.5.1 Random sampling was held at different levels among the masses of the people
who will be directly affected by the project
Sampling taking was taken for the investigation near institutions along the construction
line based on their professions and cultural levels. Then questionnaires were given and were
filled out on the spot.
8.5.2 It asked for interviews and suggestions from representatives of the people's
congress and the people's political consultative conference to the proposed project.
8.5.3 Mass medium like newspapers and TV broadcast were adopted to publicize the
Lijiang River comprehensive treating project and to solicit opinions and suggestions on the
social, environmental. and economic impact of the project.
8.5.4 The experts and scholars in the fields of planning, environmental protection, water
conservancy, foreign trade and economy, engineering, ecology, and construction were
invited to -attend advice seeking conferences and testimony sessions for the project. The
experts filled out questionnaires.
8.6 Analysis on the results of investigation
8.6.1 Investigating crowd ratio
470 questionnaires were received, 280 questioners from the water replenishment project
for the Lijiang River, 101 questions from the city waste water treating project, 89
questioners from the domestic refuse disposing system.
See table 8-I for investigating crowd radio.
157



Table 8-1 Investigating crowd radio
water replenishment project  city waste water treating  domestic refuse
for the Lijiang River   project               disposing system
occupation  white collar staff     48.6%                   56%                53%
workers                  14.4%                   13%                18%
farmers                  21.4%
inhabitant               3.7%                    31%               28%
sex       mcn                      71.9%                   65%                690/o
women                    28.1%                   35%               31%
Cultural   collage level           29.8%                   45%                56%
level     high professional        16.9%                    90/%             23%
school level
high school level        42.1%                   46%               22%
primary school level     11.2%
8.6.2 Analysis on the results of investigation
1. About the awareness of the Lijiang River comprehensive treating project:
90% of the people investigated said that they had learned about the project through TV
broadcast, newspapers or other people, and 10% had not heard about it before. The
investigation increased the project's transparency and aroused public concern over the
project.
2. About opinions of the project:
Masses of the community all expressed the opinion that the project would improve the
appearance and water quality of Lijiang River. So more than 95% of them were in support of
the project and hoped it would start soon.
3. About the environmental impact of the project:
More than 95% of the people investigated said that they held the project would have
long and favorable impact on the environmental quality of the Guilin.
4. About the project's economic benefit:
The people investigated thought the water replenishment projects for the Lijiang River
make reservoir to be irrigation, replenishment water, making power etc.; in favour of
developing industry and agriculture. The water replenishment project makes the Lijiang
River to increase 86km transport line from 20km originally during dry season, make for
tourist development. The waste water treating project and refuse disposing system would
improve appearance of Guilin City, which would bring certain economical benefit.
5. About the impact of the construction of the project on people's life:
40% of the people investigated said that they wouldn't mind; 50% said there would be
some impact but they could stand it; 14% said it would be unbearable, who were mainly
158



concerned about the noise of the construction and unfavorable impact of the construction to
people's life and traffic.
6. About the removal required by the construction of the project:
The subjects of the investigation said that the removal would cause much inconvenience
but they would be willing to accept the arrangement made by the government and do their
best to overcome difficulties. But they hoped they would be compensated according to the
policy and their living conditions could be improved when they would be resettled. 100% of
the people to be removed agreed to move.
7. Suggestions and demands of the community concerning the project
(I) The diversion work of Xiaorongjiang River
a. It was hopes that Xiaorongjiang River diversion work should be earliest carried out,
increasing water resource of the Lijiang River to improve environment.
b. Suggesting diversion water from outside valley such as Longsheng.
c. It should be realized to pay for supplementary water, strengthening commerce for
water resource and protecting the Lijiang River as well as water resource.
d. It should strengthen management to east irrigation ditch and west irrigation ditch,
guarantee results of diversion work.
(2) The diversion work of Wulixia Reservoir
It was hoped that the diversion work should be earliest carried out, strengthening
management of the project.
(3) Waste water treating project of Guilin City
It was suggested that social contribution for waste water treating project should be
developed .
(4) Domestic refuse disposing system
It was suggested that the collection and transportation of refusc should be escaped
during people's activity in order to reduce impact to peopie health.
The closed car should be used to transport refuse.
8.6.3 Analysis on the interviews for social community
The municipal peopie congress and municipal political consultation conference had 12
proposals and I suggested report on the Lijiang River comprehensive treating project in the
past two years, such as "StrengtheninS-water quality protection of the Lijiang River',
"Treating tributary pollution, protecting water quality of the Lijiang River", and "Suggestion
for supplement water of the Lijiang River" etc.. The suggestion, demand and view from
members of political consultation conference and representatives of people's congress are as
follows:
1. About supplement water flow of the Lijiang River
The National Tour Agency suggested that 30m3/s flow and 0.75m water deep should be
needed during dry season. But 40m'/s flow in the city area should be increased along with
development of social and economy.
59



2. About quarantee radio of the Lijiang River comprehensive treating project
It was suggested that 97% daily quarantee radio and 95% monthly quarantee radio
should be needed.
8.6.4 Analvsis on investigation results for the experts
They held that the Lijiang River comprehensive treating project is a major event
benefiting people by improving water environment quality of the Lijiang River and city's
landscape. The-project will bring remarkable social, economical and environmental benefit.
All the experts investigated expressed their support for the construction of the proposed
project.
(I) It is necessary to make up administrative and consultative institution organized by
the governmental officials, and members of water power, city construction, environmental
protection, planning, tourist, commodity price and financial agencies etc., which resolves
problems in the process of project construction.
(2) It was suggested that administration of the Lijiang River should be strengthened,
and strict laws is worked out.
(3) Effective measures should be taken during the construction so as to reduce the
unfavorable impact on people's life.
8.6. 5 Thte role plaved by mass medium like radio stations and newspapers
To publicizc the project for higher public participation and public sense of the
environment, Guangxi TV stations, Guilin TV station, "China Environmental News"
"Lijiang Daily", "Guilin Daily", "Yangcheng Evening News" and "People Daily", gave a
number of introduction to the aim, plans, rcsults of the Lijiang River comprehensive treating
project.
Guangxi TV station broadcastcr a TV documentaries on June, 1994 entitled the Treating
of the Lijiang River is inevitable, Guilin TV station also broadcast a TV documentaries
entitled study on plans of the Lijiang River Comprchensive Treating, which gave
introduction on the Lijiang River water quality, water flow, tourist Is affected, the forest in
the two side river banks was distorted etc.. It expressed that treating the Lijiang River is
inevitable.
"China Environmental News" published a reportage from ecologists entitled "supplement
water of the Lijiang River is Inevitable" on November 10, 1994. It also carried a reportage
entitled "Guilin municipal people's congresses pay close attention to water environment."
These reports published the necessity and urgency of the project and strengthened
public participation, positive to solicit people's understanding and support and favorable to
the smooth carrying out of the project's construction.
160



9. conclusion and proposal
The Guilin Lijiang Environmental Comprehensive Treating Project includes the
subproject of water replenishment of the Lijiang River, the subproject of waste water treating
system in Guilin City and the subproject of domestic refuse disposing system in Guilin City.
*                         It is an important environmental protection project for the Guilin City's environment and
ecoenvironment of the Lijiang River, which will diverse water into the Lijiang River 266.6
million m3/a, dispose refuse 500 tld and collect waste water 50,000 m'/d during the
operation.
9.1 Existing environmental quality
I Quality of water environmental
The monitored data from 1991 to 1994 and 1996 for this project have shown that the
present water quality of the Lijiang River is good, most index are within the Grade 11
standard set in "Document GB3838-88 Standard for Surface Water Environmental Quality".
But certain items such as coliform and petroleum exceeded the standard in 1991-94, DO is
a little too low, and that of NH,-N exceeded the standard of Grade If water by a big margin.
As a whole water quality of the Lijiang river is good, but the trend of the change of water
quality reveals worse from Dahe section to lingpinshan section, which was affected by the
discharge of domestic waste water and non-point sources.
The Taohua River, the Xiaodong River, the Ningyuan River and the Nanxi River are not
meet the standard for Grade IIl water, after 1994, it is deteriorating along with the
developmcnt of pollution. The index of coliform and petroleum seriously exceed the standard
for Grade III water. The index of coliform, petroleum, COD#,,, BOD, NO,-N and NH3-N all
exceeding the standard for Grade 111 in all tributaries. The trend of the change of water
quality reveals that the water quality of the Xiaodong River and the Taohua River has been
deteriorating rapidly.
The water environmental quality of the two water drawing places is fairly good.
According to the standard for Grade 1I water, Hg and petroleum in the Xiaorongjiang River is
lightly-polluted, that of coliform medium-polluted. The concentration of T-N in the water of
the Wulixia Reservoir is somewhat fairly high while other items do not exceed the standard
for grade 11 water.
The total area of good and fairly god underground water in the surveyed area was
accounting for 90% of the total. The area of fairly poor underground water was accounting
for 2.4% of the total's, mainly distributed along Wucheng-Ximen Rice Flour Mill-brewery;
along No.3 Pharmaceutical Factory-Wanfutan Dairy and Yaotou area.
2. Solid waste
The total amount of domestic refuse produced was 131,000t in 1993, of which 120,000t
was transported away and 65,000t treated to be harmless. Industrial solid waste in Guilin
City was well handled and under good management, because the adoption of the policy of
comprehensive utilization. Impact of solid waste in Guilin is mainly caused by domestic
161



refuse. Because the capacirv of harmless treatment is far from enough, its pollution to water,
soil and the atmosphere, and lack of transporting capacity and transit stations is becoming
more and more outstanding. Besides, there is some impact from thre industrial solid waste.
3. Quality of atmospheric environment
The average daily concentration of SO, and NOx (in 1991-1994) has not exceeded the
Grade I standard set in "Document GB3095-82 Standard for Atmospheric Environment
Quality"
and TSP did not exceed the standard for Grade I. But the average daily maximum
concentration of SOz, NOx and TSP has exceeded the standard for Grade I and Grade 11,
respectively. TIc concentration of TSP was exceeding the standard for Grade 11 according
the monitoring of the project's area in 1996, and the maximum exceeding rate was 80%. The
quality of atmospheric environment was good on the area of replenishment project.
4. Acoustic environmental quality of the Guilin region
Traffic and daily life noise are main environmental noise sources in Guilin. The road
equivalent noise intensity exceeded 3dB(A) for standard of "Urban environmental noise
standard" during daytime, and the length of which was 44.83km taking up more than 78% of
the total length of roads. The area where the average equivalent noise intensity exceeded
7OdB(A) during daytime was 8.06%; that exceeding 6OdB(A) 39.51%; that exceeding
S5dB(A) 68.95% in 1994. This was reveals that the noise pollution was serious in Guilin
City, so noise will have impact on people's life. The traffic and local noise was not exceeded
standard on the area of replenishment project by monitoring in 1996.
9.2 The factor of project's environmental impact
The negative impact of the project is basically during the construction of the project, of
short term, reversible and local. while positive impact is basically during its operation, of
long term and cxtensive. So aftcr thc project is completed and put into operation thc major
impact will be favorable, though there will be local unfavorable impact.
1. Raised dust and noise will have impact on the atmospheric quality and people's lifc.
The laying of pipelincs and the construction of water drawing tunnels, the collecting and
transporting of construction refuse will have much impact.
2. Refuse landfill will have impact on ground water and inhabitas nearby.
But as a whole the project is an environmental project with remarkable benefit.
9.3 Assessment on environmental impact during its construction
This is a comprehensive environmental trcatment project involving industrial waste
water, domestic sewage, solid waste, water replenishing,. It involves a large scale and will
last a fairly long time. A number of machines shall be used and large amounts of garbage,
backfilling earth, and construction material shall be piled for some time; So noise, foul smell,
traffic jams, secondary pollution and so on will affect the city's landscape and people's life.
162



1. Noise will be produced in different stages of construction. Measures should be taken
to avoid construction at night.
2. It is better to transport away sand and pollutants directly. Care should be taken in
loading to avoid droppings and prevent pollutants from touch the ground. Construction should
be carried out in a civilized way to prevent secondary pollution.
3. Transportation should have covers and construction sites should have enclosures, and
water should be sprinkled on piled earth and bottom clay dug up so as to reduce the impact of
raised dust. Management should be strengthcned to shorten the construction period.
4. Transportation needed for the construction should avoid rush hours so as to reduce its
impact on the city's traffic.
S. Management of temporarily piled construction material and bottom clay should be
strengthened to reduce possible secondary pollution,
The above mentioned environmental impact is of short term and reversible. Proper
measures can reduce it to the minimum degree.
9.4 Assessment on environmental impact during its operation
The project's environmental impact during its operation is mainly positive, manifested in
its improvement of the water environment of the Lijiang River and its tributaries and the
ecoenvironment of the city. This will greatly improve the city's investment environment and
promote its economic development.
1. Impact on the water environment of the Lijiang River
The project including the subproject of water replenishment project for the Lijiang River,
the subproject of domestic refuse disposing system and city waste water treating project will
not only increase the water flow of the Lijiang River during low water season, but also cut its
pollutants from the city's point and non-point sources, playing an important role in protecting
and improving the water environment and ecoenvironment of the Liiiang River. Prediction
finds out that without the project the concentration of BOD, and CODMW at the section of
Longmen will reach respectively 13.63mgfL and 13.26mg/L in 2015. The project can reduce
the figures to 7.35mgfL and 7.10mg/L, that is CODM. will meet the standard for Grade IV
water. But the project cannot make the water quality of the Lijiang River meet the standard
for Grade II water as the waste waser Treating plants can only treat 60% of the total waste
water discharged in 2015. The garbage collecting system and burial ground will greatly
reduce non-point pollution source of Guilin City. This is also beneficial to the water quality
improvement of the Lijiang River during high water season. The project will also improve the
surface water and ground water of the city and its suburbs, radically changing the hygienic
and ecological situation of the city.
2. Impact on the city's ecoenvironment
Guilin City is a famous tourist city. The completion of the project can collect and
dispose 500t/d of domestic garbage and treat 178,500tId of waste water, thus basically solve
heavy pollution areas of the city, especially the central part of the city.
163



9.5 The environmental impact of building, removal and inhabitants resettlement
The project has not an amount of building removal and inhabitants resettlement, but
need take over land 218.6 ha and 317 surplus labor power would be properly arranged.
9.6 Benefit of the Lijiang River comprehensive treating project
The project will has good benefit, it's major benefit is that it will solve the problems of
pollution and dust, so as to improve thc environmental quality of the down town area, people's
living conditiols and water quality of the Lijiang River. This will improve investment
environment and tourist environment.
The project requires a total investment of 557.5 million yuan (RMB) and has some
economic benefit, the profit is from the waste water treating fee, wvater fee, electricity fee and
collecting and treating fee of refuse, and tourist fee. The project's benefit is that this project
improves the water and ecoenvironment of the Lijiang River and urban ecoenvironment of
Guilin City, so as to develop the tourist and the Guilin economics.
9.7 Public participation
The public participation of the project involves the wvhole Guilin city, including Yangsuo
county and Lingqui county, Lingchuan county and Xing'an county of Guilin region, so the
scope of the investigation carried out included the area along the construction of engineering
project. Institutions investigated included the People's Congress. the members of the Political
Consultative Conference especially farmers, ordinary inhibitions of the area affected by the
project.
The result showed that 90% of the investigated people supported the construction of the
project, 95% of the inhabitants said thcy could understand the short impact of the
construction of the project, if the removal of the houses and resettlement of the inhabitants
are carried properly with proper policies, they will support the project of the prevail interest.
To sum up the Lijiang River Comprehensive treating Project of Guilin is an
onvironmental protection project will briagre markable environmental benefit, social benefit
and economic benefit. The project will impact environmental and inhabitants of the project's
area during construction, but the above mentioned environmental impact is of short term and
reversible. Proper measures can reduce it to the minimum degree according the EIA statement.
The project's environmental impact during its operation is mainly positive, manifested in its
improvement of the water environment of the Lijiang River and its tributaries and the
ecoenvironment of the city. This will greatly improve the city's investment environment and
promote its economic development. This project is therefore environmentally sound and
feasible.
164



4HW M OJ 'u M-
iv H   W P:k
, ,7 S~~~~~~~~~M-t   *  W
MS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 tt tq 1 H  W
g~~~~~~~~~~~~i .    M * M 1 S 
IL~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
44~~~~~~~    
1h'A  i     ,                  -W
mtXnfrtIovt mW $ ff
41 ' g +W*tS
m t WX~~~
tmBRE+SIi~I-- 



i4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
*   t                                                                                                     -*.
. *4* . 1 .  
.I "8   t    .    --,
.,  Iz,                                                                                                k,
c Z                 . IP.A
.   I2    W1 '' **                                  ***;;
14~~~~~~~~~~.
*1                             *           *. .  5     * ,**i
,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ * s-                                      4,
*  .V
*     ****',



o±gLq+              0 %s      (-ig*,t) t+2§X T,
ori/smLz (COD)       B
a 'rI/2u8o1 ( sCIow)    g i*':fL}k °f
$4;f    '04k                   (tW2 /Ww   w8S  '7S'M!EwW
'B  *!=!L -              2
*-X8BT                             ;4"Y
-  .>    +i8        $ E            tT$-8+
sn/$s St+*R*14B/$EM4T*.':
A  sg*T          Y$T af%S    SWte
'-I.ki    @'U+Si                      !R



:1l.t                    .4   4,I   -v  g                  'I
51rl~ ~~ ~~~ 4'1'                                '-  's-'r    tt
S                     1s   H1. 1gl 40*   I Rh '-
[''lii '                                              _' t g .¢    w !  ,
,.'                                 I!tI  via  tJ H M4,   j  4z 1 1i 4f   .
jul.   (.1J                    *! fE             Ii #       4lr 11 pn    r
1''                   l      S H         S P!         1 4F 
w-'l         a'   L] 0':r   1.' 
U     _:   JlS   l,)   fU  ES;
V    t      If   i



i1,
'-4~~~~~~~~~
' - I .,~ .   .   I   .   ,   b   s   F   . i+ t R   . '   .   .   . - , .
t~~c                                       ri a      Xo:    
ItI               * *               ;wW   
A  m    . I  t $    S t; w   SS ^  OZ  AK   W  4 
t~~~~~~4    4j - W ££ett            k^i
.IV    W,    s   F;           tI      t rk.



a~~T         rt   6,$  4 "g'tffbat T***h-r f'e AO
Eg iA 95 t   4 q A ZH+K F e@r8A S, -l7l    E~39J)~    n
I 4-e 1  '1OK;,  T& Ji / 9 *- iEt.t I F-  iXL SA f  
It#               AR ta&       p1HA(1993 -
)3 2 4                            l  (i b    ,iR¢  3T At V, 9tc iT
P f t 4 a -t -f4 :tk 9) A6    A 1  gP -r  i Ta I@ o 
iVeRM~ifl--tA (Fsl5i-lF I-t8 NX 11 9 961 0 41 7
I
tEiS~~~3T           iLAP   %u FK 3q1Jr Fl        i,
1996 5JJ 19 B p/
tT



r$ -ffi 4A 2v it LK E1 41 -r -ti i il 3IJ IpJ 4 Au ;j gIg
I~ ~ ~ ~~~. .M! 4  ,Y      9,ft tP     *.   1    
/1~~~~~~E
*~~~~~~~~~~~ /   \;' .'I
3T,                            1 if  '; 4 t
4                        3
-EA:  we*s   ifltA    tt    ti~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



: ~ ~~     -
14 ERl  J              .        !
Z Z iw     10  Is is: wtt 
;rl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
;  71 1 S p fi fi ul4Ma to@ 1   
s X & &    & +    $ I4I    -uk          9 -
0 A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
%                            L.:.    4"             oft$g A         laE ; 
C.-    °                                            1 1  I*. I
to~~~~~I
AW w4          A H   $t
:r,      0    .                        I



2  S    i; A(,Z, tt*t6) GB 14 5 5-9 3
13~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~q
lZA: TaF6tM
IT ...   .  _ _
riekt  EFit btt-t-*A  +, B W
tj@J w                       S      E                tl



/ I                                                                                                                             I            Pk



