Report No. PIC3784
Project Name              China-Guangxi Urban Environment Project
Region                    East Asia and Pacific
Sector                    Environment/Urban Development
Project ID                CNPA36414
Borrower                  People's Republic of China
Beneficiaries             Guangxi Region, Nanning Municipality
Guilin Municipality, and Guilin Prefecture
Contact                   Guangxi Urban Environment Project Office
Mr. Zhong Senrong, Director
5 Jiaoyu Road, Nanning, Guangxi
Fax: (86-771) 586-4670
Tentative Appraisal Date March 1997
Tentative Board Date      August 1997
Date of This PID          March 20, 1996
BACKGROUND: Guangxi's Development and Environment
I.   Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region has long been known for the
picturesque but infertile karst hills and a large number of Zhuang and
other ethnic minorities who even now account for close to a half of the
total population of about 45 million. Further, as the frontier in the
conflict with Viet Nam, it was excluded from China's economic opening
during the 1980s. As a result it has remained the poorest area in China
in terms of per capita income until 1989, and currently about 8 million
residents are officially classified as the absolute poor. With the
Region's recent "opening", however, the economy grew faster than the
national average since 1990, raising its per capita income above ten
other provinces' by 1994.
II. The economic growth was led mainly by the industrial sector, which
grew by over 20t in each of the past five years.    Investments in power
and transportation infrastructure are adding both a significant
component of the recent growth and a foundation for further sustained
growth, taking advantage of the Region's strategic location and abundant
water resources. The share of GDP originating from industries and
services increased from about a half in the 1980s to about 70t now.
Socially, however, the Region is still predominantly rural, with close
to 80t of population in agriculture.   There are only three cities with
urban population over half a million: Nanning, the capital, with about
a million urban residents; Liuzhou, the industrial center, with 900,000;
and Guilin, a tourism center, with 500,000. With a growing
industrialization and rural-urban income gap, however, population
transition has accelerated, with urban population growing well above 5t
a year, and the rural population declining in absolute number.
III. Similarly, Guangxi's environmental problems are less in intensity
and scope than larger eastern cities, but are growing much faster.



Overall level of industrial pollution, for one, is still moderate due to
low levels of industrial production, but are becoming serious in
specific sectors and cities. For example, density of industrial
pollutant discharge, instead of declining as in most of China recently,
has increased in Guangxi due apparently to the especially fast growth of
sugar refineries and other food processing industries that generate
heavy pollution load per output. Geographically, pollution similar to
or worse than those in China's older industrial centers is emerging in
fast growing cities and towns. In Liuzhou, the Region's largest
industrial center and second largest in terms of population, the heavy
industry outputs more than doubled in three years between 1990 and 1993,
and brought along severe industrial pollution problems, with, for
example, rain acidity often approaching pH value of 3.
IV. In the two other major cities, unique local conditions have helped
highlight some symptoms of environmental deterioration. In Guilin, the
main concern has always been the quantity and quality of water of the
Lijiang (Li River), which flows through a valley considered a top scenic
treasure of China and Guilin's economic lifeline. As the population and
economic activities in the valley increased in recent years, the water
level in the Lijiang during the dry season has decreased to a level
insufficient for normal plying of scenic cruises, acceptable dilution or
flushing of the city's sewage, or healthy water supply to the city.
Incidence and intensity of flooding during the rainy season have also
increased. In Nanning, the Regional capital, a steady increase in
industrial and domestic discharges into natural waterways spoiled the
water supply intake downstream of the main river, Yongjiang.
Particularly visible is the pollution of Chaoyang Xi, a small stream
that flows through the densely developed commercial and residential
center of the city, and is now a virtual open sewer.
V.   More prevalent in Guangxi's cities, however, are mundane problems
reflecting the low economic level. Many urban neighborhoods suffer from
inadequacies in such basic facilities and services as footpaths,
drainage, and solid waste management, not to mention sewerage. Need for
improved services is growing fast with income and population increases,
particularly as the urban growth consists largely of incorporation of
rural fringes of the cities and of low-income immigrants from rural
areas. In the major cities of Guangxi, population without permanent
registration has surged in the last three to four years and is estimated
to account for 20-30w of the urban population.   Some of this population
are concentrated in slums and other visibly poor neighborhoods, but most
are scattered throughout the city's residential areas with poor
facilities. Reflecting the Region's strong emphasis on poverty
alleviation, Guangxi's municipal governments, unlike their counterpart
elsewhere, have been accommodating or at least tolerant of the temporary
residents, and have provided some basic urban services including garbage
collection and schooling to large informal settlements.
Government Response and Strategy
VI. Highly visible problems as described above have served to highlight
the environmental risks of economic and urban growths, and to motivate
policy makers to begin serious countermeasures. In Liuzhou, a project
to reduce air and water pollution has just started with US$100 million
- 2-



in financing from OECF of Japan. In Guilin, the desire to protect the
Lijiang prompted broad environmental actions early on. The city is one
of the few medium-sized cities of China which operate sewage treatment
plants and solid waste landfills. Several heavy industrial polluters
have been closed or moved away from the city or the river. In Nanning,
the polluted Chaoyangxi in the hear of the city has prompted a flurry of
environmental actions recently, including development of modern solid
waste and wastewater management systems.
VII. Serious policy attention to urban environment being relatively new
in Guangxi, with the possible exception of Guilin, most policy actions
are ad hoc in nature. Environmental monitoring and regulatory
enforcement appear to be spotty, technical and financial capacity of
local institutions to plan and deliver environmental services and
pollution control support is weak, and environmental concerns are yet to
be systematically integrated in the urban and economic development
plans.
VIII.     Most cities of China have tried to attain a set of uniform
environmental and infrastructure standards by relatively uniform means -
- building trunk infrastructure with government finances and
"modernizing" small areas through redevelopment. While mature eastern
cities have had varying degrees of success with this strategy, its
feasibility is more questionable in the cities of Guangxi. The fiscal
capacity of Guangxi's cities is not the main cause for concern.
Municipal budgetary resources per capita, about Y 800 in 1994 in Nanning
and Guilin, compare favourably with comparable Chinese cities, and they
have been buoyant. The pressure is more from the demand side, as the
existing asset base is small and the demand is increasing fast. The
situation calls for long-term financing, coupled with adequate cost
recovery and appropriate service standards to ensure sustainability and
efficiency.
Bank Strategy and Experience
IX. The Country Assistance Strategy for China identifies four areas to
focus on operationally: macroeconomic and structural reforms, removal of
infrastructure bottlenecks, poverty alleviation, and environmental
protection. Urban environmental issues are specified as important
challenges relevant to the latter three focus areas. The Bank's sector
studies have highlighted contamination of ground and surface water as
the most serious consequence of growing industrial pollution, low costs
imposed on various pollution, lax regulatory enforcement, and unsanitary
waste disposal practices. The Bank has supported successful improvement
of these deficiencies in over a dozen major Chinese cities, through
projects focusing mostly on wastewater management.
X.   The proposed project addresses two of the four CAS focuses:
environmental protection and poverty alleviation. Guangxi's urban
environmental issues being broadly similar to the pattern seen
throughout China, it would help deal with them with an array of
components similar to the Bank's other urban environmental projects. In
addition, it would attempt to link the environmental improvement
directly with poverty alleviation by helping a poor western province,
being the second environmental project after Yunnan Environment Project
- 3 -



(FY96); and providing, for the first time, direct assistance to the
urban poor. Nanning and Guilin, being medium-sized and medium-income
with considerable tertiary sector, represent a different class of cities
than those helped by earlier Bank projects, that were either very large
or predominantly industrial. Of special interest is the large presence
of temporary population and neighborhoods with poor environmental
quality, whose conditions are unlikely to be improved soon through
traditional and costly redevelopment. The Southwest Poverty Reduction
Project (SWPR, 1995) is supporting housing development in Nanning mainly
to accommodate the migrant population. The Bank has supported many
housing and area upgrading operations to help improve living conditions
of the urban poor in most parts of the world, but not in China before
SWPR. Experience with such projects in other countries has shown
substantial benefits at low cost can be obtained through projects
focussing on simple investments to meet basic needs and self-help.     The
proposed project would pilot such an approach to benefit a broader group
of low-income residents at low cost.
The Project
XI. Project Objectives. The project would help improve the environment
of Nanning and Guilin, in support of sustainable economic growth and
poverty alleviation in the Region. Specific objectives of the project
include:
To improve quality of major water bodies -- Lijiang and its
tributaries in Guilin, Chaoyangxi and Yongjiang in Nanning;
To reduce flow variation of Lijiang between wet and dry seasons;
To improve environmental quality of poor neighborhoods; and
To strengthen systems and institutions for environmental protection
and services.
XII. Project Components. The project would support high priority
environmental investments along with policy and institutional measures
to supplement and sustain the benefits. They consist of investment
components identified by the local governments as urgent, and others
perceived by the Bank as major needs based on limited mission
observations and experience elsewhere. Subject to the on-gong
feasibility study, they are briefly described below along with rough
cost estimates.
XIII.     Sewerage and Channel Clean-Up (Approximate base cost $85M).
To reduce the pollution of major water bodies in Nanning and Guilin, the
following would be carried out:
Nanning: Chaoyangxi Clean-Up and Sewerage. Building sewage
interceptors and conveyors along Chaoyangxi and Yongjiang, and
possibly a primary sewage treatment plant with capacity of about
260,000 m3 per day. Cleaning up Chaoyangxi by dredging the stream
bed and lining the banks.
Guilin Sewerage. Building sewage treatment plants (up to three)
-4 -



and more than 40 km of conveyors and interceptors; and cleaning up
two lakes in the city and their intake channel;
Lingchuan Sewerage. Building a 9 km sewer network and a primary
wastewater treatment plant in a rapidly industrializing town
immediately north of Guilin city and on the bank of Lijiang.
XIV. Lijiang Flow Regulation ($37M). The following are proposed as
the most cost-effective means of regulating the Lijiang's flows. The
first three would increase the Lijiang water level during the dry
season and hence its capacity for assimilation, water supply, and
tourism. They would also allow moderate hydro-power generation.
Xiaorongjiang Diversion. Building a dam, about 15 meters high,
on Xiaorongjiang, a tributary of Lijiang; and a tunnel to convey
the water during rainy months to the Qingshitan Reservoir, an
existing major storage and generating facility with excess
capacity, on a neighboring tributary.
Wulixia Canal. Rehabilitating and extending an existing 26km
irrigation canal conveying water from the Wulixia reservoir to
the Lijiang.
Xunjiang dam and diversion. Building a 51-71m high dam on a
tributary of Yijiang (which parallels Lijiang) and a series of
canals and tunnels to transfer a part of the water to Lijiang
during the dry season. The rest of the water would be used for
irrigation in the Yijiang valley.
Lijiang Embankment. Building and repairing 80 km embankment
between Guilin city and Yangshuo town.
XV.  Solid Waste and Nightsoil Management ($10M). Solid waste
generation in Guilin has exceeded the existing system capacity, and
Nanning is now developing a modern management system. Nightsoil is
managed in an unsanitary manner in both cities. To improve this
situation, the following are proposed:
Disposal Facilities. Building and equipping a sanitary landfill
and possibly an incinerator (450 ton/day) in Guilin, and a number
of nightsoil septage and composting plants in both cities. (An
adequate landfill is under construction in Nanning).
Collection System. Providing solid waste transportation
vehicles, septic tank maintenance equipment (e.g. vacuum truck),
transfer stations, and improved individual and collective
latrines.
XVI. Small Area Improvement ($9M). Poor quality housing and physical
environment are the major element and the best indicator of poverty in
urban China. Nanning and Guilin have many such neighborhoods which
are unlikely to be redeveloped in the near future. The project would
support improvement of basic facilities such as access road, drainage,
latrines, and garbage collection, as identified and partly financed by
beneficiaries.
-5-



XVII.      Industrial Pollution Control Investments ($12M). Financing
would be provided for waste minimization or treatment by major
industrial polluters of Chaoyangxi and Lijiang, to complement the
clean-up investments; and to a sample of sugar refineries, as the
industry accounts for a dominant share of Guangxi's industrial
pollution.  A typical subproject would be financed with about 50% from
the Bank loan, and the rest from self-financing and the EPB's
pollution levy fund. The subloan would carry terms equivalent to
loans available from local commercial banks.
XVIII.     Institutional Strengthening ($5M). Technical assistance,
training, and equipment would be provided to improve, at the Regional
and local levels, the capacity of: Environmental Protection Bureaus
for environmental monitoring, regulation and planning; Environmental
Sanitation Bureaus for solid waste and nightsoil management; Municipal
Engineering Bureaus for sewerage and drainage management; and Water
Resource Bureaus for Lijiang protection and water savings.
XIX. Water Conservation and Water/Sewerage Tariff Increases. Water
being plentiful in Guangxi overall, its use has traditionally been
liberal. However, water use by increased population and economic
activities, including more intensive farming, in Lijiang valley
appears to have been the main factor contributing to the critical
fluctuation of the Lijiang water levels. Guilin municipality and
prefecture have been carrying out a program of water conservation and
reforestation, but there appears to be room for much further savings.
Correct pricing of urban, and possibly also rural, water usage would
be an important instrument. Also in both Nanning and Guilin,
expansion and operation of the sewerage systems would be sustainable
only with tariffs to cover the recurrent and at least part of the
capital costs.
XX. Environmental Regulation and Planning. Programs would be
implemented to control industrial pollution discharges into the major
waterways which would be cleaned up under the project. The programs
could include actions to reduce pollution by existing industries,
stricter control of new industrial permits, and if necessary, closing
of some polluters. They would constitute a major element of, and a
good way to start, an improved management of overall urban
environment. For the latter, environmental master plans are needed to
guide management of overall urban environment and development. Such
plans for Nanning and Guilin would be prepared with Canadian
assistance during project preparation and implementation, and further
developed and implemented as official plans under the project.
Benefits, Risks, and Sustainability
XXI. Benefits. The project's principal direct benefits would be the
improved quality of major water bodies in the cities, and of
environment of poor neighborhoods. These improvements would in turn
enhance the conditions and sustainability of Guangxi's economic
growth. A modicum of financial benefits would accrue from Lijiang
components, from increased irrigation and hydropower generation and
possibly tourism.
-6-



XXII.     Resettlement and Environmental Impacts.    The project would
belong to the environmental Category A. Most of the project impacts
would be positive, but potential environmental risks include: risk of
the solid waste landfill to contaminate ground water, changes in
hydrologic pattern and water usage resulting from the Lijiang flow
regulation scheme, dam safety, dredge material handling and disposal.
Environmental assessment and study of mitigation measures are
proceeding as part of project preparation. The Chaoyangxi clean-up
and sewerage component involves resettlement of some 4,500 people in
770 families who are living on banks of Chaoyangxi and are subject to
erosion and flooding. Construction has started on the apartments to
resettle 290 of the households this year. A resettlement action plan
is being documented to ensure fair and consistent compensation.
XXIII.     Implementation Risks.  Record of Chinese municipalities in
physical implementation under similar Bank-financed projects has been
satisfactory overall. However, most suffered delays during start-up
while familiarizing themselves with the Bank's procedures especially
for procurement. There could be more difficulties in Guangxi due to
the water resource components, which experience has shown to take
longer, and the relatively weak technical and institutional capacity
of the local government entities. Performance of the project entities
would be monitored during project preparation and appropriate
implementation assistance designed as necessary.
XXIV.     Sustainability.   In order to enhance and sustain benefits
from investment components, complementary measures, such as reduction
of pollution at source and conservation of water, would be implemented
as an integral part of the project. A preliminary analysis indicates
that counterpart financing requirements would be well within the
projected local fiscal resources. Fiscal sustainability would be
supported partly by the buoyancy of the fiscal resources, but would
also require action to raise and maintain water and sewerage tariffs
at adequate levels.
Project Preparation and Implementation
XXV. Responsible Government Entities. The project involves four
jurisdictions: the Guangxi Region, Nanning Municipality, Guilin
Municipality, and Guilin Prefecture. Two proposed investment
components, Wulixia canal rehabilitation and Lingchuan sewerage, fall
under the Guilin Prefecture. For individual components, local
administrative bureaus have been managing the preparation of
components according to the normal division of line responsibilities
(as indicated in para 18 above), and would continue to oversee further
preparation and implementation. For coordination, each local
government has established a Project Management Office led by EPB
director under the direction of a Vice Mayor or Prefecture
Administrator. Guangxi Regional government has similarly established
a project office headed by vice director of Regional EPB, under the
direction of a Vice Governor.
XXVI.     Beneficiaries would play a primary role in identification,
design, and maintenance of small area improvement and industrial
pollution control components. They would also be responsible for a
-7 -



significant part of financing. Works similar to the proposed small
area improvement and community mobilization have traditionally been
the responsibility of the district governments, drawing upon expertise
and financing from responsible municipal bureaus, in this case
municipal engineering and environmental sanitation bureaus. The
question of whether other organizations would be necessary, available,
and acceptable is being reviewed.
XXVII.    Preparation Status and Plan.   The project proposal discussed
with the identification mission in October 1995 was based on
prefeasibility studies or more preliminary plans prepared by the local
governments and their consultants. Since then, additional design
institutes have been mobilized from outside the Region for further
preparation. Australian and Canadian consultant teams, mobilized
under the respective bilateral assistance programs, are helping them
to prepare and refine the feasibility studies. This work is scheduled
for completion by June 1996. Preparation schedule is subject to
several uncertainties which could be resolved considerably by the time
feasibility study is completed and reviewed. That review could add or
subtract about three months from the appraisal and board schedule
shown on the first page based on experience with similar recent
projects.
XXVIII.   Program Objective Category.   The project would fit in the
environment and poverty alleviation categories.
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 8 -



