Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3097 CHA 
LOAN NUMBER 4348 CHA
Project Agreement
(Guangxi Urban Environment  Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
GUANGXI ZHUANG AUTONOMOUS REGION
Dated July 31, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3097 CHA 
LOAN NUMBER 4348 CHA 
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 31, 1998 among the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association), INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) 
and Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region (Guangxi).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
People's Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has 
agreed to lend to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to fourteen 
million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR14,900,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that 
Guangxi agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in 
this Agreement; and
(B)
by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the 
Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount equal to 
seventy-two million dollars ($72,000,000) on the terms and conditions set forth in the 
Loan Agreement, but only on condition that Guangxi agree to undertake such obligations 
toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
(C)
WHEREAS Guangxi, in consideration of the Association's entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, and the Bank's entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I 
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined in the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement, respectively) 
have the respective meanings therein set forth, and, wherever used in this Agreement 
(except in Section 5.03 as well as paragraph C(1) of Schedule 2 hereof), reference to 
the Association, the Credit or the Credit Account shall also be deemed as reference to 
the Bank, the Loan and the Loan Account, respectively. 
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Guangxi declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this 
end, shall:
(i)
carry out Parts D, E(1)(a) and E(2) of the Project;
(ii)
carry out Parts A and E(1)(b) of the Project through Nanning 
Municipality;
(iii)
carry out Parts B, C(4), C(5) and E(1)(c) of the Project through 
Guilin Municipality; 
and
(iv)
carry out Parts C(1), C(2), C(3) and E(1)(d) of the Project 
through Guilin 
Prefecture, all with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering, and environmental 
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and Guangxi shall otherwise agree, Guangxi shall carry 
out the Project, or carry out the Project through the Project Administrations, in 
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works, and consultants' services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  
Section 2.03. (a) Guangxi shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions referred to in Section 
1.01 of the Development Credit Agreement and Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 
9.09 of the General Conditions referred to in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition) in respect of the Project Agreement.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions referred to in 
Section 1.01 of the Development Credit Agreement and Section 9.08 of the General 
Conditions referred to in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement, and without limitation 
thereto, Guangxi shall: 
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and furnish 
to Association not later than six (6) months after 
the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this 
Page  3
purpose between Guangxi and the 
Association, a plan for 
the future operation of the Project; and   
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with Guangxi 
on said plan.
Section 2.04. (a) Guangxi shall, at the request of the Association, exchange 
views with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance 
of its obligations under this Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of 
the Credit.
(b)
Guangxi shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by Guangxi of its 
obligations under this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Guangxi shall maintain, or maintain through the Project 
Administrations, records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound 
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the 
Project of the departments or agencies of Guangxi responsible for carrying out the 
Project or any part thereof.
(b)
Guangxi shall, or shall through the Project Administrations:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such 
year, the report of such audit 
by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof, as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request. 
ARTICLE IV 
Effective Date; Termination 
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which both the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement become effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
Guangxi thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which both the Development Credit Agreement and the 
Loan Agreement 
shall terminate; or
(ii)
a date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement terminates 
before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall 
promptly notify Guangxi of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions 
referred to in Section 1.01 of the Development Credit Agreement, or under the General 
Conditions referred to in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement. 
Page  4
ARTICLE V 
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region:
The People’s Government of 
   Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region
Minle Road
Nanning
Guangxi, People’s Republic of China
Cable address: 
Telex:
8020 Nanning
2802966
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Guangxi may be 
taken or executed by its Vice Chairman, or by such other person or persons as Guangxi 
shall designate in writing, and Guangxi shall furnish to the Association sufficient 
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person.
Section 5.03.  As long as the Bank has not given notice to the contrary to 
Guangxi and so long as the Development Credit Agreement  shall not have terminated 
prior to the termination of the Loan  Agreement:
(a)
the obligations of Guangxi to consult with, and to furnish information, 
documents, plans, reports, records and statements to, the Bank shall be satisfied to 
the extent performance in respect of such obligations is rendered to the Association;
(b)
the obligations of the Bank to consult with, and to furnish information 
to, Guangxi shall be satisfied to the extent such obligations are fulfilled by the 
Association; and
(c)
all actions taken (including the giving of approvals or granting of 
waivers) by the Association pursuant to the Development Credit Agreement shall be 
deemed to be taken pursuant  to both the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan 
Agreement, and in the name and on behalf of both the Association and the Bank.
Section 5.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Page  5
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION  AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Jane Loos
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
GUANGXI ZHUANG AUTONOMOUS REGION
By /s/ Liu Xiaoming
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Prequalification 
Bidders for pumping stations, sewage treatment plants and interceptor works 
shall be prequalified in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of 
the Guidelines. 
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower (excluding 
the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region).
(c)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Page  6
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures  
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost equal or more than $50,000 equivalent but less than 
$10,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$99,000,000, equivalent, and goods (other than goods required for a Pollution Control 
Sub-project) estimated to cost equal or more than $100,000 equivalent but less than 
$200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $6,900,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
National Shopping
(a) Goods (other than goods required for a Pollution Control Sub-project) 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $2,500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
(b) Goods required for a Pollution Control Sub-project estimated to cost less 
than $1,000,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review 
With respect to each contract for works (excluding Pollution Control Sub-project 
works) estimated to cost the equivalent of $2,000,000 or more and to each contract for 
goods (excluding goods for Pollution Control Sub-projects) estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Page  7
Consultant Guidelines) and revised in September 1997 and the following provisions of 
Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants   
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services for the design of systems for the organization, operation, and 
financial management of sewerage institutions in Nanning Municipality and Guilin 
Municipality under Part E of the Project shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
2.
Service Delivery Contractors
Services to be provided by social workers under Parts A(2) and B(2) of the 
Project shall be procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.   
3. Individual 
Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.  
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000  or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000  or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
Page  8
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 2 
Implementation Program 
For the purposes of Section 2.01(b) of this Agreement, the Implementation 
Program shall consist of the provisions set forth or referred to below. 
A.
Project Management
In order to ensure the proper carrying out of the Project, Guangxi shall: 
1.
continue to maintain a  project office (the Guangxi Urban Environment Project 
Office, also referred to as ‘GUEPO’), with functions satisfactory to the Association, 
staffed by qualified personnel in adequate numbers, to be responsible for the overall 
coordination and supervision of Project execution, the supervision of the procurement 
of goods and services thereunder, the overall assessment of quality and impact of the 
Project and the preparation and furnishing to the Association of reports and other 
information thereon; and
2.
ensure that each Project Administration shall continue to maintain a project 
management office (PMO) with functions satisfactory to the Association, staffed by 
qualified personnel in adequate numbers, to be responsible for: the coordination and 
supervision of the execution of its Respective Part of the Project; the supervision of 
the procurement of goods and services under its Respective Part of the Project; and 
the preparation and furnishing to GUEPO of reports and other information thereon. 
B.
Resettlement and Environmental Action Plans 
1.
Guangxi shall take and, where appropriate, shall through the Project 
Administrations take, all measures necessary to ensure that the Project shall be 
carried out in accordance with the Resettlement Action Plan and the Environmental 
Action Plans. 
2.
Guangxi shall ensure that any proposed revision of the Resettlement Action Plan 
or the Environmental Action Plans shall be furnished to the Association for prior 
approval. 
C.
Financial Arrangements
1.
Guangxi shall allocate to each Project Administration an amount of the Credit 
under arrangements satisfactory to the Association, which shall include, without 
limitation, the following principal terms:
(a)
the principal amount so made available to each Project Administration:
(i)
shall be the equivalent in terms of  Special Drawing Rights 
(determined on the 
date, or respective dates, of withdrawal from 
the Credit Account) of the value 
of the currency or currencies so 
withdrawn on account of said Project 
Administration’s 
Respective Part of the Project; and
(ii)
shall be repaid in a foreign currency selected by Guangxi in 
amounts 
equivalent (as of the date, or respective 
dates, of repayment) to the amount 
in Special Drawing Rights 
so made available;
(b)
Guangxi shall recover such principal amount over a period of seventeen 
(17) years, inclusive of a grace period of five (5) years;
(c)
Guangxi shall charge a service charge on such principal amount, withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time at a rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 
1%) per annum; and
(d)
Guangxi shall charge a commitment charge on such principal amount, not 
Page  9
withdrawn from time to time at a rate equal to one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum.
2.
Guangxi shall allocate to each Project Administration an amount of the Loan 
under arrangements satisfactory to the Association, which shall include, without 
limitation, the following principal terms:
(a)
the principal amount so made available to each Project Administration: 
shall be the amount in Dollars (on the date, or respective dates, of withdrawal from 
the Loan Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn on account 
of said Project Administration’s Respective Part of the Project;
(b)
Guangxi shall recover such principal amount over a period of twenty (20) 
years, inclusive of a grace period of five (5) years;
(c)
Guangxi shall charge interest on such principal amount, withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest applicable from 
time to time to the Loan pursuant to Section 2.05 of the Loan Agreement; and
(d)
Guangxi shall charge a commitment charge on such principal amount, not 
withdrawn from time to time at a rate equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 
1%) per annum.
3.
Guangxi shall cause each Project Administration to: 
(a)
produce for the fiscal year 1999 and each fiscal year thereafter, total 
operating revenues related to wastewater operations equivalent to not less than the 
sum of:
(i)
its total operating expenses, including maintenance expenses, 
related to 
wastewater operations; and
(ii)
its debt service requirements for debts obligations incurred after 
July 1, 
1998;
(b)
review, before September 30 in each fiscal year, and on the basis of 
forecasts prepared by it and satisfactory to the Association, whether it would meet 
the requirements set forth in subparagraph (a) hereof, in respect of such year and the 
next following fiscal year and furnish to the Association the results of such review 
upon its completion; and 
(c)
if any such review shows that it would not meet the requirements set 
forth in subparagraph (a) hereof for the fiscal years covered by such review, promptly 
take all necessary measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the 
structure or levels of its tariffs) in order to meet such requirements.
4.
For purposes of paragraph C(3) of this Schedule 2:
(a)
The term “total operating revenues” means revenues from all sources 
related to operations.
(b)
The term “total operating expenses” means all expenses related to 
operations, including administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu 
of taxes, but excluding interest and other charges on debt.
(c)
The term “debt service requirements” means the aggregate amount of 
repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other 
charges on, debt.
(d)
The term “debt” means any indebtedness of the wastewater operation 
maturing by its terms more than one year after the date on which it is originally 
incurred.
(e)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred:  
(i)
under a loan contract or agreement or other instrument providing 
for such debt 
or for the modification of its terms of 
Page  10
payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; 
and 
(ii)
under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement providing 
for such 
guarantee has been entered into. 
5.
Whenever, for the purposes of this Schedule, it shall be necessary to value, in 
terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at 
which such other currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the 
purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis of a 
rate of exchange acceptable to the Association. 
D.
Nanning Municipality (Parts A and E(1)(b) of the Project) 
1.
Guangxi shall through Nanning Municipality implement Part A(2) of the Project in 
accordance with an action program acceptable to the Association.
2.
For purposes of Part E(1)(b) of the Project, Guangxi shall through Nanning 
Municipality:
(a)
by December 31, 1998, employ consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, to carry out a study on the 
institutional development of an independent sewerage management entity, including such 
entity’s accounting system, information management system, operational procedure and 
organizational structure and furnish the interim study results of said study to the 
Association by September 30, 1999;
(b)
by December 31, 1999, prepare and furnish to the Association a time-bound 
action plan based on the recommendations of said interim study results, including 
arrangements for the transfer of assets, liabilities and operations to such entity and 
training for staff; and
(c)
thereafter, implement said action plan as agreed with the Association. 3.
For the purpose of carrying out Part A(1)(f) of the Project, Guangxi shall through 
Nanning implement the Nanning Industrial Pollution Reduction Action Plan in a manner 
satisfactory to the Association. 
E.
Guilin Municipality (Parts B and E(1)(c) of the Project) 
1.
Guangxi shall through Guilin Municipality implement Part B(2) of the Project in 
accordance with an action program acceptable to the Association.
2.
For purposes of Part E(1)(c) of the Project, Guangxi shall through Guilin 
Municipality:
(a)
by December 31, 1998, create a sewerage company as a separate legal 
entity with a charter satisfactory to the Association; 
(b)
by December 31, 1998, employ consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, to carry out a study on the 
institutional development of such sewerage company, including such company’s 
accounting system, information management system, operational procedure and 
organizational structure and furnish the interim study results of said study to the 
Association by September 30, 1999;
(c)
by December 31, 1999, prepare and furnish to the Association a time-bound 
action plan based on the recommendations of said interim study results, including 
arrangements for the transfer of assets, liabilities and operations, to such company 
and training for staff; and
(d)
thereafter, implement said action plan as agreed with the Association. 
3.
For the purpose of carrying out Part B(1)(e) of the Project, Guangxi shall 
through Guilin Municipality implement the Guilin Industrial Pollution Reduction Action 
Plan in a manner satisfactory to the Association. 
Page  11
F.
 Li River Flow Regulation (Part C of the Project) 
1.
Guangxi shall by June 30, 1999, establish, and thereafter maintain, a Commission 
with membership, terms of reference and powers acceptable to the Association to ensure 
smooth implementation of Part C of the Project and to encourage efficient water use 
and prescribe river basin management. 
G.
Sugar Refinery Pollution Abatement (Part D of the Project)  
1.
Guangxi shall reduce sugar refinery pollution by making Pollution Control 
Sub-loans and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
2.
Guangxi shall by October 31, 1998: 
(a)
establish and, thereafter, maintain the Guangxi Sugar Pollution Control 
Project Unit, which shall be staffed with members in adequate number and with 
qualifications and responsibilities satisfactory to the Association, to review, 
approve and supervise Pollution Control Sub-projects; and 
(b)
provide adequate funding to said Project Unit for its operation; 
3.
Guangxi shall:
(a)
exercise its rights in relation to each Pollution Control Sub-project in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Association and the Borrower and 
achieve the purposes of the Project; and
(b)
not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of its agreements providing for 
Pollution Control Sub-loans, or any provision thereof, without the prior approval of 
the Association. 
H.
Institutional Development and Training
Without limitation upon paragraphs D(2) and E(2) of this Schedule 2, Guangxi 
shall, and shall through the Project Administrations, carry out Part E of the Project 
in accordance with a program acceptable to the Association. 
I.
Monitoring and Reporting
Guangxi shall:  
1.
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators set satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project, including the Resettlement Action Plan 
and the Environmental Action Plans, as well as the achievement of the objectives 
thereof.
2.
prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association, the following reports:
(a)
quarterly reports on or about January 31, April 30, July 31 and October 
31 in each year, integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to paragraph I(1) of this Schedule 2, on the progress achieved in 
the carrying out of the Project during the preceding calendar quarter and setting out 
the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the then current calendar quarter; and
(b)
a mid-term report, not later than December 31, 2000, integrating the 
results of the monitoring and reporting activities performed pursuant to paragraphs 
I(1) and I(2)(a) of this Schedule 2, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of 
the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof. 
3.
after furnishing each report referred to in paragraph I(2) of this Schedule 2, 
review said report with the Association, and promptly take all measures required to 
Page  12
ensure the efficient completion of the Project (including, when applicable, the 
carrying out of the Resettlement Action Plan and the Environmental Action Plans) and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of said report and the Association's views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 3 
Pollution Control Sub-loans 
A.
Terms
1.
The principal amount of each Pollution Control Sub-loan financed:
(a)
shall be the amount in Dollars (determined as of the date, or respective 
dates, of withdrawal from the Loan Account) of the value of the currency or currencies 
so withdrawn on account of the Pollution Control Sub-project for which said Pollution 
Control Sub-loan has been made; and
(b)
shall be repaid in Dollars within a period not exceeding 7 years, 
inclusive of a grace period not exceeding 2 years. 
2.
Each Pollution Control Sub-loan shall bear interest, on the principal amount 
thereof withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate equal to the rate 
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to Section 2.05 of the Loan 
Agreement, plus a spread of not less than one and one-half percent (1.5%), per annum. 
3.
The aggregate amount of all Pollution Control Sub-loans made to any one 
Participating Enterprise shall not exceed the equivalent of $2,000,000. The amount of 
any one Pollution Control Sub-loan and the aggregate amount of all Pollution Control 
Sub-loans made for any one Pollution Control Sub-project shall not exceed 50% of the 
total estimated cost (excluding the cost of land) of such Pollution Control 
Sub-project, or the equivalent of $2,000,000 whichever is smaller. 
B.
Eligibility and Appraisal
1.
Each Pollution Control Sub-loan shall be made only to a Participating Enterprise 
which:
(a)
is an enterprise legal person duly established and operating under the 
laws of the Borrower; and
(b)
shall have established on the basis of guidelines satisfactory to the 
Association, that it is creditworthy and has a sound financial structure and the 
organization, management, staff and other resources required for the efficient 
carrying out of its operations, including the Pollution Control Sub-project.
2.
Pollution Control Sub-projects shall be appraised and selected on the basis of 
financial, technical and environmental requirements acceptable to the Association. 
Such requirements shall include, without limitation:
(a)
Financial: the Participating Enterprise shall demonstrate that: (i) it 
can maintain a debt service coverage ratio of not less than 1.5 times after the 
proposed Pollution Control Sub-project has reached full production capacity; and 
(ii) it has not incurred a loss in more than one out of the past three or  two out of 
the past five fiscal years;
(b)
Technical: Pollution Control Sub-projects shall be technically viable 
based on an assessment of: (i)
the Pollution Control Sub-project’s impact on the 
ambient environment; (ii)
the Participating Enterprise’s record regarding compliance 
with environmental regulations and standards; and (iii)
the Pollution Control 
Sub-project’s technical feasibility and cost-effectiveness; and 
(c)
Environmental Action Plan:  for each Pollution Control Sub-project the 
Participating Enterprise shall prepare an environmental action plan satisfactory to 
the Association, including an assessment of the Participating Enterprise’s and the 
Pollution Control Sub-project’s adverse impact on the environment and appropriate 
mitigation measures to be carried out to remedy such impact. 
Page  13
C.
Utilization of Pollution Control Sub-loan proceeds
The proceeds of Pollution Control Sub-loans shall be withdrawn only to finance 
expenditures for materials, equipment, technologies and services, required for a 
Pollution Control Sub-project, net of taxes. 
D.
Pollution Control Sub-loan Approval and Other Conditions 
1.
A Pollution Control Sub-loan shall be made only after the Association has 
approved such sub-loan. 
2.
 No expenditures for goods or services required for a Pollution Control 
Sub-project shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan unless the 
Pollution Control Sub-loan shall have been approved by the Association and such 
expenditures shall have been made not earlier than 90 days prior to the date on which 
the Association shall have received the application and information required under 
paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule 3 in respect of such Pollution Control Sub-loan.
3.
Each application for approval by the Association of a Pollution Control Sub-loan 
shall be in form, satisfactory to the Association, and shall include: 
(a)
a description of the Participating Enterprise and an appraisal of the 
Pollution Control Sub-project, including a description of the expenditures proposed to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; 
(b)
the proposed terms and conditions of the Pollution Control Sub-loan, 
including the schedule of amortization thereof; and 
(c)
such other information as the Association shall reasonably request.
4.
Each Pollution Control Sub-loan shall be made on further conditions whereby 
Guangxi shall obtain, by written contract with the Participating Enterprise, rights 
adequate to protect the interests of the Association and Guangxi, including:
(a)
that the Participating Enterprise shall undertake to: 
(i)
carry out and operate the Pollution Control Sub-project (including 
completion 
of abatement measures and the Pollution Control 
Sub-project EAP) with due 
diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with sound technical, financial and 
managerial 
standards and appropriate safety, health and environmental 
standards satisfactory to the Association, maintain adequate records and 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities and other resources 
required for the purpose; 
(ii)
procure the goods and services required for the Pollution Control 
Sub-project 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement, and utilize 
such goods and services 
exclusively in the carrying out of its Pollution 
Control Sub-project; 
(iii)
enable the Association and Guangxi to inspect such goods and the 
sites and 
works included in its Pollution Control 
Sub-project the operation thereof, and 
any relevant records and 
documents; 
(iv)
take out and maintain with responsible insurers  such insurance 
against such 
risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent 
with sound business 
practice, including, without 
limitation, such insurance to cover hazards 
incident to 
the acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods required for 
the Pollution Control Sub-project to the place of use or on, any indemnity 
thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable by 
the Participating 
Enterprise to replace or repair such goods; 
and
Page  14
(v)
prepare and furnish to Guangxi, as the case may be, for forwarding 
to the 
Association, if it shall so request, all such 
information as the Association 
or Guangxi shall reasonably 
request relating to the foregoing and to the 
administration, operations and financial condition of the Participating 
Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived from the Pollution Control 
Sub-project; and 
(b)
provisions to ensure the right of Guangxi to suspend or terminate the 
right of the Participating Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the Loan upon 
failure by such Participating Enterprise to perform its obligations under its contract 
providing for the Pollution Control Sub-loan. 
